Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions”. Managing Board In accordance with Dutch law, our management is entrusted to the Managing Board under the supervision of our Supervisory Board. Mr. Carlo Bozotti, who was re-appointed in 2011 for a three year term to expire at the 78 Table of Contents end of our 2014 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, is currently the sole member of our Managing Board with the function of President and Chief Executive Officer. Since its creation in 1987,
our Managing Board has always been comprised of a sole member. The member of our Managing Board is appointed for a three year term, as described in our Articles of Association, which may be renewed one or more times in accordance with our
Articles of Association upon a non-binding proposal by our Supervisory Board at our shareholders’ meeting and adoption by a simple majority of the votes cast at the shareholders’ meeting where at
least 15% of the issued and outstanding share capital is present or represented. If our Managing Board were to consist of more than one member, our Supervisory Board would appoint one of the members of our Managing Board to be chairman of our
Managing Board for a three year term, as defined in our Articles of Association (upon approval of at least three quarters of the members of our Supervisory Board). In such case, resolutions of our Managing Board would require the approval
of a majority of its members. Our shareholders’ meeting may suspend or dismiss one or more members of
our Managing Board at a meeting at which at least one half of the outstanding share capital is present or represented. If a quorum is not present, a further meeting shall be convened, to be held within four weeks after the first meeting, which shall
be entitled, irrespective of the share capital represented, to pass a resolution with regard to the suspension or dismissal of one or more members of our Managing Board. Such a quorum is not required if a suspension or dismissal is proposed by our
Supervisory Board. In that case, a resolution to dismiss or to suspend a member of our Managing Board can be taken by a simple majority of the votes cast at a meeting where at least 15% of our issued and outstanding share capital is present or
represented. Our Supervisory Board may suspend members of our Managing Board, but a shareholders’ meeting must be convened within three months after such suspension to confirm or reject the suspension. Our Supervisory Board shall appoint
one or more persons who shall, at any time, in the event of absence or inability to act of all the members of our Managing Board, be temporarily responsible for our management. Under Dutch law, our Managing Board is entrusted with our general management and the representation of the Company. Our
Managing Board must seek prior approval from our shareholders’ meeting for decisions regarding a significant change in the identity or nature of the Company. Under our Articles of Association, our Managing Board must obtain prior approval from
our Supervisory Board for (i) all proposals to be submitted to a vote at a shareholders’ meeting; (ii) the formation of all companies, acquisition or sale of any participation, and conclusion of any cooperation and participation
agreement; (iii) all of our multi-year plans and the budget for the coming year, covering investment policy, policy regarding R&D, as well as commercial policy and objectives, general financial
policy, and policy regarding personnel; and (iv) all acts, decisions or operations covered by the foregoing and constituting a significant change with respect to decisions already taken by our Supervisory Board. In addition, under our Articles
of Association, our Supervisory Board and our shareholders’ meeting may specify by resolution certain additional actions by our Managing Board that require its prior approval. In accordance with our Corporate Governance Charter, the sole member of our Managing Board and our senior managers may
not serve on the board of a public company without the prior approval of our Supervisory Board. Pursuant to the charter adopted by our Supervisory Board, the sole member of our Managing Board must inform our Supervisory Board of any (potential)
conflict of interest and pursuant to such charter and Dutch law, any Managing Board resolution regarding a transaction in relation to which the sole member of our Managing Board has a conflict of interest must be approved and adopted by our
Supervisory Board. Should our entire Supervisory Board also have a conflict of interest, the resolution must be adopted by our shareholders’ meeting pursuant to Dutch law. We are not aware of any potential conflicts of interests between the
private interest or other duties of our sole Management Board member and our senior managers and their duties to our Company. Pursuant to the charter adopted by our Supervisory Board, the following decisions by our Managing Board with regard to the Company and any of our direct or indirect subsidiaries (an “ST Group
Company”) require prior approval from our Supervisory Board: (i) any modification of our or any ST Group Company’s Articles of Association or other constitutional documents, other than those of wholly owned subsidiaries; (ii) any
change in our or any ST Group Company’s authorized share capital or any issue, acquisition or disposal by us of our own shares, or any ST Group Company’s shares, or change in share rights or issue of any instruments granting an interest in
our or an ST Group Company’s capital or profits other than those of our wholly owned subsidiaries; (iii) any liquidation or dissolution of us or any ST Group Company or the disposal of all or a substantial and material part of our business
or assets, or those of any ST Group Company, or of any shares in any such ST Group Company; (iv) any merger, acquisition or joint venture agreement (and, if substantial and material, any agreement relating to IP) or formation of a new company
to which we or any ST Group Company is, or is proposed to be, a party, as well as the formation of new companies by us or any ST Group Company (with the understanding that only acquisitions above $25 million per transaction are subject to prior
Supervisory Board 79 Table of Contents approval); (v) approval of our draft Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as our and our subsidiaries’ profit distribution policies;
(vi) entering into any agreement that may qualify as a related party transaction, including any agreement between us or any ST Group Company and ST Holding, FT1CI, Ministero dell’Economia e delle Finanze, Bpifrance or CEA; (vii) the
key parameters of our five-year plans and our consolidated annual budgets, as well as any significant modifications to said plans and budgets, or any one of the matters set forth in our Articles of Association
and not included in the approved plans or budgets; (viii) approval of operations of exceptional importance which have to be submitted for Supervisory Board prior approval even if their financing was already provided for in the approved annual
budget; (ix) approval of our quarterly and annual Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and semi-annual and annual accounts using IFRS, prior to submission for shareholder adoption; and (x) the exercise of
any shareholder right in an ST joint venture company, which is a company (a) with respect to which we hold directly or indirectly either a minority equity position in excess of 25% or a majority position without the voting power to adopt
extraordinary resolutions, or (b) in which we directly or indirectly participate and such participation has a value of at least one third of our total assets according to the Consolidated Balance Sheets and notes thereto in our most recently
adopted (statutory) annual accounts. Senior Management Our senior managers support our Managing Board in its management of the Company, without prejudice to our Managing
Board’s ultimate responsibility. In August 2013, we introduced a new, simplified organization. Since
that date, our organizational chart is as follows: As a company committed to good governance, we hold several corporate meetings on a
regular basis. Such meetings, which involve the participation of several of our senior management, include: Corporate Operations Reviews (COR) , which meets twice per quarter to review monthly results and short-term forecasts. Corporate Staff Meeting , which meets once per
quarter to review the business in its entirety and to plan and forecast for the next quarter and beyond. Corporate Strategic Committee , which meets six times per year, sets corporate policy, coordinates strategies of
our various functions and drives major cross functional programs. 80 Table of Contents Our senior managers as of December 31, 2013 were: Name Position (1) Years with Company Years in Semi-Conductor Industry Age Carlo Bozotti President and Chief Executive Officer 37 37 61 Jean-Marc Chery Executive Vice President, Vice Chairman of the Corporate Strategic Committee, General Manager, Embedded Processing Solutions (EPS) 29 29 53 Carlo Ferro (1) Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President Finance, Legal, Infrastructure and Services 14 14 53 Mario Arlati (2) Executive Vice President, Member of the Corporate Strategic Committee, Strategies and Business Management 39 39 65 Georges Auguste Executive Vice President, General Manager Packaging and Test Manufacturing 27 39 64 Eric Aussedat Executive Vice President, General Manager Imaging, BiCMOS ASIC & Silicon Photonics Group 32 32 60 Orio Bellezza Executive Vice President, Member of the Corporate Strategic Committee, General Manager, Front-End Manufacturing & Technology R&D Sense & Power and Automotive Products (SP&A) 30 30 54 GianLuca Bertino Executive Vice President, General Manager, Digital Convergence Group 16 27 54 Philippe Brun Corporate Vice President, Human Resources and Sustainable Development 27 27 55 Marco Luciano Cassis Executive Vice President, President, Japan and Korea Region 26 26 50 Andrea Cuomo Executive Vice President, Advanced Systems Technology and Special Projects, STMicroelectronics Chairman, 3Sun 30 30 59 Claude Dardanne Executive Vice President, Member of the Corporate Strategic Committee, General Manager, Microcontroller, Memory & Secure MCU
Group 31 34 61 Lorenzo Grandi Corporate Vice President, Corporate Control 26 26 52 Paul Grimme Executive Vice President, Member of the Corporate Strategic Committee, General Manager, Sales & Marketing, Europe, Middle East and
Africa 5 33 54 Fabio Gualandris Executive Vice President, Product Quality Excellence 26 29 54 François Guibert Executive Vice President, President, Greater China-South Asia Region 33 36 60 Joel Hartmann Executive Vice President, Front-End Manufacturing & Technology R&D, Embedded Processing Solutions (EPS) 13 35 58 81 Table of Contents Name Position (1) Years with Company Years in Semi-Conductor Industry Age Otto Kosgalwies Executive Vice President, Member of the Corporate Strategic Committee, Company Infrastructures and Services 30 30 58 Robert Krysiak Executive Vice President, President, Americas Region 31 31 59 Philippe Magarshack Executive Vice President, Design Enablement & Services 19 28 52 Marco Monti Executive Vice President, General Manager Automotive Product Group 27 27 52 Carmelo Papa Executive Vice President, Member of the Corporate Strategic Committee, General Manager, Industrial & Power Discrete Group 31 31 64 Georges Penalver Chief Strategy Officer, Executive Vice President, Member of the Corporate Strategic Committee, Strategy, Communication, Human Resources and
Quality 2 2 57 Benedetto Vigna Executive Vice President, Member of the Corporate Strategic Committee, General Manager, Analog, MEMS & Sensors Group
STMicroelectronics 19 19 44 (1) Mr. Carlo Ferro returned to ST as Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President Finance, Legal, Infrastructure and Services in
August 2013 and has been President and Chief Executive Officer of ST-Ericsson since April 2013. (2) Mr. Mario Arlati was Chief Financial Officer until August 2013. Biographies of our Current Senior Management Carlo Bozotti is President and Chief Executive Officer of ST and has held this position since March 2005. He is the
Sole Member of the Managing Board and chairs the Company’s Corporate Strategic Committee. Mr. Bozotti joined SGS-ATES (later renamed SGS Microelettronica), a predecessor company to STMicroelectronics, in 1977. Ten years later, when
SGS Microelettronica of Italy merged with Thomson Semiconducteurs of France to form a new European champion, which is ST today and is among the leading semiconductor companies worldwide, Mr. Bozotti became General Manager of the Telecom Product
Division. Subsequently, he was promoted to Director of Corporate Strategic Marketing and Key Accounts and, later, to Corporate Vice President, Marketing and Sales, Americas. In 1994, Mr. Bozotti was appointed Corporate Vice President for Europe
and the Headquarters Regions, overseeing the Company’s sales in Europe, as well as sales to key customers and strategic marketing worldwide. From 1998 to 2005, Mr. Bozotti served as Corporate Vice President and General Manager of the
Memory Products Group. Leveraging ST’s deep understanding of client and market needs, through the years Mr. Bozotti has contributed to forging a number of strategic customer alliances and joint ventures with other industry leaders in
different market segments. In late 2012, Mr. Bozotti announced a strategic plan realigning the Company with changing market dynamics and announcing the decision to exit from ST-Ericsson after a transition period. The new ST focuses on
two key pillars — Sense and Power and Automotive products and Embedded Processing Solutions — with five growth drivers: MEMS and sensors, smart power, automotive products, microcontrollers, and application processors including digital
consumer. In 2011, Mr. Bozotti began a second (non-consecutive) term as the President of the European Semiconductor Industry Association (ESIA). Mr. Bozotti graduated with a degree in Electronic Engineering from the University of Pavia,
Italy. Jean-Marc Chery is Executive Vice President, General Manager,
Embedded Processing Solutions (EPS) at ST, and has held this position since May 2013. He also holds overall responsibility for the Technology R&D and Front-End Manufacturing of EPS, as well as the
Packaging & Test Manufacturing and Product Quality Excellence for the whole Company. Mr. Chery is Vice Chairman of our Corporate Strategic Committee. 82 Table of Contents Mr. Chery began his career in the Quality organization of Matra, the French engineering group. In 1986, he joined Thomson Semiconducteurs, which subsequently became ST, and held various
management positions in product planning, rising to lead ST’s wafer fabs in Tours, France (1993), and later in Rousset, France (2001). In 2005, Mr. Chery led the company-wide 150-mm wafer-production restructuring program before taking charge of ST’s Front-End Manufacturing operations in Asia Pacific. In 2008, he was promoted Chief Technology Officer
and assumed additional responsibilities for Manufacturing and Quality in 2011 and the Digital Product Sector in 2012. Mr. Chery sits on the boards of ST-Ericsson SA, CATRENE, the European microelectronics
R&D program, and AENEAS (Association for European NanoElectronics Activities). Mr. Chery graduated with a degree in Engineering from the ENSAM engineering school in Paris, France. Carlo Ferro is Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President Finance, Legal, Infrastructure and Services and has held
the CFO position since May 2003, with temporary suspension during his tenure at ST-Ericsson, where he first served as Chief Operating Officer (February 2012 - March 2013) and then was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer in April 2013 to lead the re-organization to split up the joint-venture business and
resources to the two shareholders and wind-down the JV. Since August 2013, his overall responsibilities at ST encompass, in addition to Finance and Control, Central Operational Planning, Global Procurement, Legal, Intellectual Property,
Compliance, Information and Communication Technology, Investor Relations, and Public Affairs in Italy. Mr. Ferro is a member of our Corporate Strategic Committee. He also maintains the role of President and CEO of ST-Ericsson. From 1992 to 1996, Mr. Ferro gained extensive experience in Planning and Control, Corporate Finance and M&A at Finmeccanica, the leading Italian high-tech engineering and manufacturing group and a former shareholder of STMicroelectronics. Over the next three years he held executive positions for Elsag Bailey Process Automation NV, a global leader
in process control listed at NYSE, first as Vice President for Strategic Planning, and later as Vice President for Planning and Control and Principal Financial Officer. In 1999, Mr. Ferro joined ST as Group Vice President Corporate Finance,
overseeing finance and accounting for all the Company’s worldwide affiliates, tax planning, internal control, internal audit, and finance for M&A. In 2002, he became Deputy CFO, and was promoted to Chief Financial Officer in 2003.
Mr. Ferro sits on the Board of Directors of STS, the Company’s manufacturing joint venture in China, and holds board memberships at ST’s affiliates in France and Italy. He served as Chairman of Incard, sole Managing Director of ST
Service Srl and as board member and Chair of the Audit Committee of ST-Ericsson. He graduated in Business and Economics from the LUISS Guido Carli University in Rome, where he served as a professor of Planning and Control until 1996 and as an
associate professor of Finance from 2008 through 2011. He is a Certified Public Accountant in Italy. Mario
Arlati is Executive Vice President, Strategies and Business Management for the Company’s Sense & Power and Automotive Products (SP&A) Segment and has held this position since August 2013. Mr. Arlati is a member of
our Corporate Strategic Committee. Mr. Arlati started his professional career at SGS-ATES, a predecessor company of STMicroelectronics. He was an integral member of the teams that managed the 1987 merger
of SGS Microelettronica and Thomson Semiconducteurs, and later, in 1994, ST’s Initial Public Offering on the NYSE and Euronext Paris, followed in 1998 by ST’s listing on the Borsa Italiana. Mr. Arlati’s career has covered all of
the various functions including Accounting, Business Control, Finance, and Consolidation Reporting, in positions of increasing responsibility. He was promoted to Corporate Controller and later became Chief Accounting Officer and Head of External
Reporting. He also participated in the establishment of the ST Foundation, an independent charitable organization, serving as a Director since its inception. From February 2012 to July 2013, Mr. Arlati served as Chief Financial
Officer of ST. He graduated with a degree in Business and Economics from Università Cattolica in Milan, Italy. Georges Auguste is Executive Vice President and General Manager of ST’s Packaging and Test Manufacturing organization and has held this position since May 2011. Mr. Auguste started his
career in semiconductors with Philips as a technical manager. He joined Thomson Semiconducteurs, a predecessor company to STMicroelectronics, in 1986, and two years later was appointed General Manager of the manufacturing facility in Nancy,
France. From 1990, Mr. Auguste served as Managing Director of the Company’s operations in Morocco. In 1997, he was appointed Director of the Total Quality and Environment Group, and, in 1999, he was promoted to Corporate Vice President,
responsible for implementing ST’s goals to reduce consumption of natural resources and further improve quality. In 2005, Mr. Auguste’s mission was enlarged to cover the coordination of ST’s corporate responsibility strategy,
encompassing social, ethical and environmental aspects. In 2008, he became Executive Vice President, Director of Product Quality Excellence, addressing product quality matters throughout the Company’s operations. Mr. Auguste graduated with
an engineering degree from the Ecole Supérieure d’Electricité in Paris and holds the diploma of the “Institut d’Administration des Entreprises” (Institute of Business Administration). 83 Table of Contents Eric Aussedat is Executive Vice President and General Manager of Imaging,
BiCMOS ASIC and Silicon Photonics Group and has managed these responsibilities since February 2012. Mr. Aussedat joined Thomson Semiconducteurs, a predecessor company to ST, as Product Engineer in 1981. He held various positions in product
engineering and planning and was promoted Planning Manager of the Video Products Group in 1986. Later on, Mr. Aussedat was appointed to manage the product and manufacturing planning operations of INMOS, a UK company acquired by ST in 1989.
Subsequently, he supervised the Engineering and Test Strategy for the Programmable Product Group before his promotion to the Head of ST’s Microcontroller Division in 1995. From 2000 to 2004, Mr. Aussedat led the TV and Display Division,
and he became General Manager of ST’s Cellular Communication Division in 2005. Two years later, Mr. Aussedat was appointed General Manager of the Imaging Division, which has significantly strengthened its profitability under his
direction. Mr. Aussedat graduated with a degree in Electronic Engineering from the Institut National Polytechnique in Grenoble and earned a diploma from the Institut d’Administration des Entreprises of Grenoble. Orio Bellezza is Executive Vice President and General Manager of Front-End Manufacturing & Technology R&D for the Company’s Sense & Power and Automotive Products (SP&A) Segment. He has been responsible for Front-End Manufacturing since 2008
and assumed additional responsibility for technology R&D for automotive and industrial & multisegment products in February 2012. He is a member of our Corporate Strategic Committee. Mr. Bellezza joined SGS-ATES, a predecessor company to STMicroelectronics, in 1984. He soon moved to the Company’s Central R&D organization and participated in several key projects, including the introduction of process
technology modules for manufacturing sub-micron non-volatile memories. In 1996, Mr. Bellezza was appointed Director of ST’s R&D facility in Agrate and led
its upgrade and expansion into the Company’s development center for non-volatile memory and smart-power technologies. In 2002, he became Vice President of Central
R&D, and in 2005, was appointed to Vice President and Assistant General Manager of Front-End Technology and Manufacturing. He has published technical papers and earned several patents in non-volatile memories. Mr. Bellezza graduated with a degree in Chemistry from the University of Milan (Università degli Studi di Milano), Italy. Gian Luca Bertino is Executive Vice President and General Manager of ST’s Digital Convergence Group and has held
this position since February 2012. Mr. Bertino started his professional career with Olivetti Personal Computers, where he rose through the ranks to Head of Development, Portable PCs. Bertino joined SGS-Thomson Microelectronics (now STMicroelectronics) in 1997 as a Market Development Manager. The following year he was appointed Director of the Computer and Consumer Business Unit, responsible for sales and
marketing in Europe, and was promoted to Europe Region Vice President, Computer and Consumer, in 2000. In 2003, Mr. Bertino joined ST’s Telecommunications, Peripherals and Automotive Group as Vice President and General Manager of the Data
Storage Division, where he strengthened the Company’s partnerships in the storage segment. In 2005, Mr. Bertino was promoted to Corporate Vice President and General Manager of ST’s Computer Product Group, and in 2008,
Mr. Bertino’s group was expanded to include the Communication Infrastructure organization. Mr. Bertino graduated with a degree in Electronic Engineering from the Polytechnic of Turin, Italy. Philippe Brun is a Corporate Vice President in charge of ST’s Human Resources & Sustainable
Development. Responsible for HR at ST since August 2012, his mission was expanded to cover the Company’s social responsibility, as well as environment, health, and safety in August 2013. Mr. Brun started his career at the
Pechiney Group (now Rio Tinto). In 1986, he joined Thomson Semiconducteurs, a predecessor to STMicroelectronics, as a back-end process engineer. From 1989 to 1996, Mr. Brun managed Human Resources at the
Grenoble, France site and served as Site Director at the Company’s St. Genis facility (France). In 1996, he was promoted to Human Resources Director responsible for over 10,000 employees in ST’s manufacturing organization worldwide.
From 1999 to 2010, Mr. Brun served as Fab Operations and Site Director at ST’s plant in Rousset, France. In January 2011, he was appointed Group VP for execution excellence in ST’s Front-End Manufacturing organization. Mr. Brun graduated with an engineering degree from the Ecole Nationale Supérieure d’Arts et Métiers (ENSAM) in France and holds a Master degree in
Aerospace engineering from the University of Colorado and a management degree from the IFG School of Business (France). Marco Cassis is an Executive Vice President of ST and President of the Company’s Japan and Korea Region. Mr. Cassis has led ST’s operations in Japan since 2005 and his mandate was expanded
to include Korea after the re-organization of the Company’s regional structure in January 2010. Mr. Cassis joined SGS-Thomson Microelectronics (now
STMicroelectronics) as a car radio chip designer in 1987. Six years later, he moved to Japan to help expand the Company’s audio business with major Japanese players and contributed to the establishment of ST’s strategic alliance with
Pioneer in the late 1990s. In 2000, Mr. Cassis took charge of the 84 Table of Contents Audio Business Unit and he was subsequently promoted to Director of Audio and Automotive Group, responsible for design, marketing, sales, application support and customer service. In 2004,
Mr. Cassis was named Vice President of Marketing for automotive, computer peripheral, and telecom products. In 2005, he advanced to VP Automotive Segment Group and joined the Board of STMicroelectronics K.K., the Japanese subsidiary.
Mr. Cassis graduated with a degree in Electronic Engineering from the Polytechnic of Milan, Italy. Andrea Cuomo is Executive Vice President, Advanced Systems Technology (AST) and Special Projects, and has held this
position since January 2012. He also serves as Chairman of the Board at 3Sun, ST’s photovoltaic joint venture with Enel Green Power and Sharp. Mr. Cuomo joined SGS Microelettronica, a predecessor company to STMicroelectronics, in
1983, and rose to become Vice President for the Headquarters Region in 1994. In 1998, he created the AST group, a key organization in the development of ST’s system knowledge and advanced architectures. In 2002, Mr. Cuomo was promoted to
Corporate Vice President and AST General Manager, and took on further responsibilities as Chief Strategy Officer in 2005. In 2008, Mr. Cuomo was appointed Executive Vice President, General Manager of Sales and Marketing for Europe and AST
and his portfolio was later expanded to include the Middle East and Africa. His board memberships include the International Advisory Board at the HEC Business School in Paris, the International Advisory Board of Nano-Tera, a Swiss National program for Nanotechnologies, and TTFactor, the IP utilization arm of the Istituto Europeo di Oncologia. Mr. Cuomo studied Nuclear Science at the Polytechnic of Milan. Claude Dardanne is Executive Vice President and General Manager of ST’s Microcontroller,
Memory & Secure MCU Group and has held this position since January 2007. He is a member of our Corporate Strategic Committee. Mr. Dardanne started his career with Thomson Semiconducteurs, a predecessor company to ST. From
1982, he was responsible for the marketing of microcontroller and microprocessor products. Between 1989 and 1994, Mr. Dardanne served as Marketing Director at Apple Computer, France, and Alcatel-Mietec, Belgium, covering markets such as Education, Banking, as well as Automotive and Industrial. In 1994, he rejoined ST as Director of Central Marketing for the Memory Products Group. In 1998, Mr. Dardanne became Head of the EEPROM
(Electronically Erasable Programmable Read-Only Memory) Division and was promoted to Group Vice President and General Manager of the Serial Non-Volatile Memories
Division in 2002. Two years later, he was appointed Group Deputy General Manager and Head of the Smart Card Division. Mr. Dardanne graduated with a degree in Electronic Engineering from the Ecole Supérieure d’Ingénieurs
en Génie Electrique in Rouen, France. Lorenzo Grandi is Corporate Vice President, Corporate Control
and has held his position since February 2012. Mr. Grandi joined ST in 1987 as a process engineer working on BCD Technology development. In 1990, he moved to the Memory Product Group as Financial Analyst. In 1995, Mr. Grandi was
promoted to the position of Group Controller of the Memory Product Group contributing to the expansion of the Flash/Memory business. In 2005, Mr. Grandi joined Corporate Finance with the responsibility for Budgeting and Reporting. He also
contributed to the carve-out and deconsolidation of the ST Flash memory business. Mr. Grandi graduated cum laude in Physics from the University of Modena and holds a Master of Business Administration from
SDA Bocconi Milano. Paul Grimme is Executive Vice President and General Manager,
Sales & Marketing, for ST’s Europe, Middle East and Africa Region, and has held this position since January 2012. Mr. Grimme is a member of our Corporate Strategic Committee. Mr. Grimme began his career at Motorola,
where he held positions of increasing responsibility in product engineering, marketing and operations management. He served as Corporate Vice President and General Manager of the 8/16-bit Products Division. In
1999, Mr. Grimme was promoted to Vice President and General Manager of the Advanced Vehicle Systems Division. He was later appointed Senior Vice President of the Transportation and Standard Products Group and continued in that role at Freescale
Semiconductor after Motorola spun off its semiconductor business. Mr. Grimme also served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Freescale Semiconductor’s Microcontroller Solutions Group. Mr. Grimme joined ST in early 2009 and
later that year he was appointed Executive Vice President and General Manager of STMicroelectronics’ Automotive Product Group. Mr. Grimme graduated from the University of Nebraska (Lincoln) with a degree in Electrical Engineering and from
the University of Texas (Austin) with a Master of Business Administration. Fabio Gualandris is an Executive
Vice President of ST in charge of Product Quality Excellence and has held this position since February 2011. Mr. Gualandris joined the R&D organization of SGS Microelettronica, a predecessor company to ST, in 1984, and was promoted to
R&D Director of Operations in 1989. In 1996, Mr. Gualandris became Automotive Business Unit Director, focusing on product quality and development. 85 Table of Contents After two years in the U.S. as President and CEO of Semitool, a semiconductor manufacturing equipment vendor, he rejoined ST in 2000 as Group VP responsible for the RAM/PSRAM Product
Division and the Flash Automotive Business Unit. In 2005, Mr. Gualandris was appointed CEO of ST Incard, an ST smart-card subsidiary. Two years later, he contributed to the carve out of ST’s
Flash Memory Group and subsequently joined Numonyx, the joint venture with Intel, as VP and Supply Chain General Manager. Mr. Gualandris has authored several technical and managerial papers, holds some international patents, and served as a
board member in Incard SA, ST Incard, and the Numonyx-Hynix joint venture in China. He also served as Board member and President of Numonyx Italy. Mr. Gualandris graduated in Physics from the University
of Milan. François Guibert is Executive Vice President of ST and President of the Company’s
Greater China-South Asia Region. Guibert has led ST’s operations in Asia Pacific since 2006; his responsibilities were expanded to include Greater China in 2010. Guibert joined Thomson Semiconducteurs, a predecessor company to ST, in 1981,
after three years at Texas Instruments. He was appointed Director of Semicustom Business for Asia Pacific in 1987 and later became President of ST’s Taiwan operations. Guibert also held senior positions in Corporate Business Development and
Investor Relations. In 2005, he was promoted to Corporate Vice President, Emerging Markets. Guibert serves as Director of ST’s JV with Shenzhen High Tech Industrial Company. He chairs the EU-ASEAN Business Council, the Board of Advisors for the
Singapore Semiconductor Industry Association, and sits on boards at EuroCham in Singapore and Alliance Francaise de Singapour. Guibert previously chaired the Board at Veredus Laboratories, ST’s Singapore-based life-sciences subsidiary, and was
a board member at the Singapore Economic Development Board. He was decorated Knight of the National Order of Merit in France in 2009. François Guibert was born in Beziers, France, in 1953, and graduated with a degree in Electronic Engineering
from Ecole Centrale Marseille, France. Joel Hartmann is Executive Vice President of ST, Front-End Manufacturing and Technology R&D, Embedded Processing Solutions (EPS). He has managed these responsibilities for ST’s digital products since February 2012. Mr. Hartmann is also in charge
of the Company’s manufacturing operations in Crolles, France. From 1979 to 2000, Mr. Hartmann worked at CEA-Leti, an applied-research center for
microelectronics, information and healthcare technologies in Grenoble, France. In 2000, he joined ST as Director of the Crolles2 Alliance, the large-scale semiconductor manufacturing R&D initiative of
STMicroelectronics, NXP and Freescale Semiconductor. In 2008, Mr. Hartmann was promoted to Group Vice President and Director of Advanced CMOS Logic & Derivative Technologies. In 2010, he gained additional responsibilities as a co-leader of the Semiconductor Research and Development Center in Fishkill, NY, within the IBM ISDA Technology Alliance for the development of advanced CMOS process. Mr. Hartmann sits on the Board of the SOI
Industry Consortium Initiative and is a Member of the IEEE Electron Device Society. He has filed 15 patents on semiconductor technology and devices and authored 10 publications in this field to date. Mr. Hartmann graduated from the Ecole
Nationale Supérieure de Physique de Grenoble (ENSPG) with a degree in Physics. Otto Kosgalwies is
Executive Vice President of ST in charge of Company Infrastructures and Services and has held this position since November 2004. Central Planning was added to his mandate in 2008. Mr. Kosgalwies is a member of our Corporate Strategic
Committee. Mr. Kosgalwies joined SGS Bauelemente, a predecessor company to STMicroelectronics, in 1984. He took charge of central marketing for European distribution in 1992, and three years later, he began to oversee the regional sales
and marketing operations. In 1997, Mr. Kosgalwies was appointed Managing Director of the Company’s site in Munich, Germany. In 2001, he was promoted to Group Vice President for Sales & Marketing in Europe and General
Manager of Supply Chain Management, responsible for the effective flow of goods and information from suppliers to end users at the global level. Mr. Kosgalwies graduated with a degree in Business and Economics from the Ludwigs-Maximilian University in Munich. Robert Krysiak is an Executive
Vice President of ST and President of the Company’s Americas Region and has held this position since January 2010. He also chairs ST’s Task Force on Electronic Manufacturing Services, the Worldwide Computer Market Program and the
Worldwide Medical Program. Mr. Krysiak started his professional career in 1983 with INMOS, a company acquired by SGS-Thomson Microelectronics (now STMicroelectronics) in 1989. He formed and led a CPU
design group since 1992, and in 1997 he was appointed Group Vice President and General Manager of ST’s STAR division, which incorporated 16/32/64-bit microcontrollers and DSP products. Two years
later he became Group Vice President responsible for micro cores development, including advanced System-on-Chip products for the digital consumer market. In
2001, Mr. Krysiak took charge of ST’s DVD division. In 2004, he was promoted to Marketing Director for the Home, Personal, and Communications sector, the Company’s largest product organization at the time. In 86 Table of Contents 2005, when ST created its Greater China regional organization, covering ST’s operations in China, Hong Kong, and Taiwan, Mr. Krysiak was appointed Corporate Vice President and
General Manager. Mr. Krysiak graduated from Cardiff University, UK, with a degree in Electronics and holds an MBA from the University of Bath, UK. Philippe Magarshack is Executive Vice President of ST in charge of Design Enablement & Services. He has had these responsibilities since March 2012. From 1985 to 1989,
Mr. Magarshack worked as a microprocessor designer at AT&T Bell Labs in the USA. In 1989, he joined Thomson-CSF in Grenoble, France, and took responsibility for libraries and ASIC design kits for the
military market. In 1994, Mr. Magarshack joined the Central R&D Group of SGS-THOMSON Microelectronics (now STMicroelectronics), where he has held several roles in CAD and Libraries management for
advanced integrated-circuit manufacturing processes. In 2005, Mr. Magarshack was promoted to Group Vice President and General Manager of Central CAD and Design Solutions at ST’s Technology R&D
and Manufacturing organization. Mr. Magarshack is ST’s Enablement Executive at the IBM ISDA Technology Alliance for the development of advanced CMOS process. He sits on the boards of Silicon Integration Initiative (Si2) and ENSIMAG
Engineering School in Grenoble. Mr. Magarshack graduated with an engineering degree in Physics from Ecole Polytechnique, Palaiseau, France, and with an Electronics Engineering degree from Ecole Nationale Supérieure des
Télécommunications in Paris, France. Marco Monti is Executive Vice President and General
Manager of ST’s Automotive Product Group and has held this position since January 2012. Mr. Monti joined ST in Central R&D in 1986 and transferred to the Automotive Division in 1988, where he designed automotive ICs incorporating smart-power technologies. He moved to Japan in 1990 working on a co-development activity designing a noise-reduction system for audio
applications. Subsequently, Mr. Monti transferred into marketing, contributing to the expansion of ST’s Automotive business in Japan. In 2000, he became the marketing manager for the ST Automotive Division. Two years later,
Mr. Monti started the automotive microprocessor business and in 2004 was promoted to Division General Manager for Powertrain, Safety and Chassis products. In 2009, he took responsibility for the Automotive Electronics Division inside ST’s
Automotive Product Group. Mr. Monti graduated cum laude in Electronic Engineering from the Polytechnic of Milan, Italy, and two years later from the University of Pavia, Italy, with a PhD in Electronics. Carmelo Papa is Executive Vice President, General Manager of the Industrial & Power Discrete Group and has
held this position since January 2012. He also leads ST’s Online Marketing operations and holds overall responsibility for the System Lab, part of ST’s Central Labs organization. Mr. Papa sits on the Board of Directors of ST New
Ventures SA and is a member of our Corporate Strategic Committee. Mr. Papa started his professional career with International Computers Limited. He joined SGS Microelettronica, a predecessor company to STMicroelectronics, in 1983, and
three years later was promoted to Director of Product Marketing and Customer Service for Transistors and Standard ICs. In 2000, Mr. Papa was appointed Corporate Vice President, responsible for ST’s sales and marketing in Emerging
Markets. In 2005, he was chosen to lead the Micro, Power and Analog Group and his mandate was expanded in 2007 as head of the Industrial & Multisegment Sector. Mr. Papa is currently serving his second term as Chairman of the
European Platform on Smart Systems, an industry-driven initiative focused on innovation in nanotechnologies and smart systems integration. Mr. Papa graduated with a degree in Nuclear Physics from the
University of Catania. Georges Penalver is Chief Strategy Officer of ST, Executive Vice President Strategy,
Communication, Human Resources and Quality and has held this position since August 2013. His overall responsibilities include Corporate Strategy and Development, Corporate Communication, Human Resources, Corporate Security, Product Quality
Excellence, Public Affairs in France and EU, and ST New Ventures. He is a member of our Corporate Strategic Committee. Mr. Penalver started his career in 1980 with Sagem, where he developed the Broadband Communications Business, overseeing the
launch of telecommunication products, the international industrial deployments, and the development of global sales networks. Mr. Penalver was appointed to Sagem’s Management Board in 2001 and served as Deputy CEO, pushing the mass
development of mobile and Internet services. In 2005, he joined the France Telecom Orange Group as Deputy CEO for Strategy and Business Development, responsible, at the group level, for product marketing and management of services in France Telecom
Orange, product creation and development for the entire group, and Orange Labs’ activities worldwide. In 2011, Mr. Penalver used his extensive experience to become a co-founder and managing partner
of CathayaCapital Fund. Mr. Penalver serves as EMEA Regional Leadership Director for the Global Semiconductor Alliance. He is a Knight of the French “Ordre National du Mérite”. Mr. Penalver holds a degree from the Ecole
Nationale Supérieure d’Arts et Métiers (Gold) and from the Ecole Nationale Supérieure des Télécommunications in Paris. Benedetto Vigna is Executive Vice President, General Manager of the Analog, MEMS & Sensors Group, and has held this position since September 2011. Mr. Vigna is a member of our
Corporate Strategic Committee. 87 Table of Contents In 1995, Mr. Vigna joined ST’s R&D Labs and launched the Company’s efforts in MEMS. Six years later, he became Director of the MEMS Business Unit, responsible for design,
manufacturing and marketing of ST’s MEMS accelerometers and gyroscopes. These have been successfully adopted by large consumer equipment manufacturers for motion-activated user interfaces in many popular
devices, including the Nintendo Wii game console and a wide range of successful smartphones and tablets. In 2007, Mr. Vigna’s scope was enlarged to include management of Sensors, RF, High-Performance Analog and Mixed Signal, Interface, Audio for Portable, and General-Purpose Analog products. Mr. Vigna has filed more than 150 patents on micromachining to date, authored numerous publications in
this field, and delivered many invited speeches at international conferences. He has served as industrial consultant for the President of the Italian Scientific Research Center and sits on the industrial board of several EU-funded programs. Mr. Vigna graduated with a degree in Subnuclear Physics from the University of Pisa, Italy. As is common in the semiconductor industry, our success depends to a significant extent upon, among other factors, the continued service of our key senior executives and research and development,
engineering, marketing, sales, manufacturing, support and other personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. The competition for such employees is intense, and the loss of the services of any of
these key personnel without adequate replacement or the inability to attract new qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. We do not maintain insurance with respect to the loss of any of our key personnel. See
“