Item 7.  Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions”. Managing Board In accordance with Dutch law, our management is entrusted to the Managing Board under the supervision of our Supervisory Board.  Mr. Jean-Marc Chery who was appointed on May 31, 2018 for a three-year term expiring at the 2021 AGM, is currently the sole member of our Managing Board with the function of President and Chief Executive Officer.  On January 28, 2021, our Supervisory Board announced that it will propose at our 2021 AGM the reappointment of Mr. Jean-Marc Chery for another three-year term. Under our Articles of Association, Managing Board members are appointed for a three-year term upon a non-binding proposal by our Supervisory Board at our AGM and adoption by a simple majority of the votes cast at the AGM, provided quorum conditions are met, which term may be renewed one or more times. 71 Table of Contents Our shareholders’ meeting may suspend or dismiss one or more members of our Managing Board, in accordance with the procedures laid down in our Articles of Association.  Under Dutch law, our Managing Board is entrusted with our general management and the representation of the Company. Our Managing Board must seek prior approval from our shareholders’ meeting for decisions regarding a significant change in the identity or nature of the Company. Under our Articles of Association and our Supervisory Board Charter, our Managing Board must also seek prior approval from our Supervisory Board for certain other decisions with regard to the Company and our direct or indirect subsidiaries. The sole member of our Managing Board may not serve on the board of a public company without the prior approval of our Supervisory Board.  Pursuant to the Supervisory Board Charter, the sole member of our Managing Board must inform our Supervisory Board of any (potential) conflict of interest and pursuant to such charter and Dutch law, any Managing Board resolution regarding a transaction in relation to which the sole member of our Managing Board has a conflict of interest must be approved and adopted by our Supervisory Board.  Should our entire Supervisory Board also have a conflict of interest, the resolution must be adopted by our shareholders’ meeting pursuant to Dutch law.  We are not aware of any potential conflicts of interests between the private interest or other duties of our sole Managing Board member and our senior managers and their duties to us. Pursuant to our Articles of Association and the Supervisory Board Charter, the following decisions by our Managing Board with regard to the Company and any of our direct or indirect subsidiaries (an “ST Group Company”) require prior approval from our Supervisory Board:  (i) any modification of our or any ST Group Company’s Articles of Association or other constitutional documents, other than those of wholly owned subsidiaries; (ii) other than for wholly owned subsidiaries, any change in our or any ST Group Company’s authorized share capital or any issue, acquisition or disposal by us — with the exception of shares in our share capital acquired in order to transfer these shares under employee stock option or stock purchase plans — or any ST Group Company of own shares or change in share rights and any issue of instruments resulting in a share in the capital of any ST Group Company or its profits (iii) the liquidation or dissolution of the Company or any ST Group Company or the disposal of all or a substantial and material part of our business or assets, or those of any ST Group Company, or of any shares in any ST Group Company; (iv) any merger, acquisition or joint venture agreement (and, if substantial and material, any agreement relating to IP) to which we or any ST Group Company is, or is proposed to be, a party, as well as the formation of new companies by us or any ST Group Company (with the understanding that only acquisitions above $25 million per transaction are subject to prior Supervisory Board approval); (v) our draft Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as our and any ST Group Company’s profit distribution policies; (vi) entering into any agreement that may qualify as a related party transaction, including any agreement between us or any ST Group Company and any of our major shareholders; (vii) the appointment of members of the Executive Committee; (viii) the key parameters of our pluri-annual plans and our consolidated annual budgets, as well as any significant modifications to said plans and budgets, or any one of the matters set forth in our Articles of Association and not included in the approved plans or budgets; (ix) operations which have to be submitted for Supervisory Board prior approval even if their financing was already provided for in the approved annual budget; (x) our quarterly, semi-annual and annual Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and, as required, according to IFRS; (xi) the exercise of any shareholder right in a ST joint venture company, which is a company (a) with respect to which we hold directly or indirectly either a minority equity position in excess of 25% or a majority position without the voting power to adopt extraordinary resolutions, or (b) in which we directly or indirectly participate and such participation has a value of at least one-third of our total assets according to the Consolidated Balance Sheets and notes thereto in our most recently adopted (statutory) annual accounts, with the understanding, for the avoidance of doubt, that decisions of the Managing Board regarding the general management and/or operations of such ST joint venture company are not subject to Supervisory Board approval and that the Managing Board reports to the Supervisory Board on the operations of the ST joint venture companies as part of its regular reporting to the Supervisory Board and in principle at least every six months; (xii) the strategy of our company; (xiii) the annual internal audit plan and the appointment, replacement, reassignment and dismissal of our Chief Audit and Risk Executive; (xiv) all proposals to be submitted to a vote at the AGM; (xv) the formation of all companies, acquisition or sale of any participation and conclusion of any cooperation and participation agreement ; (xvi) all our pluri-annual plans and the budget for the coming year (covering investment policy, policy regarding research and development, and commercial policy and objectives, general financial policy and policy regarding personnel); and (xvii) all acts, decisions or operations covered by the foregoing and constituting a significant change with respect to decisions already approved by the Supervisory Board or not provided for in the above list and as specifically laid down by a Supervisory Board resolution to that effect. 72 Table of Contents Senior Management On January 11, 2021, we announced the appointment of Rajita D’Souza as President, Human Resources and Corporate Social Responsibility (CHRO) and member of the Executive Committee. General management of our business The sole member of our Managing Board, our President and Chief Executive Officer, is entrusted with our general management and is supported in his tasks by our Executive Committee and Executive Vice Presidents, who together constitute our Senior Management. As a company committed to good governance, we hold corporate meetings on a regular basis.  Such meetings, which involve the participation of several members of our Senior Management include: Executive Committee, which meets once every month and oversees the general strategy and is responsible for the risk management of the Company. Corporate Operations Review , which meets twice per quarter to review monthly results, short-term forecasts and monthly business results. Corporate Staff Meeting , which meets once per quarter to review the business in its entirety and to plan and forecast for the next quarter and beyond. Executive Committee The Executive Committee was established on May 31, 2018.  The Executive Committee acts under the authority and responsibility of the Managing Board and in this respect manages the Company.  The Managing Board remains legally responsible for the management of the Company.  The responsibilities of the Executive Committee include overseeing the general strategy as well as the risk management in connection with the Company's activities, operational and financial objectives and financial reporting processes.  The Executive Committee adopts resolutions based on consensus, or if no consensus can be reached, by a majority of the votes cast by the members of the Managing Board including the vote of the chairman of the Executive Committee. The chairman of the Executive Committee is the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company.  Members of the Executive Committee are appointed by the Managing Board subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board.  Members of the Executive Committee can be suspended and dismissed by the Managing Board without prior approval by the Supervisory Board. The Executive Committee was composed of the following eight members as at December 31, 2020 as set forth in the table below: Name (1) Position Years with Company Years in Semi- Conductor Industry Age Jean-Marc Chery President and Chief Executive Officer 36 36 60 Orio Bellezza President, Technology, Manufacturing and Quality 37 37 61 Marco Cassis President, Sales, Marketing, Communications & Strategy Development 33 33 57 Claude Dardanne President, Microcontrollers and Digital ICs Group 38 41 68 Lorenzo Grandi President, Finance, Infrastructure and Services, and Chief Financial Officer 33 33 59 Marco Monti President, Automotive and Discrete Group 34 34 59 Steven Rose President, Legal Counsel 29 29 58 Benedetto Vigna President, Analog, MEMS and Sensors Group 26 26 51 (1) Rajita D’Souza has been as a member of the Executive Committee since January 1, 2021. 73 Table of Contents Biographies of our Executive Committee Members Jean-Marc Chery is STMicroelectronics’ President and Chief Executive Officer, and has held this position since May 31st, 2018.  He is the Sole Member of ST’s Managing Board and chairs its Executive Committee.  Mr. Chery began his career in the Quality organization of Matra, the French engineering group.  In 1986, he joined Thomson Semiconducteurs, which subsequently became ST, and held various management positions in product planning and manufacturing, rising to lead ST’s wafer fabs in Tours, France, and later in Rousset, France.  In 2005, Mr. Chery led the company-wide 150 mm wafer-production restructuring program before taking charge of ST’s Front-End Manufacturing operations in Asia Pacific.  In 2008, he was promoted to Chief Technology Officer and assumed additional responsibilities for Manufacturing and Quality (2011) and the Digital Product Sector (2012).  In 2014, Mr. Chery was appointed ST’s Chief Operating Officer responsible for Technology and Manufacturing operations.  In July 2017, Mr. Chery was appointed Deputy CEO with overall responsibility for Technology and Manufacturing, as well as for Sales and Marketing operations.  Mr. Chery is President of the European Semiconductor Industry Association (ESIA), President of the European microelectronics R&D program AENEAS, and Chairman of the France – Malaysia Business Council at Medef International. In July 2019, he was promoted Knight of the Legion of Honor by the French Ministry of Economy and Finance. Mr.  Chery was born in Orleans, France, in 1960, and graduated with a degree in Engineering from the ENSAM engineering school in Paris, France. Orio Bellezza is STMicroelectronics’ President, Technology, Manufacturing and Quality, and has held this position since May 31, 2018.  He has been responsible for Front-End Manufacturing since 2008 and his mandate has been expanded to cover ST’s technology, manufacturing operations, supply chain, and quality.  Mr. Bellezza is a member of ST’s Executive Committee since May 31, 2018.  Mr. Bellezza joined SGS-ATES, a predecessor company to STMicroelectronics, in 1984 as a fab process engineer.  He soon moved to ST’s Central R&D organization and participated in several key projects, including the introduction of process technology modules for manufacturing sub-micron non-volatile memories.  In 1996, Mr. Bellezza was appointed Director of ST’s R&D facility in Agrate and led its upgrade and expansion into a manufacturing and development center for non-volatile memory and smart-power technologies.  In 2002, he became Vice President of Central R&D, and in 2005, was appointed Vice President and Assistant General Manager of Front-End Technology and Manufacturing.  Mr. Bellezza also serves as Managing Director of the ST Italy legal entity.  Mr. Bellezza has published technical papers and earned several patents in non-volatile memories.  Mr. Bellezza was born in Bergamo, Italy, in 1959, and graduated cum laude with a degree in Chemistry from the University of Milan, Italy. Marco Cassis is STMicroelectronics’ President, Sales, Marketing, Communications and Strategy Development and has held this position since May 31, 2018.  He is a member of ST’s Executive Committee since May 31, 2018.  Mr. Cassis joined SGS-Thomson Microelectronics (now STMicroelectronics) as a car-radio chip designer in 1987.  Six years later, he moved to Japan to help expand ST’s audio business with major Japanese players and contributed to the establishment of ST’s strategic alliance with Pioneer.  In 2000, Mr. Cassis took charge of the Audio Business Unit and was subsequently promoted to Director of Audio and Automotive Group.  In 2004, Mr. Cassis was named Vice President of Marketing for automotive, computer peripheral, and telecom products and in 2005, he advanced to Vice President of the Automotive Segment Group and joined the Board of STMicroelectronics K.K., ST’s Japanese subsidiary.  Mr. Cassis was promoted to lead ST’s operations in Japan in 2005 and his mandate was expanded to include Korea in 2010 and Greater China and South Asia in 2016, when he was appointed President of ST’s Asia Pacific Region.  In 2017, Mr. Cassis was promoted President, Global Sales and Marketing and was part of the senior management before the establishment of the Executive Committee.  Mr. Cassis was born in Treviso, Italy, in 1963, and graduated with a degree in Electronic Engineering from the Polytechnic of Milan, Italy. Claude Dardanne is STMicroelectronics’ President, Microcontrollers and Digital ICs Group, and has held this position since January 2016.  He is a member of ST’s Executive Committee since May 31, 2018.  Mr. Dardanne started his career with Thomson Semiconducteurs, a predecessor company to ST.  From 1982, he was responsible for microcontroller and microprocessor marketing.  Between 1989 and 1994, Mr. Dardanne was Marketing Director at Apple Computer and Alcatel-Mietec.  In 1994, he rejoined ST as Director of Central Marketing for the Memory Products Group, became Head of the EEPROM Division in 1998, and was later appointed Group Deputy General Manager and Head of the Smart Card Division.  ST consolidated its Microcontroller, Memory, and Secure MCU (MMS) activities in 2007 and appointed Mr. Dardanne Corporate Vice President and the MMS General Manager.  Under his leadership, MMS has become a key asset in revenue and market-share growth and profitability and a worldwide leader in the microcontroller market.  Mr. Dardanne 74 Table of Contents was born near Limoges, France, in 1952, and graduated with a degree in Electronic Engineering from the Ecole Supérieure d'Ingénieurs en Génie Electrique in Rouen, France. Lorenzo Grandi is STMicroelectronics’ President, Finance, Infrastructure and Services, and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), and has held this position since May 31, 2018.  Mr. Grandi’s overall responsibilities at ST encompass, in addition to Finance, Treasury and Business Control, Capital Investment Control and Planning, Global Procurement, Information and Communication Technology, and Investor Relations. He is a member of ST’s Executive Committee since May 31, 2018.  Mr. Grandi joined SGS-THOMSON Microelectronics (now STMicroelectronics) in 1987 as a R&D process engineer.  In 1990, he moved to ST’s Memory Product Group (MPG) as Financial Analyst.  In 1995, Mr. Grandi was promoted to the position of Group Controller of the Memory Product Group contributing to the expansion of ST’s flash memory business.  In 2005, Mr. Grandi joined the ST’s Corporate Finance organization taking responsibility for Budgeting and Reporting.  In 2012, Mr. Grandi was promoted to Corporate Vice President in charge of Corporate Control.  In December 2020, Mr. Grandi received a special award for his long-standing professional achievements from the French Association of Financial Directors and Management Controllers (DFCG). Mr. Grandi was born in Sondrio, Italy, in 1961.  He graduated cum laude in Physics from the University of Modena, Italy, and holds a MBA from SDA Bocconi School of Management in Milan, Italy. Marco Monti is STMicroelectronics’ President, Automotive and Discrete Group.  The head of ST’s Automotive Product Group since 2012, his mandate was expanded to include discrete and power transistor products in January 2016.  Mr. Monti is a member of ST’s Executive Committee since May 31, 2018.  Mr. Monti joined ST in Central R&D in 1986 and transferred to the Automotive Division in 1988, where he designed automotive ICs incorporating smart-power technologies.  He moved to Japan in 1990 working on a co-development activity designing a noise-reduction system for audio applications.  Subsequently, Mr. Monti transferred into marketing, contributing to the expansion of ST’s automotive business in Japan.  In 2000, he became the marketing manager for ST’s Automotive Division and started the Company’s automotive microprocessor business two years later.  In 2004, Mr. Monti was promoted to Division General Manager for Powertrain, Safety, and Chassis products, and he took responsibility for the Automotive Electronics Division in 2009.  Then, in 2012, Mr. Monti was appointed Executive Vice President, General Manager of ST’s Automotive Product Group.  Mr. Monti was born in Milan, Italy, in 1961.  He graduated cum laude in Electronic Engineering from the Polytechnic of Milan and earned a PhD in Electronics from the University of Pavia, Italy. Steven Rose is STMicroelectronics’ President, Legal Counsel, and has held this position since May 31, 2018.  He has been in charge of ST’s legal affairs since 2013.  Mr. Rose is a member of ST’s Executive Committee since May 31, 2018 and before the establishment of the Executive Committee was also part of the senior management.  Mr. Rose started his career as a corporate attorney at the law firm Gardere & Wynne in Dallas, Texas, providing legal advice and services to public and private companies.  He joined SGS-THOMSON Microelectronics (now STMicroelectronics) in 1991 as the Associate General Counsel for the U.S. subsidiary, STMicroelectronics, Inc.  In 2006, Mr. Rose was appointed to serve as the Senior Associate General Counsel for the Americas, Greater China & South Asia, and Japan & Korea regions, in addition to serving as Vice President, Secretary & General Counsel and a Director of STMicroelectronics, Inc. Mr. Rose was born in Wichita, Kansas, United States of America, in 1962 and he obtained a degree in Accounting from Oklahoma State University and a Juris Doctor degree from the University of Oklahoma College of Law . Benedetto Vigna is STMicroelectronics’ President, Analog, MEMS and Sensors Group, and has held this position since January 2016.  He has been a member of ST’s Executive Committee since May 31, 2018.  Mr. Vigna joined ST in 1995 and launched the Company’s efforts in MEMS.  Under his guidance, ST’s MEMS sensors established the Company’s leadership with large OEMs in motion-activated user interfaces.  Mr. Vigna has piloted ST’s successful moves into microphones, e-compasses, and touch-screen controllers, as well as environmental sensors, micro-actuators, industrial and automotive sensors, and low-power radios for IoT.  Mr. Vigna’s mandate was further expanded with analog ICs and RF products (2011) and smart-power devices for OEMs and mass market (2016).  ST’s Imaging division moved under his management in late 2017.  Mr. Vigna has more than 200 patents on micromachining, authored numerous publications, and sits on the boards of several EU-funded programs.  Mr. Vigna’s contributions to the industry have been recognized with the MEMS Industry Group’s Executive of the Year Award (2013), the European SEMI Award (2013), the IEEE Frederik Philips Award (2015), and Manager of the Year 2017 by German magazine Markt & Technik.  He joined the MEMS & Sensor Industry Group board in June 2019.  Since June 2020 he is also Member of the Board of Technical Advisors of Leonardo Company to support the deployment of the Leonardo 2030 R&D Masterplan. Mr. Vigna was born in Potenza, Italy, in 1969, and graduated cum laude with a degree in Subnuclear Physics from the University of Pisa, Italy. 75 Table of Contents Executive Vice Presidents The group of Executive Vice Presidents consisted of the following people as at December 31, 2020: Name Position Years with Company Years in Semi- Conductor Industry Age Michael Anfang Executive Vice President Sales & Marketing, Europe, Middle East and Africa Region 22 30 52 Eric Aussedat Executive Vice President Imaging Sub-Group General Manager Analog, MEMS and Sensors Group 40 40 66 Stefano Cantù Executive Vice President Automotive Discrete Group Smart Power Solutions Macro-Division General Manager Automotive Business Deputy 26 26 52 Alberto Della Chiesa Executive Vice President, Supply Chain 32 32 56 Paul Cihak Executive Vice President, General Manager, Sales & Marketing, Americas Region 22 27 49 Fabio Gualandris Executive Vice President, Head of Back-End Manufacturing & Technology 32 36 61 Joël Hartmann Executive Vice President, Digital & Smart Power Technology and Digital Front-End Manufacturing 20 42 65 Michael Hummel Executive Vice President, Front-End Manufacturing, Analog and Power 2 30 61 Claudia Levo Executive Vice President, Integrated Marketing & Communications 9 11 55 Matteo Lo Presti Executive Vice President, Analog, Sub-Group General Manager, Analog MEMS and Sensors Group 27 27 56 Giuseppe Notarnicola Executive Vice President, Corporate Treasury, Insurance, M&A, IP BU, Real Estate, and Italy Public Affairs 15 15 59 Jerome Roux Executive Vice President, Sales & Marketing, Asia Pacific Region 29 33 55 Thierry Tingaud Executive Vice President Europe and France Public Affairs STMicroelectronics, President, STMicroelectronics France 36 36 61 Nicolas Yackowlew Executive Vice President Product Quality & Reliability 25 26 51 Biographies of our Executive Vice Presidents Michael Anfang is Executive Vice President, Sales & Marketing for STMicroelectronics’ Europe, Middle East and Africa Region (EMEA), and has held this position since November 2018.  Mr. Anfang started his career with Siemens Semiconductor AG in 1990 in product engineering, followed by responsibilities in product design, automotive and strategic marketing.  In 1999, he joined ST as an automotive business development manager.  In 2002, Mr. Anfang was given responsibility for microcontroller product marketing at ST’s Automotive Division in Agrate, Italy and was promoted to Director of Marketing & Applications in 2005.  Four years later, he was appointed Digital Automotive Business Unit Director of the Automotive Product Group and became a member of the management team responsible for the MCU Joint Development Program between Freescale and STMicroelectronics.  In 2013, Mr. Anfang joined the EMEA regional organization of STMicroelectronics as Automotive Marketing & Applications Vice President.  Mr. Anfang was born in Kitzbühel, Austria, in 1968.  He graduated with a degree in Electronic Engineering from the Higher Technical 76 Table of Contents School in Saalfelden, Austria, and a degree in Business Management and Marketing from the FU University in Hagen-Munich, Germany. Eric Aussedat is Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Imaging sub-group of the Company’s Analog, MEMS and Sensors Group and has held this position since October 2014.  Mr. Aussedat joined Thomson Semiconducteurs, a predecessor company to ST, as Product Engineer in 1981.  He held various positions in product engineering and planning and was promoted Planning Manager of the Video Products Group in 1986.  Later on, he was appointed to manage the product and manufacturing planning operations of INMOS, a UK company acquired by ST.  Subsequently, he supervised the Engineering and Test Strategy for the Programmable Product Group before his promotion to head ST’s Microcontroller Division in 1995.  In 2000-2004, Mr. Aussedat led the TV and Display Division and became General Manager of ST’s Cellular Communication Division in 2005.  Two years later, he was appointed General Manager of the Imaging Division.  In 2012, Mr. Aussedat was appointed ST’s Executive Vice President in charge of the Imaging, Bi-CMOS ASIC and Silicon Photonics Group.  Mr. Aussedat was born in Montmorency near Paris, France, in 1954. He graduated with a degree in Electronic Engineering from the Institut National Polytechnique in Grenoble and earned a diploma from the Institut d’Administration des Entreprises of Grenoble. Stefano Cantù is Executive Vice President, Smart Power Solutions Macro-Division General Manager within STMicroelectronics’ Automotive and Discrete Group (ADG) and has held this position since September 2020. He has also been Automotive Business Deputy across all ADG organizations since April 2019. After experiences at Italtel and the Italian Ministry of Defense, Mr. Cantù joined the planning organization of STMicroelectronics’ Dedicated Product Group in 1994. Five years later, he was appointed Central Planning Manager for the Telecom, Peripheral, and Automotive Group. From 2003-2004, Mr. Cantù managed production control at ST’s manufacturing sites in Phoenix, Arizona and Carrollton, Texas and in 2005, he moved to become Planning Director in ST’s Automotive Product Group. Mr. Cantù was promoted to Automotive Product Group Vice President responsible for Supply Chain in 2009 with Group Operations added to his mandate in 2012, before becoming Supply Chain General Manager in 2016. Stefano Cantù was born in Milan, Italy, in 1968, and he graduated with a degree in Electronic Engineering from the Polytechnic of Milan. Alberto Della Chiesa is Executive Vice President in charge of Supply Chain and has held this role since May 2012.  Mr. Chiesa joined STMicroelectronics as a New Product Planning Engineer in 1988.  He was in charge of new product introductions in the Automotive and Hard Disk Drive market and pioneered a number of ST’s successful collaborative programs with major key customers.  In his tenure at STMicroelectronics, Mr. Chiesa has covered different positions in both Planning and Operations.  In 2005, he was appointed Director, Planning & Service for the Computer Peripherals Group, where he actively contributed to the creation of ST’s first operations and planning structure in Singapore.  Over time, Mr. Chiesa rose to become Group Vice President of Supply Chain, followed by the nomination of General Manager and consequently Head of Operations and Supply Chain for ST’s Computers and Communications Infrastructure Product Group. Mr. Chiesa was born in Varese, Italy, in 1964, and holds a Bachelor’s degree in Statistics from the Catholic University of Milan, with a specialization in the manufacturing processes.  He is also CPIM certified with the American Production and Inventory Control Society (APICS) in Paris, France. Paul Cihak is Executive Vice President, Sales & Marketing for STMicroelectronics’ Americas Region, and has held this position since November 2018.  Mr. Cihak began his career with Hewlett Packard in 1994.  He spent five years working in HP’s Inkjet printing business before being hired into strategic account management by STMicroelectronics in 1999.  In 2003, Mr. Cihak managed an industry-leading e-Business supply chain project cited as one of the first successful B2B RosettaNet programs in the world.  Mr. Cihak rose through the ranks to become Director of Sales in 2004, Vice President of Sales in 2007, and Vice President of ST’s Computer and Peripheral accounts in 2011.  He was promoted in 2012 to lead ST’s largest sales Business Unit managing three Global Key Accounts for the Company. In April 2014, Mr. Cihak was appointed Executive President, General Manager, Sales & Marketing for STMicroelectronics’ Europe, Middle East and Africa Region.  Mr. Cihak was born in San Diego, CA, in 1971.  He graduated from the University of Oregon with a degree in History and Political Science and holds a MBA from Portland State University. 77 Table of Contents Fabio Gualandris is Executive Vice President, Head of ST’s Back-End Manufacturing & Technology organization and has held this position since January 2016. Mr. Gualandris joined the R&D organization of SGS Microelettronica, a predecessor company to ST, in 1984.  He was promoted to R&D Director of Operations in 1989 and became Automotive Business Unit Director in 1996.  After two years in the US as President and CEO of Semitool, a semiconductor manufacturing equipment vendor, he rejoined ST in 2000 as Group VP responsible for the RAM/PSRAM Product Division and the Flash Automotive Business Unit.  In 2005, Mr. Gualandris was appointed CEO of ST Incard, an ST smart-card subsidiary. In 2008-2010, he served as VP and Supply Chain General Manager at ST’s memory joint venture with Intel.  In 2011, Mr. Gualandris was appointed ST’s Executive Vice President in charge of Product Quality Excellence. Mr. Gualandris has authored several technical and managerial papers and holds some international patents.  He serves as Chairman of STS, ST's manufacturing joint venture in China, and previously sat on boards at Incard, Numonyx, and the Numonyx-Hynix joint venture. Mr. Gualandris was born in Bergamo, Italy, in 1959.  He holds a Master’s degree in Physics from the University of Milan. Joël Hartmann is Executive Vice President of STMicroelectronics, Digital & Smart Power Technology and Digital Front-End Manufacturing, and has held this position since February 2012.  He manages ST’s manufacturing operations in Crolles and Rousset, France, Technology and Design Platforms for the Company’s digital products.  In December 2018, Mr. Hartmann’s mandate was expanded with ST’s Smart Power Technology R&D operations in Agrate, Italy.  From 1979 to 2000, Mr. Hartmann worked at CEA-Leti, France-based applied-research center.  In 2000, he joined STMicroelectronics as Director of the Crolles2 Alliance, the semiconductor manufacturing R&D initiative of STMicroelectronics, NXP, and Freescale Semiconductor.  In 2008, Mr. Hartmann was promoted to Group Vice President and Director of Advanced CMOS Logic & Derivative Technologies.  From 2010 to 2012, he had additional responsibilities as a co-leader of the Semiconductor Research and Development Center in Fishkill, NY, within the IBM ISDA Technology Alliance for advanced CMOS process development.  Mr. Hartmann is a Member of the IEEE Electron Device Society.  In 2017, he became a member of the French “Académie des Technologies” and received the European SEMI Award in 2019.  Mr. Hartmann has filed 15 patents on semiconductor technology and devices and authored 10 publications in this field to date.  Mr. Hartmann was born in Toulon, France, in 1955.  He graduated from the Ecole Nationale Supérieure de Physique de Grenoble with a degree in Physics. Michael Hummel is Executive Vice President of STMicroelectronics, Analog and Power Front-End Manufacturing, and has held this position since March 2019.  In 1991, Mr. Hummel started his professional career with IBM Microelectronics as a Process Engineer at Europe’s first 200 mm wafer fab in Böblingen, Germany.  He held several managerial positions in Manufacturing and Engineering and became Director of Marketing & Supply Chain Management for the Philips-IBM JV in 1996.  In the early 2000s, Mr. Hummel served as VP of Philips’ Display Driver business – first in Zürich and later in Taipei. In 2005, he was promoted to VP and General Manager of Philips Semiconductors Germany and Head of the Wafer Fab Operation in Böblingen.  In 2007, Mr. Hummel joined Texas Instruments as Operations Manager in Dallas and two years later became Fab Manager at the Freising, Germany wafer plant.  Upon TI’s acquisition of National Semiconductors in 2011, Mr. Hummel assumed additional responsibility for the Greenock, UK wafer fab and its integration into TI’s Front-End Fab structure.  Mr. Hummel sat on SEMI European Advisory Board in 2005-2017.  Mr. Hummel was born in Heilbronn, Germany, in 1959.  He studied Chemistry at the University of Tübingen and received his PhD degree in Organic & Physical Chemistry in 1991. Claudia Levo is Executive Vice President at STMicroelectronics with responsibility, since June 2018, for integrated Marketing and Communications strategies and plans.  Her responsibilities encompass corporate communications, including PR, media and industry analyst relations, marketing communications and digital marketing.  Mrs. Levo began her career in 1993, with Marconi, a global telecommunications company, where she had responsibility for a number of management roles within the Communication function, including marketing communications and internal and external communications across wide geographies.  In 2005, Mrs. Levo managed the communication activities related to the integration of Marconi with Ericsson, and was subsequently appointed Vice President for Communications at the newly formed Ericsson Multimedia Business Unit.  In 2008, Mrs. Levo was appointed Vice President Communications at Italtel. In early 2009 she joined ST-Ericsson, the wireless joint venture between STMicroelectronics and Ericsson, as Senior Vice President and head of Global Communications.  In this capacity, she has successfully built the Global Communication function covering marketing and portfolio communication, public and media relations, investor relations and internal communication.  Mrs. Levo was born in Genoa, Italy, in 1965, and holds a language school diploma (Liceo Linguistico) in English and Russian. 78 Table of Contents Matteo Lo Presti is Executive Vice President, General Manager of the Analog sub-group within ST’s Analog, MEMS and Sensors Group, and has held this position since January 2016. Mr. Lo Presti joined the Advanced Research Group of SGS-Thomson Microelectronics (now STMicroelectronics) in 1994 and was appointed Head of Fuzzy Logic R&D four years later.  From 2002 to 2004, Mr. Lo Presti led the marketing and application labs for the Industrial and Automotive market segments in ST’s Emerging Markets.  He gained responsibility for the Company’s Systems Lab in 2004 and the Subsystem Product Group and Technical Marketing for the Industrial & Multisegment Sector were added to his mandate in 2008 and 2009, respectively. In 2012, Mr. Lo Presti was promoted to Group Vice President, General Manager, Industrial and Power Conversion Division.  From 1996 to 2004, Mr. Lo Presti served as a visiting professor at the University of Messina (Italy) and the University of Catania (Italy).  He has authored more than 40 international publications and holds several industrial patents. Mr. Lo Presti was born in Misterbianco, Italy, in 1965, and graduated with a degree in Electronic Engineering from the University of Catania. Giuseppe Notarnicola is STMicroelectronics’ Executive Vice President responsible for managing Corporate Treasury, a position he has held since January 2006.  His responsibilities were expanded in 2013 to include Insurance and in 2018 to include M&A, IP BU, Real Estate and Public Affairs for Italy.  Mr. Notarnicola started his career with Banca Nazionale del Lavoro (BNL), one of Italy’s largest banks, in 1987.  At BNL, he managed financial operations in Singapore, the Financial Department of the London branch, the global Head Office, financial advisory arm for corporate and institutional customers, and in 2004, was promoted Head of Large Corporate clients.  Mr. Notarnicola joined ST in 2006, when he initiated the Company’s relationship with the European Investment Bank and managed the financing aspects of ST’s Flash memory business spin-out, as well as all the Company’s strategic funding in the capital markets.  Mr. Notarnicola is President of ST Italy and a board member of several other ST affiliates.  Mr. Notarnicola was born in Codroipo near Udine, Italy, in 1961.  He graduated cum laude in Business Administration from the LUISS Guido Carli University in Rome, Italy. Jerome Roux is Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing for the Company’s Asia Pacific Region, and has held this position since July 2017.  Mr. Roux began his career in the Planning department of SGS-THOMSON Microelectronics, a predecessor to STMicroelectronics, in 1988.  He soon moved to the Company’s packaging facility in Casablanca, Morocco as Material Manager.  Afterwards, Mr. Roux moved to Singapore and then Shanghai as the Asia Pacific Marketing Director for ST’s Discrete and Standard Product Group.  He left ST briefly to join an ST supplier company as managing director and member of the board and returned to ST in 2006 as Group Vice President, Assembly & Testing Outsourcing Operations, based in Singapore.  Global Purchasing responsibilities were added to his mandate in 2008. He was promoted to Corporate Vice President in 2012 and has managed Geographic and Distribution Sales in ST’s Greater China & South Asia Region (since 2015) and Asia Pacific Region (since 2016).  Mr. Roux serves as advisor to the French Government (CCEF) on Foreign Trade of the Singapore committee.  Mr. Roux was born in Antibes, France, in 1965, and graduated from ISG Business School in Paris with a Master degree in Commerce (Management and Marketing). Thierry Tingaud is Executive Vice President of Europe and France Public Affairs since July 2018.  He also holds the position of President of STMicroelectronics France since 2012.  In 1985, Mr. Tingaud joined Thomson Semiconductors, a predecessor company to STMicroelectronics in a telecom marketing role.  Following several promotions, Mr. Tingaud was appointed Corporate Strategic Key Account Director in 1996, Vice President, Sales and Marketing for the European Telecommunications Business Unit in 1999, and then Corporate Vice President for Emerging Markets in 2006.  He joined ST-Ericsson in 2009 as Vice President of Strategic Planning and Public Affairs and then was named Senior Vice President, General Manager of three Product Divisions.  He rejoined ST in 2012 to lead West Europe Sales & Marketing and European Public Affairs.  Mr. Tingaud is Vice-President of ESIA, Chairman of the Joint Steering Committee for the World Semiconductor Council, and the representative of the President and CEO of STMicroelectronics at the European Commission’s High Level Group KET’s, and at the Electronics Leaders Group.  He was appointed President of the “filière électronique” in France in May 2018 and to the High Level Group of Experts on AI by the European Commission in June 2018.  Born in Paris in 1959, Mr. Tingaud graduated with a degree in Electronic Engineering from INSA Lyon (1982) and with a Master of Business Administration from ESSEC (1985). 79 Table of Contents Nicolas Yackowlew is Executive Vice President, Product Quality & Reliability at STMicroelectronics and has held this position since August 2018.  Mr. Yackowlew began his career in 1996 as Product Quality Engineer at ST.  He has successfully driven Quality and Reliability departments for many years at both the Division and Group levels.  Mr. Yackowlew was promoted Division Quality & Reliability Manager in 2006 leading quality for Serial Non Volatile Memory.  Three years later, he was appointed Quality & Reliability Director in charge of the Quality for Memory, Microcontrollers and Secured MCUs.  In 2016, Mr. Yackowlew took the responsibility of Quality & Reliability for the Microcontroller and Digital ICs Group (MDG).  Mr. Yackowlew was born in Mulhouse (France) in 1969 and graduated with a degree in Chemistry from the University of Nice Sophia Antipolis, France. Compensation On December 1, 2019, a Dutch act implementing the revised EU Shareholders’ Rights Directive (2017/828/EU (“SRDII”) took effect in The Netherlands.  As we are incorporated under the laws of The Netherlands and our common shares are admitted to trading on regulated markets in the European Union, we are required, inter alia , to update the remuneration policy with respect to the compensation of the Supervisory Board members and the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer and to comply with the respective disclosure requirements introduced to the Dutch Civil Code.  In connection therewith, we present in this section certain comparative information on our performance relative to the compensation of the Supervisory Board members and the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer.  In addition, we provide information on the ratio of fixed to variable compensation of the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. Following the results of the 2020 AGM, where our proposed new remuneration policy for our Managing Board and remuneration report were rejected by the AGM and after review of the related comments received by proxy advisors, we conducted a thorough review of our current compensation structure with the support of an external consulting firm. We have also conducted a comprehensive qualitative and quantitative benchmark against our industry peers and best-in-class market practices – in particular, regarding the level of transparency and disclosure of compensation information as well as the inclusion of corporate social responsibility criteria into the senior management’s set of performance criteria. Supervisory Board Compensation Our Articles of Association provide that the compensation of our Supervisory Board members is determined by our General Meeting of Shareholders.  Our proposal for adoption of a remuneration policy for the Supervisory Board members to ensure compliance with the new requirements under the Dutch Civil Code, following the implementation of SRDII, was approved by the AGM on June 17, 2020.  The aggregate compensation for current and former members of our Supervisory Board with respect to service in 2020 was €891,500 before any applicable withholding taxes, as set forth in the following table. Supervisory Board Members Directors’ Fees (1) Maurizio Tamagnini € 156,500 Nicolas Dufourcq € 0 (2) Janet Davidson € 101,000 Ana de Pro Gonzalo (3) € 140,500 Yann Delabrière (4) € 88,000 Heleen Kersten € 105,000 Jean-Georges Malcor (4) € 7,000 Lucia Morselli € 106,500 Alessandro Rivera € 84,000 Frédéric Sanchez € 96,500 Martine Verluyten (3) € 6,500 Total € 891,500 (1) These amounts include a fixed annual compensation for the directors’ mandate, together with attendance fees from January 1, 2020 until December 31, 2020. (2) Mr. Dufourcq would have been entitled to receive €156,500 in 2020, but he waived his rights to receive any compensation from the Company in relation to his mandate as a member of the Supervisory Board. (3) The term of Ms. Martine Verluyten ended on June 17, 2020 and Ms. Ana de Pro Gonzalo was appointed on June 17, 2020. (4) The term of Mr. Jean-Georges Malcor ended on June 17, 2020 and Mr. Yann Delabriè re was appointed on June 17, 2020. 80 Table of Contents Set fo rth in the following table is the annual change over the last three years of (i) the average remuneration of our Supervisory Board Members , (ii) the performance of the Company and (iii) the average remuneration of our employees (i.e., all employees other than the members of the Senior Management, including the sole member of our Managing Board and President and Chief Executive Officer) : 2020 2019 2018 Directors' remuneration Average remuneration of Supervisory Board Members (1) $ 99,431 $ 105,066 $ 115,618 Company's performance Net revenues (amounts in millions) $ 10,219 $ 9,556 $ 9,664 Operating income (amounts in millions) $ 1,323 $ 1,203 $ 1,400 Average remuneration of all global indirect employees (FTE basis) (2) Employees $ 98,500 $ 97,300 $ 100,600 (1) Using the Euro per U.S. dollar exchange rate on December 31, 2020 of €1 = $1.22685. (2) Global indirect employees are all employees other than those directly manufacturing our products, excluding Senior Management. “FTE” refers to full time equivalent. We do not have any service agreements with members of our Supervisory Board.  We did not extend any loans or overdrafts to any of our Supervisory Board members.  Furthermore, we have not guaranteed any debts or concluded any leases with any of our Supervisory Board members or their families. Senior Management Compensation Our Senior Management, including the sole member of our Managing Board and our President and Chief Executive Officer, received a combination of fixed, short-term and long-term compensation, based on performance. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic and related economic disruptions, the sole member of our Managing Board and our President and Chief Executive Officer voluntarily agreed to decrease his base salary by 25%, the Members of the Executive Committee voluntarily agreed to decrease their base salary by 15% and the Executive Vice Presidents voluntarily agreed to decrease their base salary by 10%, each for a period of six months in 2020. In addition, other senior managers of the Company voluntarily agreed to decrease their base salary by 5% for a period of six months in 2020. The following table sets forth the total cash amount paid as compensation in 2020, 2019 and 2018 to the 22 members of our Senior Management (including the sole member of our Managing Board, our President and Chief Executive Officer) on duty on December 31 st of each year, before applicable withholding taxes and social contributions (amounts in millions): 2020 (2) 2019 (3) 2018 (4) Total cash amount paid as compensation (1) $ 21.4 $ 21.3 $ 22.2 (1) Total cash amount paid as compensation comprises fixed salary, annual cash bonus incentive and other cash benefits.  In addition, non-cash amounts paid as compensation, including vested stock awards and other non-cash benefits, as well as all applicable withholding taxes, pension contributions and social contributions, were approximately $36.9 million in 2020, $22.3 million in 2019 and $25.3 million in 2018.  Despite a temporary decrease of the base salary voluntary agreed by the Senior Management, the non-cash amounts paid as compensation have significantly increased in 2020, mainly due an increase in the long-term compensation paid to the members of the Senior Management, which was in turn a result of an increase in the share price of the Unvested Stock Awards (“USAs”). (2) Takes into consideration the voluntary decrease in base salary over a period of six months agreed by the Senior Management. (3) Including amounts paid in 2019 to our former President, Human Resources and Corporate Social Responsibility, Mr. Philippe Brun. (4) In 2019, we changed the classification of pension contributions and we determined that pension contributions are attributable to non-cash amounts paid as compensation.  In addition, in 2019, we classified housing and meal allowances (as applicable) as other cash benefits.  The reclassification of pension contributions and housing and meal allowances resulted in restatement of the total cash amount paid as compensation and non-cash amounts paid as compensation in 2018. The annual cash bonus incentive, which we call Corporate Executive Incentive Program (“EIP”), entitles selected executives to a yearly bonus based upon the assessment of the achievement of individual, organizational and company objectives that are set on an annual basis and focused, inter alia , on return on net 81 Table of Contents assets, customer service, profit, cash flow and market share.  The maximum bonus awarded under the EIP is based upon a percentage of the executive’s salary and the overall achievement of the above objectives on an annual basis . The 2020 EIP includes a sustainability index for Senior Management, as part of our effort to include corporate social responsibility into the performance framework of our Senior Management. The sustainability index has a weighting of 1/3 of personal objectives, and is divided into four criteria related to health and safety, environment, diversity & inclusion, and people engagement. The amounts paid in 2020 to our Senior Management (including the sole member of our Managing Board, our President and Chief Executive Officer) pursuant to the EIP represented approximately 43.15% of the total compensation paid to our Senior Management. Bonus paid in 2020 (2019 performance) Bonus paid in 2019 (2018 performance) (1) Bonus paid in 2018 (2017 performance) Bonus (cash) amount $ 8,708,142 $ 8,239,417 $ 10,181,945 Ratio bonus / base salary + EIP 43.15 % 41.12 % 48.84 % (1) Including amounts paid in 2019 to our former President, Human Resources and Corporate Social Responsibility, Mr. Philippe Brun. Our Supervisory Board has approved the establishment of a complementary pension plan for certain members of our Senior Management, comprising the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, and certain other key executives as selected by the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, according to the general criteria of eligibility and service set up by the Supervisory Board upon the proposal of its Compensation Committee.  With respect to such plan, we have set up an independent foundation under Swiss law which manages the plan and to which we make contributions.  Pursuant to this plan, in 2020, we made a contribution of approximately $0.5 million to the plan of the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, and $ 0.3 million to the plan for all other beneficiaries.  The amount of pension plan payments made for other beneficiaries, such as former employees retired in 2020 and/or no longer salaried in 2020, was $1.1 million. We did not extend any loans or overdrafts to the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, nor to any other member of our Senior Management.  Furthermore, we have not guaranteed any debts or concluded any leases with the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, nor with any other member of our Senior Management or their families. The members of our Senior Management, including the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, were covered in 2020 under certain group life and medical insurance programs provided by us.  The aggregate additional amount set aside by us in 2020 to provide pension, retirement or similar benefits for our Senior Management, including the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, as a group is, including the amounts allocated to the complementary pension plan described above and is estimated to have been approximately $5.5 million, which includes statutory employer contributions for state run retirement, similar benefit programs and other miscellaneous allowances. For the year 2020, the Senior Management pay ratio is 27.5 (2019: 19.9).  The increase of the 2020 pay ratio compared to the 2019 pay ratio was primarily due to an increase in non-cash amounts paid as compensation, resulting from an increase in the share price of the USAs. This ratio is based on: (i) the average remuneration of our Senior Management (for 2019: including the compensation of Mr. Philippe Brun); compared to (ii) the average remuneration of our global indirect employees (i.e., all employees other than those directly manufacturing our products), excluding the compensation of our Senior Management and the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer.  See “—Managing Board Compensation” below. 82 Table of Contents Sole Member of the Managing Board , President and Chief Executive Officer Compensation The remuneration of the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, is determined by our Supervisory Board on the advice of the Compensation Committee and within the scope of the remuneration policy as adopted by our 2005 AGM. Following the results of our 2020 AGM, where our proposed new remuneration policy for our Managing Board and remuneration report to ensure compliance with the new requirements under the Dutch Civil Code following the implementation of the new Shareholder Rights Directive II (SRDII) were rejected (leaving the remuneration policy as adopted by our 2005 AGM intact), and after review of the related comments received by proxy advisors, we have conducted a thorough review of our current compensation structure, with the involvement of members of the Company and the Supervisory Board (directly and through an ad-hoc committee and the Compensation Committee), each with the support of their own independent external consulting firm.  We have also conducted a comprehensive qualitative and quantitative benchmark against our industry peers and best-in-class market practices – in particular, regarding the level of transparency and disclosure of compensation information of the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. Following this process, we started preparing an amended proposal for a remuneration policy for the Managing Board, which we expect to submit to the AGM in 2021.  Furthermore, we have increased the level of disclosure and transparency in relation to the remuneration of the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer herein to address the 2020 AGM results and provide our stakeholders with an increased level of insight in our remuneration practices. The key principles that are considered to determine the remuneration of the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer as well as the other members of Senior Management are as follows: • Alignment with the Company’s strategy : the compensation package should be strongly linked to the achievement of targets that are indicators of the execution of the Company’s business strategy. • Improving the performance of the Company : most of the compensation (excluding benefits and pensions) should be linked directly to the Company’s performance through variable pay instruments. • Enhancing long-term creation of shareholder value : to strengthen the alignment to the interests of the shareholders and to enhance the long-term value creation of the Company, the compensation structure includes short- and long-term variable remuneration in the form of shares. • Retaining and motivating key employees : the compensation package should be highly competitive, ensuring remuneration levels are determined by reference internally against the Company’s Senior Management and externally against companies of comparable size, complexity and global scope. To determine the remuneration structure, the Supervisory Board considers, among others, the main principles outlined above. In accordance with the main principles of the Company’s remuneration structure, the total remuneration of the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer takes into consideration factors such as the size and complexity of our Company, our global presence and that of our customers, the pace of change in our industry, our strategy and goal of long-term value creation, and the need to recruit and retain key personnel. The remuneration structure is reflective of the level of responsibility of the Company’s sole member of the Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. The remuneration structure is further adapted to the Company’s context while remaining competitive and providing an incentive to promote the Company’s performance over the medium to long-term, in compliance with the corporate interest and the interests of all the stakeholders. The Compensation Committee advises the Supervisory Board in reviewing the remuneration package of the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer both in the context of the Company performance and against a range of semiconductor peer companies and relevant market index. Before 83 Table of Contents setting targets for the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, the Compensation Committee carries out scenario analyses of the possible financial outcomes of meeting target levels. Finally, the Compensation Committee determines the remuneration structure and remuneration amounts for our sole member of the Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer based on the analysis of the theoretical maximum total direct remuneration (i.e., sum of base salary, maximum annual bonus opportunity, and maximum long - term incentive s (“ LTI” ) ). The elements considered for the determination of the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer’s remuneration package are as follows: • A base salary that amounted to $856,837 paid in 2020, which included a voluntary 25% decrease over a six-month period in 2020, in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic; • An annual bonus of up to 210% of base salary and which is composed of a portion payable in cash (up to a maximum of 150% of the base salary) and a portion payable in shares (up to a maximum of 60% of the base salary); • A long-term incentive through the grant of stock awards , up to a maximum of 100,000 shares (based on the 2017-2020 long term incentives plan (“LTIP”)), that is subject to the achievement of performance conditions and calculated over a pre-determined performance period. The sum of these three elements represents the maximum total direct remuneration for the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. (i) Breakdown of the maximum total direct remuneration structure of the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer The following provides a breakdown of the maximum total direct remuneration structure of the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer: (ii) Remuneration of the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer paid in 2020 The sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, received compensation in the form of a fixed salary, annual bonus, stock awards, employer social contributions, company car allowance, pension contributions and miscellaneous allowances. 84 Table of Contents Set forth in the following table is the maximum total direct remuneration structure of the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer: 2020 Comments Base Salary $ 981,480 (1) Corresponds to the theoretical gross amount that should have been paid in 2020 without the implementation of a voluntary 25% decrease in pay over a six-month period, in connection with the impact of COVID-19 Maximum Annual Bonus $ 2,061,108 (2) Corresponds to a gross maximum of 210% of base salary (with 150% of this amount paid in cash and 60% paid in shares) Maximum Long-Term Incentive (LTI) Grant $ 2,997,000 (2) 100,000 shares granted in 2020 as part of the 2017-2020 LTIP, subject to performance criteria. Each share is valued at $29.97 as of the grant date Maximum Total Direct Remuneration $ 6,039,588 (2) Corresponds to the maximum amount that can be paid to the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer and is the sum of base salary, maximum annual bonus, and LTI (1) Using the Euro per U.S. dollar exchange rate on December 31, 2020 of €1 = $ 1.22685. This exchange rate is different than that which is used to calculate the paid base salary (i.e., intragroup exchange rate), hence the difference between the actual paid base salary in 2020 ($856,837) and the theoretical base salary of $981,480 reduced by a 25% rate over six months ($858,795). (2) Subject to pre-defined performance criteria, to be assessed by the Compensation Committee of our Supervisory Board within the first quarter of 2021. (iii) Evolution of the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer’s paid remuneration in 2020, 2019, and 2018 Set forth in the following table is the total compensation of the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, in 2020, 2019 and 2018.  The total compensation of the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, comprises (i) with relation to 2020 of the total compensation of Mr. Jean-Marc Chery and takes into consideration the voluntary decrease of the base salary during six months, (ii) with relation to 2019 (y) the total compensation of Mr. Jean-Marc Chery and (z) contractually obligated deferred compensation relating to Mr. Carlo Bozotti’s retirement in 2018; and (iii) with relation to 2018 (x) the total compensation of Mr. Bozotti until May 31, 2018 (excluding any accelerated compensation), (y) the total compensation of Mr. Chery from June 1, 2018 and (z) accelerated compensation relating to Mr. Bozotti’s retirement: 2020 2019 2018 Salary $ 856,837 $ 896,297 $ 927,820 Bonus (1) $ 1,285,378 $ 1,280,173 $ 3,214,578 Other (2) $ 3,597,032 $ 5,618,382 $ 6,971,946 Total (2) $ 5,739,247 $ 7,794,852 $ 11,114,344 (1) In 2020, the bonus paid in cash (based on 2019 performance) amounted to $1,022,659, whereas the bonus paid in shares amounted to $262,719 considering a global achievement rate of 170% (110% in cash and 60% in shares).  The bonus paid in 2020, 2019 and 2018 was approved by the Compensation Committee and Supervisory Board with respect to the 2019, 2018 and 2017 financial year, respectively, based on the evaluation and assessment of the actual fulfillment of a number of pre-defined objectives for such year. (2) Including stock awards, employer social contributions, company car allowance, pension contributions, complementary pension contributions, miscellaneous allowances as well as one-off contractually obligated deferred compensation paid to Mr. Bozotti in 2019.  In accordance with the resolutions adopted at our AGM held on May 30, 2012, the bonus of our former sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Bozotti, in 2018 included a portion of a bonus payable in stock awards and corresponding to 86,782 vested shares based on fulfillment of a number of pre-defined objectives.  In addition, our sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Chery, was granted, in accordance with the compensation policy adopted by our General Meeting of Shareholders and subsequent shareholder authorizations, up to 100,000 USAs, subject to performance criteria.  The vesting of such stock awards is conditional upon the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer’s, continued service with us. 85 Table of Contents ( 3 ) In 2020, the paid total compensation of the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer was 39% fixed (i.e., salary) to 61% variable (i.e., bonus and USAs), compared to 46% fixed to 54% variable in 2019 and 12% fixed to 88% variable in 2018. (iv) Overview of the total compensation paid to the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer in 2020 Set forth in the following table is the total compensation of the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Jean-Marc Chery, in 2020: Salary $ 856,837 Bonus (1) $ 1,285,378 Other ( 2 ) $ 3,597,032 Total $ 5,739,247 (1) Bonus includes both the amount paid in cash and the amount paid in shares in 2020 (based on 2019 performance). The achievement rate for 2020, based on 2019 performance, was 170% (110% in cash and 60% in shares) (2) Including stock awards, employer social contributions, company car allowance, pension contributions, complementary pension contributions and miscellaneous allowances.  Our sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer was granted, in accordance with the compensation policy adopted by our General Meeting of Shareholders and subsequent shareholder authorizations, up to 100,000 USAs, subject to performance criteria.  The vesting of such stock awards is conditional upon the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer’s, continued service with us. The sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, was appointed on May 31, 2018 for a three-year term expiring at the 2021 AGM.  He has employment agreements with us, the first with our Dutch parent company, which relates to his activities as sole member of our Managing Board and representative of the Dutch legal entity, and the second with one of our entities in Switzerland, which relates to his activities as President and Chief Executive Officer, the EIP, Pension and other items covered by the compensation policy adopted by our General Meeting of Shareholders.  While the relationship between a member of the managing board and a listed Dutch company will be treated as a mandate agreement, not an employment agreement, existing employment agreements, including the employment agreement between us and our sole member of the Managing Board, will remain in effect. (v) Detailed breakdown of the remuneration structure of the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer a. Salary The purpose of the base salary is to provide a fixed level of earnings and to attract and retain the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. It is a key component of overall remuneration, particularly as the annual bonus is expressed as a percentage of base salary. The Company seeks to determine a fair and competitive fixed salary as compared to industry and index peers. The determination of salary is based on several factors including, but not limited to, market pay levels among international industry peers of comparable size. The amount of base salary paid in 2020 is $856,837. This amount considers the temporary, voluntary decrease in base salary for a six-month period due to the COVID-19 pandemic. b. Annual Bonus The purpose of the annual bonus is to motivate the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer to achieve financial and commercial objectives consistent with and supportive of the Company’s strategy and to create a tangible link between annual performance and individual pay opportunity. In accordance with the resolutions adopted at our AGM held on May 23, 2019, the annual bonus of the sole member of our Managing Board and President and Chief Executive Officer is composed of a portion payable in cash (up to a maximum of 150% of the base salary for the relevant year) and a portion payable in shares (up to a maximum of 60% of the base salary for the relevant year), all subject to the assessment and fulfillment of a number of pre-defined conditions which are set annually by the Compensation Committee of our Supervisory Board. 86 Table of Contents Performance measures and weightings were reviewed by the Compensation Committee. The calculation of the annual bonus opportunity is based on the sum of the target weight of each performance criterion. The Supervisory Board, upon the recommendation of its Compensation Committee, set the conditions and performance criteria that must be met by Mr. Chery for the attribution of his 2019 bonus (paid in 2020). Set forth in the following table are the performance criteria and weight set for 2019 that have been assessed for the attribution of the 2019 bonus (paid in 2020). Annual Bonus Performance criteria FY 2019 (paid in 2020) Target Weighting (in % of base salary) Portion of annual bonus paid in cash o Market share evolution 20% o Share price evolution 40% o Revenue 20% o Operating income 40% o Net operating cash flow 30% The total score on above items cannot exceed 150%. Portion of annual bonus paid in shares o Execute projects and grow revenues 24% o Execute strategy implementation 18% o Execute transformation 18% The total score on above items cannot exceed 60%. The maximum amount of annual bonus is 210% of base salary, including up to a maximum of 150% which may be paid in cash and up to a maximum of 60% which may be paid in shares. The amount of the portion paid in shares is determined based on a number of strategic special programs (usually three to four), with the completion of each program adding to the overall achievement of the share-based annual bonus. Similarly, the amount of the portion in cash is based on five criteria (financial, operational, market-based criteria, revenue-based criteria and activity-based criteria) in order to conduct a holistic and comprehensive assessment of the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer’s annual performance. We believe that the five criteria set out for the cash component of the annual bonus plan are also well balanced in terms of external and internal criteria and reflect the challenging objectives set by the Compensation Committee in line with the Company’s ambitious long-term vision and business strategy. The two external criteria include share price evolution and market share evolution. Share price evolution is measured on a year-over-year basis compared to the PHLX Semiconductor Sector Index SM (SOX SM ) evolution, which provides a market-based metric which evaluates how the Company’s share price is evolving against a set group of industry peers. Market share evolution is measured by assessing the Company’s relative positioning and competitiveness in relation to its market and its industry peers and how fast the Company grows its revenues compared to its competitors. The three internal criteria include total company revenue, operating income and net operating cash flow. Total company revenue represents the total amount of income generated by the Company’s operations. Operating income is an important yardstick of profit measurement and reflects the operating performance of the business which does not take into consideration non-operating gains or losses suffered by business, the impact of financial leverage and tax factors. Net operating cash flow is a liquidity metric that evaluates whether the Company has enough liquidity to meet its debt obligations. This metric helps assess the financial soundness of the company in terms of liquidity risk, financial risk, credit risk and business risk. We believe the three above criterion be a crucial in determining the financial strength of the company. The Compensation Committee sets scorecard targets and weightings, which support the delivery of the strategy. However, annual bonus scorecard targets are not disclosed prospectively as they would require the disclosure of commercially sensitive information. The Compensation Committee retains the ability to adjust performance measure targets and weightings year-by-year within the overall target and maximum payouts approved in the remuneration policy. 87 Table of Contents The evaluation and assessment of the fulfillment of conditions and performance criteria were completed by the Compensation Committee of our Supervisory Board in March 2020 in order to determine the actual amount of the sole member of our Managing Board , President and Chief Executive Officer’s bonus paid in 2020. T he Compensation Committee of our Supervisory Board determined that based on the 2019 performance of Mr. Jean-Marc Chery and the fulfillment of relevant conditions and performance criteria, the portion of the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer’s 2019 bonus (paid in 2020 ) pa yable in cash is an amount of $1,022,659 (gross), which is 110 % of his base salary and the portion of the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer’s 2019 bonus (paid in 2020 ) payable in shares amounts to 34,960 shares, representing 60 % of his base salary , representing a global achievement rate of 170% (out of the maximum of 210%) . c. Stock Awards Grant The purpose of stock awards is to motivate the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer to deliver sustainable long-term shareholder value through long-term profitability and share price growth. Award levels are determined annually by the Compensation Committee within the maximum approved by the AGM each year. In accordance with the resolution adopted by our General Meeting of Shareholders, the maximum annual grant allowed in relation to the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer’s stock award for 2017, 2018, 2019, and 2020 was 100,000 unvested stocks awards subject to performance criteria. Performance metrics and targets are set by the Compensation Committee at the beginning of the relevant performance period. When setting performance targets, the Compensation Committee allocates weightings to each metric as it considers appropriate considering strategic priorities. Set forth in the following table are the performance criteria, weight, and achievement rate for the periods indicated below set for the LTIP plan. LTIP Performance Criteria Target Weighting (as % of maximum achievement score) 2019 2018 2017 Evolution of Sales 33.33% Criteria met Criteria met Criteria met Evolution of Operating Income 33.33% Criteria met Criteria met Criteria met Return On Net Assets (RONA) 33.33% Criteria not met Criteria met Criteria met Maximum achievement score 100% which correspond to a maximum of 100,000 USAs 67% Performance Achieved 100% Performance Achieved 100% Performance Achieved In accordance with the 2017-2020 Long Term Incentives Plan as approved by the 2017 AGM, the stock awards vest over a three year horizon from the date of the grant, with 32% vesting after one year, a further 32% after two years and the remaining 36%, provided that the eligible employee is still an employee at such time (subject to the acceleration provisions in the event of a change in control). The Supervisory Board, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, determines whether the performance criteria, as described below, will be met and conclude whether and to which extent all eligible employees, including the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, are entitled to any stock awards under the stock award plan. Scorecard targets are not disclosed prospectively as it would require the disclosure of commercially sensitive information. Scorecard targets will be disclosed only when they are no longer deemed to be commercially sensitive. 88 Table of Contents Set forth in the following table is an overview of the outstanding awards that has been granted to our sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer: Plan Grant date Final vesting date Max. number of shares that can be granted Number of shares awarded based on performance conditions achievement Share price at grant (in $) 2019 vesting 2020 vesting 2021 vesting 2022 vesting 2023 vesting Unvested shares as of end of 2020 2020 USAs Allocation July 23, 2020 June 17, 2023 100,000 To be assessed $29.97 32,000 32,000 36,000 100,000 (1) 2019 USAs Allocation July 24, 2019 May 23, 2022 100,000 66,672 $19.45 21,335 21,335 24,002 45,337 2018 USAs Allocation July 24, 2018 May 31, 2021 100,000 100,000 $23.64 32,000 32,000 36,000 36,000 Total vesting 32,000 53,335 89,335 56,002 36,000 181,337 (1) As at December 31, 2020, a final determination of the achievement of the performance conditions had not yet been made by the Compensation Committee of the Supervisory Board. d. Termination provisions for LTIP In cases of resignation or dismissal for cause, variable remuneration elements (including annual bonus and LTI) will generally lapse and the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer will not be eligible for compensation for loss of office. Termination not in connection with a change-in-control If our sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer is not employed by the Company at the time of vesting, the award will lapse, except in certain circumstances as determined by the Supervisory Board including death, disability, retirement and any other circumstance as decided by the Board. The portion of any award which vests will be determined solely by the Supervisory Board based on several factors including performance against targets. In the case that employment is terminated by the Company without cause or termination but for a pre-defined good reason as detailed above, then the portion of any award which vests will be determined solely by the Supervisory Board based on several factors including performance against targets. Termination in connection with a change-in-control In the event of a change in control of the Company, any award will be rolled over into an award in the new entity, subject to performance, with the balance rolled over. In the case that employment is terminated by the Company without cause, or termination by the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer for a pre-defined good reason detailed above in connection with a change in control, then outstanding awards will vest immediately without time proration. During 2020, our sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Chery, did not have any stock options, and did not purchase any shares in the Company. During 2020, our sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Chery, sold 122,000 shares. For further information regarding stock options and other stock based compensation granted to members of our Supervisory Board, the Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer and our Senior Management, please refer to Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 89 Table of Contents Comparative information on the change of remuneration and C ompany 's performance Set forth in the following table is the annual change over the last three years of (i) the remuneration of the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, (ii) the performance of the Company and (iii) the average remuneration of our employees (i.e., all employees other than the members of the Senior Management including the sole member of our Managing Board and President and Chief Executive Officer): 2020 2019 2018 Managing Board remuneration Total remuneration of the sole member of our Managing Board, President and Chief Executive Officer $ 5,739,247 $ 7,794,852 (1) $ 11,114,344 (2) Company's performance Net revenues (amounts in millions) $ 10,219 $ 9,556 $ 9,664 Operating income (amounts in millions) $ 1,323 $ 1,203 $ 1,400 Average remuneration of all global indirect employees (FTE basis) (3) Employees $ 98,500 $ 97,300 $ 100,600 (1) Total Managing Board remuneration for 2019 includes one-off contractually obligated deferred compensation paid to Mr. Bozotti. (2) Total Managing Board remuneration for 2018 includes the accelerated remuneration to Mr. Bozotti. (3) Global indirect employees are all employees other than those directly manufacturing our products, excluding the members of the Senior Management. “FTE” refers to full time equivalent. Share Ownership None of the members of our Supervisory Board, Managing Board or Senior Management holds shares or options to acquire shares representing more than 1% of our issued share capital. Stock Awards and Options Our stock-based compensation plans are designed to incentivize, attract and retain our executives and key employees by aligning compensation with our performance and the evolution of our share price.  We have adopted stock based compensation plans comprising either stock options or unvested stock awards for our Senior Management as well as key employees.  Furthermore, until 2012, the Compensation Committee (on behalf of the Supervisory Board and with its approval) granted stock-based awards (the options to acquire common shares in the share capital of the Company) to the members and professionals of the Supervisory Board.  For a description of our stock option plans and unvested share award plans, please see Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference. Pursuant to the shareholders’ resolutions adopted by our General Meetings of Shareholders, our Supervisory Board, upon the proposal of the Managing Board and the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, took the following actions: • approved, for a four-year period, our 2017 Unvested Stock Award Plan for Executives and Key Employees, under which directors, managers and selected employees may be granted stock awards upon the fulfillment of restricted criteria, such as those linked to our performance (for selected employees) and continued service with us; and • approved conditions relating to our 2018 unvested stock award allocation under the 2017 Unvested Stock Award Plan, including restriction criteria linked to our performance (for selected employees). • approved conditions relating to our 2019 unvested stock award allocation under the 2017 Unvested Stock Award Plan, including restriction criteria linked to our performance (for selected employees). • approved conditions relating to our 2020 unvested stock award allocation under the 2017 Unvested Stock Award Plan, including restriction criteria linked to our performance (for selected employees). 90 Table of Contents The exercise of stock options and the sale or purchase of shares of our stock by the members or professionals of our Supervisory Board, the sole member of our Managing Board , President and Chief Executive Officer , and all our employees are subject to an internal policy which involves, inter alia , certain blackout periods. Employees The tables below set forth the breakdown of employees by geographic area and main category of activity for the past three years. At December 31, 2020 2019 2018 France 10,840 10,131 10,314 Italy 10,765 10,551 10,266 Rest of Europe 991 970 904 Americas 766 761 744 Mediterranean (Malta, Morocco, Tunisia) 4,378 4,743 4,897 Asia 18,276 18,398 18,828 Total 46,016 45,554 45,953 At December 31, 2020 2019 2018 Research and Development 8,145 7,796 7,387 Marketing and Sales 2,311 2,261 2,211 Manufacturing 30,134 30,351 31,317 Administration and General Services 2,464 2,290 2,190 Divisional Functions 2,962 2,856 2,848 Total 46,016 45,554 45,953 Our future success will partly depend on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified technical, marketing, engineering and management personnel, as well as on our ability to timely adapt the size and/or profile of our personnel to changing industry needs.  Unions are represented at almost all of our manufacturing facilities and at several of our R&D sites.  We use temporarily employees if required during production spikes and, in Europe, during summer vacation.  We have not experienced any significant strikes or work stoppages in recent years. 91 Table of Contents