Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions”. Managing Board In accordance with Dutch law, our management is entrusted to the Managing Board under the supervision of our Supervisory
Board. Mr. Carlo Bozotti, who was re-appointed in 2014 for a three-year term to expire at the end of our 2017 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, is currently
the sole member of our Managing Board with the function of President and Chief Executive Officer. Since its creation in 1987, our Managing Board has always been comprised of a sole member. The member of our Managing Board is appointed for a
three year term, as described in our Articles of Association, which may be renewed one or more times in accordance with our Articles of Association upon a non-binding proposal by our Supervisory Board at
our shareholders’ meeting and adoption by a simple majority of the votes cast at the shareholders’ meeting where at least 15% of the issued and outstanding share capital is present or represented. If our Managing Board were to consist of
more than one member, our Supervisory Board would appoint one of the members of our Managing Board to be chairman of our Managing Board for a three year term, as defined in our Articles of Association (upon approval of at least
three quarters of the members of our Supervisory Board). In such case, resolutions of our Managing Board would require the approval of a majority of its members. Our shareholders’ meeting may suspend or dismiss one or more members of our Managing Board at a meeting at which at
least one half of the outstanding share capital is present or represented. If a quorum is not present, a further meeting shall be convened, to be held within four weeks after the first meeting, which shall be entitled, irrespective of the share
capital represented, to pass a resolution with regard to the suspension or dismissal of one or more members of our Managing Board. Such a quorum is not required if a suspension or dismissal is proposed by our Supervisory Board. In that case, a
resolution to dismiss or to suspend a member of our Managing Board can be taken by a simple majority of the votes cast at a meeting where at least 15% of our 66 Table of Contents issued and outstanding share capital is present or represented. Our Supervisory Board may suspend members of our Managing Board, but a shareholders’ meeting must be convened within
three months after such suspension to confirm or reject the suspension. Our Supervisory Board shall appoint one or more persons who shall, at any time, in the event of absence or inability to act of all the members of our Managing Board, be
temporarily responsible for our management. Under Dutch law, our Managing Board is entrusted with our general
management and the representation of the Company. Our Managing Board must seek prior approval from our shareholders’ meeting for decisions regarding a significant change in the identity or nature of the Company. Under our Articles of
Association, our Managing Board must obtain prior approval from our Supervisory Board for (i) all proposals to be submitted to a vote at a shareholders’ meeting; (ii) the formation of all companies, acquisition or sale of any
participation, and conclusion of any cooperation and participation agreement; (iii) all of our multi-year plans and the budget for the coming year, covering investment policy, policy regarding
R&D, as well as commercial policy and objectives, general financial policy, and policy regarding personnel; and (iv) all acts, decisions or operations covered by the foregoing and constituting a significant change with respect to decisions
already taken by our Supervisory Board. In addition, under our Articles of Association, our Supervisory Board and our shareholders’ meeting may specify by resolution certain additional actions by our Managing Board that require its prior
approval. In accordance with our Corporate Governance Charter, the sole member of our Managing Board and our
senior managers may not serve on the board of a public company without the prior approval of our Supervisory Board. Pursuant to the charter adopted by our Supervisory Board, the sole member of our Managing Board must inform our Supervisory Board of
any (potential) conflict of interest and pursuant to such charter and Dutch law, any Managing Board resolution regarding a transaction in relation to which the sole member of our Managing Board has a conflict of interest must be approved and adopted
by our Supervisory Board. Should our entire Supervisory Board also have a conflict of interest, the resolution must be adopted by our shareholders’ meeting pursuant to Dutch law. We are not aware of any potential conflicts of interests between
the private interest or other duties of our sole Management Board member and our senior managers and their duties to our Company. Pursuant to the charter adopted by our Supervisory Board, the following decisions by our Managing Board with regard to the Company and any of our direct or indirect subsidiaries (an “ST Group
Company”) require prior approval from our Supervisory Board: (i) any modification of our or any ST Group Company’s Articles of Association or other constitutional documents, other than those of wholly owned subsidiaries; (ii) any
change in our or any ST Group Company’s authorized share capital or any issue, acquisition or disposal by us of our own shares, or any ST Group Company’s shares, or change in share rights or issue of any instruments granting an interest in
our or an ST Group Company’s capital or profits other than those of our wholly owned subsidiaries; (iii) any liquidation or dissolution of us or any ST Group Company or the disposal of all or a substantial and material part of our business
or assets, or those of any ST Group Company, or of any shares in any such ST Group Company; (iv) any merger, acquisition or joint venture agreement (and, if substantial and material, any agreement relating to IP) or formation of a new company
to which we or any ST Group Company is, or is proposed to be, a party, as well as the formation of new companies by us or any ST Group Company (with the understanding that only acquisitions above $25 million per transaction are subject to prior
Supervisory Board approval); (v) approval of our draft Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as our and our subsidiaries’ profit distribution policies; (vi) entering into any agreement that may
qualify as a related party transaction, including any agreement between us or any ST Group Company and ST Holding, FT1CI, Italian Ministry of the Economy and Finance, Bpifrance or CEA; (vii) the key parameters of our five-year plans and our consolidated annual budgets, as well as any significant modifications to said plans and budgets, or any one of the matters set forth in our Articles of Association and not included in the
approved plans or budgets; (viii) approval of operations of exceptional importance which have to be submitted for Supervisory Board prior approval even if their financing was already provided for in the approved annual budget;
(ix) approval of our quarterly and annual Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and semi-annual and annual accounts using IFRS, prior to submission for shareholder
adoption; and (x) the exercise of any shareholder right in an ST joint venture company, which is a company (a) with respect to which we hold directly or indirectly either a minority equity position in excess of 25% or a majority position
without the voting power to adopt extraordinary resolutions, or (b) in which we directly or indirectly participate and such participation has a value of at least one third of our total assets according to the Consolidated Balance Sheets and
notes thereto in our most recently adopted (statutory) annual accounts. 67 Table of Contents Senior Management Our senior managers support our Managing Board in its management of the Company, without prejudice to our Managing
Board’s ultimate responsibility. Our organizational chart is as follows: As a company committed to good governance, we hold several corporate meetings on a
regular basis. Such meetings, which involve the participation of several of our senior management, include: Corporate Operations Reviews (COR) , which meets twice per quarter to review monthly results and short-term forecasts. Corporate Staff Meeting , which meets once per
quarter to review the business in its entirety and to plan and forecast for the next quarter and beyond. Corporate Strategic Committee , which meets six times per year, sets corporate policy, coordinates strategies
of our various functions and drives major cross functional programs. Our senior managers as of
December 31, 2014 were: Name Position Years with Company Years in Semi-Conductor Industry Age Carlo Bozotti President and Chief Executive Officer 38 38 62 Jean-Marc Chery Chief Operating Officer 30 30 54 Carlo Ferro Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President Finance, Legal, Infrastructure and Services 15 15 54 Mario Arlati Executive Vice President, Strategies and Business Management Sense & Power and Automotive Products (SP&A) 40 40 66 Georges Auguste Executive Vice President, General Manager, Packaging and Test Manufacturing 28 40 65 Eric Aussedat Executive Vice President, General Manager, Imaging Division 33 33 61 Orio Bellezza Executive Vice President, General Manager, Front-End Manufacturing & Technology R&D Sense & Power and
Automotive Products (SP&A) 31 31 55 68 Table of Contents Name Position Years with Company Years in Semi-Conductor Industry Age Gian Luca Bertino Executive Vice President, General Manager, Digital Product Group 17 28 55 Philippe Brun Corporate Vice President, Human Resources and Sustainable Development 28 28 56 Marco Luciano Cassis Executive Vice President, President, Japan and Korea Region 27 27 51 Paul J. Cihak (1) Executive Vice President, General Manager, Sales & Marketing, Europe, Middle East and Africa 16 21 43 Andrea Cuomo Executive Vice President, Advanced Systems Technology and Special Projects, STMicroelectronics; Chairman 3Sun 31 31 60 Claude Dardanne Executive Vice President, General Manager, Microcontroller, Memory & Secure MCU Group 32 35 62 Lorenzo Grandi Corporate Vice President, Corporate Control 27 27 53 Paul Grimme Executive Vice President, Mass Market and Online Marketing Programs 6 34 55 Fabio Gualandris Executive Vice President, Product Quality Excellence 27 30 55 François Guibert Executive Vice President, President, Greater China and South Asia Region 34 37 61 Joël Hartmann Executive Vice President, Front-End Manufacturing & Technology R&D, Embedded Processing Solutions
(EPS) 14 36 59 Otto Kosgalwies Executive Vice President, Company Infrastructures and Services 31 31 59 Robert Krysiak Executive Vice President, President, Americas Region 32 32 60 Philippe Magarshack Executive Vice President, Chief Technology Officer, Embedded Processing Solutions 20 29 53 Marco Monti Executive Vice President, General Manager Automotive Product Group 28 28 53 Carmelo Papa Executive Vice President, General Manager, Industrial & Power Discrete Group 32 32 65 Georges Penalver Chief Strategy Officer, Executive Vice President, Strategy, Communication, Human Resources and Quality 3 3 58 Steven Rose Corporate Vice President & General Counsel 23 23 52 Benedetto Vigna Executive Vice President, General Manager, Analog, MEMS & Sensors Group 20 20 45 (1) Mr. Paul J. Cihak has held this position since April 2014. Biographies of our Current Senior Management Carlo Bozotti is President and Chief Executive Officer and has held this position since March 2005. He is the Sole Member
of the Managing Board and chairs ST’s Corporate Strategic Committee. Mr. Bozotti joined 69 Table of Contents SGS-ATES (later renamed SGS Microelettronica), a predecessor company to STMicroelectronics, in 1977. Ten years later, when SGS Microelettronica of Italy merged with Thomson Semiconducteurs of
France to form a new European champion, which is ST today and is among the leading semiconductor companies worldwide, Mr. Bozotti became General Manager of the Telecom Product Division. Subsequently, he was promoted to Director of Corporate
Strategic Marketing and Key Accounts and, later, to Corporate Vice President, Marketing and Sales, Americas. In 1994, Mr. Bozotti was appointed Corporate Vice President for Europe and the Headquarters Regions, overseeing the Company’s
sales in Europe, as well as sales to key customers and strategic marketing worldwide. From 1998 to 2005, Mr. Bozotti served as Corporate Vice President and General Manager of the Memory Products Group. Mr. Bozotti is a member of the
High-Level Group on Key Enabling Technologies (HLG) and the Electronics Leaders Group (ELG) launched in 2010 and 2013, respectively, by the European Commission. Mr. Bozotti graduated with a degree in Electronic Engineering from the University
of Pavia, Italy. Jean-Marc Chery is Chief Operating Officer and has held this position since April 2014. He
is also in charge of ST’s Embedded Processing Solutions (EPS) Segment and the Packaging & Test Manufacturing for the whole Company. Mr. Chery is Vice Chairman of ST’s Corporate Strategic Committee. Chery began his career in
the Quality organization of Matra, the French engineering group. In 1986, he joined Thomson Semiconducteurs, which subsequently became ST, and held various management positions in product planning and manufacturing, rising to lead ST’s wafer
fabs in Tours, France, and later in Rousset, France. In 2005, Mr. Chery led the company-wide 6-inch wafer-production restructuring program before taking charge of ST’s Front-End Manufacturing operations in Asia Pacific. In 2008, he was
promoted Chief Technology Officer and assumed additional responsibilities for Manufacturing and Quality (2011) and the Digital Product Sector (2012). He chairs the Board of STS, ST’s manufacturing joint venture in China, and holds board
memberships at the European microelectronics R&D programs CATRENE and AENEAS. Mr. Chery graduated with a degree in Engineering from the ENSAM engineering school in Paris, France. Carlo Ferro is Executive Vice President, Finance, Legal, Infrastructure and Services, and Chief Financial Officer (CFO).
He has held the CFO position at ST since May 2003, with temporary suspension during his tenure at ST-Ericsson, where he first served as Chief Operating Officer (February 2012 – March 2013) and President and Chief Executive Officer from April
2013 through April 2014, leading the re-organization to split up the joint-venture business and resources to the two shareholders ST and Ericsson and wind down the JV. Since August 2013, Mr. Ferro’s overall responsibilities at ST have
encompassed, in addition to Finance and Control, Central Operational Planning, Global Procurement, Legal, Intellectual Property, Compliance, Information and Communication Technology, Investor Relations, and Public Affairs in Italy. He is a member of
ST’s Corporate Strategic Committee. From 1992 to 1996, Mr. Ferro gained extensive experience in Planning and Control, Corporate Finance and M&A at Finmeccanica, the leading Italian high-tech engineering and manufacturing group and a
former shareholder of STMicroelectronics. Over the next three years he held executive positions for Elsag Bailey Process Automation NV, a global leader in process control listed at NYSE, first as Vice President for Strategic Planning, and later as
Vice President for Planning and Control and Principal Financial Officer. In 1999, Ferro joined ST as Group Vice President Corporate Finance, overseeing finance and accounting for all the Company’s worldwide affiliates, tax planning, internal
control, internal audit, and finance for M&A. In 2002, he became Deputy CFO, and was promoted to Chief Financial Officer in 2003. Mr. Ferro sits on the Board of Directors of STS, the Company’s manufacturing joint venture in China,
holds board memberships at ST’s affiliates in France and Italy, and is Chairman of the Board of Directors of ST-Ericsson in liquidation SA. He served as Chairman of Incard and sole Managing Director of ST Service Srl. Mr. Ferro graduated
in Business and Economics from the LUISS Guido Carli University in Rome, where he served as a professor of Planning and Control until 1996 and as an associate professor of Finance from 2008 through 2011. He is a Certified Public Accountant in Italy. Mario Arlati is Executive Vice President, Strategies and Business Management for the
Sense & Power and Automotive Products (SP&A) Segment and has held this position since August 2013. Mr. Arlati started his professional career at SGS-ATES, a predecessor company of
STMicroelectronics. He was an integral member of the teams that managed the 1987 merger of SGS Microelettronica and Thomson Semiconducteurs, and later, in 1994, ST’s Initial Public Offering on the NYSE and Euronext Paris, followed in 1998 by
ST’s listing on the Borsa Italiana. Mr. Arlati’s career has covered all of the various functions including Accounting, Business Control, Finance, and Consolidation Reporting, in positions of increasing responsibility. He was promoted
to Corporate Controller and later became Chief Accounting Officer and Head of External Reporting. He also participated in the establishment of the ST Foundation, an independent charitable organization, serving as a Director since its inception. From
February 2012 to July 2013, Mr. Arlati served as Chief Financial Officer of ST. He graduated with a degree in Business and Economics from Università Cattolica in Milan, Italy. 70 Table of Contents Georges Auguste is Executive Vice President and General Manager of the
Packaging and Test Manufacturing organization and has held this position since May 2011. Mr. Auguste started his career in semiconductors with Philips as a technical manager. He joined Thomson Semiconducteurs, a predecessor company to
STMicroelectronics, in 1986, and two years later was appointed General Manager of the manufacturing facility in Nancy, France. From 1990, Mr. Auguste served as Managing Director of the Company’s operations in Morocco. In 1997, he was
appointed Director of the Total Quality and Environment Group, and, in 1999, he was promoted to Corporate Vice President, responsible for implementing ST’s goals to reduce consumption of natural resources and further improve quality. In 2005,
Mr. Auguste’s mission was enlarged to cover the coordination of ST’s corporate responsibility strategy, encompassing social, ethical and environmental aspects. In 2008, he became Executive Vice President, Director of Product Quality
Excellence, addressing product quality matters throughout the Company’s operations. Mr. Auguste graduated with an engineering degree from the Ecole Supérieure d’Electricité in Paris and holds the diploma of the
“Institut d’Administration des Entreprises” (Institute of Business Administration). Eric
Aussedat is Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Imaging Division and has held this position since October 2014. Mr. Aussedat joined Thomson Semiconducteurs, a predecessor company to ST, as Product Engineer in 1981. He held
various positions in product engineering and planning and was promoted Planning Manager of the Video Products Group in 1986. Later on, he was appointed to manage the product and manufacturing planning operations of INMOS, a UK company acquired by
ST. Subsequently, he supervised the Engineering and Test Strategy for the Programmable Product Group before his promotion to head ST’s Microcontroller Division in 1995. In 2000-2004, Mr. Aussedat led the TV and Display Division and became
General Manager of ST’s Cellular Communication Division in 2005. Two years later, he was appointed General Manager of the Imaging Division. In 2012, Mr. Aussedat was appointed ST’s Executive Vice President in charge of the Imaging,
Bi-CMOS ASIC and Silicon Photonics Group. Mr. Aussedat graduated with a degree in Electronic Engineering from the Institut National Polytechnique in Grenoble and earned a diploma from the Institut d’Administration des Entreprises of
Grenoble. Orio Bellezza is Executive Vice President and General Manager of Front-End Manufacturing & Technology R&D for the Sense & Power and Automotive Products (SP&A) Segment. He has been responsible for Front-End Manufacturing since 2008 and assumed additional responsibility for technology R&D for automotive and industrial & multisegment products in February 2012. He is a member of
ST’s Corporate Strategic Committee. Mr. Bellezza joined SGS-ATES, a predecessor company to STMicroelectronics, in 1984. He soon moved to the Company’s Central R&D organization and
participated in several key projects, including the introduction of process technology modules for manufacturing sub-micron non-volatile memories. In 1996,
Mr. Bellezza was appointed Director of ST’s R&D facility in Agrate and led its upgrade and expansion into the Company’s development center for non-volatile memory and smart-power technologies. In 2002, he became Vice President of Central R&D, and in 2005, was appointed to Vice President and Assistant General Manager of Front-End Technology and Manufacturing. He has published technical papers and earned several patents in non-volatile memories. Mr. Bellezza graduated with a degree in Chemistry from the University of Milan
(Università degli Studi di Milano), Italy. Gian Luca Bertino is Executive Vice President and General
Manager of the Digital Product Group that encompass Consumer, Networking and Imaging products. He has held this position since October 2014. Mr. Bertino started his professional career with Olivetti Personal Computers, where he rose through the
ranks to Head of Development, Portable PCs. He joined SGS-Thomson Microelectronics (now STMicroelectronics) in 1997 as a Market Development Manager. The following year he was appointed Director of the Computer and Consumer Business Unit, responsible
for sales and marketing in Europe, and was promoted to Europe Region Vice President, Computer and Consumer, in 2000. In 2003, Mr. Bertino joined ST’s Telecommunications, Peripherals and Automotive Group as Vice President and General
Manager of the Data Storage Division, where he strengthened the Company’s partnerships in the storage segment. In 2005, he was promoted to Corporate Vice President and General Manager of ST’s Computer Product Group, and in 2008,
Mr. Bertino’s group was expanded to include the Communication Infrastructure organization. Mr. Bertino graduated with a degree in Electronic Engineering from the Polytechnic of Turin, Italy. Philippe Brun is a Corporate Vice President in charge of Human Resources & Sustainable Development. Responsible
for HR since August 2012, his mission was expanded to cover the Company’s social responsibility, as well as environment, health, and safety in August 2013. Mr. Brun started his career at the Pechiney Group (now Rio Tinto). In 1986, he
joined Thomson Semiconducteurs, a predecessor to STMicroelectronics, as a back-end process engineer. From 1989 to 1996, Mr. Brun managed Human Resources at the Grenoble, France site and served as Site Director at the Company’s St. Genis
facility (France). In 1996, he was promoted to Human 71 Table of Contents Resources Director responsible for over 10,000 employees in ST’s manufacturing organization worldwide. From 1999 to 2010, Mr. Brun served as Fab Operations and Site Director at
ST’s plant in Rousset, France. In January 2011, he was appointed Group VP for execution excellence in ST’s Front-End Manufacturing organization. Mr. Brun graduated with an engineering degree from the Ecole Nationale Supérieure
d’Arts et Métiers (ENSAM) in France and holds a Master degree in Aerospace engineering from the University of Colorado and a management degree from the IFG School of Business (France). Marco Cassis is an Executive Vice President and President of the Japan and Korea Region. Mr. Cassis has led
ST’s operations in Japan since 2005 and his mandate was expanded to include Korea after the re-organization of the Company’s regional structure in January 2010. Mr. Cassis joined SGS-Thomson Microelectronics (now STMicroelectronics) as a car radio chip designer in 1987. Six years later, he moved to Japan to help expand the Company’s audio business with major Japanese players and
contributed to the establishment of ST’s strategic alliance with Pioneer in the late 1990s. In 2000, Mr. Cassis took charge of the Audio Business Unit and he was subsequently promoted to Director of Audio and Automotive Group, responsible
for design, marketing, sales, application support and customer service. In 2004, Mr. Cassis was named Vice President of Marketing for automotive, computer peripheral, and telecom products. In 2005, he advanced to VP Automotive Segment Group and
joined the Board of STMicroelectronics K.K., the Japanese subsidiary. Mr. Cassis graduated with a degree in Electronic Engineering from the Polytechnic of Milan, Italy. Paul Cihak is Executive Vice President and General Manager, Sales & Marketing for the Europe, Middle East and
Africa Region, and has held this position since April 2014. Mr. Cihak began his career with Hewlett Packard in 1994. He spent five years working in HP’s Inkjet printing business before being hired into strategic account management by
STMicroelectronics in 1999. In 2003, Mr. Cihak managed an industry-leading e-Business supply chain project cited as one of the first successful B2B RosettaNet programs in the world. Mr. Cihak rose through the ranks to become Director of
Sales in 2004, Vice President of Sales in 2007, and Vice President of ST’s Computer and Peripheral accounts in 2011 leading all aspects of the sales, marketing, application engineering, customer service, and business development strategy. He
was promoted in 2012 to lead ST’s largest sales Business Unit managing three Global Key Accounts for the Company. Mr. Cihak was born in San Diego, CA, in 1971. He graduated from the University of Oregon with a degree in History and
Political Science and holds a MBA from Portland State University. Andrea Cuomo is Executive Vice President,
Advanced Systems Technology (AST) and Special Projects, and has held this position since January 2012. He also serves as Chairman of the Board at 3Sun, ST’s photovoltaic joint venture with Enel Green Power and Sharp. Mr. Cuomo joined
SGS Microelettronica, a predecessor company to STMicroelectronics, in 1983, and rose to become Vice President for the Headquarters Region in 1994. In 1998, he created the AST group, a key organization in the development of ST’s system knowledge
and advanced architectures. In 2002, Mr. Cuomo was promoted to Corporate Vice President and AST General Manager, and took on further responsibilities as Chief Strategy Officer in 2005. In 2008, Mr. Cuomo was appointed Executive Vice
President, General Manager of Sales and Marketing for Europe and AST and his portfolio was later expanded to include the Middle East and Africa. His board memberships include the International Advisory Board at the HEC Business School in Paris, the
International Advisory Board of Nano-Tera, a Swiss National program for Nanotechnologies, and TTFactor, the IP utilization arm of the Istituto Europeo di Oncologia. Mr. Cuomo studied Nuclear Science at
the Polytechnic of Milan. Claude Dardanne is Executive Vice President and General Manager of the
Microcontroller, Memory & Secure MCU (Microcontroller) Group and has held this position since January 2007. He is a member of ST’s Corporate Strategic Committee. Mr. Dardanne started his career with Thomson Semiconducteurs, a
predecessor company to ST. From 1982, he was responsible for microcontroller and microprocessor marketing. Between 1989 and 1994, he was Marketing Director at Apple Computer and Alcatel-Mietec. In 1994, he rejoined ST as Director of Central
Marketing for the Memory Products Group. In 1998, Mr. Dardanne became Head of the EEPROM Division and was later appointed Group Deputy General Manager and Head of the Smart Card Division. He became head of MMS Group, consolidating
Microcontroller, Memory and Secure microcontrollers activities, when it was formed in early 2007. Under his leadership the Group has become a key asset in revenue and market-share growth and profitability. ST is now a world leader of the
Microcontroller market. Mr. Dardanne graduated with a degree in Electronic Engineering from the Ecole Supérieure d’Ingénieurs en Génie Electrique in Rouen, France. Lorenzo Grandi is Corporate Vice President, Corporate Control and has held his position since February 2012.
Mr. Grandi joined ST in 1987 as a process engineer working on BCD Technology development. In 1990, he moved to the Memory Product Group as Financial Analyst. In 1995, Mr. Grandi was promoted to the position of Group Controller of the
Memory Product Group contributing to the expansion of the Flash/Memory 72 Table of Contents business. In 2005, Mr. Grandi joined Corporate Finance with the responsibility for Budgeting and Reporting. He also contributed to the carve-out and
deconsolidation of the ST Flash memory business. Mr. Grandi graduated cum laude in Physics from the University of Modena and holds a Master of Business Administration from SDA Bocconi Milano. Paul Grimme is Executive Vice President, Mass Market and Online Marketing Programs, and has held this position since
April 2014. Mr. Grimme began his career at Motorola, where he held positions of increasing responsibility in product engineering, marketing and operations management. He served as Corporate Vice President and General Manager of the 8/16-bit
Products Division. In 1999, he was promoted to Vice President and General Manager of the Advanced Vehicle Systems Division. He was later appointed Senior Vice President of the Transportation and Standard Products Group and continued in that role at
Freescale Semiconductor after Motorola spun off its semiconductor business. Mr. Grimme also served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Freescale Semiconductor’s Microcontroller Solutions Group. In 2009 Mr. Grimme joined
STMicroelectronics and was appointed Executive Vice President and General Manager of STMicroelectronics’ Automotive Product Group. In January 2012, Mr. Grimme became General Manager, Sales & Marketing, for STMicroelectronics’
Europe, Middle East and Africa Region. He graduated from the University of Nebraska (Lincoln) with a degree in Electrical Engineering and from the University of Texas (Austin) with a Master of Business Administration. Fabio Gualandris is an Executive Vice President in charge of Product Quality Excellence and has held this position since
February 2011. Mr. Gualandris joined the R&D organization of SGS Microelettronica, a predecessor company to ST, in 1984, and was promoted to R&D Director of Operations in 1989. In 1996, Mr. Gualandris became Automotive
Business Unit Director, focusing on product quality and development. After two years in the U.S. as President and CEO of Semitool, a semiconductor manufacturing equipment vendor, he rejoined ST in 2000 as Group VP responsible for the RAM/PSRAM
Product Division and the Flash Automotive Business Unit. In 2005, Mr. Gualandris was appointed CEO of ST Incard, an ST smart-card subsidiary. Two years later, he contributed to the carve out of
ST’s Flash Memory Group and subsequently joined Numonyx, the joint venture with Intel, as VP and Supply Chain General Manager. Mr. Gualandris has authored several technical and managerial papers, holds some international patents, and
served as a board member in Incard SA, ST Incard, and the Numonyx-Hynix joint venture in China. He also served as Board member and President of Numonyx Italy. Mr. Gualandris graduated in Physics from the
University of Milan. François Guibert is Executive Vice President and President of the Greater China
and South Asia Region. He has led ST’s operations in Asia Pacific since 2006; his responsibilities were expanded to include Greater China in 2010. Mr. Guibert joined Thomson Semiconducteurs, a predecessor company to STMicroelectronics, in
1981, after three years at Texas Instruments. He was appointed Director of Semicustom Business for Asia Pacific in 1987 and later became President of ST’s Taiwan operations. Mr. Guibert also held senior positions in Corporate Business
Development and Investor Relations. In 2005, he was promoted to Corporate Vice President, Emerging Markets Region General Manager. Mr. Guibert serves as Director of ST’s JV with Shenzhen High Tech Industrial Company. He chairs the EU-ASEAN
Business Council, the Board of Advisors for the Singapore Semiconductor Industry Association, and sits on boards at EuroCham in Singapore and Alliance Francaise de Singapour. Mr. Guibert previously chaired the Board at Veredus Laboratories and
was a board member at the Singapore Economic Development Board. He was decorated Knight of the National Order of Merit in France in 2009. Mr. Guibert graduated with a degree in Electronic Engineering from Ecole Centrale Marseille, France. Joël Hartmann is Executive Vice President, Front-End Manufacturing and Technology R&D, Embedded
Processing Solutions (EPS), and has held this position since February 2012. He is in charge of ST’s manufacturing operations in Crolles and Rousset, France, Technology and Design Platforms for EPS. From 1979 to 2000, Mr. Hartmann worked at
CEA-Leti, an applied-research center for microelectronics, information and healthcare technologies in France. In 2000, he joined STMicroelectronics as Director of the Crolles2 Alliance, the semiconductor manufacturing R&D initiative of
STMicroelectronics, NXP and Freescale Semiconductor. In 2008, Mr. Hartmann was promoted to Group Vice President and Director of Advanced CMOS Logic & Derivative Technologies. From 2010 to 2012, he gained additional responsibilities as
a co-leader of the Semiconductor Research and Development Center in Fishkill, NY, within the IBM ISDA Technology Alliance for the development of advanced CMOS process. Mr. Hartmann sits on the Board of the SOI Industry Consortium Initiative and
is a Member of the IEEE Electron Device Society. He has filed 15 patents on semiconductor technology and devices and authored 10 publications in this field to date. He graduated from the Ecole Nationale Supérieure de Physique de Grenoble with
a degree in Physics. Otto Kosgalwies is Executive Vice President in charge of Company Infrastructures and
Services and has held this position since November 2004. Central Planning was added to his mandate in 2008. Mr. Kosgalwies is a 73 Table of Contents member of ST’s Corporate Strategic Committee. Mr. Kosgalwies joined SGS Bauelemente, a predecessor company to STMicroelectronics, in 1984. He took charge of central marketing for
European distribution in 1992, and three years later, he began to oversee the regional sales and marketing operations. In 1997, Mr. Kosgalwies was appointed Managing Director of the Company’s site in Munich, Germany. In 2001, he
was promoted to Group Vice President for Sales & Marketing in Europe and General Manager of Supply Chain Management, responsible for the effective flow of goods and information from suppliers to end users at the global level.
Mr. Kosgalwies graduated with a degree in Business and Economics from the Ludwigs-Maximilian University in Munich. Robert Krysiak is an Executive Vice President and President of the Americas Region and has held this position since January 2010. He also chairs ST’s Task Force on Electronic Manufacturing Services,
the Worldwide Computer Market Program, and the Worldwide Medical Program. Mr. Krysiak is a member of ST’s Corporate Strategic Committee. He started his career in 1983 with INMOS, a company acquired by SGS-Thomson Microelectronics (now
STMicroelectronics) in 1989. He formed and led a CPU design group and in 1997 was appointed Group Vice President and General Manager of ST’s STAR division, which incorporated 16/32/64-bit microcontrollers and DSP products. In 1999, he became
Group VP responsible for micro cores development, including advanced System-on-Chip products for the digital consumer market. In 2001, Mr. Krysiak took charge of ST’s DVD division. In 2004, he was promoted to Marketing Director for the
Home, Personal, and Communications sector, the Company’s largest product organization at the time. In 2005, Mr. Krysiak was appointed Corporate Vice President and General Manager of ST’s Greater China region. Mr. Krysiak
graduated from Cardiff University, UK, with a degree in Electronics and holds an MBA from the University of Bath, UK. Philippe Magarshack is Executive Vice President, Chief Technology Officer, Embedded Processing Solutions, and has held this position since January 2015. From 1985 to 1989, Mr. Magarshack worked as a
microprocessor designer at AT&T Bell Labs in the USA. In 1989, he joined Thomson-CSF in Grenoble, France, and took responsibility for libraries and ASIC design kits for the military market. In 1994, Mr. Magarshack joined the Central R&D
Group of SGS-THOMSON Microelectronics (now STMicroelectronics), where he held several roles in CAD and Libraries management for advanced integrated-circuit manufacturing processes. In 2005, Mr. Magarshack was appointed Group Vice President and
General Manager of Central CAD and Design Solutions at ST’s Technology R&D and Manufacturing organization. In 2012, he was promoted to Executive Vice President in charge of Design Enablement & Services. He has been President of the
Minalogic Collaborative R&D Cluster in Grenoble since June 2014. Mr. Magarshack graduated with an engineering degree in Physics from Ecole Polytechnique, Palaiseau, France, and with an Electronics Engineering degree from Ecole Nationale
Supérieure des Télécommunications in Paris, France. Marco Monti is Executive Vice
President and General Manager of the Automotive Product Group and has held this position since January 2012. Mr. Monti joined ST in Central R&D in 1986 and transferred to the Automotive Division in 1988, where he designed automotive
ICs incorporating smart-power technologies. He moved to Japan in 1990 working on a co-development activity designing a noise-reduction system for audio applications. Subsequently, Mr. Monti transferred into marketing, contributing to the expansion of ST’s Automotive business in Japan. In 2000, he became the marketing
manager for the ST Automotive Division. Two years later, Mr. Monti started the automotive microprocessor business and in 2004 was promoted to Division General Manager for Powertrain, Safety and Chassis products. In 2009, he took
responsibility for the Automotive Electronics Division inside ST’s Automotive Product Group. Mr. Monti graduated cum laude in Electronic Engineering from the Polytechnic of Milan, Italy, and two years later from the University of
Pavia, Italy, with a PhD in Electronics. Carmelo Papa is Executive Vice President, General Manager of the
Industrial & Power Discrete Group and has held this position since January 2012. He also holds overall responsibility for the System Lab, part of ST’s Central Labs organization. Mr. Papa sits on the Board of Directors of
ST New Ventures SA and is a member of ST’s Corporate Strategic Committee. Mr. Papa started his professional career with International Computers Limited. He joined SGS Microelettronica, a predecessor company to STMicroelectronics, in 1983,
and three years later was promoted to Director of Product Marketing and Customer Service for Transistors and Standard ICs. In 2000, Mr. Papa was appointed Corporate Vice President, responsible for ST’s sales and marketing in Emerging
Markets. In 2005, he was chosen to lead the Micro, Power and Analog Group and his mandate was expanded in 2007 as head of the Industrial & Multisegment Sector. Mr. Papa is currently serving his second term as Chairman of the
European Platform on Smart Systems, an industry-driven initiative focused on innovation in nanotechnologies and smart systems integration. Mr. Papa graduated with a degree in Nuclear Physics from the
University of Catania. 74 Table of Contents Georges Penalver is Chief Strategy Officer, Executive Vice President
Strategy, Communication, Human Resources and Quality and has held this position since August 2013. His overall responsibilities include Corporate Strategy and Development, Corporate Communication, Human Resources, Corporate Security, Product Quality
Excellence and Public Affairs in France and EU. He is a member of ST’s Corporate Strategic Committee. Mr. Penalver started his career in 1980 with Sagem, where he developed the Broadband Communications Business, overseeing the launch of
telecommunication products, the international industrial deployments, and the development of global sales networks. He was appointed to Sagem’s Management Board in 2001 and served as Deputy CEO, pushing the mass development of mobile and
Internet services. In 2005, he joined the France Telecom Orange Group as Deputy CEO for Strategy and Business Development, responsible, at the group level, for product marketing and management of services in France Telecom Orange, product creation
and development for the entire group, and Orange Labs’ activities worldwide. In 2011, Mr. Penalver used his extensive experience to become a co-founder and managing partner (until July 2012) of Cathaya Capital Fund. He was installed as a
Knight of the French “Ordre National du Mérite” in 2003. Mr. Penalver holds a degree from the Ecole Nationale Supérieure d’Arts et Métiers (Gold) and from the Ecole Nationale Supérieure des
Télécommunications in Paris. Steven Rose is Corporate Vice President & General Counsel
in charge of legal matters and has held this position since August 2013. Mr. Rose started his career as a corporate attorney at the law firm Gardere & Wynne in Dallas, Texas, providing legal advice and services to public and private
companies. He joined SGS-THOMSON Microelectronics (now STMicroelectronics) in 1991 as the Associate General Counsel for the U.S. subsidiary, STMicroelectronics, Inc. In 2006, he was appointed to serve as the Senior Associate General Counsel for the
Americas, Greater China & South Asia, and Japan & Korea regions, in addition to serving as Vice President, Secretary & General Counsel and a Director of STMicroelectronics, Inc. Mr. Rose obtained a degree in
Accounting from Oklahoma State University and a Juris Doctor degree from the University of Oklahoma College of Law. Benedetto Vigna is Executive Vice President, General Manager of the Analog, MEMS & Sensors Group, and has held this position since September 2011. He is a member of ST’s Corporate Strategic
Committee. In 1995, Mr. Vigna joined STMicroelectronics’ R&D Labs and launched the Company’s efforts in MEMS. Under his leadership, ST’s MEMS accelerometers and gyroscopes found early success with large consumer equipment
manufacturers for motion-activated user interfaces and more recently he has built on those wins piloting successful moves into microphones, magnetic sensors, and touch-screen controller markets. In 2007, Mr. Vigna’s scope was enlarged to
include management of Sensors, RF, High-Performance Analog and Mixed Signal, as well as Interface, Audio for Portable, and General-Purpose Analog products. Mr. Vigna has filed more than 170 patents on micromachining to date, authored numerous
publications, and delivered many speeches at international conferences. He sits on the industrial board of several EU-funded programs. In 2013, Mr. Vigna won the prestigious European SEMI Award for his contribution to the MEMS industry and was
acknowledged as the Executive of the Year by the MEMS Industry Group. Mr. Vigna graduated with a degree in Subnuclear Physics from the University of Pisa, Italy. As is common in the semiconductor industry, our success depends to a significant extent upon, among other factors, the
continued service of our key senior executives and research and development, engineering, marketing, sales, manufacturing, support and other personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. The
competition for such employees is intense, and the loss of the services of any of these key personnel without adequate replacement or the inability to attract new qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. We do not maintain
insurance with respect to the loss of any of our key personnel. See “