Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions”. 60 Table of Contents Managing Board In accordance with Dutch law, our management is entrusted to the Managing Board under the supervision of our Supervisory Board.
Mr. Carlo Bozotti, who was re-appointed in 2014 for a three-year term to expire at the end of our 2017 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, is currently the sole member of our Managing Board with the function of President and Chief Executive
Officer. Under our Articles of Association, Managing Board members are appointed for a three year term upon a non-binding proposal by our Supervisory Board at our shareholders’ meeting and adoption by a simple majority of the votes cast at the
shareholders’ meeting where at least 15% of the issued and outstanding share capital is present or represented, which term may be renewed one or more times. Our shareholders’ meeting may suspend or dismiss one or more members of our Managing Board, in accordance with the
procedures laid down in our Articles of Association. Under Dutch law, our Managing Board is entrusted with our general management and the representation of the Company. Our Managing Board must seek prior approval from our shareholders’ meeting
for decisions regarding a significant change in the identity or nature of the Company. Under our Articles of Association and our Supervisory Board Charter, our Managing Board must also seek prior approval from our Supervisory Board for other
decisions with regard to the Company and our direct or indirect subsidiaries. In accordance with our Corporate Governance
Charter, the sole member of our Managing Board and our senior managers may not serve on the board of a public company without the prior approval of our Supervisory Board. Pursuant to the Supervisory Board Charter, the sole member of our Managing
Board must inform our Supervisory Board of any (potential) conflict of interest and pursuant to such charter and Dutch law, any Managing Board resolution regarding a transaction in relation to which the sole member of our Managing Board has a
conflict of interest must be approved and adopted by our Supervisory Board. Should our entire Supervisory Board also have a conflict of interest, the resolution must be adopted by our shareholders’ meeting pursuant to Dutch law. We are not
aware of any potential conflicts of interests between the private interest or other duties of our sole Managing Board member and our senior managers and their duties to us. Pursuant to the Supervisory Board Charter, the following decisions by our Managing Board with regard to the Company and any of
our direct or indirect subsidiaries (an “ST Group Company”) require prior approval from our Supervisory Board: (i) any modification of our or any ST Group Company’s Articles of Association or other constitutional documents, other than
those of wholly owned subsidiaries; (ii) other than for wholly owned subsidiaries, any change in our or any ST Group Company’s authorized share capital or any issue, acquisition or disposal by us — with the exception of shares in our share
capital acquired in order to transfer these shares under employee stock option or stock purchase plans — or any ST Group Company of own shares or change in share rights and any issue of instruments resulting in a share in the capital of any ST
Group Company or its profits (iii) the liquidation or dissolution of us or any ST Group Company or the disposal of all or a substantial and material part of our business or assets, or those of any ST Group Company, or of any shares in any such ST
Group Company; (iv) any merger, acquisition or joint venture agreement (and, if substantial and material, any agreement relating to IP) to which we or any ST Group Company is, or is proposed to be, a party, as well as the formation of a new company
to which we or any ST Group Company is, or is proposed to be, a party, as well as the formation of new companies by us or any ST Group Company (with the understanding that only acquisitions above $25 million per transaction are subject to prior
Supervisory Board approval); (v) approval of our draft Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as our and our subsidiaries’ profit distribution policies; (vi) entering into any agreement that may qualify as a
related party transaction, including any agreement between us or any ST Group Company and ST Holding, FT1CI, Italian Ministry of the Economy and Finance, Bpifrance or CEA; (vii) the key parameters of our pluri-annual plans and our consolidated
annual budgets, as well as any significant modifications to said plans and budgets, or any one of the matters set forth in our Articles of Association and not included in the approved plans or budgets; (viii) approval of operations which have to be
submitted for Supervisory Board prior approval even if their financing was already provided for in the approved annual budget; (ix) approval of our quarterly and annual Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and
semi-annual and annual accounts using IFRS, prior to submission for shareholder adoption; (x) the exercise of any shareholder right in an ST joint venture company, which is a company (a) with respect to which we hold directly or indirectly either a
minority equity position in excess of 25% or a majority position without the voting power to adopt extraordinary resolutions, or (b) in which we directly or indirectly participate and such participation has a value of at least one third of our total
assets according to the Consolidated Balance Sheets and notes thereto in our most recently adopted (statutory) annual accounts with the understanding, for the avoidance of doubt, that decisions of the Managing Board regarding the general management
and/or operations of such ST joint venture company are not subject to Supervisory Board 61 Table of Contents approval and that the Managing Board reports to the Supervisory Board on the operations of the ST joint venture companies as part of its regular reporting to the Supervisory Board and in
principle at least every six months; and (xi) the strategy designed to achieve the objectives of our company and corporate social responsibility issues that are relevant to our company. Senior Management Our senior managers support our Managing Board in its management of the Company, without prejudice to our Managing Board’s
ultimate responsibility. As a company committed to good governance, we hold corporate meetings on a regular basis. Such meetings, which involve the participation of several members of our senior management, include: Corporate Operations Review (COR) , which meets twice per quarter to review monthly results and short-term
forecasts. Corporate Staff Meeting , which meets once per quarter to review the business in its entirety and to
plan and forecast for the next quarter and beyond. Corporate Strategic Committee , which meets six times
per year, sets corporate policy, coordinates strategies of our various functions and drives major cross functional programs. Our senior managers as of December 31, 2015 were: Name Position Years with Company Years in Semi-Conductor Industry Age Carlo Bozotti President and Chief Executive Officer 39 39 63 Jean-Marc Chery Chief Operating Officer 31 31 55 Carlo Ferro Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President Finance, Legal, Infrastructure and Services 16 16 55 Mario Arlati Executive Vice President, Strategies and Business Management Sense & Power and Automotive Products (SP&A) 41 41 67 Georges Auguste Executive Vice President, General Manager, Packaging and Test Manufacturing 29 41 66 Eric Aussedat Executive Vice President, General Manager, Imaging Division 34 34 62 Orio Bellezza Executive Vice President, General Manager, Front-End Manufacturing & Technology R&D Sense & Power and Automotive Products (SP&A) 32 32 56 Gian Luca Bertino Executive Vice President, General Manager, Digital Product Group 18 29 56 Philippe Brun Corporate Vice President, Human Resources and Sustainable Development 29 29 57 Marco Luciano Cassis Executive Vice President, President, Japan and Korea Region 28 28 52 Paul J. Cihak Executive Vice President, General Manager, Sales & Marketing, Europe, Middle East and Africa 17 22 44 Andrea Cuomo Executive Vice President, Advanced Systems Technology and Special Projects, STMicroelectronics; Chairman 3Sun 32 32 61 Claude Dardanne Executive Vice President, General Manager, Microcontroller, Memory & Secure MCU Group 33 36 63 Lorenzo Grandi Corporate Vice President, Corporate Control 28 28 54 Paul Grimme Executive Vice President, Mass Market and Online Marketing Programs 7 35 56 Fabio Gualandris Executive Vice President, Product Quality Excellence 28 31 56 62 Table of Contents Name Position Years with Company Years in Semi-Conductor Industry Age François Guibert Executive Vice President, President, Greater China and South Asia Region 35 38 62 Joël Hartmann Executive Vice President, Front-End Manufacturing & Technology R&D, Embedded Processing Solutions (EPS) 15 37 60 Otto Kosgalwies Executive Vice President, Company Infrastructures and Services 32 32 60 Robert Krysiak Executive Vice President, President, Americas Region 33 33 61 Philippe Magarshack Executive Vice President, Chief Technology Officer, Embedded Processing Solutions 21 30 54 Marco Monti Executive Vice President, General Manager Automotive Product Group 29 29 54 Carmelo Papa Executive Vice President, General Manager, Industrial & Power Discrete Group 33 33 66 Georges Penalver Chief Strategy Officer, Executive Vice President, Strategy, Communication, Human Resources and Quality 4 4 59 Steven Rose Corporate Vice President & General Counsel 24 24 53 Benedetto Vigna Executive Vice President, General Manager, Analog, MEMS & Sensors Group 21 21 46 Biographies of our Current Senior Management Carlo Bozotti is President and Chief Executive Officer and has held this position since March 2005. He is the Sole Member of
the Managing Board and chairs ST’s Corporate Strategic Committee. Mr. Bozotti joined SGS-ATES (later renamed SGS Microelettronica), a predecessor company to STMicroelectronics, in 1977. Ten years later, when SGS Microelettronica of Italy
merged with Thomson Semiconducteurs of France to form a new European champion, which is ST today and is among the leading semiconductor companies worldwide, Mr. Bozotti became General Manager of the Telecom Product Division. Subsequently, he
was promoted to Director of Corporate Strategic Marketing and Key Accounts and, later, to Corporate Vice President, Marketing and Sales, Americas. In 1994, Mr. Bozotti was appointed Corporate Vice President for Europe and the Headquarters
Regions, overseeing the Company’s sales in Europe, as well as sales to key customers and strategic marketing worldwide. From 1998 to 2005, Mr. Bozotti served as Corporate Vice President and General Manager of the Memory Products Group.
Mr. Bozotti is a member of the High-Level Group on Key Enabling Technologies (HLG) and the Electronics Leaders Group (ELG) launched in 2010 and 2013, respectively, by the European Commission. Mr. Bozotti graduated with a degree in
Electronic Engineering from the University of Pavia, Italy. Jean-Marc Chery is Chief Operating Officer and has held this
position since April 2014. He is also in charge of ST’s Embedded Processing Solutions (EPS) Segment and the Packaging & Test Manufacturing for the whole Company. Mr. Chery is Vice Chairman of ST’s Corporate Strategic
Committee. Chery began his career in the Quality organization of Matra, the French engineering group. In 1986, he joined Thomson Semiconducteurs, which subsequently became ST, and held various management positions in product planning and
manufacturing, rising to lead ST’s wafer fabs in Tours, France, and later in Rousset, France. In 2005, Mr. Chery led the company-wide 6-inch wafer-production restructuring program before taking charge of ST’s Front-End Manufacturing
operations in Asia Pacific. In 2008, he was promoted Chief Technology Officer and assumed additional responsibilities for Manufacturing and Quality (2011) and the Digital Product Sector (2012). He chairs the Board of STS, ST’s
manufacturing joint venture in China, and holds board memberships at the European microelectronics R&D programs CATRENE and AENEAS. Mr. Chery graduated with a degree in Engineering from the ENSAM engineering school in Paris, France. Carlo Ferro is Executive Vice President, Finance, Legal, Infrastructure and Services, and Chief Financial Officer (CFO). He
has held the CFO position at ST since May 2003, with temporary suspension during his tenure at ST-Ericsson, where he first served as Chief Operating Officer (February 2012 – March 2013) and President and Chief Executive Officer from April 2013
through April 2014, leading the re-organization to split up the joint-venture business and resources to the two shareholders ST and Ericsson and wind down the JV. Since August 63 Table of Contents 2013, Mr. Ferro’s overall responsibilities at ST have encompassed, in addition to Finance and Control, Central Operational Planning, Global Procurement, Legal, Intellectual Property,
Compliance, Information and Communication Technology, Investor Relations, and Public Affairs in Italy. He is a member of ST’s Corporate Strategic Committee. In May 2015, he was appointed President of ST Italy. From 1992 to 1996, Mr. Ferro
gained extensive experience in Planning and Control, Corporate Finance and M&A at Finmeccanica, the leading Italian high-tech engineering and manufacturing group and a former shareholder of STMicroelectronics. Over the next three years he held
executive positions for Elsag Bailey Process Automation NV, a global leader in process control listed at NYSE, first as Vice President for Strategic Planning, and later as Vice President for Planning and Control and Principal Financial Officer. In
1999, Ferro joined ST as Group Vice President Corporate Finance, overseeing finance and accounting for all the Company’s worldwide affiliates, tax planning, internal control, internal audit, and finance for M&A. In 2002, he became Deputy
CFO, and was promoted to Chief Financial Officer in 2003. Mr. Ferro sits on the Board of Directors of STS, the Company’s manufacturing joint venture in China, holds board memberships at ST’s affiliates in France and Italy. He served
as Chairman of Incard and sole Managing Director of ST Service Srl and as Board Member and Chairman of the Audit Committee of various companies in which ST held an equity interest. Mr. Ferro graduated in Business and Economics from the LUISS
Guido Carli University in Rome, where he served as a professor of Planning and Control until 1996 and as an associate professor of Finance from 2008 through 2011. He is a Certified Public Accountant in Italy and a member of the Advisory Board of
foreign investors for the Italian Confindustria. Mario Arlati is Executive Vice President, Strategies and Business
Management for the Sense & Power and Automotive Products (SP&A) Segment and has held this position since August 2013. Mr. Arlati started his professional career at SGS-ATES, a predecessor company of STMicroelectronics. He
was an integral member of the teams that managed the 1987 merger of SGS Microelettronica and Thomson Semiconducteurs, and later, in 1994, ST’s Initial Public Offering on the NYSE and Euronext Paris, followed in 1998 by ST’s listing on the
Borsa Italiana. Mr. Arlati’s career has covered all of the various functions including Accounting, Business Control, Finance, and Consolidation Reporting, in positions of increasing responsibility. He was promoted to Corporate Controller
and later became Chief Accounting Officer and Head of External Reporting. He also participated in the establishment of the ST Foundation, an independent charitable organization, serving as a Director since its inception. From February 2012 to
July 2013, Mr. Arlati served as Chief Financial Officer of ST. He graduated with a degree in Business and Economics from Università Cattolica in Milan, Italy. Georges Auguste is Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Packaging and Test Manufacturing organization and has
held this position since May 2011. Mr. Auguste started his career in semiconductors with Philips as a technical manager. He joined Thomson Semiconducteurs, a predecessor company to STMicroelectronics, in 1986, and two years later was
appointed General Manager of the manufacturing facility in Nancy, France. From 1990, Mr. Auguste served as Managing Director of the Company’s operations in Morocco. In 1997, he was appointed Director of the Total Quality and Environment
Group, and, in 1999, he was promoted to Corporate Vice President, responsible for implementing ST’s goals to reduce consumption of natural resources and further improve quality. In 2005, Mr. Auguste’s mission was enlarged to cover the
coordination of ST’s corporate responsibility strategy, encompassing social, ethical and environmental aspects. In 2008, he became Executive Vice President, Director of Product Quality Excellence, addressing product quality matters throughout
the Company’s operations. Mr. Auguste graduated with an engineering degree from the Ecole Supérieure d’Electricité in Paris and holds the diploma of the “Institut d’Administration des Entreprises”
(Institute of Business Administration). Eric Aussedat is Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Imaging
Division and has held this position since October 2014. Mr. Aussedat joined Thomson Semiconducteurs, a predecessor company to ST, as Product Engineer in 1981. He held various positions in product engineering and planning and was promoted
Planning Manager of the Video Products Group in 1986. Later on, he was appointed to manage the product and manufacturing planning operations of INMOS, a UK company acquired by ST. Subsequently, he supervised the Engineering and Test Strategy for the
Programmable Product Group before his promotion to head ST’s Microcontroller Division in 1995. In 2000-2004, Mr. Aussedat led the TV and Display Division and became General Manager of ST’s Cellular Communication Division in 2005. Two
years later, he was appointed General Manager of the Imaging Division. In 2012, Mr. Aussedat was appointed ST’s Executive Vice President in charge of the Imaging, Bi-CMOS ASIC and Silicon Photonics Group. Mr. Aussedat graduated with a
degree in Electronic Engineering from the Institut National Polytechnique in Grenoble and earned a diploma from the Institut d’Administration des Entreprises of Grenoble. Orio Bellezza is Executive Vice President and General Manager of Front-End Manufacturing & Technology R&D
for the Sense & Power and Automotive Products (SP&A) Segment. He has been responsible for Front-End Manufacturing since 2008 and assumed additional responsibility for technology R&D for automotive and 64 Table of Contents industrial & multisegment products in February 2012. He is a member of ST’s Corporate Strategic Committee. Mr. Bellezza joined SGS-ATES, a predecessor company to
STMicroelectronics, in 1984. He soon moved to the Company’s Central R&D organization and participated in several key projects, including the introduction of process technology modules for manufacturing sub-micron non-volatile memories. In
1996, Mr. Bellezza was appointed Director of ST’s R&D facility in Agrate and led its upgrade and expansion into the Company’s development center for non-volatile memory and smart-power technologies. In 2002, he became Vice
President of Central R&D, and in 2005, was appointed to Vice President and Assistant General Manager of Front-End Technology and Manufacturing. He has published technical papers and earned several patents in non-volatile memories.
Mr. Bellezza graduated with a degree in Chemistry from the University of Milan (Università degli Studi di Milano), Italy. Gian Luca Bertino is Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Digital Product Group that encompass Consumer,
Networking and Imaging products. He has held this position since October 2014. Mr. Bertino started his professional career with Olivetti Personal Computers, where he rose through the ranks to Head of Development, Portable PCs. He joined
SGS-Thomson Microelectronics (now STMicroelectronics) in 1997 as a Market Development Manager. The following year he was appointed Director of the Computer and Consumer Business Unit, responsible for sales and marketing in Europe, and was promoted
to Europe Region Vice President, Computer and Consumer, in 2000. In 2003, Mr. Bertino joined ST’s Telecommunications, Peripherals and Automotive Group as Vice President and General Manager of the Data Storage Division, where he
strengthened the Company’s partnerships in the storage segment. In 2005, he was promoted to Corporate Vice President and General Manager of ST’s Computer Product Group, and in 2008, Mr. Bertino’s group was expanded to include the
Communication Infrastructure organization. Mr. Bertino graduated with a degree in Electronic Engineering from the Polytechnic of Turin, Italy. Philippe Brun is a Corporate Vice President in charge of Human Resources & Sustainable Development. Responsible for
HR since August 2012, his mission was expanded to cover the Company’s social responsibility, as well as environment, health, and safety in August 2013. Mr. Brun started his career at the Pechiney Group (now Rio Tinto). In 1986, he joined
Thomson Semiconducteurs, a predecessor to STMicroelectronics, as a back-end process engineer. From 1989 to 1996, Mr. Brun managed Human Resources at the Grenoble, France site and served as Site Director at the Company’s St. Genis facility
(France). In 1996, he was promoted to Human Resources Director responsible for over 10,000 employees in ST’s manufacturing organization worldwide. From 1999 to 2010, Mr. Brun served as Fab Operations and Site Director at ST’s plant in
Rousset, France. In January 2011, he was appointed Group VP for execution excellence in ST’s Front-End Manufacturing organization. Mr. Brun graduated with an engineering degree from the Ecole Nationale Supérieure d’Arts et
Métiers (ENSAM) in France and holds a Master degree in Aerospace engineering from the University of Colorado and a management degree from the IFG School of Business (France). Marco Cassis is an Executive Vice President and President of the Japan and Korea Region. Mr. Cassis has led ST’s
operations in Japan since 2005 and his mandate was expanded to include Korea after the re-organization of the Company’s regional structure in January 2010. Mr. Cassis joined SGS-Thomson Microelectronics (now STMicroelectronics) as a
car radio chip designer in 1987. Six years later, he moved to Japan to help expand the Company’s audio business with major Japanese players and contributed to the establishment of ST’s strategic alliance with Pioneer in the late
1990s. In 2000, Mr. Cassis took charge of the Audio Business Unit and he was subsequently promoted to Director of Audio and Automotive Group, responsible for design, marketing, sales, application support and customer service. In 2004,
Mr. Cassis was named Vice President of Marketing for automotive, computer peripheral, and telecom products. In 2005, he advanced to VP Automotive Segment Group and joined the Board of STMicroelectronics K.K., the Japanese subsidiary.
Mr. Cassis graduated with a degree in Electronic Engineering from the Polytechnic of Milan, Italy. Paul Cihak is
Executive Vice President and General Manager, Sales & Marketing for the Europe, Middle East and Africa Region, and has held this position since April 2014. Mr. Cihak began his career with Hewlett Packard in 1994. He spent five years
working in HP’s Inkjet printing business before being hired into strategic account management by STMicroelectronics in 1999. In 2003, Mr. Cihak managed an industry-leading e-Business supply chain project cited as one of the first
successful B2B RosettaNet programs in the world. Mr. Cihak rose through the ranks to become Director of Sales in 2004, Vice President of Sales in 2007, and Vice President of ST’s Computer and Peripheral accounts in 2011 leading all aspects
of the sales, marketing, application engineering, customer service, and business development strategy. He was promoted in 2012 to lead ST’s largest sales Business Unit managing three Global Key Accounts for the Company. Mr. Cihak was born
in San Diego, CA, in 1971. He graduated from the University of Oregon with a degree in History and Political Science and holds a MBA from Portland State University. 65 Table of Contents Andrea Cuomo is Executive Vice President, Advanced Systems Technology (AST) and
Special Projects, and has held this position since January 2012. He also serves as Chairman of the Board at 3Sun, Enel Green Power’s photovoltaic initiative. Mr. Cuomo joined SGS Microelettronica, a predecessor company to
STMicroelectronics, in 1983, covering managerial roles in Product Management and Strategy, and rose to become Vice President for the Headquarters Region in 1994. In 1998, he created the AST group, a key organization in the development of ST’s
system knowledge and advanced architectures. In 2002, Mr. Cuomo was promoted to Corporate Vice President and AST General Manager, and took on further responsibilities as Chief Strategy Officer in 2005. From 2008 to 2011, Mr. Cuomo was
Executive Vice President, General Manager of Sales and Marketing for Europe and AST and his portfolio also included the Middle East and Africa. His board memberships include the International Advisory Board at the HEC Business School in Paris, the
International Advisory Board of Nano-Tera, a Swiss National program for Nanotechnologies, and TTFactor, the IP utilization arm of the Istituto Europeo di Oncologia. In June 2015, Mr. Cuomo became Chairman of the Governing Board at the EU’s
Joint Undertaking for Electronic Components and Systems for European Leadership (ECSEL). Mr. Cuomo studied Nuclear Science at the Polytechnic of Milan. Claude Dardanne is Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Microcontroller, Memory & Secure MCU
(Microcontroller) Group and has held this position since January 2007. He is a member of ST’s Corporate Strategic Committee. Mr. Dardanne started his career with Thomson Semiconducteurs, a predecessor company to ST. From 1982, he was
responsible for microcontroller and microprocessor marketing. Between 1989 and 1994, he was Marketing Director at Apple Computer and Alcatel-Mietec. In 1994, he rejoined ST as Director of Central Marketing for the Memory Products Group. In 1998,
Mr. Dardanne became Head of the EEPROM Division and was later appointed Group Deputy General Manager and Head of the Smart Card Division. He became head of MMS Group, consolidating Microcontroller, Memory and Secure microcontrollers activities,
when it was formed in early 2007. Under his leadership the Group has become a key asset in revenue and market-share growth and profitability. ST is now a world leader of the Microcontroller market. Mr. Dardanne graduated with a degree in
Electronic Engineering from the Ecole Supérieure d’Ingénieurs en Génie Electrique in Rouen, France. Lorenzo Grandi is Corporate Vice President, Corporate Control and has held his position since February 2012.
Mr. Grandi joined ST in 1987 as a process engineer working on BCD Technology development. In 1990, he moved to the Memory Product Group as Financial Analyst. In 1995, Mr. Grandi was promoted to the position of Group Controller of the
Memory Product Group contributing to the expansion of the Flash/Memory business. In 2005, Mr. Grandi joined Corporate Finance with the responsibility for Budgeting and Reporting. He also contributed to the carve-out and deconsolidation of the
ST Flash memory business. Mr. Grandi graduated cum laude in Physics from the University of Modena and holds a Master of Business Administration from SDA Bocconi Milano. Paul Grimme is Executive Vice President, Mass Market and Online Marketing Programs, and has held this position since April
2014. Mr. Grimme began his career at Motorola, where he held positions of increasing responsibility in product engineering, marketing and operations management. He served as Corporate Vice President and General Manager of the 8/16-bit Products
Division. In 1999, he was promoted to Vice President and General Manager of the Advanced Vehicle Systems Division. He was later appointed Senior Vice President of the Transportation and Standard Products Group and continued in that role at Freescale
Semiconductor after Motorola spun off its semiconductor business. Mr. Grimme also served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Freescale Semiconductor’s Microcontroller Solutions Group. In 2009 Mr. Grimme joined
STMicroelectronics and was appointed Executive Vice President and General Manager of STMicroelectronics’ Automotive Product Group. In January 2012, Mr. Grimme became General Manager, Sales & Marketing, for STMicroelectronics’
Europe, Middle East and Africa Region. He graduated from the University of Nebraska (Lincoln) with a degree in Electrical Engineering and from the University of Texas (Austin) with a Master of Business Administration. Fabio Gualandris is an Executive Vice President in charge of Product Quality Excellence and has held this position since
February 2011. Mr. Gualandris joined the R&D organization of SGS Microelettronica, a predecessor company to ST, in 1984, and was promoted to R&D Director of Operations in 1989. In 1996, Mr. Gualandris became Automotive
Business Unit Director, focusing on product quality and development. After two years in the U.S. as President and CEO of Semitool, a semiconductor manufacturing equipment vendor, he rejoined ST in 2000 as Group VP responsible for the RAM/PSRAM
Product Division and the Flash Automotive Business Unit. In 2005, Mr. Gualandris was appointed CEO of ST Incard, an ST smart-card subsidiary. Two years later, he contributed to the carve out of ST’s Flash Memory Group and subsequently
joined Numonyx, the joint venture with Intel, as VP and Supply Chain General Manager. Mr. Gualandris has authored several 66 Table of Contents technical and managerial papers, holds some international patents, and served as a board member in Incard SA, ST Incard, and the Numonyx-Hynix joint venture in China. He also served as Board
member and President of Numonyx Italy. Mr. Gualandris graduated in Physics from the University of Milan. François Guibert is Executive Vice President and President of the Greater China and South Asia Region. He has led
ST’s operations in Asia Pacific since 2006; his responsibilities were expanded to include Greater China in 2010. Mr. Guibert joined Thomson Semiconducteurs, a predecessor company to STMicroelectronics, in 1981, after three years at Texas
Instruments. He was appointed Director of Semicustom Business for Asia Pacific in 1987 and later became President of ST’s Taiwan operations. Mr. Guibert also held senior positions in Corporate Business Development and Investor Relations.
In 2005, he was promoted to Corporate Vice President, Emerging Markets Region General Manager. Mr. Guibert serves as Director of ST’s JV with Shenzhen High Tech Industrial Company. He chairs the EU-ASEAN Business Council, the Board of
Advisors for the Singapore Semiconductor Industry Association, and sits on boards at EuroCham in Singapore and Alliance Francaise de Singapour. Mr. Guibert previously chaired the Board at Veredus Laboratories and was a board member at the
Singapore Economic Development Board. He was decorated Knight of the National Order of Merit in France in 2009. Mr. Guibert graduated with a degree in Electronic Engineering from Ecole Centrale Marseille, France. Joël Hartmann is Executive Vice President, Front-End Manufacturing and Technology R&D, Embedded Processing Solutions
(EPS), and has held this position since February 2012. He is in charge of ST’s manufacturing operations in Crolles and Rousset, France, Technology and Design Platforms for EPS. From 1979 to 2000, Mr. Hartmann worked at CEA-Leti, an
applied-research center for microelectronics, information and healthcare technologies in France. In 2000, he joined STMicroelectronics as Director of the Crolles2 Alliance, the semiconductor manufacturing R&D initiative of STMicroelectronics,
NXP and Freescale Semiconductor. In 2008, Mr. Hartmann was promoted to Group Vice President and Director of Advanced CMOS Logic & Derivative Technologies. From 2010 to 2012, he gained additional responsibilities as a co-leader of the
Semiconductor Research and Development Center in Fishkill, NY, within the IBM ISDA Technology Alliance for the development of advanced CMOS process. Mr. Hartmann sits on the Board of the SOI Industry Consortium Initiative and is a Member of the
IEEE Electron Device Society. He has filed 15 patents on semiconductor technology and devices and authored 10 publications in this field to date. He graduated from the Ecole Nationale Supérieure de Physique de Grenoble with a degree in
Physics. Otto Kosgalwies is Executive Vice President in charge of Company Infrastructures and Services and has held this
position since November 2004. Central Planning was added to his mandate in 2008. Mr. Kosgalwies is a member of ST’s Corporate Strategic Committee. Mr. Kosgalwies joined SGS Bauelemente, a predecessor company to
STMicroelectronics, in 1984. He took charge of central marketing for European distribution in 1992, and three years later, he began to oversee the regional sales and marketing operations. In 1997, Mr. Kosgalwies was appointed Managing
Director of the Company’s site in Munich, Germany. In 2001, he was promoted to Group Vice President for Sales & Marketing in Europe and General Manager of Supply Chain Management, responsible for the effective flow of goods
and information from suppliers to end users at the global level. Mr. Kosgalwies graduated with a degree in Business and Economics from the Ludwigs-Maximilian University in Munich. Robert Krysiak is an Executive Vice President and President of the Americas Region and has held this position since January
2010. He also chairs ST’s Task Force on Electronic Manufacturing Services, the Worldwide Computer Market Program, and the Worldwide Medical Program. Mr. Krysiak is a member of ST’s Corporate Strategic Committee. He started his career
in 1983 with INMOS, a company acquired by SGS-Thomson Microelectronics (now STMicroelectronics) in 1989. He formed and led a CPU design group and in 1997 was appointed Group Vice President and General Manager of ST’s STAR division, which
incorporated 16/32/64-bit microcontrollers and DSP products. In 1999, he became Group VP responsible for micro cores development, including advanced System-on-Chip products for the digital consumer market. In 2001, Mr. Krysiak took charge of
ST’s DVD division. In 2004, he was promoted to Marketing Director for the Home, Personal, and Communications sector, the Company’s largest product organization at the time. In 2005, Mr. Krysiak was appointed Corporate Vice President
and General Manager of ST’s Greater China region. Mr. Krysiak graduated from Cardiff University, UK, with a degree in Electronics and holds an MBA from the University of Bath, UK. Philippe Magarshack is Executive Vice President, Chief Technology Officer, Embedded Processing Solutions, and has held this
position since January 2015. From 1985 to 1989, Mr. Magarshack worked as a microprocessor designer at AT&T Bell Labs in the USA. In 1989, he joined Thomson-CSF in Grenoble, France, and took responsibility for libraries and ASIC design kits
for the military market. In 1994, Mr. Magarshack joined the Central R&D Group of SGS-THOMSON Microelectronics (now STMicroelectronics), where he held 67 Table of Contents several roles in CAD and Libraries management for advanced integrated-circuit manufacturing processes. In 2005, Mr. Magarshack was appointed Group Vice President and General Manager of
Central CAD and Design Solutions at ST’s Technology R&D and Manufacturing organization. In 2012, he was promoted to Executive Vice President in charge of Design Enablement & Services. He has been President of the Minalogic
Collaborative R&D Cluster in Grenoble since June 2014. Mr. Magarshack graduated with an engineering degree in Physics from Ecole Polytechnique, Palaiseau, France, and with an Electronics Engineering degree from Ecole Nationale
Supérieure des Télécommunications in Paris, France. Marco Monti is Executive Vice President and
General Manager of the Automotive Product Group and has held this position since January 2012. Mr. Monti joined ST in Central R&D in 1986 and transferred to the Automotive Division in 1988, where he designed automotive ICs
incorporating smart-power technologies. He moved to Japan in 1990 working on a co-development activity designing a noise-reduction system for audio applications. Subsequently, Mr. Monti transferred into marketing, contributing to the expansion
of ST’s Automotive business in Japan. In 2000, he became the marketing manager for the ST Automotive Division. Two years later, Mr. Monti started the automotive microprocessor business and in 2004 was promoted to Division General
Manager for Powertrain, Safety and Chassis products. In 2009, he took responsibility for the Automotive Electronics Division inside ST’s Automotive Product Group. Mr. Monti graduated cum laude in Electronic Engineering from the Polytechnic
of Milan, Italy, and two years later from the University of Pavia, Italy, with a PhD in Electronics. Carmelo Papa is
Executive Vice President, General Manager of the Industrial & Power Discrete Group and has held this position since January 2012. He also holds overall responsibility for the System Lab, part of ST’s Central Labs
organization. Mr. Papa sits on the Board of Directors of ST New Ventures SA and is a member of ST’s Corporate Strategic Committee. Mr. Papa started his professional career with International Computers Limited. He joined SGS
Microelettronica, a predecessor company to STMicroelectronics, in 1983, and three years later was promoted to Director of Product Marketing and Customer Service for Transistors and Standard ICs. In 2000, Mr. Papa was appointed Corporate
Vice President, responsible for ST’s sales and marketing in Emerging Markets. In 2005, he was chosen to lead the Micro, Power and Analog Group and his mandate was expanded in 2007 as head of the Industrial & Multisegment Sector.
Mr. Papa is currently serving his second term as Chairman of the European Platform on Smart Systems, an industry-driven initiative focused on innovation in nanotechnologies and smart systems integration. Mr. Papa graduated with a degree in
Nuclear Physics from the University of Catania. Georges Penalver is Chief Strategy Officer, Executive Vice President
Strategy, Communication, Human Resources and Quality and has held this position since August 2013. His overall responsibilities include Corporate Strategy and Development, Corporate Communication, Human Resources, Corporate Security, Product Quality
Excellence and Public Affairs in France and EU. He is a member of ST’s Corporate Strategic Committee. Mr. Penalver started his career in 1980 with Sagem, where he developed the Broadband Communications Business, overseeing the launch of
telecommunication products, the international industrial deployments, and the development of global sales networks. He was appointed to Sagem’s Management Board in 2001 and served as Deputy CEO, pushing the mass development of mobile and
Internet services. In 2005, he joined the France Telecom Orange Group as Deputy CEO for Strategy and Business Development, responsible, at the group level, for product marketing and management of services in France Telecom Orange, product creation
and development for the entire group, and Orange Labs’ activities worldwide. In 2011, Mr. Penalver used his extensive experience to become a co-founder and managing partner (until July 2012) of Cathaya Capital Fund. He was installed as a
Knight of the French “Ordre National du Mérite” in 2003. Mr. Penalver holds a degree from the Ecole Nationale Supérieure d’Arts et Métiers (Gold) and from the Ecole Nationale Supérieure des
Télécommunications in Paris. Steven Rose is Corporate Vice President & General Counsel in charge
of legal matters and has held this position since August 2013. Mr. Rose started his career as a corporate attorney at the law firm Gardere & Wynne in Dallas, Texas, providing legal advice and services to public and private companies.
He joined SGS-THOMSON Microelectronics (now STMicroelectronics) in 1991 as the Associate General Counsel for the U.S. subsidiary, STMicroelectronics, Inc. In 2006, he was appointed to serve as the Senior Associate General Counsel for the Americas,
Greater China & South Asia, and Japan & Korea regions, in addition to serving as Vice President, Secretary & General Counsel and a Director of STMicroelectronics, Inc. Mr. Rose obtained a degree in Accounting from
Oklahoma State University and a Juris Doctor degree from the University of Oklahoma College of Law. Benedetto Vigna is
Executive Vice President, General Manager of the Analog, MEMS & Sensors Group, and has held this position since September 2011. He is a member of ST’s Corporate Strategic Committee. In 68 Table of Contents 1995, Mr. Vigna joined STMicroelectronics’ R&D Labs and launched the Company’s efforts in MEMS. Under his leadership, ST’s MEMS sensors found early success with large
consumer equipment manufacturers for motion-activated user interfaces and more recently he has built on those wins piloting successful moves into microphones, magnetic sensors, and touch-screen controllers, as well as environmental sensors,
micro-actuators and low power radios. Mr. Vigna’s responsibilities also include management of Sensors, RF, High-Performance Analog and Mixed Signal, as well as Interface, Audio for Portable, and General-Purpose Analog products.
Mr. Vigna has filed more than 170 patents on micromachining to date, authored numerous publications, and delivered many speeches at international conferences. He sits on the industrial board of several EU-funded programs. Mr. Vigna’s
contributions to the MEMS industry have been recognized with the Executive of the Year Award by the MEMS Industry Group (2013), the European SEMI Award (2013) and the IEEE Frederik Philips Award (2015). Mr. Vigna graduated with a degree in
Subnuclear Physics from the University of Pisa, Italy. Recent Corporate Developments Effective the first quarter of 2016, we changed our organization to align with our strategic focus on Smart Driving and
Internet of Things applications. Three product groups were established, reporting to the President & CEO: Automotive and Discrete Group (ADG), led by Marco Monti, includes all of our automotive ICs, both digital and analog and our discrete
products; Microcontrollers and Digital ICs Group (MDG), led by Claude Dardanne, includes our general purpose and secure microcontrollers, our E2PROM memories and all of our digital ICs outside of automotive ICs; and, Analog and MEMS Group (AMG), led
by Benedetto Vigna, includes our low-power analog ICs, smart power products for industrial and power conversion and all of our MEMS activity. In addition, we merged the Japan & Korea and Greater China-South Asia regional sales organizations,
creating the Asia Pacific Region, which is now under the responsibility of Marco Cassis. The Technology and Manufacturing organization is now under the leadership of Jean-Marc Chery, our Chief Operating Officer. At the end of the first quarter of 2016, Carmelo Papa, General Manager of the Industrial and Power Discrete Group, Francois
Guibert, General Manager of the Greater China-South Asia Region, Georges Auguste, General Manager for Packaging and Test Manufacturing (“PTM”) and Mario Arlati, Executive Vice President Strategies and Business Management for SP&A, will
retire. Furthermore, Gian Luca Bertino, General Manager of the Digital Product Group, will leave the company. Fabio Gualandris will take over the responsibility of the PTM organization and Patrick Peubez will take over the responsibility of the
Product Quality Excellence organization. Compensation Supervisory Board Compensation Our Articles of Association provide that the compensation of our Supervisory Board members is determined by our general meeting
of shareholders. The aggregate compensation for current and former members of our Supervisory Board with respect to service in 2015 was € 1,041,000, before any applicable withholding taxes, as set forth in the following table. Supervisory Board Members Directors’ Fees (1) Maurizio Tamagnini € 176,000 Didier Lombard € 176,000 Jean d’Arthuys (2) € 0 (2) Janet G. Davidson € 109,500 Nicolas Dufourcq (3) € 0 (3) Heleen Kersten € 117,000 Jean-Georges Malcor € 98,500 Alessandro Ovi € 110,500 Alessandro Rivera € 103,000 Martine Verluyten € 150,500 Total € 1,041,000 (1) These amounts include a fixed annual compensation for the directors’ mandate, together with attendance fees from January 1, 2015 until
December 31, 2015. (2) Mr. d’Arthuys’ mandate as a member of our Supervisory Board expired on May 27, 2015. Mr. d’Arthuys would have been
entitled to receive € 6,000 in 2015, but he waived his right to receive any compensation from the Company in relation to his mandate as a member of our Supervisory Board. (3) Mr. Dufourcq was appointed as a member of our Supervisory Board on May 27, 2015. Mr. Dufourcq would have been entitled to receive €
80,500 in 2015, but he waived his right to receive any compensation from the Company in relation to his mandate as a member of our Supervisory Board. 69 Table of Contents We do not have any service agreements with members of our Supervisory Board. We
did not extend any loans or overdrafts to any of our Supervisory Board members. Furthermore, we have not guaranteed any debts or concluded any leases with any of our Supervisory Board members or their families. Senior Management Compensation Our senior management, including Mr. Carlo Bozotti, the sole member of our Managing Board and our President and CEO,
receive a combination of short term and long term compensation, including fixed salary, annual cash bonus incentive, long term incentive in the form of unvested stock awards, pensions rights and other cash or non-cash benefits. The following table
sets forth the total amount paid as compensation in 2015, 2014 and 2013 to the 26 members of our senior management (including Mr. Carlo Bozotti) on duty on December 31 st of each year,
before applicable withholding taxes and social contributions (amounts in millions): 2015 2014 2013 Total (1) $ 16.6 $ 19.8 $ 17.4 (1) In addition, relative charges and non-cash benefits were approximately $11 million in 2015, $12.8 million in 2014 and $10.9 million in 2013. The annual cash bonus incentive, which we call Corporate Executive Incentive Program (the
“EIP”), entitles selected executives to a yearly bonus based upon the assessment of the achievement of individual objectives that are set on a yearly basis and focused, inter alia , on return on net assets, customer service,
profit, cash flow and market share. The maximum bonus awarded under the EIP is based upon a percentage of the executive’s salary and is adjusted to reflect the overall performance of our Company. The amounts paid in 2015 to the 26 members of our senior management (including Mr. Carlo Bozotti, the sole member of our
Managing Board, President and CEO) pursuant to the Corporate Executive Incentive Program represented approximately 20.52% of the total compensation paid to our senior management. Bonus paid in 2015 (2014 performance) Bonus paid in 2014 (2013 performance) Bonus paid in 2013 (2012 performance) Bonus (cash) amount $ 3,395,952 $ 6,169,479 $ 3,878,183 Ratio bonus / base salary + EIP 20.52 % 31.20 % 22.67 % Our Supervisory Board has approved the establishment of a complementary pension plan for
certain members of our senior management, comprising the sole member of our Managing Board, President and CEO, and certain other key executives as selected by the sole member of our Managing Board, President and CEO, according to the general
criteria of eligibility and service set up by the Supervisory Board upon the proposal of its Compensation Committee. With respect to such plan, we have set up an independent foundation under Swiss law which manages the plan and to which we make
contributions. Pursuant to this plan, in 2015, we made a contribution of approximately $0.3 million to the plan of our current sole member of our Managing Board, President and CEO, and $1.5 million to the plan for all other beneficiaries. The
amount of pension plan payments made for other beneficiaries, such as former employees retired in 2015 and no longer salaried in 2015, was $0.7 million. We did not extend any loans or overdrafts to the sole member of our Managing Board, President and CEO, nor to any other member
of our senior management. Furthermore, we have not guaranteed any debts or concluded any leases with the sole member of the Managing Board, nor with any other member of our senior management or their families. The members of our senior management, including the sole member of our Managing Board, President and CEO, were covered in
2015 under certain group life and medical insurance programs provided by us. The aggregate additional amount set aside by us in 2015 to provide pension, retirement or similar benefits for our senior management, including the sole member of our
Managing Board, President and CEO, as a group is in addition to the amounts allocated to the complementary pension plan described above and is estimated to have been approximately $5.7 million, which includes statutory employer contributions for
state run retirement, similar benefit programs and other miscellaneous allowances. Managing Board Compensation The remuneration of the sole member of our Managing Board is determined by our Supervisory Board on the advice of the
Compensation Committee and within the scope of the remuneration policy as adopted by our 70 Table of Contents 2005 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. Mr. Carlo Bozotti, the sole member of our Managing Board and President and CEO, receives compensation in the form of: a fixed salary, annual
bonus, stock awards, employer social contributions, company car allowance, pension contributions and miscellaneous allowances. Set forth in the following table is Mr. Carlo Bozotti’s total compensation in 2015, 2014 and 2013: 2015 2014 2013 Salary (US dollars) 895,534 997,755 1,059,559 Bonus (1) (US dollars) 326,350 808,308 1,165,514 Charges and Non-cash
Benefits (2) (US dollars) 1,310,459 1,183,521 1,181,232 Total $ 2,532,343 $ 2,989,584 $ 3,406,305 (1) The bonus paid in 2015, 2014 and 2013 was approved by the Compensation Committee and Supervisory Board with respect to the 2014, 2013 and 2012
financial year, respectively, based on the evaluation and assessment of the actual fulfillment of a number of pre-defined objectives for such year. (2) Including stock awards, employer social contributions, company car allowance, pension contributions and miscellaneous allowances. In accordance
with the resolutions adopted at our Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held on May 30, 2012, the bonus of the sole member of our Managing Board and President and CEO in 2015, 2014 and 2013 included a portion of a bonus payable in stock
awards and corresponding to 66,396, 47,809 and 33,621 vested shares, respectively, based on fulfillment of a number of pre-defined objectives. In addition, Mr. Bozotti was granted, in accordance with the compensation policy adopted by our
General Meeting of Shareholders and subsequent shareholder authorizations, up to 100,000 unvested Stock Awards. The vesting of such stock awards is conditional upon certain performance criteria, fixed by our Supervisory Board, being achieved as well
as Mr. Bozotti’s continued service with us. Mr. Bozotti was re-appointed as sole member
of our Managing Board and President and Chief Executive Officer of our company by our Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in 2014 for a three year period. Mr. Bozotti has two employment agreements with us, the first with our Dutch
parent company, which relates to his activities as sole member of our Managing Board and representative of the Dutch legal entity, and the second in Switzerland, which relates to his activities as President and CEO, the EIP, Pension and other items
covered by the compensation policy adopted by our General meeting of Shareholders. While the relationship between a member of the managing board and a listed Dutch company will be treated as a mandate agreement, not an employment agreement, existing
employment agreements, including the employment agreement between us and our sole member of the Managing Board, will remain in effect. (i) CEO Bonus In accordance with the resolutions adopted at our Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held on May 30, 2012, the annual
bonus of the sole member of our Managing Board and President and CEO is composed of a portion payable in cash (up to a maximum of 150% of the base salary for the relevant year) and a portion payable in shares (up to a maximum of 60% of the base
salary for the relevant year), all subject to the assessment and fulfillment of a number of pre-defined conditions which are set annually by the Compensation Committee of our Supervisory Board. Consistent with the compensation policy adopted by our General Meeting of Shareholders, the Supervisory Board, upon the
recommendation of its Compensation Committee, set the conditions and performance criteria that must be met by Mr. Bozotti for the attribution of his 2015 bonus. Those conditions are based, inter alia , on revenues growth, certain
financial targets, the share price evolution versus SOXX, as well as certain special programs. The evaluation and assessment of the fulfillment of those conditions and performance criteria, will be done by the Compensation Committee of our
Supervisory Board within the first months of the following year (i.e. in 2016 for the 2015 CEO bonus), in order to determine the actual amount of the CEO bonus for 2015. (ii) CEO Stock Awards The Supervisory Board, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, determine whether the performance criteria, each
equally weighted at 33.33% as described below, have been met and conclude whether and to which extent all eligible employees, including Mr. Bozotti, are entitled to any stock awards under the stock award plan. The stock awards vest 32% one
year, a further 32% two years and the remaining 36% three years, respectively, after the date of the grant as defined by the plan, provided that the eligible employee is still an employee at such time (subject to the acceleration provisions in the
event of a change in control). 71 Table of Contents (iii) Unvested Stock Awards Allocation Year (1) Performance Achieved Result Details 2014 33.33% (2) 1 criteria out of 3 met Evolution of Sales criteria not met Evolution of Operating Income criteria not met Operating Cash Flow target met 2013 33.33% (2) 1 criteria out of 3 met Evolution of Sales criteria not met Evolution of Operating Income criteria not met Operating Cash Flow target met 2012 66.67% (2) 2 criteria out of 3 met Evolution of Sales criteria met Evolution of Operating Income criteria not met Cash Flow target met (1) For 2015, the assessment of the fulfillment of the conditions and performance criteria, will be done by the Compensation Committee of our
Supervisory Board in March/April, 2016 in order to determine the actual number of stock awards to be allocated for 2015. (2) In accordance with the resolution adopted by our General Meeting of Shareholders, the maximum grant allowed in relation to the CEO stock award for
each of 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 was 100,000 unvested stocks awards. During 2015, Mr. Bozotti did
not exercise any stock options granted to him, and did not sell any vested stock awards or purchase or sell any of our shares. For further information regarding stock options and other stock based compensation granted to members of our Supervisory
Board, the Managing Board and our senior management, please refer to Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Share Ownership None of the members of our Supervisory Board, Managing Board or senior management holds shares or options to acquire
shares representing more than 1% of our issued share capital. Stock Awards and Options Our stock-based compensation plans are designed to incentivize, attract and retain our executives and key employees by aligning
compensation with our performance and the evolution of our share price. We have adopted stock based compensation plans comprising either stock options or unvested stock awards for our senior management as well as key employees. Furthermore, until
2012, the Compensation Committee (on behalf of the Supervisory Board and with its approval) granted stock-based awards (the options to acquire common shares in the share capital of the Company) to the members and professionals of the Supervisory
Board. For a description of our stock option plans and unvested share award plans, please see Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference. Pursuant to the shareholders’ resolutions adopted by our general meetings of shareholders, our Supervisory Board, upon
the proposal of the Managing Board and the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, took the following actions: • approved, for a four year period, our 2013 Unvested Stock Award Plan for Executives and Key Employees, under which directors, managers and selected
employees may be granted stock awards upon the fulfillment of restricted criteria, such as those linked to our performance (for selected employees) and continued service with us; • approved conditions relating to our 2014 unvested stock award allocation under the 2013 Unvested Stock Award Plan, including restriction criteria
linked to our performance (for selected employees); and • approved conditions relating to our 2015 unvested stock award allocation under the 2013 Unvested Stock Award Plan, including restriction criteria
linked to our performance (for selected employees). 72 Table of Contents The exercise of stock options and the sale or purchase of shares of our stock by
the members or professionals of our Supervisory Board, the sole member of our Managing Board and President and CEO, and all our employees are subject to an internal policy which involves, inter alia , certain blackout periods. Employees The tables below set forth the breakdown of employees by main category of activity and geographic area for the past
three years. At December 31, 2015 2014 2013 France 9,887 9,960 10,350 Italy 9,623 9,530 9,450 Rest of Europe 842 840 950 United States 839 870 1,040 Mediterranean (Malta, Morocco, Tunisia) 4,672 4,520 4,490 Asia 17,320 17,900 19,110 Total 43,183 43,620 45,390 At December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Research and Development 8,304 8,680 8,970 Marketing and Sales 2,049 2,200 2,190 Manufacturing 27,962 28,080 29,550 Administration and General Services 2,129 2,150 2,220 Divisional Functions 2,739 2,510 2,460 Total 43,183 43,620 45,390 Our future success will partly depend on our ability to continue to attract, retain and
motivate highly qualified technical, marketing, engineering and management personnel, as well as on our ability to timely adapt the size and/or profile of our personnel to changing industry needs. Unions are represented at almost all of our
manufacturing facilities and at several of our R&D sites. We use temporarily employees if required during production spikes and, in Europe, during summer vacation. We have not experienced any significant strikes or work stoppages in recent
years.