Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions”. Managing Board In accordance with Dutch law, our management is entrusted to the Managing Board under the supervision of our Supervisory Board. Mr. Carlo
Bozotti, who was re-appointed in 2017 for a one-year term to expire at the end of our 2018 AGM, is currently the sole member of our Managing Board with the function of President and Chief Executive Officer. Under our Articles of Association,
Managing Board members are appointed for no more than three year term upon a non-binding proposal by our Supervisory Board at our shareholders’ meeting and adoption by a simple majority of the votes cast at the shareholders’ meeting where
at least 15% of the issued and outstanding share capital is present or represented, which term may be renewed one or more times. Our
shareholders’ meeting may suspend or dismiss one or more members of our Managing Board, in accordance with the procedures laid down in our Articles of Association. Under Dutch law, our Managing Board is entrusted with our general management and
the representation of the Company. Our Managing Board must seek prior approval from our shareholders’ meeting for decisions regarding a significant change in the identity or nature of the Company. Under our Articles of Association and our
Supervisory Board Charter, our Managing Board must also seek prior approval from our Supervisory Board for certain other decisions with regard to the Company and our direct or indirect subsidiaries. 66 Table of Contents In accordance with our Corporate Governance Charter, the sole member of our Managing Board
and our senior managers may not serve on the board of a public company without the prior approval of our Supervisory Board. Pursuant to the Supervisory Board Charter, the sole member of our Managing Board must inform our Supervisory Board of any
(potential) conflict of interest and pursuant to such charter and Dutch law, any Managing Board resolution regarding a transaction in relation to which the sole member of our Managing Board has a conflict of interest must be approved and adopted by
our Supervisory Board. Should our entire Supervisory Board also have a conflict of interest, the resolution must be adopted by our shareholders’ meeting pursuant to Dutch law. We are not aware of any potential conflicts of interests between the
private interest or other duties of our sole Managing Board member and our senior managers and their duties to us. Pursuant to the
Supervisory Board Charter, the following decisions by our Managing Board with regard to the Company and any of our direct or indirect subsidiaries (an “ST Group Company”) require prior approval from our Supervisory Board: (i) any
modification of our or any ST Group Company’s Articles of Association or other constitutional documents, other than those of wholly owned subsidiaries; (ii) other than for wholly owned subsidiaries, any change in our or any ST Group
Company’s authorized share capital or any issue, acquisition or disposal by us — with the exception of shares in our share capital acquired in order to transfer these shares under employee stock option or stock purchase plans — or any
ST Group Company of own shares or change in share rights and any issue of instruments resulting in a share in the capital of any ST Group Company or its profits (iii) the liquidation or dissolution of us or any ST Group Company or the disposal
of all or a substantial and material part of our business or assets, or those of any ST Group Company, or of any shares in any such ST Group Company; (iv) any merger, acquisition or joint venture agreement (and, if substantial and
material, any agreement relating to IP) to which we or any ST Group Company is, or is proposed to be, a party, as well as the formation of a new company to which we or any ST Group Company is, or is proposed to be, a party, as well as the formation
of new companies by us or any ST Group Company (with the understanding that only acquisitions above $25 million per transaction are subject to prior Supervisory Board approval); (v) our draft Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated
Financial Statements, as well as our and our subsidiaries’ profit distribution policies; (vi) entering into any agreement that may qualify as a related party transaction, including any agreement between us or any ST Group Company and any
of our major shareholders.; (vii) the key parameters of our pluri-annual plans and our consolidated annual budgets, as well as any significant modifications to said plans and budgets, or any one of the matters set forth in our Articles of
Association and not included in the approved plans or budgets; (viii) operations which have to be submitted for Supervisory Board prior approval even if their financing was already provided for in the approved annual budget; (ix) our
quarterly, semi-annual and annual Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and, as required, according to IFRS; (x) the exercise of any shareholder right in a ST joint venture company, which is a company
(a) with respect to which we hold directly or indirectly either a minority equity position in excess of 25% or a majority position without the voting power to adopt extraordinary resolutions, or (b) in which we directly or indirectly
participate and such participation has a value of at least one third of our total assets according to the Consolidated Balance Sheets and notes thereto in our most recently adopted (statutory) annual accounts with the understanding, for the
avoidance of doubt, that decisions of the Managing Board regarding the general management and/or operations of such ST joint venture company are not subject to Supervisory Board approval and that the Managing Board reports to the Supervisory Board
on the operations of the ST joint venture companies as part of its regular reporting to the Supervisory Board and in principle at least every six months; (xi) the strategy of our company; (xii) all proposals to be submitted to a vote at
the AGM; (xiii) the formation of all companies, acquisition or sale of any participation and conclusion of any cooperation and participation agreement; (xiv) all pluri-annual plans of the Company and the budget for the coming year
(covering investment policy, policy regarding research and development, and commercial policy and objectives, general financial policy and policy regarding personnel); (xv) the annual internal audit plan and the appointment, replacement,
reassignment and dismissal of our Chief Audit and Risk Executive; and (xvi) all acts, decisions or operations covered by the foregoing and constituting a significant change with respect to decisions already approved by the Supervisory Board or
not provided for in the above list and as specifically laid down by a Supervisory Board resolution to that effect. Senior Management Our senior managers support our Managing Board in its management of the Company, without prejudice to our Managing Board’s ultimate
responsibility. As a company committed to good governance, we hold corporate meetings on a regular basis. Such meetings, which involve the participation of several members of our senior management, include: Corporate Operations Review (COR) , which meets twice per quarter to review monthly results and short-term forecasts. 67 Table of Contents Corporate Staff Meeting , which meets once per quarter to review the business in its
entirety and to plan and forecast for the next quarter and beyond. Corporate Strategic Committee , which meets at least four
times per year, sets corporate policy, coordinates strategies of our various functions and drives major cross functional programs. Our senior managers as of December 31, 2017 were: Name Position Years with Company Years in Semi- Conductor Industry Age Carlo Bozotti President and Chief Executive Officer 41 41 65 Jean-Marc Chery Deputy CEO 33 33 57 Carlo Ferro Chief Financial Officer and President, Finance, Legal, Infrastructure and Services 18 18 57 Eric Aussedat Executive Vice President, General Manager, Imaging Product Division 36 36 64 Orio Bellezza President, Global Technology and Manufacturing 34 34 58 Philippe Brun Corporate Vice President, Human Resources and Sustainable Development 31 31 59 Marco Cassis President, Global Sales and Marketing 30 30 54 Paul J. Cihak Executive Vice President, General Manager, Sales & Marketing, Europe, Middle East and Africa Region 19 24 46 Andrea Cuomo Executive Vice President, Advanced Systems Technology (AST) and Special Projects 34 34 63 Claude Dardanne President, Microcontrollers and Digital ICs Group 35 38 65 Lorenzo Grandi Corporate Vice President, Corporate Control 30 30 56 Fabio Gualandris Executive Vice President, Head of Back-End Manufacturing & Technology 30 33 58 Joël Hartmann Executive Vice President, Digital Front-End Manufacturing and Technology 17 39 62 Bob Krysiak Executive Vice President, President, Americas Region, Global Mass Market and Online Marketing Programs 35 35 63 Marco Monti President, Automotive and Discrete Group 31 31 56 Georges Penalver Chief Strategy Officer and President, Strategy, Communication, Human Resources and Quality 6 6 61 Patrick Peubez Executive Vice President, Product Quality Excellence 38 38 63 Steven Rose Corporate Vice President & General Counsel 26 26 55 Jerome Roux Executive Vice President, Head of Sales and Marketing , Asia Pacific Region 27 30 52 Benedetto Vigna President, Analog, MEMS and Sensors Group 23 23 48 Immediately following the Company’s 2018 AGM, we expect that the members of ST’s Executive Committee
will be the following: • Jean Marc Chery, Sole Member of the Managing Board and President and Chief Executive Officer • Orio Bellezza, President, Technology, Manufacturing and Quality • Marco Cassis, President, Sales, Marketing, Communications and Strategy Development • Claude Dardanne, President, Microcontrollers and Digital ICs Group • Lorenzo Grandi, President, Finance, Infrastructure and Services and Chief Financial Officer • Marco Monti, President, Automotive and Discrete Group 68 Table of Contents • Georges Penalver, President, Human Resources and Corporate Social Responsibility • Steven Rose, President, Legal Counsel • Benedetto Vigna, President, Analog, MEMS and Sensors Group. Biographies of our Current Senior Management Carlo Bozotti is President and Chief Executive Officer and has held this position since March 2005. He is the Sole Member of the
Managing Board. Mr. Bozotti joined SGS-ATES (later renamed SGS Microelettronica), a predecessor company to STMicroelectronics, in 1977. Ten years later, when SGS Microelettronica of Italy merged with Thomson Semiconducteurs of France to form a
new European champion, which is ST today and is among the leading semiconductor companies worldwide, Mr. Bozotti became General Manager of the Telecom Product Division. Subsequently, he was promoted to Director of Corporate Strategic Marketing
and Key Accounts and, later, to Corporate Vice President, Marketing and Sales, Americas. In 1994, Mr. Bozotti was appointed Corporate Vice President for Europe and the Headquarters Regions, overseeing the Company’s sales in Europe, as well
as sales to key customers and strategic marketing worldwide. From 1998 to 2005, Mr. Bozotti served as Corporate Vice President and General Manager of the Memory Products Group. Mr. Bozotti is a member of the European Round Table of
Industrialists (“ERT”) and has served on the board of directors of Aricent Inc. since August 2017. Mr. Bozotti graduated with a degree in Electronic Engineering from the University of Pavia, Italy. Jean-Marc Chery has been designated President & CEO of STMicroelectronics in January 2018 and will be proposed as the Sole Member of
the Managing Board at the 2018 AGM. Since July 2017, he has been Deputy CEO with overall responsibility for the Company’s Technology and Manufacturing, as well as for Sales and Marketing operations. He is a member of ST’s Executive Team.
Mr. Chery began his career in the Quality organization of Matra, the French engineering group. In 1986, he joined Thomson Semiconducteurs, which subsequently became ST, and held various management positions in product planning and
manufacturing, rising to lead ST’s wafer fabs in Tours, France, and later in Rousset, France. In 2005, Mr. Chery led the company-wide 6-inch wafer-production restructuring program before taking charge of ST’s Front-End Manufacturing
operations in Asia Pacific. In 2008, he was promoted to Chief Technology Officer and assumed additional responsibilities for Manufacturing and Quality (2011) and the Digital Product Sector (2012). In 2014, Mr. Chery was appointed as
ST’s Chief Operating Officer responsible for the Company’s Technology and Manufacturing operations. Mr. Chery chairs the board of directors of STS, ST’s manufacturing joint venture in China, and holds board membership at the
European microelectronics R&D program AENEAS. Mr. Chery graduated with a degree in Engineering from the ENSAM engineering school in Paris, France. Carlo Ferro is President, Finance, Legal, Infrastructure and Services, and Chief Financial Officer (CFO). He has held the CFO position at ST
since May 2003, with temporary suspension during his tenure at ST-Ericsson, where he first served as Chief Operating Officer (February 2012 – March 2013) and President and Chief Executive Officer from April 2013 through April 2014, leading the
re-organization to split up the joint-venture business and resources to the two shareholders ST and Ericsson and wind down the JV. Since August 2013, Mr. Ferro’s overall responsibilities at ST have encompassed, in addition to Finance and
Control, Central Operational Planning, Global Procurement, Legal, Intellectual Property, Information and Communication Technology, Investor Relations, and Public Affairs in Italy. He is a member of ST’s Executive Team and, since 2015, he has
served as the President of ST Italy. From 1992 to 1996, Mr. Ferro gained extensive experience in Planning and Control, Corporate Finance and M&A at Finmeccanica, the leading Italian high-tech engineering and manufacturing group and a former
shareholder of STMicroelectronics. Over the next three years he held executive positions for Elsag Bailey Process Automation NV, a global leader in process control listed at NYSE, first as Vice President for Strategic Planning, and later as Vice
President for Planning and Control and Principal Financial Officer. In 1999, Mr. Ferro joined ST as Group Vice President Corporate Finance. In 2002, he became Deputy CFO, and was promoted to Chief Financial Officer in 2003. Mr. Ferro sits
on the board of directors of STS, the Company’s manufacturing joint venture in China and holds board memberships at ST’s affiliates in France, Italy and Singapore. He is Vice President for Industrial and Fiscal policies of Assolombarda
(Confindustria), a member of the Foreign Investment Advisory Board of Confindustria and a board member of Digital Innovation Hub Lombardia. Mr. Ferro served as chairman of Incard SA and sole managing director of ST Service Srl and as board
member and chairman of the Audit Committee of various companies in which ST held an equity interest. Mr. Ferro graduated in Business and Economics from the LUISS Guido Carli University in Rome, where he served as a professor of Planning and
Control until 1996 and as an associate professor of Finance from 2008 through 2011. He is a Certified Public Accountant in Italy. 69 Table of Contents Eric Aussedat is Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Imaging Product
Division and has held this position since October 2014. Mr. Aussedat joined Thomson Semiconducteurs, a predecessor company to ST, as Product Engineer in 1981. He held various positions in product engineering and planning and was promoted
Planning Manager of the Video Products Group in 1986. Later on, he was appointed to manage the product and manufacturing planning operations of INMOS, a UK company acquired by ST. Subsequently, he supervised the Engineering and Test Strategy for the
Programmable Product Group before his promotion to head ST’s Microcontroller Division in 1995. In 2000-2004, Mr. Aussedat led the TV and Display Division and became General Manager of ST’s Cellular Communication Division in 2005. Two
years later, he was appointed General Manager of the Imaging Division. In 2012, Mr. Aussedat was appointed ST’s Executive Vice President in charge of the Imaging, Bi-CMOS ASIC and Silicon Photonics Group. Mr. Aussedat graduated with a
degree in Electronic Engineering from the Institut National Polytechnique in Grenoble and earned a diploma from the Institut d’Administration des Entreprises of Grenoble. Orio Bellezza is President, Global Technology and Manufacturing and has held this position since July 2017. He has been responsible for
Front-End Manufacturing since 2008 and later assumed additional responsibilities for technology R&D for automotive, industrial and multi-segment, and analog and power products. He is a member of ST’s Executive Team. Mr. Bellezza joined
SGS-ATES, a predecessor company to STMicroelectronics, in 1984 as a fab process engineer. He soon moved to the Company’s Central R&D organization and participated in several key projects, including the introduction of process technology
modules for manufacturing sub-micron non-volatile memories. In 1996, Mr. Bellezza was appointed Director of ST’s R&D facility in Agrate and led its upgrade and expansion into the Company’s manufacturing and development center for
non-volatile memory and smart-power technologies. In 2002, he became Vice President of Central R&D, and in 2005, was appointed to Vice President and Assistant General Manager of Front-End Technology and Manufacturing. He has published technical
papers and earned several patents in non-volatile memories. Mr. Bellezza graduated with a degree in Chemistry from the University of Milan (Università degli Studi di Milano), Italy. Philippe Brun is Corporate Vice President in charge of Human Resources & Sustainable Development. Responsible for HR since August
2012, his mission was expanded to cover the Company’s social responsibility, as well as environment, health and safety in August 2013. He is equally in charge of Lean Management deployment across ST organizations worldwide. Mr. Brun
started his career at the Pechiney Group. In 1986, he joined Thomson Semiconducteurs, a predecessor to STMicroelectronics, as a back-end process engineer. From 1989 to 1996, Mr. Brun managed Human Resources at the Grenoble, France site and
served as Site Director at the Company’s St. Genis facility (France). In 1996, he was promoted to Human Resources Director responsible for over 10,000 employees in ST’s manufacturing organization worldwide. From 1999 to 2010, Mr. Brun
served as Fab Operations and Site Director at ST’s plant in Rousset, France. In January 2011, he was appointed Group VP for execution excellence in ST’s Front-End Manufacturing organization. Mr. Brun graduated with an engineering
degree from the Ecole Nationale Supérieure d’Arts et Métiers (ENSAM) in France and holds a Master degree in Aerospace engineering from the University of Colorado and a management degree from the IFG School of Business (France). Marco Cassis is President, Global Sales and Marketing, and has held this position since July 2017. He is a member of ST’s Executive
Team. Mr. Cassis joined SGS-Thomson Microelectronics (now STMicroelectronics) as a car radio chip designer in 1987. Six years later, he moved to Japan to help expand the Company’s audio business with major Japanese players and contributed
to the establishment of ST’s strategic alliance with Pioneer in the late 1990s. In 2000, Mr. Cassis took charge of the Audio Business Unit and he was subsequently promoted to Director of Audio and Automotive Group, responsible for design,
marketing, sales, application support and customer service. In 2004, Mr. Cassis was named Vice President of Marketing for automotive, computer peripheral, and telecom products and in 2005, he advanced to VP Automotive Segment Group and joined
the board of directors of STMicroelectronics K.K., the Japanese subsidiary. He was promoted to lead ST’s operations in Japan in 2005 and his mandate was expanded to include Korea in 2010 and Greater China and South Asia in 2016, when he was
appointed President of the Company’s Asia Pacific Region. Mr. Cassis graduated with a degree in Electronic Engineering from the Polytechnic of Milan, Italy. Paul Cihak is Executive Vice President and General Manager, Sales & Marketing for the Europe, Middle East and Africa Region, and has
held this position since April 2014. Mr. Cihak began his career with Hewlett Packard in 1994. He spent five years working in HP’s Inkjet printing business before being hired into strategic account management by STMicroelectronics in 1999.
In 2003, Mr. Cihak managed an industry-leading e-Business supply chain project cited as one of the first successful B2B RosettaNet programs in the world. Mr. Cihak rose through the ranks to become
Director of Sales in 2004, Vice President of Sales in 2007, and Vice 70 Table of Contents President of ST’s Computer and Peripheral accounts in 2011 leading all aspects of the sales, marketing, application engineering, customer service, and business development strategy. He was
promoted in 2012 to lead ST’s largest sales Business Unit managing three Global Key Accounts for the Company. Mr. Cihak was born in San Diego, CA, in 1971. He graduated from the University of Oregon with a degree in History and Political
Science and holds a MBA from Portland State University. Andrea Cuomo is Executive Vice President, Advanced Systems Technology (AST) and
Special Projects, and has held this position since January 2012. Mr. Cuomo joined SGS Microelettronica, a predecessor company to STMicroelectronics, in 1983, covering managerial roles in Product Management and Strategy, and rose to become VP
for the Headquarters Region in 1994. In 1998, he created the AST group, a key organization for developing ST’s system knowledge and advanced architectures. In 2002, Mr. Cuomo was promoted to Corporate VP, AST General Manager, and took on
further responsibilities as Chief Strategy Officer in 2005. From 2008 to 2011, Mr. Cuomo was Executive VP, General Manager, EMEA Sales and & Marketing and AST. From July 2010 to June 2017, Mr. Cuomo was the Executive Chairman
at 3Sun, the photovoltaic joint venture between ST, Enel and Sharp. His board memberships include the Ospedale San Raffaele in Milano, the International Advisory Boards at the SDA Bocconi University in Milano and at ESADE Business School in
Barcelona, Spain. In June 2015, Mr. Cuomo became Chairman of the Governing Board at EU’s ECSEL Joint Undertaking. Mr. Cuomo studied Nuclear Science at the Polytechnic of Milan. Claude Dardanne is President, Microcontroller and Digital ICs Group and has held this position since July 2017. He is a member of ST’s
Executive Team. Mr. Dardanne started his career with Thomson Semiconducteurs, a predecessor company to ST. From 1982, he was responsible for microcontroller and microprocessor marketing. Between 1989 and 1994, he was Marketing Director at Apple
Computer and Alcatel-Mietec. In 1994, he rejoined ST as Director of Central Marketing for the Memory Products Group, became Head of the EEPROM Division in 1998, and was later appointed Group Deputy General Manager and Head of the Smart Card
Division. The Company consolidated its Microcontroller, Memory, and Secure MCU (MMS) activities in 2007 and appointed Mr. Dardanne Corporate Vice President and the MMS General Manager. Under his leadership, MMS has become a key asset in revenue
and market-share growth and profitability and a worldwide leader in the microcontroller market. Mr. Dardanne graduated with a degree in Electronic Engineering from the Ecole Supérieure d’Ingénieurs en Génie Electrique
in Rouen, France. Lorenzo Grandi is Corporate Vice President, in charge of Corporate Control and has held this position since February
2012. Mr. Grandi joined SGS-THOMSON Microelectronics (now ST) in 1987 as a process engineer working on BCD (Bipolar-CMOS-DMOS) technology development. In 1990, he moved to the Memory Product Group as Financial Analyst. In 1995, Mr. Grandi
was promoted to the position of Group Controller for the Memory Product Group and in 2005, he joined the Corporate Finance organization, taking responsibility for Budgeting and Reporting. In 2007, Mr. Grandi was promoted to Group Vice
President, Director of Corporate Control. Mr. Grandi graduated cum laude in Physics from the University of Modena, Italy, and holds an MBA from SDA Bocconi, School of Management in Milan, Italy. Fabio Gualandris is Executive Vice President and Head of the Back-End Manufacturing & Technology organization and has held this
position since January 2016. Gualandris joined the R&D organization of SGS Microelettronica, a predecessor company to ST, in 1984. He was promoted to R&D Director of Operations in 1989 and became Automotive Business Unit Director in 1996.
After two years in the US as President and CEO of Semitool, a semiconductor manufacturing equipment vendor, he rejoined ST in 2000 as Group VP responsible for the RAM/PSRAM Product Division and the Flash Automotive Business Unit. In 2005, Gualandris
was appointed CEO of ST Incard, an ST smart-card subsidiary. In 2008-2010, he served as VP and Supply Chain General Manager at ST’s memory joint venture with Intel. In 2011, Mr. Gualandris was appointed ST’s Executive Vice President
in charge of Product Quality Excellence. Gualandris has authored several technical and managerial papers, holds some international patents, and sat on boards at Incard SA, ST Incard, and the Numonyx-Hynix joint venture in China. He also served as
Board member and President of Numonyx Italy. Mr. Gualandris graduated in Physics from the University of Milan. Joël Hartmann is
Executive Vice President, Digital Front-End Manufacturing and Technology and has held this position since February 2012. He is in charge of ST’s manufacturing operations in Crolles and Rousset, France, Technology and Design Platforms for the
Company’s digital products. From 1979 to 2000, Mr. Hartmann worked at CEA-Leti, a France-based applied-research center for microelectronics, information and healthcare technologies. In 2000, he joined STMicroelectronics as Director of the
Crolles2 Alliance, the semiconductor manufacturing R&D initiative of STMicroelectronics, NXP and Freescale Semiconductor. In 2008, Mr. Hartmann was promoted to Group Vice President and Director of Advanced CMOS Logic & 71 Table of Contents Derivative Technologies. From 2010 to 2012, he had additional responsibilities as a co-leader of the Semiconductor Research and Development Center in Fishkill, NY, within the IBM ISDA Technology
Alliance for the development of advanced CMOS process. Mr. Hartmann sits on the Board of the SOI Industry Consortium Initiative and is a Member of the IEEE Electron Device Society. He has filed 15 patents on semiconductor technology and devices
and authored 10 publications in this field to date. He graduated from the Ecole Nationale Supérieure de Physique de Grenoble with a degree in Physics. Bob Krysiak is an Executive Vice President of STMicroelectronics and, since 2010, President of ST’s Americas Region. He also manages
ST’s Global Mass Market and Online Marketing Programs. Mr. Krysiak started his career in 1983 in the Transputer Design Group of INMOS, a company that was later acquired by ST. In ST he led CPU design groups that focused on 32-bit MCU cores
and chip-level network infrastructure. In 1997 Mr. Krysiak was promoted to Group VP, responsible for development of microcontrollers and DSP System-on-Chip products for mobile phones, disk-drive controllers, GPS receivers, set-top boxes, and
digital cameras. Soon, Mr. Krysiak became Group VP for ST’s microprocessor and microcontroller developments of 8-, 16-, 32- and 64-bit and VLIW products. In 2001, he managed ST’s DVD division, where ST grew to become a market leader
and in 2004, Mr. Krysiak became Marketing Director for the Home, Personal, and Communications sector. A year later, he was appointed Executive VP of ST’s Greater China region. Today, he shares time between Boston and Santa Clara. Bob
Krysiak holds an Electronics degree from Cardiff University and an MBA from the University of Bath. Marco Monti is President, Automotive
and Discrete Group. The head of the Automotive Product Group since 2012, Mr. Monti’s mandate was expanded to include discrete and power transistor products in January 2016. Mr. Monti is a member of ST’s Executive Team.
Mr. Monti joined ST in Central R&D in 1986 and transferred to the Automotive Division in 1988, where he designed automotive ICs incorporating smart-power technologies. He moved to Japan in 1990 working on a co-development activity designing
a noise-reduction system for audio applications. Subsequently, Mr. Monti transferred into marketing, contributing to the expansion of ST’s automotive business in Japan. In 2000, he became the marketing manager for the ST Automotive
Division and started ST’s automotive microprocessor business two years later. In 2004, he was promoted to Division General Manager for Powertrain, Safety and Chassis products and he took responsibility for the Automotive Electronics Division in
2009. Then, in 2012, Mr. Monti was appointed Executive Vice President, General Manager of ST’s Automotive Product Group. Mr. Monti graduated cum laude in Electronic Engineering from the Polytechnic of Milan, Italy, and earned a PhD
from the University of Pavia, Italy. Georges Penalver is President, Strategy, Communication, Human Resources and Quality, and Chief
Strategy Officer, and has held this position since August 2013. His overall responsibilities include Corporate Strategy and Development, Corporate Communication, Human Resources, Corporate Security, Product Quality Excellence and Public Affairs in
France and EU. He is a member of ST’s Executive Team. Mr. Penalver started his career in 1980 with Sagem, where he developed the Broadband Communications Business, overseeing the launch of telecommunication products, the international
industrial deployments, and the development of global sales networks. He was appointed to Sagem’s Management Board in 2001 and served as Deputy CEO, pushing the mass development of mobile and Internet services. In 2005, he joined the France
Telecom Orange Group as Deputy CEO for Strategy and Business Development, responsible, at the group level, for product marketing and management of services in France Telecom Orange, product creation and development for the entire group, and Orange
Labs’ activities worldwide. In 2011, Mr. Penalver used his extensive experience to become a co-founder and managing partner of Cathaya Capital Fund until July 2012. He was installed as a Knight of the French “Ordre National du
Mérite” in 2003. Mr. Penalver holds a degree from the Ecole Nationale Supérieure d’Arts et Métiers (Gold) and from the Ecole Nationale Supérieure des Télécommunications in Paris. Patrick Peubez is Executive Vice President in charge of Product Quality Excellence and has held this position since April 2016.
Mr. Peubez began his career at Thomson-CSF Integrated Circuits Division, a predecessor company to ST, in 1979, as an engineer developing PowerMOS and Bipolar transistors, and later Analog TV ICs. In 1987, he was promoted to deputy head of the
Bipolar and BiCMOS 100mm-wafer engineering production unit for analog integrated circuits. Later on, Mr. Peubez directed 125mm-wafer production at the Company’s Rennes site, specializing in the Analog/BCD technologies and components for
the space industry. In 1997, he was appointed Head of Operations responsible for revitalizing production at our 200mm fab in Phoenix, Arizona. After a stint as director of technology transfer and improved manufacturing efficiencies at the company
level, in 2005 Mr. Peubez joined, as General Manager, the team responsible for implementing technologies and purchasing wafers in foundries working with us, to ensure our production flexibility. From 2014 to 2015, he served as Director of
Operations and Site Director at our plant in Rousset, France. Mr. Peubez holds an engineering degree from Central School of Lyon and a postgraduate degree in Physics of Semiconductors. 72 Table of Contents Steven Rose is Corporate Vice President & General Counsel in charge of legal
matters and has held this position since August 2013. Mr. Rose started his career as a corporate attorney at the law firm Gardere & Wynne in Dallas, Texas, providing legal advice and services to public and private companies. He joined
SGS-THOMSON Microelectronics (now STMicroelectronics) in 1991 as the Associate General Counsel for the U.S. subsidiary, STMicroelectronics, Inc. In 2006, he was appointed to serve as the Senior Associate General Counsel for the Americas, Greater
China & South Asia, and Japan & Korea regions, in addition to serving as Vice President, Secretary & General Counsel and a Director of STMicroelectronics, Inc. Mr. Rose obtained a degree in Accounting from Oklahoma
State University and a Juris Doctor degree from the University of Oklahoma College of Law. Jerome Roux is Executive Vice President, Head
of Sales and Marketing for the Company’s Asia Pacific Region, and has held this position since July 2017. Mr. Roux began his career in the Planning department of SGS-THOMSON Microelectronics, a predecessor to STMicroelectronics, in 1988.
He soon moved to the Company’s packaging facility in Casablanca, Morocco as Material Manager. Afterwards, Mr. Roux moved to Singapore and then Shanghai as the Asia Pacific Marketing Director for ST’s Discrete and Standard Product
Group. He left ST briefly to join an ST supplier company as managing director and member of the board and returned to ST in 2006 as Group Vice President, Assembly & Testing Outsourcing Operations, based in Singapore. Global Purchasing
responsibilities were added to his mandate in 2008. He was promoted to Corporate Vice President in 2012 and has managed Geographic and Distribution Sales in ST’s Greater China & South Asia Region (since 2015) and Asia Pacific Region
(since 2016). Mr. Roux serves as advisor to the French Government (CCEF) on Foreign Trade of the Singapore committee. Jerome Roux graduated from ISG Business School in Paris with a Master degree in Commerce (Management and Marketing). Benedetto Vigna is President, Analog, MEMS and Sensors Group, and has held this position since July 2017. He is a member of ST’s
Executive Team. Mr. Vigna joined STMicroelectronics in 1995 and launched the Company’s efforts in MEMS. Under his guidance, ST’s MEMS sensors established the Company’s leadership with large OEMs in motion-activated user
interfaces. Mr. Vigna has piloted ST’s successful moves into microphones, e-compasses, and touch-screen controllers, as well as environmental sensors, micro-actuators, industrial and automotive sensors, and low-power radios for IoT. His
mandate was further expanded to analog ICs and RF products (2011) and smart-power devices for OEMs and mass market (2016). ST’s imaging division moved under his management in the fourth quarter of 2017. Mr. Vigna has filed over 170
patents on micromachining, authored numerous publications, and sits on the board of several EU-funded programs. Mr. Vigna’s contributions to the industry have been recognized with the MEMS Industry Group’s Executive of the Year Award
(2013), the European SEMI Award (2013), the IEEE Frederik Philips Award (2015) and the Manager of the Year 2017 by German magazine Markt & Technik. Mr. Vigna graduated with a degree in Subnuclear Physics from the University of
Pisa, Italy. Compensation Supervisory
Board Compensation Our Articles of Association provide that the compensation of our Supervisory Board members is determined by our
general meeting of shareholders. The aggregate compensation for current and former members of our Supervisory Board with respect to service in 2017 was €989,500, before any applicable withholding taxes, as set forth in the following table. Supervisory Board Members Directors’ Fees (1) Nicolas Dufourcq € 0 (2) Maurizio Tamagnini € 175,500 Janet Davidson € 115,000 Heleen Kersten € 118,000 Didier Lombard (3) € 20,500 Jean-Georges Malcor € 98,500 Salvatore Manzi € 107,000 Alessandro Rivera € 106,500 Frédéric Sanchez (4) € 96,500 Martine Verluyten € 152,000 Total € 989,500 (1) These amounts include a fixed annual compensation for the directors’ mandate, together with attendance fees from January 1, 2017 until December 31, 2017. 73 Table of Contents (2) Mr. Dufourcq would have been entitled to receive €175,000 in 2017, but he waived his right to receive any compensation from the Company in relation to his mandate as a member of the Supervisory Board. (3) Mr. Lombard’s mandate as a member of our Supervisory Board expired on June 20, 2017. (4) Mr. Sanchez was appointed as a member of our Supervisory Board on June 20, 2017. We
do not have any service agreements with members of our Supervisory Board. We did not extend any loans or overdrafts to any of our Supervisory Board members. Furthermore, we have not guaranteed any debts or concluded any leases with any of our
Supervisory Board members or their families. Senior Management Compensation Our senior management, including Mr. Carlo Bozotti, the sole member of our Managing Board and our President and CEO, receive a combination
of short term and long term compensation, including fixed salary, annual cash bonus incentive, long term incentive in the form of unvested stock awards, pensions rights and other cash or non-cash benefits. The following table sets forth the total
amount paid as compensation in 2017, 2016 and 2015 to the 20, 19 and 26 members, respectively, of our senior management (including Mr. Carlo Bozotti) on duty on December 31 st of each
year, before applicable withholding taxes and social contributions (amounts in millions): 2017 2016 2015 Total (1) $ 17.3 $ 13.4 $ 16.6 (1) In addition, relative charges and non-cash benefits were approximately $14.2 million in 2017, $8.3 million in 2016 and $11 million in 2015. The annual cash bonus incentive, which we call Corporate Executive Incentive Program (the “EIP”), entitles selected executives to a
yearly bonus based upon the assessment of the achievement of individual objectives that are set on a yearly basis and focused, inter alia, on return on net assets, customer service, profit, cash flow and market share. The maximum bonus awarded under
the EIP is based upon a percentage of the executive’s salary and is adjusted to reflect the overall performance of our Company. The
amounts paid in 2017 to the 20 members of our senior management (including Mr. Carlo Bozotti, the sole member of our Managing Board, President and CEO) pursuant to the Corporate Executive Incentive Program represented approximately 35% of the
total compensation paid to our senior management. Bonus paid in 2017 (2016 performance) Bonus paid in 2016 (2015 performance) Bonus paid in 2015 (2014 performance) Bonus (cash) amount $ 6,095,335 $ 3,342,855 $ 3,395,952 Ratio bonus / base salary + EIP 35.22 % 24.99 % 20.52 % Our Supervisory Board has approved the establishment of a complementary pension plan for certain members of
our senior management, comprising the sole member of our Managing Board, President and CEO, and certain other key executives as selected by the sole member of our Managing Board, President and CEO, according to the general criteria of eligibility
and service set up by the Supervisory Board upon the proposal of its Compensation Committee. With respect to such plan, we have set up an independent foundation under Swiss law which manages the plan and to which we make contributions. Pursuant to
this plan, in 2017, we made a contribution of approximately $0.3 million to the plan of our current sole member of our Managing Board, President and CEO, and $1 million to the plan for all other beneficiaries. The amount of pension plan payments
made for other beneficiaries, such as former employees retired in 2017 and/or no longer salaried in 2017, was $0.7 million. We did not
extend any loans or overdrafts to the sole member of our Managing Board, President and CEO, nor to any other member of our senior management. Furthermore, we have not guaranteed any debts or concluded any leases with the sole member of the Managing
Board, nor with any other member of our senior management or their families. The members of our senior management, including the sole
member of our Managing Board, President and CEO, were covered in 2017 under certain group life and medical insurance programs provided by us. The aggregate additional amount set aside by us in 2017 to provide pension, retirement or similar benefits
for our 74 Table of Contents senior management, including the sole member of our Managing Board, President and CEO, as a group is, including the amounts allocated to the complementary pension plan described above and is
estimated to have been approximately $5.3 million, which includes statutory employer contributions for state run retirement, similar benefit programs and other miscellaneous allowances. Managing Board Compensation The
remuneration of the sole member of our Managing Board is determined by our Supervisory Board on the advice of the Compensation Committee and within the scope of the remuneration policy as adopted by our 2005 AGM. Mr. Carlo Bozotti, the sole
member of our Managing Board and President and CEO, receives compensation in the form of: a fixed salary, annual bonus, stock awards, employer social contributions, company car allowance, pension contributions and miscellaneous allowances. Set forth
in the following table is Mr. Carlo Bozotti’s total compensation in 2017, 2016 and 2015: 2017 2016 2015 Salary (US dollars) 903,186 860,468 895,534 Bonus (1) (US dollars) 1,044,514 — 326,350 Charges and Non-cash
Benefits (2) (US dollars) 1,575,660 770,212 1,310,459 Total $ 3,523,360 $ 1,630,680 $ 2,532,343 (1) The bonus paid in 2017, 2016 and 2015 was approved by the Compensation Committee and Supervisory Board with respect to the 2016, 2015 and 2014 financial year, respectively, based on the evaluation and assessment of the
actual fulfillment of a number of pre-defined objectives for such year. (2) Including stock awards, employer social contributions, company car allowance, pension contributions and miscellaneous allowances. In accordance with the resolutions adopted at our AGM held on May 30, 2012, the
bonus of the sole member of our Managing Board and President and CEO in 2017, 2016 and 2015 included a portion of a bonus payable in stock awards and corresponding to 59,435, 50,567 and 66,396 vested shares, respectively, based on fulfillment of a
number of pre-defined objectives. In addition, Mr. Bozotti was granted, in accordance with the compensation policy adopted by our General Meeting of Shareholders and subsequent shareholder authorizations, up to 100,000 unvested Stock Awards.
The vesting of such stock awards is conditional upon certain performance criteria, fixed by our Supervisory Board, being achieved as well as Mr. Bozotti’s continued service with us. Mr. Bozotti was re-appointed as sole member of our Managing Board and President and Chief Executive Officer of our company by our AGM in
2017 for a one year period. Mr. Bozotti has two employment agreements with us, the first with our Dutch parent company, which relates to his activities as sole member of our Managing Board and representative of the Dutch legal entity, and the
second in Switzerland, which relates to his activities as President and CEO, the EIP, Pension and other items covered by the compensation policy adopted by our General meeting of Shareholders. While the relationship between a member of the managing
board and a listed Dutch company will be treated as a mandate agreement, not an employment agreement, existing employment agreements, including the employment agreement between us and our sole member of the Managing Board, will remain in effect. (i) CEO Bonus In accordance with
the resolutions adopted at our AGM held on May 30, 2012, the annual bonus of the sole member of our Managing Board and President and CEO is composed of a portion payable in cash (up to a maximum of 150% of the base salary for the relevant year)
and a portion payable in shares (up to a maximum of 60% of the base salary for the relevant year), all subject to the assessment and fulfillment of a number of pre-defined conditions which are set annually by the Compensation Committee of our
Supervisory Board. Consistent with the remuneration policy adopted by our General Meeting of Shareholders, the Supervisory Board,
upon the recommendation of its Compensation Committee, set the conditions and performance criteria that must be met by Mr. Bozotti for the attribution of his 2017 bonus. Those conditions are based, inter alia , on market share and
revenues growth, certain financial targets, the share price evolution versus SOX, as well as certain special programs. The evaluation and assessment of the fulfillment of those conditions and performance criteria, will be done by the Compensation
Committee of our Supervisory Board within the first months of the following year (i.e. in 2018 for the 2017 CEO bonus), in order to determine the actual amount of the CEO bonus for 2017. 75 Table of Contents (ii) CEO Stock Awards The Supervisory Board, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, determines whether the performance criteria, as described below, have
been met and conclude whether and to which extent all eligible employees, including Mr. Bozotti, are entitled to any stock awards under the stock award plan. The stock awards vest 32% one year, a further 32% two years and the remaining 36%
three years, respectively, after the date of the grant as defined by the plan, provided that the eligible employee is still an employee at such time (subject to the acceleration provisions in the event of a change in control). (iii) Unvested Stock Awards Allocation Year (1) Performance Achieved Result Weighted Performance Criteria 2016 45% (2) 2 criteria out of 4 met Evolution of Sales criteria met (30%) Evolution of Operating Income criteria not met (50%) Days of Sale Outstanding (DSO) met (15%) Return on Net Assets (RONA) not met (5%) 2015 33.33% (2) 1 criteria out of 3 met Evolution of Sales criteria not met (33.3%) Evolution of Operating Income criteria met (33.3%) Return on Net Assets (RONA)
not met (33.3%) 2014 33.33% (2) 1 criteria out of 3 met Evolution of Sales criteria not met (33.3%) Evolution of Operating Income criteria not met (33.3%) Operating Cash Flow target met (33.3%) (1) For 2017, the assessment of the fulfillment of the conditions and performance criteria, will be done by the Compensation Committee of our Supervisory Board in March/April, 2018 in order to determine the actual number of
stock awards to be allocated for 2017. (2) In accordance with the resolution adopted by our General Meeting of Shareholders, the maximum grant allowed in relation to the CEO stock award for each of 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 was 100,000 unvested stocks
awards. During 2017, Mr. Bozotti did not have any stock options, and did not purchase or sell any of our shares, other
than the sale of 60,000 vested stock awards shares. For further information regarding stock options and other stock based compensation
granted to members of our Supervisory Board, the Managing Board and our senior management, please refer to Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Share Ownership None of the members of
our Supervisory Board, Managing Board or senior management holds shares or options to acquire shares representing more than 1% of our issued share capital. Stock Awards and Options Our stock-based
compensation plans are designed to incentivize, attract and retain our executives and key employees by aligning compensation with our performance and the evolution of our share price. We have adopted stock based compensation plans comprising either
stock options or unvested stock awards for our senior management as well as key employees. Furthermore, until 2012, the Compensation Committee (on behalf of the Supervisory Board and with its approval) granted stock-based awards (the options to
acquire common shares in the share capital of the Company) to the members and professionals of the Supervisory Board. For a description of our stock option plans and unvested share award plans, please see Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial
Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference. Pursuant to the shareholders’ resolutions adopted by our general meetings of
shareholders, our Supervisory Board, upon the proposal of the Managing Board and the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, took the following actions: • approved, for a four-year period, our 2013 Unvested Stock Award Plan for Executives and Key Employees, under
which directors, managers and selected employees may be granted stock awards 76 Table of Contents upon the fulfillment of restricted criteria, such as those linked to our performance (for selected employees) and continued service with us; • approved conditions relating to our 2014 unvested stock award allocation under the 2013 Unvested Stock Award Plan, including restriction criteria linked to our performance (for selected employees); • approved conditions relating to our 2015 unvested stock award allocation under the 2013 Unvested Stock Award Plan, including restriction criteria linked to our performance (for selected employees); • approved conditions relating to our 2016 unvested stock award allocation under the 2013 Unvested Stock Award Plan, including restriction criteria linked to our performance (for selected employees); and • approved, for a four-year period, our 2017 Unvested Stock Award Plan for Executives and Key Employees, under which directors, managers and selected employees may be granted stock awards upon the fulfillment of
restricted criteria, such as those linked to our performance (for selected employees) and continued service with us. The
exercise of stock options and the sale or purchase of shares of our stock by the members or professionals of our Supervisory Board, the sole member of our Managing Board and President and CEO, and all our employees are subject to an internal policy
which involves, inter alia, certain blackout periods. Employees The tables below set forth the breakdown of employees by main category of activity and geographic area for the past three years. At December 31, 2017 2016 2015 France 10,296 9,902 9,887 Italy 10,108 9,736 9,623 Rest of Europe 884 883 842 United States 744 741 839 Mediterranean (Malta, Morocco, Tunisia) 4,616 4,700 4,672 Asia 18,820 17,518 17,320 Total 45,468 43,480 43,183 At December 31, 2017 2016 2015 Research and Development 7,370 7,533 8,304 Marketing and Sales 2,170 2,113 2,049 Manufacturing 31,016 29,011 27,962 Administration and General Services 2,135 2,098 2,129 Divisional Functions 2,777 2,725 2,739 Total 45,468 43,480 43,183 Our future success will partly depend on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly
qualified technical, marketing, engineering and management personnel, as well as on our ability to timely adapt the size and/or profile of our personnel to changing industry needs. Unions are represented at almost all of our manufacturing facilities
and at several of our R&D sites. We use temporarily employees if required during production spikes and, in Europe, during summer vacation. We have not experienced any significant strikes or work stoppages in recent years. 77 Table of Contents