MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Financial Review Abbott's revenues are derived primarily from the sale of a broad line of health care products under short-term receivable arrangements.
Patent protection and licenses, technological and performance features, and inclusion of Abbott's products under a contract most impact which products are sold; price controls, competition and rebates
most impact the net selling prices of products; and foreign currency translation impacts the measurement of net sales and costs. Abbott's primary products are nutritional products, branded generic
pharmaceuticals, diagnostic testing products and vascular products. Sales in international markets comprise approximately 70 percent of consolidated net sales. In
October 2011, Abbott announced a plan to separate into two publicly traded companies, one in diversified medical products and the other in research-based pharmaceuticals. To
accomplish the separation, Abbott created a new company, AbbVie Inc. ("AbbVie") for its research-based pharmaceuticals business which consists primarily of Abbott's historical Proprietary
Pharmaceutical Products segment. On January 1, 2013, Abbott distributed all of the outstanding shares of AbbVie to Abbott's shareholders and AbbVie became an independent company trading under
the symbol "ABBV". The historical operating results of the research-based proprietary pharmaceuticals business prior to separation are excluded from Earnings from Continuing Operations and are
presented on the Earnings from Discontinued Operations line in Abbott's Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The assets, liabilities, and cash flows of the research-based proprietary pharmaceuticals
business are included in Abbott's Consolidated Balance Sheet and its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for periods prior to January 1, 2013. Sales
growth and margin improvement in the nutritional and diagnostics businesses and the challenging economic and fiscal environment in many countries around the world have impacted
Abbott's sales, costs and financial position over the last three years. Sales in emerging markets increased 11 percent per year in 2013 and 2012, excluding foreign exchange, despite the
slowdown in several emerging economies and a weakening of key emerging market currencies in 2013. (Emerging markets include all countries except the United States, Western Europe, Japan, Canada, and
Australia.) In
Abbott's worldwide nutritional products business, sales over the last three years were positively impacted by demographics such as an aging population and an increasing rate of
chronic disease in developed markets and the rise of a middle class in many emerging markets, as well as by numerous new product introductions that leveraged Abbott's strong brands. At the same time,
manufacturing and distribution process changes and other cost reductions drove margin improvements across the business. Operating margins for this business increased from 13.2 percent in 2011
to 18.7 percent in 2013. In
2013 sales growth in International Pediatric Nutrition was affected by a product recall initiated in August 2013 in China and two other markets for certain pediatric nutritional
products supplied to Abbott by a third-party manufacturer. While there were no health issues associated with the recalled products, and the supplier subsequently determined that the products had been
safe for consumption, the recall created significant disruption in these markets. As a result, International Pediatric Nutrition sales were significantly lower than Abbott's previous expectations for
this business for the second half of 2013. While Abbott initiated investments in the third quarter of 2013 in these markets to rebuild consumer confidence, Abbott expects the recall to continue to
have a negative impact on sales in the first half of 2014. In
Abbott's worldwide diagnostics business, margin improvement continued to be a key focus in 2013. Operating margins increased from 19.2 percent of sales in 2011 to
22.2 percent in 2013 as the business continued to execute on efficiency initiatives in the manufacturing and supply chain functions. In addition to continued margin improvement, unit growth
across geographical regions positively impacted worldwide 25 diagnostic
sales. Worldwide sales for this business increased 8.3 percent in 2013 and 7.3 percent in 2012, excluding foreign exchange. In
the Established Pharmaceutical Products segment, macroeconomic and market pressures in certain emerging markets impacted this business in 2013. Nevertheless, sales in this segment's
14 key emerging markets increased 6.3 percent in 2013 excluding the effect of foreign exchange. However, the growth in emerging markets was largely offset by declines in developed markets where
austerity measures have continued to impact performance. Over
the last three years in the vascular business, Abbott continued to build its Xience drug-eluting stent franchise with the receipt of
approval to market Xience Xpedition in various countries, including Japanese approval in the third quarter of 2013 and U.S. approval in the fourth
quarter of 2012. Xience Pro received CE Mark approval in the second quarter of 2012. Abbott's market share also benefited from the U.S. launches of Xience
nano and Xience PRIME in 2011, and the Japanese launches of Xience PRIME small
vessel DES in 2013 and Xience PRIME in April 2012. Xience , which includes Xience
V , PRIME, nano, Pro, and Xpedition , ended 2013 as the market-leading drug
eluting stent globally. In 2013, ABSORB and MitraClip also contributed to sales growth. In 2011, the
third party distributor of the Promus product began transitioning away from the product and that supply agreement ended in 2012. The effect of the winding down of the agreement continued into the
first quarter of 2013. Abbott's
short- and long-term debt totaled $6.6 billion at December 31, 2013. At December 31, 2013, Abbott's long-term debt rating was A+ by Standard and Poor's
Corporation and A1 by Moody's Investors Service. In the fourth quarter of 2012, Abbott extinguished $7.7 billion of long-term debt and incurred a charge of $1.35 billion related to the
early repayment, net of gains from the unwinding of interest rate swaps related to the debt. In October 2013 Abbott announced a 57 percent increase in Abbott's quarterly dividend to $0.22 per
share from $0.14 per share, effective with the dividend paid in February 2014. In
2014, Abbott will focus on several key initiatives. In the nutritional business, Abbott will continue to build its product portfolio with the introduction of new science-based
products, expand in high-growth emerging markets and implement additional margin improvement initiatives. In the established pharmaceuticals business, Abbott will continue to focus on obtaining
additional product approvals across numerous countries and expanding its presence in emerging markets. In the diagnostics business, Abbott will focus on the development of next-generation instrument
platforms and other advanced technologies, expansion in emerging markets, and further improvements in the segment's operating margin. In the vascular business, Abbott will continue to focus on
marketing products in the Xience and endovascular franchises, and increasing MitraClip sales, as well as
further clinical development of ABSORB , its bioresorbable vascular scaffold (BVS) device and a further penetration of ABSORB in numerous countries. In
Abbott's other segments, Abbott will focus on developing differentiated technologies in higher growth markets. Critical Accounting Policies Sales Rebates —  In 2013, approximately 49 percent of Abbott's consolidated gross revenues were subject to various forms of rebates
and allowances that Abbott recorded as reductions of revenues at the time of sale. Most of these rebates and allowances are in the Established Pharmaceuticals and Nutritional Products segments. Abbott
provides rebates to state agencies that administer the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), wholesalers, group purchasing organizations, and other government
agencies and private entities. Rebate amounts are usually based upon the volume of purchases using contractual or statutory prices for a product. Factors used in the rebate calculations include the
identification of which products have been sold subject to a rebate, which customer or government agency price terms apply, and the estimated lag time between sale and payment of a rebate. Using
historical trends, adjusted for current changes, Abbott estimates the amount of the rebate that will be paid, and records the liability as a reduction of gross sales when Abbott records its sale of
the product. 26 Settlement
of the rebate generally occurs from one to six months after sale. Abbott regularly analyzes the historical rebate trends and makes adjustments to reserves for changes in trends and terms of
rebate programs. Rebates and chargebacks charged against gross sales in 2013, 2012 and 2011 amounted to approximately $2.0 billion, $1.9 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively, or
16.1 percent, 16.0 percent and 16.8 percent, respectively, based on gross sales of approximately $12.5 billion, $11.8 billion and $10.1 billion, respectively,
subject to rebate. A one-percentage point increase in the percentage of rebates to related gross sales would decrease net sales by approximately $125 million in 2013. Abbott considers a
one-percentage point increase to be a reasonably likely increase in the percentage of rebates to related gross sales. Other allowances charged against gross sales were approximately
$150 million, $149 million and $117 million for cash discounts in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and $208 million, $199 million and $170 million for
returns in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Cash discounts are known within 15 to 30 days of sale, and therefore can be reliably estimated. Returns can be reliably estimated because Abbott's
historical returns are low, and because sales returns terms and other sales terms have remained relatively unchanged for several periods. Management
analyzes the adequacy of ending rebate accrual balances each quarter. In the domestic nutritional business, management uses both internal and external data available to
estimate the level of inventory in the distribution channel. Management has access to several large customers' inventory
management data, and for other customers, utilizes data from a third party that measures time on the retail shelf. These sources allow management to make reliable estimates of inventory in the
distribution channel. Except for a transition period before or after a change in the supplier for the WIC business in a state, inventory in the distribution channel does not vary substantially.
Management also estimates the states' processing lag time based on claims data. In addition, internal processing time is a factor in estimating the accrual. In the WIC business, the state where the
sale is made, which is the determining factor for the applicable price, is reliably determinable. Estimates are required for the amount of WIC sales within each state where Abbott has the WIC
business. External data sources utilized for that estimate are participant data from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), which administers the WIC program, participant data from some of the
states, and internally administered market research. The USDA has been making its data available for many years. Internal data includes historical redemption rates and pricing data. At
December 31, 2013, Abbott had WIC business in 23 states. Historically,
adjustments to prior years' rebate accruals have not been material to net income. Abbott employs various techniques to verify the accuracy of claims submitted to it, and
where possible, works with the organizations submitting claims to gain insight into changes that might affect the rebate amounts. For government agency programs, the calculation of a rebate involves
interpretations of relevant regulations, which are subject to challenge or change in interpretation. Income Taxes —  Abbott operates in numerous countries where its income tax returns are subject to audits and adjustments. Because Abbott
operates globally, the nature of the audit items are often very complex, and the objectives of the government auditors can result in a tax on the same income in more than one country. Abbott employs
internal and external tax professionals to minimize audit adjustment amounts where possible. In accordance with the accounting rules relating to the measurement of tax contingencies, in order to
recognize an uncertain tax benefit, the taxpayer must be more likely than not of sustaining the position, and the measurement of the benefit is calculated as the largest amount that is more than
50 percent likely to be realized upon resolution of the benefit. Application of these rules requires a significant amount of judgment. In the U.S., Abbott's federal income tax returns through
2010 are settled except for three items, and the income tax returns for years after 2010 are open. Abbott does not record deferred income taxes on earnings reinvested indefinitely in foreign
subsidiaries. Pension and Post-Employment Benefits —  Abbott offers pension benefits and post-employment health care to many of its employees. Abbott
engages outside actuaries to assist in the determination of the obligations and costs under these programs. Abbott must develop long-term assumptions, the most significant of which are the health care
cost trend rates, discount rates and the expected return on plan 27 assets.
The discount rates used to measure liabilities were determined based on high-quality fixed income securities that match the duration of the expected retiree benefits. The health care cost
trend rates represent Abbott's expected annual rates of change in the cost of health care benefits and is a forward projection of health care costs as of the measurement date. A difference between the
assumed rates and the actual rates, which will not be known for decades, can be significant in relation to the obligations and the annual cost recorded for these programs. Low interest rates have
significantly increased actuarial losses for these plans. At December 31, 2013, pretax net actuarial losses and prior service costs and (credits) recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss) for Abbott's defined benefit plans and medical and dental plans were losses of $1.8 billion and $82 million, respectively. Actuarial losses and gains are amortized over the
remaining service attribution periods of the employees under the corridor method, in accordance with the rules for accounting for post-employment benefits. Differences between the expected long-term
return on plan assets and the actual annual return are amortized over a five-year period. Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements describes the impact of a one-percentage point change
in the health care cost trend rate; however, there can be no certainty that a change would be limited to only one percentage point. Valuation of Intangible Assets —  Abbott has acquired and continues to acquire significant intangible assets that Abbott records at fair
value. Transactions involving the purchase or sale of intangible assets occur with some frequency between companies in the health care field and valuations are usually based on a discounted cash flow
analysis. The discounted cash flow model requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash flows, risk, the cost of capital, terminal values and market participants. Each of these
factors can significantly affect the value of the intangible asset. Abbott engages independent valuation experts who review Abbott's critical assumptions and calculations for acquisitions of
significant intangibles. Abbott reviews definite-lived intangible assets for impairment each quarter using an undiscounted net cash flows approach. If the undiscounted cash flows of an intangible
asset are less than the carrying value of an intangible asset, the intangible asset is written down to its fair value, which is usually the discounted cash flow amount. Where cash flows cannot be
identified for an individual asset, the review is applied at the lowest group level for which cash flows are identifiable. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, which relate to in-process
research and development acquired in a business combination, are reviewed for impairment annually or when an event that could result in an impairment occurs. At December 31, 2013, goodwill
amounted to $9.8 billion and intangibles amounted to $5.7 billion, and amortization expense for intangible assets amounted to $791 million in 2013, $795 million in 2012 and
$884 million in 2011. There were no impairments of goodwill in 2013, 2012 or 2011. In 2012 and 2011, Abbott recorded impairment charges of $69 million and $125 million,
respectively, for certain research and development assets due to changes in the projected development and regulatory timelines for the projects. Litigation —  Abbott accounts for litigation losses in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification No. 450,
"Contingencies." Under ASC No. 450, loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses at management's best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss
contingency amount is recorded. These estimates are often initially developed
substantially earlier than the ultimate loss is known, and the estimates are refined each accounting period as additional information becomes known. Accordingly, Abbott is often initially unable to
develop a best estimate of loss, and therefore the minimum amount, which could be zero, is recorded. As information becomes known, either the minimum loss amount is increased, resulting in additional
loss provisions, or a best estimate can be made, also resulting in additional loss provisions. Occasionally, a best estimate amount is changed to a lower amount when events result in an expectation of
a more favorable outcome than previously expected. Abbott estimates the range of possible loss to be from approximately $70 million to $90 million for its legal proceedings and
environmental exposures. Accruals of approximately $80 million have been recorded at December 31, 2013 for these proceedings and exposures. These accruals represent management's best
estimate of probable loss, as defined by FASB ASC No. 450, "Contingencies." 28 Results of Operations Sales The following table details the components of sales growth by reportable segment for the last two years: Components of % Change Total % Change Price Volume Exchange Total Net Sales 2013 vs. 2012 1.6 (0.8 ) 4.5 (2.1 ) 2012 vs. 2011 0.4 (0.4 ) 4.0 (3.2 ) Total U.S. 2013 vs. 2012 (0.8 ) (1.0 ) 0.2 — 2012 vs. 2011 0.7 0.8 (0.1 ) — Total International 2013 vs. 2012 2.7 (0.8 ) 6.5 (3.0 ) 2012 vs. 2011 0.3 (0.9 ) 5.7 (4.5 ) Established Pharmaceutical Products Segment 2013 vs. 2012 (2.9 ) (0.4 ) 1.1 (3.6 ) 2012 vs. 2011 (4.4 ) (1.3 ) 3.4 (6.5 ) Nutritional Products Segment 2013 vs. 2012 4.3 3.2 2.2 (1.1 ) 2012 vs. 2011 7.9 4.5 4.4 (1.0 ) Diagnostic Products Segment 2013 vs. 2012 5.9 (2.5 ) 10.8 (2.4 ) 2012 vs. 2011 4.0 (1.4 ) 8.7 (3.3 ) Vascular Products Segment 2013 vs. 2012 (1.9 ) (6.2 ) 6.2 (1.9 ) 2012 vs. 2011 (7.9 ) (5.2 ) (0.4 ) (2.3 ) The
increases in Total Net Sales in 2013 and 2012 reflect unit growth, partially offset by the impact of unfavorable foreign exchange. The price declines related to Vascular Products
sales in 2013 and 2012 primarily reflect pricing pressure on drug eluting stents and other coronary products as a result of market competition in major markets. 29 A
comparison of significant product and product group sales is as follows. Percent changes are versus the prior year and are based on unrounded numbers. 2013 Percent Change 2012 Percent Change (dollars in millions) Total Established Pharmaceuticals Key Emerging Markets $ 2,358 1 $ 2,324 4 Other Markets 2,616 (7 ) 2,797 (10 ) Nutritionals — International Pediatric Nutritionals 2,257 9 2,075 8 U.S. Pediatric Nutritionals 1,508 — 1,505 14 International Adult Nutritionals 1,601 8 1,489 4 U.S. Adult Nutritionals 1,374 (1 ) 1,392 6 Diagnostics — Immunochemistry 3,458 5 3,279 4 Vascular Products (1) — Drug Eluting Stents (DES) and Bioresorbable Vascular Scaffold (BVS) products 1,563 (2 ) 1,599 3 Other Coronary Products 579 (3 ) 598 (1 ) Endovascular 475 5 452 1 (1) Other
Coronary Products include primarily guidewires and balloon catheters. Endovascular includes vessel closure, carotid stents and other peripheral
products. Excluding
the unfavorable effect of exchange, total Established Pharmaceutical Products sales increased 0.7 percent in 2013 and 2.1 percent in 2012. The Established
Pharmaceutical Products segment is focused on 14 key emerging markets including India, Russia, China and Brazil. Excluding the effect of exchange, sales in these 14 key emerging markets increased
6.3 percent in 2013 and 12.8 percent in 2012 as macroeconomic and market pressures in various emerging markets negatively affected 2013 growth. Excluding the effect of exchange, sales in
Established Pharmaceuticals' other markets decreased 4 percent in 2013 and 5.6 percent in 2012. These declines in the Other Markets category reflect unfavorable market conditions,
including the continued effects of European austerity measures and 2012 Japanese pricing actions. Excluding
the unfavorable effect of exchange, total Nutritional Products sales increased 5.4 percent in 2013 and 8.9 percent in 2012. International Pediatric Nutritional
sales increased in 2013 and 2012 due primarily to volume growth in developing countries. A supplier's recall of product in August 2013 in certain international markets negatively impacted
International Pediatric Nutritional sales in the third and fourth quarters of 2013. While there were no health issues associated with this supplier recall and the supplier subsequently determined that
the product had been safe for consumption, this event created significant disruption in these markets. Abbott expects this sales disruption to continue to negatively impact International Pediatric
Nutritional growth in the first half of 2014. U.S. Pediatric sales were flat in 2013 due to lower formula share, partially offset by higher shipments of toddler products. U.S. Pediatric Nutritional
sales in 2012 reflect market share gains for Similac and unit growth for PediaSure. The
2013 and 2012 increases in International Adult Nutritional sales are due primarily to volume growth in developing countries and were negatively impacted by the effect of the
relatively stronger U.S. dollar. The 1 percent decline in 2013 U.S. Adult Nutritional sales reflects Abbott's exit from certain non-core business lines as part of the business' margin
improvement initiative; most of the sales decline 30 resulting
from this exit was offset by higher Ensure revenues. The increase in 2012 U.S. Adult Nutritional sales reflects unit growth for the Ensure and Glucerna products. Excluding
the unfavorable effect of exchange, total Diagnostic Products sales increased 8.3 percent in 2013 and 7.3 percent in 2012. The sales increases reflect unit growth
across geographical regions. 2013 and 2012 sales of immunochemistry products, the largest category in this segment, reflect continued execution of Abbott's strategy to deliver integrated solutions to
large healthcare customers. Excluding
the unfavorable effect of exchange, total Vascular Products sales were flat in 2013 and decreased 5.6 percent in 2012. In 2013, growth in international markets, driven
by continued share gains in key geographies of XIENCE Xpedition and Absorb, was offset by declines in the U.S. market due to the negative impact of pricing pressure and a decline in procedures due to
market conditions, as well as the expected decline of certain royalty revenues. In 2012, the decrease in Vascular Products sales was due to pricing pressure, as well as the expected winding down of
royalty and supply agreements related to certain third-party products, including Promus. Excluding this royalty and supply agreement revenue in both periods and the unfavorable effect of exchange,
Vascular Products sales increased 3.4 percent in 2012. Abbott
has periodically sold product rights to non-strategic products and has recorded the related gains in net sales in accordance with Abbott's revenue recognition policies as
discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. Related net sales were not significant in 2013, 2012 and 2011. The
expiration of licenses and patent protection can affect the future revenues and operating income of Abbott. There are currently no significant patent or license expirations in the
next three years that are expected to affect Abbott. Operating Earnings Gross profit margins were 50.4 percent of net sales in 2013, 50.6 percent in 2012 and 49.1 percent in 2011. The
gross profit margin in 2013 remained relatively unchanged versus the prior year as improved margins in the Nutritional and Diagnostics Products segments were offset by margin declines in Established
Pharmaceuticals and Vascular Products due to pricing pressures and unfavorable product mix as well as the impact of unfavorable foreign exchange across segments. The increase in the gross profit
margin in 2012 was impacted by improved gross margins across all reportable segments as a result of cost reduction initiatives, the impact of exchange and favorable product mix. In
the U.S., states receive price rebates from manufacturers of infant formula under the federally subsidized Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children.
There are also rebate programs for pharmaceutical products in numerous countries. These rebate programs continue to have a negative effect on the gross profit margins of the Nutritional and
Established Pharmaceutical Products segments. Research
and development expense was $1.452 billion in 2013, $1.544 billion in 2012 and $1.512 billion in 2011 and represented a 6.0 percent decrease in 2013,
and a 2.1 percent increase in 2012. The 2013 decrease primarily reflects the incurrence of restructuring and asset impairment charges in 2012 which did not recur in 2013. In 2013, research and
development expenditures totaled $336 million for the Vascular Products segment, $416 million for the Diagnostics Products segment, $239 million for the Established Pharmaceutical
Products segment and $188 million for the Nutritional Products segment. Selling,
general and administrative expenses decreased 6.8 percent in 2013 and increased 1.1 percent in 2012. The 2013 decrease reflects the transfer of certain 2012
corporate costs to AbbVie in the separation as well as certain information technology and other back office support costs that are being charged to AbbVie in 2013 under transition services agreements.
Prudent cost management and a reduction in restructuring costs also contributed to the decrease. The 2012 increase primarily reflects increased selling and marketing support for new products and
geographical expansion, largely offset by prudent cost management. 31 Business Acquisitions In August 2013, Abbott acquired 100 percent of IDEV Technologies, net of debt, for $310 million, in cash. The acquisition
of IDEV Technologies expands Abbott's endovascular portfolio. The allocation of the fair value of the acquisition resulted in non-deductible acquired in-process research and development of
approximately $170 million which is accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval or discontinuation, non-deductible definite-lived intangible assets of
approximately $66 million, non-deductible goodwill of approximately $123 million and net deferred tax liabilities of $56 million. Acquired intangible assets consist of developed
technology and are being amortized over 11 years. In
August 2013, Abbott acquired 100 percent of OptiMedica for $260 million, in cash, plus additional payments up to $150 million to be made upon completion of
certain development, regulatory and sales milestones. The acquisition of OptiMedica provides Abbott with an immediate entry point into the laser assisted cataract surgery market. The allocation of the
fair value of the acquisition resulted in non-deductible definite-lived intangible assets of approximately $160 million, non-deductible acquired in-process research and development of
approximately $60 million which is accounted for as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until regulatory approval or discontinuation, non-deductible goodwill of approximately
$151 million, net deferred tax liabilities of $70 million and contingent consideration of approximately $70 million. The fair value of the contingent consideration was determined
based on an independent appraisal. Acquired intangible assets consist primarily of developed technology that is being amortized over 18 years. The
preliminary allocations of the fair value of these acquisitions will be finalized when valuations are completed. Had the above acquisitions taken place on January 1 of the
previous year, consolidated net sales and income would not have been significantly different from reported amounts. Restructurings In 2013, Abbott management approved a plan to reduce costs and improve efficiencies across various functional areas as well as a plan
to streamline certain manufacturing operations in order to reduce costs and improve efficiencies in Abbott's established
pharmaceuticals business. In 2012, Abbott management approved plans to streamline various commercial operations in order to reduce costs and improve efficiencies in Abbott's core diagnostics,
established pharmaceutical and nutritionals businesses. Abbott recorded employee related severance charges of approximately $78 million in 2013 and $167 million in 2012. Additional
charges of approximately $4 million and $22 million were also recorded in 2013 and 2012, respectively, primarily for asset impairments. Approximately $35 million in 2013 and
$70 million in 2012 is recorded in Cost of products sold and approximately $47 million in 2013 and $119 million in 2012 is recorded as Selling, general and administrative expense. In
2013 and prior years, Abbott management approved plans to realign its worldwide pharmaceutical and vascular manufacturing operations and selected domestic and international commercial
and research and development operations in order to reduce costs. In 2013, Abbott recorded employee severance charges of approximately $11 million. In 2011, Abbott recorded charges of
approximately $194 million reflecting the impairment of manufacturing facilities and other assets, employee severance and other related charges. Approximately $11 million in 2013 and
$18 million in 2011 is classified as Cost of products sold. The remaining 2011 charge of $176 million related to businesses transferred to AbbVie and is being recognized in the results
of discontinued operations. An additional $41 million, $110 million and $25 million were recorded in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, relating to these restructurings, primarily
for accelerated depreciation. In
2012, Abbott recorded a charge of approximately $150 million for employee severance and contractual obligations, primarily related to the exit from a research and development
facility. These charges related to businesses transferred to AbbVie and have been recognized in the results of discontinued operations. 32 In
2011, Abbott management approved plans to streamline global manufacturing operations, reduce overall costs, and improve efficiencies in Abbott's core diagnostic business. In 2011, a
charge of $28 million was recorded in Cost of products sold. In addition, charges of approximately $16 million and $42 million were recorded in 2012 and 2011, primarily for
accelerated depreciation and product transfer costs. Interest expense In 2013, interest expense decreased due to a lower level of borrowings, which resulted from the transfer of approximately
$14.6 billion of debt to AbbVie as part of the
separation. In 2012, interest expense included bridge facility fees related to the separation of AbbVie from Abbott. Change in Accounting Principle and Other (income) expense, net Prior to January 1, 2011, the accounts of foreign subsidiaries were consolidated based on a fiscal year ended November 30
due to the time needed to consolidate these subsidiaries. Effective January 1, 2011, the one month lag in the consolidation of the accounts of foreign subsidiaries was eliminated and the
year-end of foreign subsidiaries was changed to December 31. Abbott believes that the change in accounting principle related to the elimination of the one month reporting lag is preferable
because it results in more contemporaneous reporting of the results of foreign subsidiaries. In accordance with applicable accounting literature, a change in subsidiaries' year-end is treated as a
change in accounting principle and requires retrospective application. A charge of $100 million was recorded to Other (income) expense, net in 2011 to recognize the cumulative immaterial
impacts to 2009 and 2010. Other
(income) expense, net, for 2013 includes gains on sales of investments; 2012 includes income of approximately $40 million from the resolution of a contractual agreement. Net Loss on Extinguishment of Debt In 2012, Abbott extinguished $7.7 billion of long-term debt and incurred a cost of $1.35 billion to extinguish this debt,
net of gains from the unwinding of interest rate swaps related to the debt. Taxes on Earnings The income tax rates on earnings from continuing operations were 5.5 percent in 2013, (89.7) percent in 2012 and
8.9 percent in 2011. 2013 taxes on earnings from continuing operations include $234 million of tax benefit related to the resolution of various tax positions from previous years. In
addition, as a result of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 signed into law in January 2013, Abbott recorded a tax benefit to taxes on continuing operations of approximately $103 million
in 2013 for the retroactive extension of the research tax credit and the look-through rules of section 954(c)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code to the beginning of 2012. Taxes on
earnings from continuing operations in 2012 reflect the $472 million effect of the tax rate applied to Abbott's net debt extinguishment loss, as well as the recognition of $212 million
of tax benefits as a result of the favorable resolution of various tax positions pertaining to a prior year. Taxes on earnings from continuing operations in 2011 reflect the recognition of
$168 million of tax benefits as a result of the favorable resolution of various tax positions pertaining to prior years. Exclusive of these discrete items, the effective rates are lower than
the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent due primarily to the benefit of lower tax rates and tax exemptions on foreign income that reduced the tax rates by 18.0, 75.7, and
14.9 percentage points in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The tax rate reductions are primarily derived from operations in Puerto Rico, Switzerland, Ireland and Singapore where Abbott
benefits from a combination of favorable statutory tax rules, tax rulings, grants, and exemptions. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for a full reconciliation of the
effective tax rate to the U.S. federal statutory rate. In
2014 Abbott expects to repatriate approximately $2 billion of 2014 earnings generated outside the U.S. Abbott also expects to be able to accelerate the utilization of deferred
tax assets and thereby reduce 33 the
cash taxes due in the U.S. on this repatriation to no more than $150 million. This repatriation is projected to result in approximately $550 to $600 million of additional tax expense
in Abbott's 2014 Statement of Earnings. Excluding the tax effect of this repatriation, Abbott expects to apply an annual effective rate of approximately 19 percent to 2014 results. Separation of AbbVie Inc. On November 28, 2012, Abbott's board of directors declared a special dividend distribution of all of the outstanding shares of
common stock of AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie), the company formed to hold Abbott's research-based proprietary pharmaceuticals business. For each Abbott common share held at the close of business on
December 12, 2012, Abbott shareholders received one share of AbbVie stock on January 1, 2013. Abbott has received a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service that the separation qualifies
as a tax-free distribution to Abbott and its U.S. shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The
historical operating results of the research-based proprietary pharmaceuticals business prior to separation are excluded from Earnings from Continuing Operations and are presented on
the Earnings from Discontinued Operations line. Discontinued operations include the results of AbbVie's business except for certain corporate overhead costs and certain costs associated with
transition services that will
be provided by Abbott to AbbVie. Discontinued operations also include other costs incurred by Abbott to separate AbbVie as well as an allocation of interest assuming a uniform ratio of consolidated
debt to equity for all of Abbott's historical operations. The assets, liabilities, and cash flows of the research-based proprietary pharmaceuticals business are included in Abbott's Consolidated
Balance Sheet and its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for periods prior to January 1, 2013. The
following is a summary of the assets and liabilities transferred to AbbVie as part of the separation on January 1, 2013: ( in
billions ) Assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 5.9 Investments 2.2 Trade receivables, less allowances 3.2 Inventories 0.7 Prepaid expenses, deferred income taxes, and other current receivables 2.9 Net property and equipment 2.2 Intangible assets, net of amortization 2.3 Goodwill 6.1 Deferred income taxes and other assets 1.1 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ 26.6 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Liabilities: Short-term borrowings 1.0 Trade accounts payable and other current liabilities 5.2 Long-term debt 14.6 Post-employment obligations, deferred income taxes and other long-term liabilities 3.1 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ 23.9 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Net Assets Transferred to AbbVie Inc. $ 2.7 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ In
addition, approximately $1 billion of accumulated other comprehensive losses, net of income taxes, primarily related to the pension and other benefit plan net liabilities as
well as foreign translation was transferred to AbbVie. 34 In
2013, discontinued operations includes a favorable adjustment to tax expense of $193 million as a result of the resolution of various tax positions pertaining to 2010 related
to AbbVie's operations. Summarized financial information for discontinued operations for 2012 and 2011 is as follows: Year Ended December 31 (in millions) 2012 2011 Net sales $ 18,380 $ 17,444 Earnings before taxes 5,958 3,963 Taxes on earnings 574 361 Net earnings 5,384 3,602 Abbott
and AbbVie entered into transitional services agreements prior to the separation pursuant to which Abbott and AbbVie are providing various services to each other on an interim
transitional basis. Transition services may be provided for up to 24 months with an option for a one-year extension by the recipient. Services being provided by Abbott include certain
information technology and back office support. Billings by Abbott under these transitional services agreements are recorded as a reduction of the costs to provide the respective service in the
applicable expense category in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. This transitional support will enable AbbVie to establish its stand-alone processes for various activities that were previously
provided by Abbott and does not constitute significant continuing support of AbbVie's operations. For
a small portion of AbbVie's operations, the legal transfer of AbbVie's assets (net of liabilities) did not occur with the separation of AbbVie on January 1, 2013 due to the
time required to transfer marketing authorizations and other regulatory requirements in each of these countries. Under the terms of the separation agreement with Abbott, AbbVie is subject to the risks
and entitled to the benefits generated by these operations and assets. The majority of these operations were transferred to AbbVie in 2013 with the remainder expected to be transferred in 2014. These
assets and liabilities have been presented as held for disposition in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. At December 31, 2013, the assets and liabilities held for disposition consist of
inventories of $243 million, trade accounts receivable of $163 million, other current assets of $32 million, equipment of $28 million, other assets of $38 million,
trade accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $386 million and other liabilities of $7 million. Abbott's
obligation to transfer the net assets held for disposition to AbbVie of $111 million is included in Other accrued liabilities. Abbott
has retained all liabilities for all U.S. federal and foreign income taxes on income prior to the separation, as well as certain non-income taxes attributable to AbbVie's
business. AbbVie generally will be liable for all other taxes attributable to its business. In connection with the separation, Abbott has adjusted its employee stock compensation awards and separated
its defined benefit programs for pensions and post-employment medical and dental benefit plans. See notes 8 and 12 for additional information. Research and Development Programs Abbott currently has numerous pharmaceutical, medical device, diagnostic and nutritional products in development. Research and Development Process In the Established Pharmaceuticals segment, the development process focuses on the geographic expansion and continuous improvement of
the segment's existing products to provide benefits to patients and customers. As Established Pharmaceuticals does not actively pursue primary research, development usually begins with work on
existing products or after the acquisition of an advanced stage licensing opportunity. 35 Depending
upon the product, the phases of development may include: • Drug product development • Phase I bioequivalence studies to compare a future Established Pharmaceutical's brand with an already marketed
compound with the same active pharmaceutical ingredient (API). • Phase II studies to test the efficacy of benefits in a small group of patients. • Phase III studies to broaden the testing to a wider population that reflects the actual medical use. • Phase IV and other post-marketing studies to obtain new clinical use data on existing products within approved
indications. The
specific requirements (e.g. scope of clinical trials) for obtaining regulatory approval vary across different countries and geographic regions. The process may range from one
year for a bioequivalence study project to 6 or more years for complex formulations, new indications, or geographic expansion in specific countries such as China. In
the Diagnostics segment, the phases of the research and development process include: • Discovery which focuses on identification of a product that will address a specific therapeutic area, platform, or unmet
clinical need, • Concept/Feasibility during which the materials and manufacturing processes are evaluated, testing may include product
characterization and analysis is performed to confirm clinical utility, and • Development during which extensive testing is performed to demonstrate that the product meets specified design
requirements and that the design specifications conform to user needs and intended uses. The
regulatory requirements for diagnostic products vary across different countries and geographic regions. In the U.S., the FDA classifies diagnostic products into classes (I, II, or
III) and the classification determines the regulatory process for approval. While the Diagnostics segment has products in all three classes, the vast majority of its products are categorized as
Class I or Class II. Submission of a separate regulatory filing is not required for Class I products. Class II devices typically require pre-market notification to the FDA
through a regulatory filing known as a 510(k) submission. Most Class III products are subject to the FDA's Pre-Marketing Approval (PMA) requirements. Other Class III products, such as
those used to screen blood, require the submission and approval of a Biological License Application (BLA). In
the EU, diagnostic products are also categorized into different categories and the regulatory process, which is governed by the European InVitro Diagnostic Medical Device Directive,
depends upon the category. Certain product categories require review and approval by an independent company, known as a Notified Body, before the manufacturer can affix a CE mark to the product to
show compliance with the Directive. Other products only require a self-certification process. In
the Vascular segment, the research and development process begins with research on a specific technology that is evaluated for feasibility and commercial viability. If the research
program passes that hurdle, it moves forward into development. The development process includes evaluation and selection of a product design, completion of clinical trials to test the product's safety
and efficacy, and validation of the manufacturing process to demonstrate its repeatability and ability to consistently meet pre-determined specifications. Similar
to the diagnostic products discussed above, in the U.S., vascular products are classified as Class I, II, or III. Most of Abbott's vascular products are classified as
Class II devices that follow the 510(k) regulatory process or Class III devices that are subject to the PMA process. 36 In
the EU, vascular products are also categorized into different classes and the regulatory process, which is governed by the European Medical Device Directive, varies by class. Each
product must bear a CE mark to show compliance with the Directive. Some products require submission of a design dossier to the appropriate regulatory authority for review and approval prior to CE
marking of the device. For other products, the company is required to prepare a technical file which includes testing results and
clinical evaluations but can self-certify its ability to apply the CE mark to the product. Outside the U.S. and the EU, the regulatory requirements vary across different countries and regions. After
approval and commercial launch of some vascular products, post-market trials may be conducted either due to a conditional requirement of the regulatory market approval or with the
objective of proving product superiority. In
the Nutritional segment, the research and development process generally focuses on identifying and developing ingredients and products that address the nutritional needs of particular
populations (e.g., infants, athletes) or patients (e.g., people with diabetes). Depending upon the country and/or region, if claims regarding a product's efficacy will be made, clinical
studies typically must be conducted. Most other product development, such as a product form change from liquid to powder, generally does not necessitate clinical studies. In
the U.S., the FDA requires that it be notified of proposed new formulations and formulation or packaging changes related to infant formula products. Prior to the launch of an infant
formula or product packaging change, the company is required to obtain the FDA's confirmation that it has no objections to the proposed product or packaging. For other nutrition products, notification
or pre-approval from the FDA is not required unless the product includes a new food additive. In some countries, regulatory approval may be required for certain nutritional products, including infant
formula and medical nutritional products. Areas of Focus In 2014 and beyond, Abbott's significant areas of therapeutic focus will include the following: Established
Pharmaceuticals — Abbott is actively working on development plans for about 20 - 30 key brands. Depending on the product, the development activities focus
on new data, markets, formulations, combinations, or indications. Abbott focuses on building country-specific portfolios made up of global and local pharmaceutical brands that best meet each local
market's needs. Over the next several years, Established Pharmaceuticals will work to expand its product portfolio in its key markets through further geographic expansion of existing brands, new
product enhancements, and strategic licensing activities. Vascular —
Ongoing projects in the pipeline include: • XIENCE Xpedition , our latest drug-eluting stent (DES) with enhanced
deliverability and an expanded size matrix. It utilizes the XIENCE PRIME stent, everolimus and biocompatible coating technology but incorporates new
catheter technology for improved deliverability. XIENCE Xpedition received U.S. regulatory approval in December 2012 and is also available in Europe and
parts of Asia and Latin America. In 2013, Abbott continued to expand DES size offerings. XIENCE Xpedition 48 received CE regulatory approval in May
2013, making it the longest length DES among major brands. XIENCE Xpedition 2.0 mm diameter received CE regulatory approval in December 2013, making it
the smallest diameter DES among major brands. • Absorb , the world's first drug eluting bioresorbable vascular scaffold
(BVS) device for the treatment of coronary artery disease that is gradually resorbed into the vessel wall. In 2013 Abbott made significant progress in enrolling patients in clinical trials for
regulatory approval in the United States and China, and completed enrollment in trials in Japan in December 2013. 37 • MitraClip device for the treatment of mitral regurgitation (MR). In
October 2013 MitraClip received U.S. regulatory approval for patients with significant symptomatic degenerative MR who are at prohibitive risk for
mitral valve surgery. Mitraclip is also available in Europe, parts of Asia, the Middle East and Latin America. Abbott expects to seek product approval
in additional markets in 2014. In addition, Abbott will continue clinical development of the MitraClip therapy including the COAPT trial, a landmark,
prospective, randomized trial in the United States that will evaluate the impact of MitraClip treatment on the progression of heart failure. • SUPERA Veritas self-expanding nitinol stent system which was acquired as
part of the acquisition of IDEV Technologies in August 2013. With its proprietary interwoven wire technology, SUPERA Veritas is designed based on
biomimetic principles to mimic the body's natural movement. It received CE Mark in Europe for treating blockages in blood vessels due to peripheral artery disease (PAD). In the U.S., SUPERA Veritas is
cleared only for the treatment of biliary strictures (narrowing of a bile duct) related to cancer. It is currently being reviewed by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration under a Premarket Approval application for treatment of the superficial femoral and proximal popliteal arteries, which are the main arteries in the thigh that supply blood
to lower extremities. Abbott plans to continue development of SUPERA 's size matrix and next generation delivery system. • Coronary and endovascular guide wires. Abbott's HT Pilot and HT Progress guide wire families received FDA clearance for
the Chronic Total Occlusions (CTO) indication in January 2013. Medical
Optics — Abbott is developing a number of new products for patients undergoing cataract surgery, which are designed to improve physician efficiency and patient outcomes. In
2013 Abbott's Tecnis Toric monofocal intraocular lens, which combines the optical qualities of the Tecnis design with astigmatism correction, was approved in the U.S., China and Japan. In addition, a
preloaded version of the Tecnis 1 piece monofocal IOL was approved in the U.S., Canada and India and a preloaded version of the Tecnis 1 piece multifocal IOL was approved in Canada, Europe and Japan.
Preloaded technology enables insertion of the Tecnis 1 piece IOL with an easy to use, disposable insertion system. Other products that received regulatory approval in Japan included the Tecnis
OptiBlue monofocal IOL in a standard cartridge insertion system as well as the preloaded version. The iDesign advanced vision diagnostic and LASIK treatment planning system, previously approved in
Europe in 2012, received approval in Canada and a number of Latin American and Asian countries. In 2014, Abbott plans to continue to work to introduce new products, including the launch of new
pre-loaded IOLs, which are designed to improve the ease of use for the cataract surgeon. Molecular
Diagnostics — Various new molecular in vitro diagnostic (IVD) products, including oncology and infectious disease assays and a next generation instrument system are in
various stages of development and commercialization. Abbott's companion diagnostic test for an ALK gene rearrangement test for non-small-cell lung cancer has been approved in more than 69 countries
around the world and now includes options for automated processing and image analysis. Abbott's companion diagnostic program continues to expand and includes collaborative efforts with multiple major
pharmaceutical companies. An automated assay to genotype HCV-infected patients to aid in the choice of an appropriate therapy was approved by the FDA. In addition, automated IVD assays for Flu
A/B/RSV, C.difficle, and VanR were launched in many countries around the world. Assays for infectious diseases including MTB and MTB drug resistance and
for oncology including KRAS and BRAF mutation detection are in development. Core
Laboratory Diagnostics — Abbott is working on the development of next-generation blood screening, hematology, and immunochemistry instrument systems, as well as assays in
various areas including infectious disease, cardiac care, metabolics, oncology, and automation solutions to increase efficiency in laboratories. Diabetes
Care — In the third quarter of 2013, Abbott received CE Mark in Europe for its FreeStyle Precision Neo monitoring system, a
new icon-driven system with visual glucose trend indicators and insulin 38 logging.
In the second half of 2013, Abbott received both CE Mark in Europe and FDA approval for Precision Pro , a hospital glucose monitoring system
which provides improved accuracy and dual-band wireless access to immediate test results. Abbott is also developing a new sensor based system that it expects to submit for approval in Europe in 2014. Nutrition —
Abbott is focusing its research and development spend on six benefit platforms that span the pediatric, adult and performance nutrition areas: immunity, cognition, lean
body mass, inflammation, metabolism and tolerance. Numerous new products that build on advances in these benefit platforms are currently under development, including clinical outcome testing, and are
expected to be launched over the coming years. Given
the diversity of Abbott's business, its intention to remain a broad-based healthcare company and the numerous sources for potential future growth, no individual project is expected
to be material to cash flows or results of operations over the next five years. Factors considered included research and development expenses projected to be incurred for the project over the next
year relative to Abbott's total research and development expenses as well as qualitative factors, such as marketplace perceptions and impact of a new product on Abbott's overall market position. There
were no delays in Abbott's 2013 research and development activities that are expected to have a material impact on operations. While
the aggregate cost to complete the numerous projects currently in development is expected to be material, the total cost to complete will depend upon Abbott's ability to
successfully complete each project, the rate at which each project advances, and the ultimate timing for completion. Given the potential for significant delays and the high rate of failure inherent in
the development of pharmaceutical and medical device products and technologies, it is not possible to accurately estimate the total cost to complete all projects currently in development. Abbott plans
to manage its portfolio of projects to achieve research and development spend equal to approximately 6 percent to 7 percent of sales each year. Abbott does not regularly accumulate or
make management decisions based on the total expenses incurred for a particular development phase in a given period. Goodwill At December 31, 2013, goodwill recorded as a result of business combinations totaled $9.8 billion. Goodwill is reviewed
for impairment annually in the third quarter or when an event that could result in an impairment occurs. The results of the last impairment test indicated that the fair value of each reporting unit
was substantially in excess of its carrying value except for the Medical Optics unit. While the fair value of the Medical Optics business exceeds its carrying value, extended economic pressure on
government-reimbursed cataract procedures in Europe
and on the global LASIK surgery business as well as longer regulatory approval timelines for products currently under development, the integration of OptiMedica and the negative impact of foreign
currency movements could result in a valuation in the future where the fair value of the Medical Optics unit has declined below its carrying value, thereby triggering the requirement to estimate the
implied fair value of the goodwill and measure for impairment. Financial Condition Cash Flow Net cash from operating activities amounted to $3.3 billion, $9.3 billion and $9.0 billion in 2013, 2012 and 2011,
respectively. The decrease in Net cash from operating activities in 2013 was due to the separation of AbbVie on January 1, 2013. Net cash from operating activities in 2013 reflects
approximately $435 million of one-time net cash outflows related to the separation of AbbVie and $724 million of contributions to defined benefit pension plans. The income tax component
of operating cash flow in 2013, 2012 and 2011 includes $427 million, $408 million and $580 million, respectively, of noncash tax benefits related to the favorable resolution of
various tax positions pertaining to prior years and 2013 also includes a $103 million tax benefit for the retroactive impact of U.S. tax law changes, which is expected to be 39 realized
in future years. Trade accounts payable and other liabilities in Net cash from operating activities in 2012 includes the payment of approximately $1.5 billion related to a litigation
accrual recorded in 2011 related to the business operations of AbbVie. This was partially offset by increases in other liabilities, primarily restructuring reserves. While
substantially all cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 is considered reinvested indefinitely in foreign subsidiaries, Abbott does not expect such
reinvestment to affect its liquidity and capital resources. If these funds were needed for operations in the U.S., Abbott would be required to accrue and pay U.S. income taxes to repatriate these
funds. Abbott believes that it has sufficient sources of liquidity to support its assumption that the disclosed amount of undistributed earnings at December 31, 2013 can be considered to be
reinvested indefinitely. Abbott
funded $724 million in 2013, $379 million in 2012 and $394 million in 2011 to defined benefit pension plans. Abbott expects pension funding of approximately
$400 million in 2014 for its pension plans, of which approximately $300 million relates to its main domestic pension plans. Abbott expects annual cash flow from operating activities to
continue to exceed Abbott's capital expenditures and cash dividends. Debt and Capital At December 31, 2013 Abbott's long-term debt rating was A+ by Standard & Poor's Corporation and A1 by Moody's Investors
Service. Abbott has readily available financial resources, including unused lines of credit of $5.0 billion that support commercial paper borrowing arrangements which expire in 2017. In
2012, Abbott redeemed $7.7 billion of long-term notes in preparation for the separation of AbbVie from Abbott and repaid $1 billion of long-term notes that were due in
2012. In addition, AbbVie Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Abbott, issued $14.7 billion of long-term notes that were guaranteed by Abbott until AbbVie's separation from Abbott on
January 1, 2013. In 2011, Abbott repaid $2.0 billion of long-term notes using primarily short-term borrowings. In
October 2008, the board of directors authorized the purchase of up to $5 billion of Abbott's common shares from time to time. Under this authorization, 33.0 million and
37.0 million shares were purchased in 2013 and 2012 at a cost of approximately $1.2 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively. No additional purchases of common shares will be made
from this authorization. In June 2013, the board of directors authorized the purchase of up to $3.0 billion of Abbott's common shares from time to time and 10.5 million shares were
purchased under this authorization at a cost of $388 million in 2013. Abbott has indicated that it plans to purchase over $2 billion of additional shares from time to time in 2014. Abbott
declared dividends of $0.64 per share in 2013 compared to $1.67 per share in 2012. Dividends paid were $882 million in 2013 compared to $3.2 billion in 2012. The
year-over-year change in dividends reflects the impact of the separation of AbbVie in January 2013. In October 2013, Abbott announced an increase in the company's quarterly dividend to $0.22 per share
from $0.14 per share, representing an increase of 57 percent. This increase took effect with the dividend paid in February 2014 to shareholders of record at the close of business on
January 15, 2014. Working Capital The reduction of cash and cash equivalents from $10.8 billion at December 31, 2012 to $3.5 billion at
December 31, 2013 reflects the transfer of $5.9 billion of cash and cash equivalents to AbbVie as part of the separation on January 1, 2013. Working capital was
$9.7 billion at December 31, 2013 and $18.0 billion at December 31, 2012. The decrease in working capital in 2013 was due to the transfer of approximately $9 billion
of working capital to AbbVie on January 1, 2013 as part of the separation. See note 2 — Separation of AbbVie for additional information. 40 Substantially
all of Abbott's trade receivables in Italy, Spain, Portugal, and Greece are with governmental health systems. The collection of outstanding receivables in these countries
held steady or improved in 2013 depending upon the country. As a result, governmental receivables in these four countries accounted for approximately 1 percent of Abbott's total assets and
12 percent of total net trade receivables as of December 31, 2013. The latter is down from 16 percent as of December 31 2012. With
the exception of Greece, Abbott historically has collected almost all of the outstanding receivables in these countries. Abbott continues to monitor the credit worthiness of
customers located in these and other geographic areas and establishes an allowance against a trade receivable when it is probable that the balance will not be collected. In addition to closely
monitoring economic conditions and budgetary and other fiscal developments in these countries, Abbott regularly communicates with its customers regarding the status of receivable balances, including
their payment plans and obtains positive confirmation of the validity of the receivables. Abbott also monitors the potential for and periodically has utilized factoring arrangements to mitigate credit
risk although the receivables included in such arrangements have historically not been a material amount of total outstanding receivables. If government funding were to become unavailable in these
countries or if significant adverse changes in their reimbursement practices were to occur, Abbott may not be able to collect the entire balance. Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures of $1.1 billion in 2013, $1.8 billion in 2012 and $1.5 billion in 2011 were principally for
upgrading and expanding manufacturing and research and development facilities and equipment in various segments, investments in information technology, and laboratory instruments placed with
customers. The 2013 decrease reflects the separation of AbbVie at the beginning of 2013. Contractual Obligations The table below summarizes Abbott's estimated contractual obligations as of December 31, 2013. Payments Due By Period Total 2014 2015-2016 2017-2018 2019 and Thereafter (in millions) Long-term debt, including current maturities $ 3,397 $ 9 $ 13 $ 2 $ 3,373 Interest on debt obligations 2,977 181 350 349 2,097 Operating lease obligations 628 140 219 131 138 Capitalized auto lease obligations 40 13 27 — — Purchase commitments (a) 2,295 2,118 158 15 4 Other long-term liabilities 1,272 — 771 354 147 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Total (b) $ 10,609 $ 2,461 $ 1,538 $ 851 $ 5,759 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ (a) Purchase
commitments are for purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational and capital expenditure requirements. (b) Unrecognized
tax benefits totaling $1.3 billion are excluded from the table above as Abbott is unable to reasonably estimate the period of cash
settlement with the respective taxing authorities on such items. See Note 13 — Taxes on Income for further details. The company has employee benefit obligations consisting of
pensions and other postemployment benefits, including medical and life, which have been excluded from the table. A discussion of the company's pension and postretirement plans, including funding
matters is included in Note 12 — Post-employment Benefits. 41 Contingent Obligations Abbott has periodically entered into agreements in the ordinary course of business, such as assignment of product rights, with other
companies, which has resulted in Abbott becoming secondarily liable for obligations that Abbott was previously primarily liable. Since Abbott no longer maintains a business relationship with the other
parties, Abbott is unable to develop an estimate of the maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, under these obligations. Based upon past experience, the likelihood of payments under these
agreements is remote. In addition, Abbott periodically acquires a business or product rights in which Abbott agrees to pay contingent consideration based on attaining certain thresholds or based on
the occurrence of certain events. Legislative Issues Abbott's primary markets are highly competitive and subject to substantial government regulations throughout the world. Abbott expects
debate to continue over the availability, method of delivery, and payment for health care products and services. It is not possible to predict the extent to which Abbott or the health care industry in
general might be adversely affected by these factors in the future. A more complete discussion of these factors is contained in Item 1, Business, and Item 1A, Risk Factors, to the Annual
Report on Form 10-K. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 — A Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements Under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Abbott cautions investors that any
forward-looking statements or projections made by Abbott, including those made in this document, are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those
projected. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Abbott's operations are discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors, to the Annual Report on
Form 10-K. 42