Item 5. Operating and Financial Review—Non-GAAP Financial Measures—Net Industrial Debt . 25 Industry Overview Vehicle Segments and Descriptions We manufacture and sell passenger cars, light trucks and light commercial vehicles covering all market segments. Passenger cars can be divided among seven main groups, whose definition could slightly vary by region. Mini cars, known as “A segment” vehicles in Europe and often referred to as “city cars,” are between 2.7 and 3.7 meters in length and include three- and five-door hatchbacks. Small cars, known as “B segment” vehicles in Europe and “sub-compacts” in the U.S., range in length from 3.7 meters to 4.4 meters and include three- and five-door hatchbacks and sedans. Compact cars, known as “C segment” vehicles in Europe, range in length from 4.3 meters to 4.7 meters, typically have a sedan body and mostly include three- and five-door hatchback cars. Mid-size cars, known as “D segment” vehicles in Europe, range between 4.7 meters to 4.9 meters, typically have a sedan body or are station wagons. Full-size cars range in length from 4.9 meters to 5.1 meters and are typically sedan cars or, in Europe, station wagons. Minivans, also known as multi-purpose vehicles, or MPVs, typically have seating for up to eight passengers. Utility vehicles include SUVs, which are four-wheel drive with true off-road capabilities, and cross utility vehicles, or CUVs, which are not designed for heavy off-road use, but offer better on-road ride comfort and handling compared to SUVs. Light trucks may be divided between vans (also known as light commercial vehicles), which typically are used for the transportation of goods or groups of people and have a payload capability up to 4.2 tons, and pick-up trucks, which are light motor vehicles with an open-top rear cargo area and which range in length from 4.8 meters to 5.2 meters (in North America, the length of pick-up trucks typically ranges from 5.5 meters to 6 meters). In North America, minivans and utility vehicles are categorized within trucks. In Europe, vans and pick-up trucks are categorized as light commercial vehicles. We characterize a vehicle as “new” if its vehicle platform is significantly different from the platform used in the prior model year and/or has had a full exterior renewal. We characterize a vehicle as “significantly refreshed” if it continues its previous vehicle platform but has extensive changes or upgrades from the prior model. Our Industry Designing, engineering, manufacturing, distributing and selling vehicles require significant investments in product design, engineering, research and development, technology, tooling, machinery and equipment, facilities and marketing in order to meet both consumer preferences and regulatory requirements. Automotive original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, are able to benefit from economies of scale by leveraging their investments and activities on a global basis across brands and models. The automotive industry has also historically been highly cyclical, and to a greater extent than many industries, is impacted by changes in the general economic environment. In addition to having lower leverage and greater access to capital, larger OEMs that have a more diversified revenue base across regions and products tend to be better positioned to withstand industry downturns and to benefit from industry growth. Most automotive OEMs produce vehicles for the mass market and some of them also produce vehicles for the luxury market. Vehicles in the mass market are typically intended to appeal to the largest number of consumers possible. Intense competition among manufacturers of mass market vehicles, particularly for non-premium brands, tends to compress margins, requiring significant volumes to be profitable. As a result, success is measured in part by vehicle unit sales relative to other automotive OEMs. Luxury vehicles on the other hand are designed to appeal to consumers with higher levels of disposable income, and can therefore more easily achieve much higher margins. This allows luxury vehicle OEMs to produce lower volumes, enhancing brand appeal and exclusivity, while maintaining profitability. In 2014, 84 million automobiles were sold around the world. Although China is the largest single automotive sales market, with approximately 18 million vehicles sold, the majority of automobile sales are still in the developed markets, including North America, Western Europe and Japan. Growth in other emerging markets has also played an increasingly important part in global automotive demand in recent years. The automotive industry is highly competitive, especially in our key markets, such as the U.S., Brazil and Europe. Vehicle manufacturers must continuously improve vehicle design, performance and content to meet consumer demands for quality, reliability, safety, fuel efficiency, comfort, driving experience and style. Historically, manufacturers relied heavily 26 upon dealer, retail and fleet incentives, including cash rebates, option package discounts, guaranteed depreciation programs, and subsidized or subvented financing or leasing programs to compete for vehicle sales. Since 2009, manufacturers generally have worked to reduce reliance on pricing-related incentives as competitive tools in the North American market, while pricing pressure, under different forms, is still affecting sales in the European market since the inception of the financial crisis. However, an OEM’s ability to increase or maintain vehicle prices and reduce reliance on incentives is limited by the competitive pressures resulting from the variety of available competitive vehicles in each segment of the new vehicle market as well as continued global manufacturing overcapacity in the automotive industry. At the same time, OEMs generally cannot effectively lower prices as a means to increase vehicle sales without adversely affecting profitability, since the ability to reduce costs is limited by commodity market prices, contract terms with suppliers, evolving regulatory requirements and collective bargaining agreements and other factors that limit the ability to reduce labor expenses. OEMs generally sell vehicles to dealers and distributors, which then resell vehicles to retail and fleet customers. Retail customers purchase vehicles directly from dealers, while fleet customers purchase vehicles from dealers or directly from OEMs. Fleet sales comprise three primary channels: (i) daily rental, (ii) commercial and (iii) government. Vehicle sales in the daily rental and government channels are extremely competitive and often require significant discounts. Fleet sales are an important source of revenue and can also be an effective means for marketing vehicles. Fleet orders can also help normalize plant production as they typically involve the delivery of a large, pre-determined quantity of vehicles over several months. Fleet sales are also a source of aftermarket service parts revenue for OEMs and service revenue for dealers. Environmental and Other Regulatory Matters We manufacture and sell our products and offer our services around the world. Our operations are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, our vehicles, with requirements relating to emissions, reduced fuel consumption and safety becoming increasingly strict, and manufacturing facilities, with requirements for emissions, treatment of waste, water and hazardous materials and prohibitions on soil contamination. Our vehicles and the engines that power them must also comply with extensive regional, national and local laws and regulations and industry self-regulations (including those that regulate vehicle safety, end-of-life vehicles, emissions and noise). We are substantially in compliance with the relevant global regulatory requirements affecting our facilities and products. We constantly monitor such requirements and adjust our operations to remain in compliance. Our Group Environmental Guidelines apply to all Group operations worldwide. These Guidelines specify our approach to environmental issues and provide clear instructions on setting and updating environmental objectives, developing new products and conducting daily activities around the globe. Our implementation of these Guidelines is designed to have the Group comply with all applicable environmental legislation and regulations, and where feasible, to outperform them. Automotive Emissions Numerous laws and regulations limit automotive emissions, including vehicle exhaust emission standards, vehicle evaporative emission standards and onboard diagnostic, or OBD, system requirements. Advanced OBD systems are used to identify and diagnose problems with emission control systems. Emission and OBD requirements become more challenging each year, requiring vehicles to continually meet lower emission standards and implement new diagnostics. We expect these requirements will continue to become even more rigorous worldwide. NAFTA Region Under the U.S. Clean Air Act, the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, and the California Air Resources Board, or CARB (by EPA waiver), require emission compliance certification before a vehicle can be sold in the U.S. or in California (and many other states that have adopted the California emissions requirements) . Both agencies impose limits on tailpipe and evaporative emissions of certain smog-forming pollutants from new motor vehicles and engines. EPA recently issued new tailpipe and evaporative emission standards, as well as fuel requirements, under its Tier 3 Vehicle Emission and Fuel Standards Program, or Tier 3 standards. These Tier 3 standards are generally more stringent than prior standards. The Tier 3 standards are also generally aligned with California’s Low Emission Vehicle III, or LEV III, tailpipe and evaporative standards, discussed below. These standards would further require us to conduct post-production vehicle testing to demonstrate compliance with these emissions limits for the estimated useful life of a vehicle, for up to 15 27 years and 150,000 miles, depending on the compliance category, and are scheduled to become effective in model year 2017 for light-duty vehicles and 2018 for heavy-duty vehicles. In addition, EPA and CARB regulations require that a vehicle’s emissions performance be monitored with OBD systems . We have implemented hardware and software systems in all our vehicles to comply with the OBD requirements . Conditions identified through OBD systems could lead to vehicle recalls (or other remedial actions such as extended warranties) with significant costs for related inspections, repairs or per-vehicle penalties. California sets its own emissions standards pursuant to a waiver from EPA under the Clean Air Act. CARB’s LEV III standards relate to vehicle certification, OBD and tailpipe and evaporative emissions limitations, and apply to 2015 and later model year vehicles. CARB regulations also require that a specified percentage of cars and certain light-duty trucks sold in California must be zero emission vehicles, or ZEVs, such as electric vehicles or hydrogen fuel cell vehicles. A manufacturer can earn credits toward the ZEV requirement through the sale of advanced-technology vehicles such as hybrid electric vehicles or natural gas vehicles with extremely low tailpipe emissions and, as set forth in the LEV III standards, over-complying with the federal model year 2017 through 2025 greenhouse gas standards, retiring such credits and applying them to its ZEV obligation. The ZEV regulations, which CARB revised most recently for the 2018 and subsequent model years, require increasing volumes of battery electric and other advanced technology vehicles with each model year. We currently comply with ZEV requirements using a variety of vehicles, including battery electric vehicles, or full ZEVs, internal combustion engine vehicles certified to very low tailpipe emissions and zero evaporative emissions, or partial ZEVs. The Clean Air Act permits other states to adopt California’s emission standards, starting with the 2014 model year. Twelve other states, as well as the Province of Quebec, Canada, currently use California’s LEV III standards in lieu of the federal EPA standards, and 10 states also have adopted California’s ZEV requirements. LATAM Region Certain countries in South America follow U.S. procedures, standards and OBD requirements, while others follow the European procedures, standards and OBD requirements described below under —EMEA Region . In Brazil, vehicle emission standards have been in place since 1988 for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles, and these regulations were extended to light diesel vehicles in 2012. Argentina has implemented regulations that mirror the Euro 5 standards for all new vehicles. APAC Region China —China has implemented standards that mirror Euro 4 standards, which defined limits for polluting emissions and implemented European OBD requirements nationwide for newly registered vehicles. However, some major cities, such as Beijing and Shanghai, have already introduced more stringent emissions standards that mirror Euro 5 standards discussed under —EMEA Region below. The Fiat Viaggio, launched in China in 2012, has been developed to meet Euro 5 standards. Nationwide implementation of Euro 5 standards is scheduled for 2018. Other Countries in APAC —South Korea has adopted regulations that largely mirror CARB’s Lev II exhaust emissions standards and likely will implement regulations that mirror CARB’s Lev III regulations beginning in 2016. In Japan, vehicle emissions are regulated through the requirement that vehicles undergo the “specific driving cycle” procedure, an emissions testing procedure unique to Japan. However, Japan may adopt the Worldwide Harmonized Light Vehicle Testing Procedures as soon as 2016. These regulations will define a global harmonized standard for determining the levels of pollutants and CO 2 emissions, fuel or energy consumption for light-duty vehicles and electric range for battery electric vehicles or hybrids. Since 2010, 13 metropolitan cities in India have adopted regulations that are aligned with the Euro 4 standards that predate the Euro 5 standards described below under —EMEA Region . These cities also enacted the European OBD requirements in 2013. EMEA Region In Europe, emissions are regulated by two different entities: the European Commission, or EC, and the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, or UNECE. The EC imposes standardized emission control requirements on vehicles sold in all 28 European Union, or EU, member states, while non-EU countries apply regulations under the UNECE framework. EU Member States can give tax incentives to automobile manufacturers for vehicles that meet emission standards earlier than the compliance date. We must demonstrate that our vehicles will meet emission requirements and receive 28 approval from the appropriate authorities before our vehicles can be sold in EU Member States. The regulatory requirements include random testing of newly assembled vehicles and a manufacturer in-use surveillance program. EU and UNECE requirements are equivalent in terms of stringency and implementation. In 2011, updated standards for exhaust emission by cars and light-duty trucks, called Euro 5, became effective. Impending European emission standards focus particularly on further reducing emissions from diesel vehicles. The new Euro 6 emission levels, effective for new vehicles on September 1, 2014 and will be effective for all vehicles one year later, will require additional technologies and further increase the cost of diesel engines, which currently cost more than gasoline engines, although FCA US's gasoline models are already compliant with Euro 6. To comply with Euro 6 standards, we expect that we will need to implement technologies identical to those being developed to meet U.S. emission standards as described under —NAFTA Region . These new technologies will put additional cost pressures on the already challenging European market for small and mid-size diesel-powered vehicles. Further requirements of Euro 6 have been developed by the EC and are expected to be implemented in 2017. In addition, a new test procedure is under development to directly assess the regulated emissions of light duty vehicles under real driving conditions and is expected to be implemented in 2017. Automotive Fuel Economy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions NAFTA Region Since the enactment of the 1975 Energy Policy and Conservation Act, or EPCA, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, or NHTSA, has established minimum Corporate Average Fuel Economy requirements, or CAFE standards, for fleets of new passenger cars and light-duty trucks sold in the U.S. A manufacturer is subject to civil penalties if it fails to meet the CAFE standard in any model year, after taking into account all available credits for performance in the last three model years or expected performance in the next five model years. Passenger cars imported into the U.S. are averaged separately from those manufactured in the U.S., but all light duty trucks are averaged together. The 2007 Energy Independence and Security Act revised EPCA and required NHTSA to establish more stringent CAFE standards beginning with the 2011 model year. Among other things, although there will continue to be separate standards for cars and light-duty trucks, standards must be set such that they increase year over year to achieve an industry-wide standard by 2016. These CAFE standards applicable to all manufacturers’ 2011-2016 model year domestic and imported passenger car and light-duty truck fleets are “footprint-based,” meaning that each manufacturer’s fuel economy requirement is dependent on the size of the vehicle, and averaged per the sales volumes and the mix of models in the manufacturer’s fleet for that model year. In order to meet these CAFE standards we will be required to make costly adjustments to our product plans through the 2016 model year. Because the control of fuel economy also controls Greenhouse Gas, or GHG, emissions, vehicle manufacturers, governmental authorities and environmental groups have sought to harmonize fuel economy regulations to the regulation of GHG vehicle emissions (primarily CO 2 ). As such, in May 2009, President Obama announced an agreement in principle among EPA, NHTSA, CARB and the automotive industry to establish a coordinated national program to reduce GHGs under the Clean Air Act and improve fuel economy. EPA (under its GHG standards) and NHTSA (under its CAFE standards) subsequently issued a joint final rule to implement a coordinated national GHG and fuel economy program for light-duty vehicles (passenger cars, light-duty trucks, and medium-duty passenger vehicles), establishing standards for model years 2012 through 2016. Although California adopted a more stringent GHG rule under California law, CARB agreed that compliance with the federal rule constitutes compliance with CARB’s rule. Additionally, EPA and NHTSA issued a joint final rule in September 2011 that establishes a similar GHG/fuel economy national program for medium and heavy-duty vehicles, beginning with model year 2014 for GHG standards and model year 2016 for fuel economy standards. In August 2012, EPA and NHTSA issued a joint final rule to extend the joint GHG/fuel economy national program for light-duty vehicles to model years 2017 through 2025, calling for year-over-year increases in fuel economy until the average fleet-wide standards reach 54.5 mpg by 2025. The rule calls for a “mid-term review” to be completed by 2021 that compels EPA and NHTSA to evaluate the market acceptance of advance vehicle technology, as well as the other assumptions that formed the basis for the stringency of this rule, to determine whether the standards are appropriate. Again, under California law, compliance with the federal GHG rule constitutes compliance with CARB’s GHG rule. The model year federal 2017-2025 GHG rule contains a variety of compliance flexibilities, including incentives for sales of electric vehicles and hybrids, as well as alternative fuels like compressed natural gas or hydrogen fuel cell vehicles, and the use of the ultra- 29 low global warming potential refrigerant HFO1234yf. NHTSA’s corresponding CAFE rule imposes new vehicle safety standards in conjunction with the fuel economy standards. While we believe that our current product plan will meet the applicable federal and California GHG/fuel economy standards established through model year 2016, our compliance depends on our ability to implement design and testing features to generate GHG credits pursuant to the federal GHG rule for model years 2012-2016, and 2017-2025 on a credit carry-forward and carry-back basis. Moreover, based on projected sales volumes and fleet mix, compliance with the standards as proposed for the 2017 through 2025 model years will require us to take further costly actions or to limit the sale of certain of our vehicles in some states. If the vehicles we develop to comply with these requirements are not appealing to consumers or cannot be sold at a competitive price, we may not be able to achieve the vehicle fleet mix, depending on the type and volume of our customers’ purchases, which would enable us to meet the stringent fuel economy/GHG requirements, even though our long-range projection plans out a compliant path. Canada and Mexico each have adopted GHG regulations that are generally harmonized with the U.S. GHG laws. LATAM Region In Brazil, governmental bodies and the Automobile Manufacturers Association have established a voluntary national program for the evaluation and labeling of light passenger and commercial vehicles equipped with internal combustion gasoline engines. This voluntary program, in which we participate, aims to increase vehicle energy efficiency by labeling vehicles with fuel consumption measurements for urban, extra-urban and combined (similar to city and highway mpg measurements in the U.S.) driving conditions. In October 2012, the Brazilian government issued a decree which provides indirect tax incentives to eligible participant companies that meet certain vehicle energy efficiency targets beginning on January 1, 2013. The level of potential indirect tax incentives varies based on the degree to which and the timing of when targets are met. To the extent targets are not met, penalties and interest are levied and no indirect tax incentives are available. APAC Region In China, Phase III of the Corporate Average Fuel Consumption is in place from 2012 to 2015 calendar year. Phase IV, covering 2016-2020 calendar years, provides an industry target of 5.0 liters per 100 kilometers by 2020 and includes single vehicle limits, yearly phase-in coefficients and off-cycle credits. Regulators are considering additional provisions for Phase IV, including penalties. India is also expected to introduce a corporate average fuel economy regulation in 2016. South Korea and Japan have implemented single vehicle limits, which require each individual vehicle sold in the country to meet a minimum fuel economy. In South Korea, for model year 2015, each vehicle must have a minimum fuel economy of 17 kilometers per liter and a maximum GHG emission standard of 140 grams of CO 2 per kilometer, and by model year 2020, each vehicle must have a minimum fuel economy of 24.3 kilometers per liter and maximum emissions of 97 grams of CO 2 . In Japan, each vehicle must have a minimum fuel economy of 16.8 kilometers per liter by model year 2015 and 20.3 kilometers per liter by model year 2020, with penalties established for non-compliance. EMEA Region Legislation governing vehicle GHG emissions as a means of improving automotive fuel economy was passed in 2009 and went into effect in 2012 (generally GHG regulations focus on CO 2 ). Each automobile manufacturer must meet a specific sales-weighted fleet average target for CO 2 emissions as related to vehicle weight. The phase in of this fleet-average requirement began in 2012, with full compliance required by 2015. In order to promote the sale of ultra-efficient vehicles, automobile manufacturers that sell vehicles emitting less than 50 grams of CO 2 per kilometer earn additional CO 2 credits. Furthermore, automobile manufacturers that make use of innovative technologies, or eco-innovations, which improve real-world fuel economy but may not show in the test cycle, such as solar panels or low-emission glass, may gain a credit of up to seven grams of CO 2 per kilometer. These credits may not be transferred. The legislation also sets a fleet average target of 95 grams of CO 2 per kilometer starting in 2020. We are developing a compliance plan to achieve these required targets. In 2011, the EU adopted standards for regulating CO 2 emissions from light commercial vehicles. This regulation, modeled after CO 2 emissions regulation for passenger cars, proposed that new light commercial vehicles meet a fleet average CO 2 target of 175 grams of CO 2 per kilometer. The new regulation phased in beginning in 2014, with full compliance required 30 by 2017. The manufacturer-specific CO 2 compliance target will be determined as a function of the weight of the vehicle in running order (including driver). Flexible compliance strategies, such as eco-innovations and super credits, are part of these light commercial vehicle standards as well. Additionally, an EU long-term target for 2020 of 147 grams of CO 2 per kilometer has been adopted for light commercial vehicles. We are developing a compliance plan to achieve the required targets. The regulatory implementation of the 95 grams of CO 2 per kilometer (for passenger cars) and 147 grams of CO 2 per kilometer (for light commercial vehicles) targets have been approved. The individual manufacturer’s targets will continue to be determined based on average vehicle mass. Other compliance flexibilities have been proposed, adding additional challenges to compliance with the CO 2 fleet target. Flexibilities include: phase-in, which, for 2020 only, excludes from the average calculation the five percent of passenger cars with higher fuel consumption; and supercredits and eco-innovations award passenger cars equipped with low emission technologies, challenging automakers to introduce increasingly innovative technologies. In this sense, phase-in makes compliance easier while supercredits and eco-innovations encourage low-emission technologies and vehicles. We are also taking into consideration these challenges while defining our compliance plan. An EC regulation requiring low-rolling resistance tires, tire pressure monitoring systems and gear shift indicators was adopted in 2011 and became effective in 2012. Further, an additional EC regulation has been adopted that will require labeling of tires for noise and fuel efficiency, affecting vehicles at the point of sale as well as the sale of tires in the aftermarket. Twenty EU Member States have introduced fuel consumption or CO 2 -based vehicle taxation schemes. These tax measures are within the jurisdiction of the EU Member States. We are faced with significant challenges with respect to the predictability of future tax laws and differences in tax schemes and thresholds. In the EMEA region, other countries have introduced specific regulations to reduce vehicle CO 2 emissions or fuel consumption, such as Switzerland and Saudi Arabia (SASO). Vehicle Safety NAFTA Region Under U.S. federal law, all vehicles sold in the U.S. must comply with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards, or FMVSS promulgated by NHTSA, and must be certified by their manufacturer as being in compliance with all such standards. In addition, if a vehicle contains a defect that is related to motor vehicle safety or does not comply with an applicable FMVSS, the manufacturer must notify vehicle owners and provide a remedy. Moreover, the Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability, and Documentation, or TREAD Act, authorized NHTSA to establish Early Warning Reporting, or EWR, requirements for manufacturers to report all claims which involve one or more fatalities or injuries; all incidents of which the manufacturer receives actual notice which involve fatalities or injuries which are alleged or proven to have been caused by a possible defect in such manufacturer’s motor vehicle or motor vehicle equipment in the U.S.; and all claims involving one or more fatality or in a foreign country when the possible defect is in a motor vehicle or motor vehicle equipment that is identical or substantially similar to a motor vehicle or motor vehicle equipment offered for sale in the U.S., as well as aggregate data on property damage claims from alleged defects in a motor vehicle or in motor vehicle equipment; warranty claims (including good will); consumer complaints and field reports about alleged or possible defects. The rules also require reporting of customer satisfaction campaigns, consumer advisories, recalls, or other activity involving the repair or replacement of motor vehicles or items of motor vehicle equipment, even if not safety related. The compliance of TREAD Act EWR submissions has received heightened scrutiny recently, and resulted in two manufacturers agreeing to pay substantial civil penalties for deficient TREAD Act EWR submissions. Furthermore, in 2014 both the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives had legislation introduced to enhance the EWR reporting requirements for manufacturers. These bills were not enacted in 2014, but will likely be reconsidered in 2015. Compliance with such additional requirements if enacted into law is likely to be difficult and/or costly. Several new or amended FMVSSs will take effect during the next few years in certain instances under phase-in schedules that require only a portion of a manufacturer’s fleet to comply in the early years of the phase-in. These include an amendment to the side impact protection requirements that added several new tests and performance requirements (FMVSS No. 214), an amendment to roof crush resistance requirements (FMVSS No. 216), and a new rule for ejection mitigation requirements (FMVSS No. 226). In addition, NHTSA has adopted a new FMVSS that will require all light vehicles to be 31 equipped with a rear-mounted video camera and an in-vehicle visual display, and has proposed to mandate the installation of event data recorders. Compliance with these new requirements, as well as other possible prospective NHTSA requirements, is likely to be difficult and/or costly. NHTSA has published guidelines for driver distraction, and, although not rising to the level of a FMVSS, there may be substantial costs associated with conformance. At times, organizations like NHTSA or the U.S. Insurance Institute of Highway Safety, or IIHS, issue or reissue safety ratings applicable to vehicles. Changes to these ratings are subject to the agencies’ discretion. IIHS recently introduced new tests and modified its “Top Safety Pick” protocol. Pursuant to the new protocol, many of our vehicles’ existing Top Safety Pick ratings are at risk, and we could incur significant expense to maintain those ratings, or could suffer negative public relations if we do not maintain them. Finally, NHTSA previously announced that it would issue regulations regarding its Connected Vehicles strategy in 2013. These regulations could subject the Group to substantial costs for vehicle integration components and software and may require auto manufacturers to provide significant funding for a national technology operating system. The regulations may also implicate cybersecurity issues that place additional legal and financial responsibilities on the Group. LATAM Region Most countries, including Argentina and Brazil, have adopted standards that follow the European regulations for vehicle safety. In these countries, efforts are under way to further conform regulations to those in place in Europe. See —EMEA Region below. APAC Region Many countries in the Asia Pacific region, including China, South Korea, Japan and India, have adopted or are adopting measures for pedestrian protection. EMEA Region Vehicles sold in Europe are subject to vehicle safety regulations established by the EU or by individual Member States. In 2009, the EU established a simplified framework for vehicle safety, repealing more than 50 then-existing directives and replacing them with a single regulation aimed at incorporating relevant United Nations, or UN, standards. The incorporation of UN standards commenced in 2012. With respect to regulations on advanced safety systems, the EC now requires new model cars from 2011 on to have electronic stability control systems, required tire pressure monitoring systems beginning in 2012, introduced regulations relating to low-rolling resistance tires in 2013 and require heavy vehicles to have advanced emergency braking systems and lane departure warning systems. From April 2009, the criteria for whole vehicle type approval were extended to cover all new road vehicles, to be phased in over five years depending on the vehicle category. The extension also clarifies the criteria applicable to small commercial vehicles. In the EU, new safety requirements came into force starting in November 2012 for new vehicle types and came into force in 2014 for all new vehicles sold in the EU market. The new mandatory measures include safety belt reminders, electric car safety requirements and easier child seat anchorages. Industrial Environmental Control Our operations are subject to a wide range of environmental protection laws including those laws regulating air emissions, water discharges, waste management and environmental clean-up. Certain environmental statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a disposal site. Under certain circumstances, these laws impose joint and several liability as well as liability for related damages to natural resources. Our Environmental Management System, or EMS, formalizes our commitment to responsible management of the environment. Applied at all plants worldwide, the EMS consists of methodologies and processes designed to prevent or reduce the environmental impact of our manufacturing activities, and our Group Environmental Guidelines establish our policies on environmental targets. Implementing an EMS compliant with the requirements of the ISO 14001 standard is one of our main objectives. Receipt of an ISO 14001 certification confirms that an organization has a management system capable of keeping the 32 environmental impact of its operations under control and that it systematically seeks to improve this system in a way that is coherent, effective and, above all, sustainable. As of December 31, 2014, 139 of our plants, representing 99 percent of our industrial revenues (revenues attributable to the activities and plants that we directly control) and 96 percent of manufacturing employees, were ISO 14001-certified. Our focus on environmental and sustainability issues is also reflected through our WCM program. During 2014, approximately 3,700 projects were implemented under the WCM program. These projects yielded a significant reduction in energy consumption, which generated cost savings of €44 million and avoided 290,000 tons of CO 2 emissions. In 2014, expenditures and investments for the environment amounted to €94 million. Energy Consumption and Emissions We are committed to reducing the use of fossil fuels and emission of greenhouse gases in response to increasingly stringent regulations, while at the same time yielding energy-related cost savings. As a result of several energy efficiency initiatives, we achieved a 2.2 percent reduction in total energy consumption from 2010 to 2014. At our vehicle assembly and stamping plants, the energy consumption per vehicle produced decreased 18.5 percent compared with the baseline year of 2010. The related CO 2 emissions per vehicle produced decreased 20.5 percent in that same period, falling from 0.616 tons per vehicle produced in 2010 to 0.490 tons per vehicle produced in 2014. In addition, utilization of renewable energy at our plants accounted for 20.4 percent of total electricity consumed in 2014. We also cut CO 2 emissions by 2.3 percent over the 2010 baseline year through reductions in energy consumption and use of cleaner sources of energy. Water Management Water conservation has become an issue of critical importance. As a result of population growth, water is becoming an increasingly scarce and precious resource. Our Water Management Guidelines establish methodologies and procedures targeted at maximizing water recycling and reuse. In 2014, our plants reused 99.3 percent of water utilized in the manufacturing cycle worldwide, resulting in total water savings in excess of 3 billion cubic meters. Additionally, we reduced water withdrawal by 1.1 percent in 2014 compared to 2013 and by 27.9 percent from 2010 to 2014. Waste Management We prioritize preventing the level of waste generated in order to minimize consumption of raw materials. Our Waste Management Guidelines are intended to maximize material reuse and recovery for the production of new base materials. Where neither reuse nor recovery is possible, we seek to dispose of materials using the method having the least environmental impact. In 2014, the total amount of waste generated has decreased by 3.5 percent compared to 2013. Due to the continuous improvement achieved in this area, the percentage of total waste recovered has increased to 80.6 percent and waste sent to landfills has been reduced to 16.9 percent. We seek to reduce the quantities of hazardous waste generated. In 2014, we successfully reduced the total amount of hazardous waste generated by 3.3 percent compared with 2013 and 38.8 percent compared with 2010. Workplace Health and Safety We are committed to ensuring a safe and healthy working environment for all our employees, and have also extended these efforts toward suppliers, service providers and customers. Our Occupational Health and Safety Guidelines are certified to the OHSAS 18001 standard. We focus on the following areas: application of uniform procedures for the identification and evaluation of risks, standards of safety and ergonomics in plant and machinery design, promotion of safe behavior through training initiatives and awareness campaigns, assurance of a healthy work environment and promotion of a healthy lifestyle. For several years, we have been tracking and analyzing monthly performance data in each of these areas to ensure that objectives are being met. As of December 31, 2014 , a total of 134 plants (including two operated through joint ventures), accounting for 170,000 employees, had an OHSMS in place and were OHSAS 18001-certified. Financial Services Because dealers and retail customers finance the purchase of a significant percentage of the vehicles sold worldwide, the availability and cost of financing is one of the most significant factors affecting vehicle sales volumes. Most dealers use 33 wholesale or inventory financing arrangements to purchase vehicles from OEMs in order to maintain necessary vehicle inventory levels. Financial services companies may also provide working capital and real estate loans to facilitate investment in expansion or restructuring of the dealers’ premises. Financing may take various forms, based on the nature of creditor protection provided under local law, but financial institutions tend to focus on maximizing credit protection on any financing originated in conjunction with a vehicle sale. Financing to retail customers takes a number of forms, including simple installment loans and finance leases. These financial products are usually distributed directly by the dealer and have a typical duration of three to five years. OEMs often use retail financing as a promotional tool, including through campaigns offering below market rate financing, known as subvention programs. In such situations, an OEM typically compensates the financial services company up front for the difference between the financial return expected under standard market rates and the rates offered to the customer within the promotional campaign. Many automakers rely on wholly-owned or controlled finance companies to provide this financing. In other situations, OEMs have relied on joint ventures or commercial relationships with banks and other financial institutions in order to provide access to financing for dealers and retail customers. The model adopted by any particular OEM in a particular market depends upon, among other factors, its sales volumes and the availability of stable and cost-effective funding sources in that market, as well as regulatory requirements. Financial services companies controlled by OEMs typically receive funding from the OEM’s central treasury or from industrial and commercial operations of the OEM that have excess liquidity, however, they also access other forms of funding available from the banking system in each market, including sales or securitization of receivables either in negotiated sales or through securitization programs. Financial services companies controlled by OEMs compete primarily with banks, independent financial services companies and other financial institutions that offer financing to dealers and retail customers. The long-term profitability of finance companies also depends on the cyclical nature of the industry, interest rate volatility and the ability to access funding on competitive terms and to manage risks with particular reference to credit risks. OEMs within their global strategy aimed to expand their business, may provide access to financial services to their dealers and retail customers, for the financing of parts and accessories, as well as pre-paid service contracts. Applicability of Banking Law and Regulation to Financial Services Several of our captive finance companies, each of which provide financial services to our customers, are regulated as financial institutions in the jurisdictions in which they operate. Fidis SpA, Ferrari Financial Services S.p.A and FCA Bank S.p.A., each incorporated in Italy, are subject to Bank of Italy supervision. Ferrari Financial Services AG, incorporated in Germany, is subject to the supervision of BAFIN, the German financial supervisory authority. Banco Fidis S.A., incorporated in Brazil, is subject to Brazilian Central Bank supervision. Fiat Credito Compañia Financiera S.A, incorporated in Argentina, is subject to Argentinian Central Bank supervision. Fiat Automotive Finance Co., Ltd, incorporated in China, is subject to the supervision of the Chinese Banking Regulatory Commission and People’s Bank of China. As a result, those companies are subject to regulation in a wide range of areas including solvency, capital requirements, reporting, customer protection and account administration, among other matters. Overview of Our Business We design, engineer, develop and manufacture vehicles, components and production systems worldwide through 165 manufacturing facilities around the world and 85 research and development centers. Our activities are carried out through seven reportable segments: four regional mass-market vehicle segments, the Ferrari and Maserati luxury brand segments and a global Components segment, as discussed below. Our four regional mass-market vehicle reportable segments deal with the design, engineering, development, manufacturing, distribution and sale of passenger cars, light commercial vehicles and related parts and services in specific geographic areas: NAFTA (U.S., Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean islands), LATAM (South and Central America), APAC (Asia and Pacific countries) and EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa). We also operate on a global basis in the luxury vehicle and components sectors. In the luxury vehicle sector, we have the operating segments Ferrari and Maserati, while in the components sector we have the operating segments Magneti Marelli, Teksid and Comau. The operating segments in the components sector did not meet the quantitative thresholds required in IFRS 8 – Operating segments for separate disclosure, consequently, based on their characteristics and similarities, they are presented as one reportable segment: “Components”. We support our mass-market vehicle sales with the sale of related service parts and accessories, as well as service contracts, under the Mopar brand name. In support of our vehicle sales efforts, we make available dealer and retail customer financing 34 either through subsidiaries or joint ventures and through strategic commercial arrangements with third party financial institutions. For our mass-market brands, we have centralized design, engineering, development and manufacturing operations, which allow us to efficiently operate on a global scale. The following list sets forth our reportable segments: (i) NAFTA : our operations to support distribution and sales of mass-market vehicles in the United States, Canada, Mexico and Caribbean islands, the segment that we refer to as NAFTA, primarily through the Chrysler, Dodge, Fiat, Jeep and Ram brands. (ii) LATAM : our operations to support the distribution and sale of mass-market vehicles in South and Central America , the segment that we refer to as LATAM, primarily under the Chrysler, Dodge, Fiat, Jeep and Ram brands, with the largest focus of our business in the LATAM segment in Brazil and Argentina. (iii) APAC : our operations to support the distribution and sale of mass-market vehicles in the Asia Pacific region (mostly in China, Japan, Australia, South Korea and India), the segment we refer to as APAC, carried out in the region through both subsidiaries and joint ventures, primarily under the Abarth, Alfa Romeo, Chrysler, Dodge, Fiat and Jeep brands. (iv) EMEA : our operations to support the distribution and sale of mass-market vehicles in Europe (which includes the 28 members of the European Union and the members of the European Free Trade Association), the Middle East and Africa, the segment we refer to as EMEA, primarily under the Abarth, Alfa Romeo, Chrysler, Fiat, Fiat Professional, Jeep and Lancia brand names. (v) Ferrari : the design, engineering, development, manufacturing, worldwide distribution and sale of luxury vehicles under the Ferrari brand. On October 29, 2014, we announced our intention to separate Ferrari from FCA. See