Item 5. Operating and Financial Review—Non-GAAP Financial Measures—Net Debt . Industry Overview Vehicle Segments and Descriptions We manufacture and sell passenger cars, light trucks and light commercial vehicles covering all market segments. Passenger cars can be divided among seven main groups, whose definition could slightly vary by region. Mini cars, known as “A segment” vehicles in Europe and often referred to as “city cars,” are between 2.7 and 3.7 meters in length and include three- and five-door hatchbacks. Small cars, known as “B segment” vehicles in Europe and “sub-compacts” in the U.S., range in length from 3.7 meters to 4.4 meters and include three- and five-door hatchbacks and sedans. Compact cars, known as “C segment” vehicles in Europe, range in length from 4.3 meters to 4.7 meters, typically have a sedan body and mostly include three- and five-door hatchback cars. Mid-size cars, known as “D segment” vehicles in Europe, range between 4.7 meters to 4.9 meters, typically have a sedan body or are station wagons. Full-size cars range in length from 4.9 meters to 5.1 meters and are typically sedan cars or, in Europe, station wagons. Minivans, also known as multi-purpose vehicles, or MPVs, typically have seating for up to eight passengers. Utility vehicles include SUVs, which are available with four-wheel drive systems that provide true off-road capabilities, and cross utility vehicles, or CUVs, which are not designed for heavy off-road use. Light trucks may be divided between vans (also known as light commercial vehicles), which typically are used for the transportation of goods or groups of people and have a payload capability up to 4.2 tons, and pickup trucks, which are light motor vehicles with an open-top rear cargo area and which range in length from 4.8 meters to 5.2 meters (in North America, the length of pickup trucks typically ranges from 5.5 meters to 6 meters). In North America, minivans and utility vehicles are categorized within trucks. In Europe, vans and pickup trucks are categorized as light commercial vehicles. 23 We characterize a vehicle as “new” if its vehicle platform is significantly different from the platform used in the prior model year and/or has had a full exterior renewal. We characterize a vehicle as “significantly refreshed” if it continues its previous vehicle platform but has extensive changes or upgrades from the prior model. Our Industry Designing, engineering, manufacturing, distributing and selling vehicles require significant investments in product design, engineering, research and development, technology, tooling, machinery and equipment, facilities and marketing in order to meet both consumer preferences and regulatory requirements. Automotive OEMs are able to benefit from economies of scale by leveraging their investments and activities on a global basis across brands and models. The automotive industry has also historically been highly cyclical, and to a greater extent than many industries, is impacted by changes in the general economic environment. In addition to having lower leverage and greater access to capital, larger OEMs that have a more diversified revenue base across regions and products tend to be better positioned to withstand industry downturns and to benefit from industry growth. Most automotive OEMs produce vehicles for the mass market and some of them also produce vehicles for the luxury market. Vehicles in the mass market are typically intended to appeal to the largest number of consumers possible. Intense competition among manufacturers of mass market vehicles, particularly for non-premium brands, tends to compress margins, requiring significant volumes to be profitable. As a result, success is measured in part by vehicle unit sales relative to other automotive OEMs. Luxury vehicles on the other hand are designed to appeal to consumers with higher levels of disposable income, and can therefore more easily achieve much higher margins. This allows luxury vehicle OEMs to produce lower volumes, enhancing brand appeal and exclusivity, while maintaining profitability. In 2015, 87 million automobiles were sold around the world. Although China is the largest single automotive sales market with approximately 19 million passenger cars sold, the majority of automobile sales are still in the developed markets, including North America, Western Europe and Japan. Growth in other emerging markets has also played an increasingly important part in global automotive demand in recent years. The automotive industry is highly competitive, especially in our key markets, such as the U.S., Brazil, China and Europe. Vehicle manufacturers must continuously improve vehicle design, performance and content to meet consumer demands for quality, reliability, safety, fuel efficiency, comfort, driving experience and style. Historically, manufacturers relied heavily upon dealer, retail and fleet incentives, including cash rebates, option package discounts, guaranteed depreciation programs, and subsidized or subvented financing or leasing programs to compete for vehicle sales. Since 2009, manufacturers generally have worked to maintain a reduced reliance on pricing-related incentives as competitive tools in the North American market, while pricing pressure, under different forms, is still affecting sales in the European market since the inception of the financial crisis. However, an OEM’s ability to increase or maintain vehicle prices and reduce reliance on incentives is limited by the competitive pressures resulting from the variety of available competitive vehicles in each segment of the new vehicle market as well as continued global manufacturing overcapacity in the automotive industry. At the same time, OEMs generally cannot effectively lower prices as a means to increase vehicle sales without adversely affecting profitability, since the ability to reduce costs is limited by commodity market prices, contract terms with suppliers, evolving regulatory requirements and collective bargaining agreements and other factors that limit the ability to reduce labor expenses.  Due to the capital intensive nature of our industry, we expect there will be greater levels of cooperation among automakers in the future. OEMs generally sell vehicles to dealers and distributors, which then resell vehicles to retail and fleet customers. Retail customers purchase vehicles directly from dealers, while fleet customers purchase vehicles from dealers or directly from OEMs. Fleet sales comprise three primary channels: (i) daily rental, (ii) commercial and (iii) government. Vehicle sales in the daily rental and government channels are extremely competitive and often require significant discounts. Fleet sales are an important source of revenue and can also be an effective means for marketing vehicles. Fleet orders can also help normalize plant production as they typically involve the delivery of a large, pre-determined quantity of vehicles over several months. Fleet sales are also a source of aftermarket service parts revenue for OEMs and service revenue for dealers. 24 Environmental and Other Regulatory Matters We manufacture and sell our products and offer our services around the world.with requirements relating to reduced emissions, increased fuel economy, and our manufacturing facilities, with requirements for stack emissions, treatment of waste, water and hazardous materials and prohibitions on soil contamination. Our vehicles and the engines that power them must also comply with extensive regional, national and local laws and regulations and industry self-regulations (including those that regulate emissions certification, end-of-life vehicles and the chemical content of our parts, noise, and worker health and safety). In addition, vehicle safety regulations are becoming increasingly strict. We are substantially in compliance with the relevant global regulatory requirements affecting our facilities and products. We constantly monitor such requirements and adjust our operations and processes to remain in compliance. Our Group Environmental Guidelines (“Guidelines”) apply to all Group operations worldwide. These Guidelines specify our approach to environmental issues and provide clear instructions on setting and updating environmental objectives, developing new products and conducting daily activities around the globe. Our implementation of these Guidelines is designed to have the Group comply with all applicable environmental legislation and regulations, and where feasible, to outperform them. Automotive Emissions Numerous laws and regulations limit automotive emissions, including vehicle exhaust emission standards, vehicle evaporative emission standards and onboard diagnostic, or OBD, system requirements. Advanced OBD systems are used to identify and diagnose problems with emission control systems. Emission and OBD requirements become more challenging each year, requiring vehicles to continually meet lower emission standards and implement new diagnostics. We expect these requirements will continue to become even more rigorous worldwide, especially in light of a recent significant EPA action involving the tailpipe emissions of a competitor’s vehicles. NAFTA Region Under the U.S. Clean Air Act, the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, and the California Air Resources Board, or CARB (by EPA waiver), require emission compliance certification before a vehicle can be sold in the U.S. or in California (and many other states that have adopted the California emissions requirements) . Both agencies impose limits on tailpipe and evaporative emissions of certain smog-forming pollutants from new motor vehicles and engines, and in some cases dictate the pollution control methodology our engines must employ. EPA recently issued new tailpipe and evaporative emission standards, as well as fuel requirements, under its Tier 3 Vehicle Emission and Fuel Standards Program, or Tier 3 standards. These Tier 3 standards are generally more stringent than prior standards, and thus make it more onerous to obtain emissions certifications for our vehicles. The Tier 3 standards are also generally aligned with California’s Low Emission Vehicle III, or LEV III, tailpipe and evaporative standards, discussed below. These standards would increase the requirements to conduct post-production vehicle testing to demonstrate compliance with these emissions limits for the estimated useful life of a vehicle, now for up to 15 years and 150,000 miles, depending on the compliance category, and are scheduled to become effective in model year 2017 for light-duty vehicles and 2018 for heavy-duty vehicles. In addition, EPA and CARB regulations require that a vehicle’s emissions performance be monitored with OBD systems . We have implemented hardware and software systems in all our vehicles to comply with the OBD requirements . Conditions identified through OBD systems could lead to vehicle recalls (or other remedial actions such as extended warranties) with significant costs for related inspections, repairs or per-vehicle penalties. California sets its own emissions standards pursuant to a waiver from EPA under the Clean Air Act. CARB’s LEV III standards relate to vehicle certification, OBD and tailpipe and evaporative emissions limitations, and apply to 2015 and later model year vehicles. CARB regulations also require that a specified percentage of cars and certain light-duty trucks sold in California must be zero emission vehicles, or ZEVs, such as electric vehicles or hydrogen fuel cell vehicles. A manufacturer can earn credits toward the ZEV requirement through the sale of advanced-technology vehicles such as hybrid electric vehicles or natural gas vehicles with extremely low tailpipe emissions and, as set forth in the LEV III standards, over- 25 complying with the federal model year 2017 through 2025 greenhouse gas standards, retiring such credits and applying them to its ZEV obligation. The ZEV regulations, which CARB revised most recently for the 2018 and subsequent model years, require increasing volumes of ZEVs with each model year. We currently comply with ZEV requirements using a variety of vehicles, including battery electric vehicles, or full ZEVs, internal combustion engine vehicles certified to very low tailpipe emissions and zero evaporative emissions, or partial ZEVs. The Clean Air Act permits other states to adopt California’s emission standards, starting with the 2014 model year. In addition to California, twelve states, as well as the Province of Quebec, Canada, currently use California’s LEV III standards in lieu of the federal EPA standards, and 10 states also have adopted California’s ZEV requirements. LATAM Region Certain countries in South America follow U.S. procedures, standards and OBD requirements, while others follow the European procedures, standards and OBD requirements described below under —EMEA Region . In Brazil, vehicle emission standards have been in place since 1988 for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles, and these regulations were extended to light diesel vehicles in 2012. Argentina has implemented regulations that mirror the Euro 5 standards for all new vehicles. APAC Region China 4 standards, which mirror Euro 4 standards, are currently in place in China.  These standards defined limits for polluting emissions and implemented European OBD requirements nationwide for newly registered vehicles. However, some major cities, such as Beijing and Shanghai, have already enforced more stringent China 5 emissions standards that mirror the Euro 5 standards discussed under —EMEA Region below. The Fiat Viaggio, Fiat Ottimo and Jeep Cherokee launched in China have been developed to meet China 5 standards. Beginning April 1, 2016, China 5 standards will be enforced in 11 coastal provinces and municipal cities.  Nationwide implementation of China 5 standards will be required for gasoline engines beginning in 2017 and for light duty diesel engines beginning in 2018. South Korea has adopted regulations that largely mirror CARB’s LEV II exhaust emissions standards and implemented regulations that mirror CARB’s LEV III regulations beginning January 1, 2016. In Japan, vehicle emissions are regulated through the requirement that vehicles undergo the “specific driving cycle” procedure, an emissions testing procedure unique to Japan. However, Japan may adopt the Worldwide Harmonized Light Vehicle Testing Procedures as soon as 2016. These regulations will define a global harmonized standard for determining the levels of pollutants and CO 2 emissions, fuel or energy consumption for light-duty vehicles and electric range for battery electric vehicles or hybrids. India currently follows dual emission norms (Bharat Stage IV in a few cities and Bharat Stage III in the rest of India).  India plans to adopt Bharat Stage IV emission norms (equivalent to Euro 4 standards) across India beginning in 2017.  The Indian government recently announced that India will migrate to Bharat Stage VI emission norms in 2020, skipping Euro 5 equivalent norms. EMEA Region In Europe, emissions are regulated by two different entities: the European Commission, or EC, and the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, or UNECE. The EC imposes standardized emission control requirements on vehicles sold in all 28 European Union, or EU, member states, while non-EU countries apply regulations under the UNECE framework. EU Member States can give tax incentives for the purchase of vehicles that meet emission standards earlier than the compliance date. We must demonstrate that our vehicles will meet emission requirements and receive approval from the appropriate authorities before our vehicles can be sold in EU Member States. The regulatory requirements include random testing of newly assembled vehicles and a manufacturer in-use surveillance program. EU and UNECE requirements are equivalent in terms of stringency and implementation. In 2011, updated standards for exhaust emission by cars and light-duty trucks, called Euro 5, became effective. Impending European emission standards focus particularly on further reducing emissions from diesel vehicles. The new Euro 6 emission levels, effective for all passenger cars on September 1, 2015 (one year later for light commercial vehicles), require additional technologies and further increase the cost of diesel engines, which currently cost more than gasoline engines, although FCA US's gasoline models are already compliant with Euro 6. These new technologies will put additional cost pressures on the already challenging European market for small and mid-size diesel-powered vehicles. Further requirements of Euro 6 have been developed by the EC and are expected to be implemented on September 1, 2017. In addition, a new test 26 procedure has been defined to directly assess the regulated emissions of light duty vehicles under real driving conditions and will be effective for new passenger cars on September 1, 2017 and for all passenger cars on September 1, 2019 (one year later for light commercial vehicles. Automotive Fuel Economy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions NAFTA Region Since the enactment of the 1975 Energy Policy and Conservation Act, or EPCA, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, or NHTSA, has enforced minimum Corporate Average Fuel Economy requirements, or CAFE standards, for fleets of new passenger cars and light-duty trucks sold in the U.S.  These CAFE standards apply to all manufacturers’ 2011-2025 model year domestic and imported passenger car and light-duty truck fleets.  The 2007 Energy Independence and Security Act revised EPCA and required NHTSA to establish more stringent CAFE standards beginning with the 2011 model year. Since the enactment of the Clean Air Act in 1965, EPA has enforced a variety of smog-forming tailpipe emissions and fuels requirements for light, medium and heavy-duty vehicles; greenhouse gases, or GHGs, were not regulated.  In 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court held that GHGs are a “pollutant” under the Clean Air Act. Because fuel economy performance dictates GHG emissions, and vice-versa, in 2009 NHTSA and EPA began promulgating “footprint-based” CAFE and GHG rules, meaning that each automaker’s fleet fuel economy and GHG emissions requirements are dependent on the size of the vehicle, and dependent on the sales volumes and the mix of models in the manufacturer’s fleet for that model year.  EPA and NHTSA have issued two joint final rules governing GHG and fuel economy, respectively, for light-duty vehicles, covering model years 2012 through 2025 (although California adopted its own more stringent GHG rules, CARB agreed that compliance with the federal GHG rules constitutes compliance with CARB’s rules). The rules provide for year-over-year increases in fuel economy, and corresponding decreases in GHG emissions, until each automaker’s average fleet-wide standards reach 54.5 mpg by 2025.  The rules also call for a “mid-term review,” commencing in 2017 and to be completed by 2021, that compels EPA and NHTSA to evaluate the market acceptance of advance vehicle technology as well as the other assumptions that formed the basis for the stringency of the joint rules, to determine whether the 2022-2025 standards are appropriate. Specific provisions of the GHG rule contain a variety of compliance flexibilities, including the ability to purchase and sell GHG emissions credits amongst automakers, incentives for sales of electric vehicles and hybrids, as well as alternative fuels like compressed natural gas or hydrogen fuel cell vehicles, and the use of the ultra-low global warming potential refrigerant HFO1234yf.  The CAFE rule continues to require that passenger cars imported into the U.S. are averaged separately from those manufactured in the U.S., that light duty trucks are not subject to that distinction, and that a civil fine can be paid in lieu of compliance (this is not the case under the GHG rule), and now allows the purchase and sale of CAFE credits as a compliance flexibility.  The agencies have attempted to harmonize the two rules, which goal they generally achieved, but there are many inconsistencies that make compliance more difficult. Additionally, EPA and NHTSA issued joint final rules in September 2011 that establish a similar GHG and fuel economy national program for medium and heavy-duty vehicles, beginning with model year 2014 for GHG standards and model year 2016 for fuel economy standards.  Currently, EPA and NHTSA are in a proposed rulemaking period for “phase 2” of heavy-duty rules.  The rules are proposed to commence in 2021, which would dictate that the 2018 standards would remain in place for model years 2019-2020. While we believe that our current product plan will meet the applicable CAFE and GHG standards, our compliance depends on our ability to implement design features, take further costly actions, purchase GHG and/or CAFE credits, or to limit the sale of certain of our vehicles. If the vehicles we develop to comply with these requirements are not appealing to consumers or cannot be sold at a competitive price, we may not be able to achieve the vehicle fleet mix, depending on the type and volume of our customers’ purchases, which would enable us to meet the stringent fuel economy/GHG requirements, even though our long-range projection plans out a compliant path. Canada and Mexico each have adopted GHG regulations that are generally harmonized with the U.S. GHG laws. 27 LATAM Region In Brazil, governmental bodies and the Automobile Manufacturers Association have established a voluntary national program for the evaluation and labeling of light passenger and commercial vehicles equipped with internal combustion gasoline engines. This voluntary program, in which we participate, aims to increase vehicle energy efficiency by labeling vehicles with fuel consumption measurements for urban, extra-urban and combined (similar to city and highway mpg measurements in the U.S.) driving conditions. In October 2012, the Brazilian government issued a decree which provides indirect tax incentives to eligible participant companies. As a first step, participant companies of the program have to meet vehicle energy efficiency targets on vehicles sold from October 1, 2016 to September 30, 2017. The level of potential indirect tax incentives varies based on the degree to which and the timing of when targets are met. To the extent targets are not met, penalties and interest are levied and no indirect tax incentives are available. APAC Region In China, Phase III of the Corporate Average Fuel Consumption (CAFE) is in place from 2012 to 2015 calendar year. Phase IV, covering 2016-2020 calendar years, provides an industry target of 5.0 liters per 100 kilometers by 2020 and includes single vehicle limits, yearly phase-in coefficients and off-cycle credits. Regulators are considering additional provisions for Phase IV, including penalties. India is also expected to introduce a corporate average fuel economy regulation in 2016. South Korea has implemented a new phase of CAFE/CO 2 standards beginning January 1, 2016 and the South Korea industry targets for 2020 are 95g CO 2 per kilometer  and 24.5 kilometers per liter.  Japan has implemented single vehicle limits, which require each individual vehicle sold in the country to meet a minimum fuel economy. In Japan, each vehicle must have a minimum fuel economy of 16.8 kilometers per liter by model year 2015 and 20.3 kilometers per liter by model year 2020, with penalties established for non-compliance. EMEA Region Legislation governing vehicle GHG emissions as a means of improving automotive fuel economy was passed in 2009 and went into effect in 2012 (generally GHG regulations focus on CO 2 ). Each automobile manufacturer must meet a specific sales-weighted fleet average target for CO 2 emissions as related to vehicle weight. The phase in of this fleet-average requirement began in 2012, with full compliance required by 2015. In order to promote the sale of ultra-efficient vehicles, automobile manufacturers that sell vehicles emitting less than 50 grams of CO 2 per kilometer earn additional CO 2 credits. Furthermore, automobile manufacturers that make use of innovative technologies, or eco-innovations, which improve real-world fuel economy but may not show in the test cycle, such as solar panels or low-emission glass, may gain an average credit for the manufacturer's fleet of up to seven grams of CO 2 per kilometer. These credits may not be transferred. The legislation also sets a fleet average target of 95 grams of CO 2 per kilometer starting in 2020. We are developing a compliance plan to achieve these required targets. In 2011, the EU adopted standards for regulating CO 2 emissions from light commercial vehicles. This regulation, modeled after CO 2 emissions regulation for passenger cars, proposed that new light commercial vehicles meet a fleet average CO 2 target of 175 grams of CO 2 per kilometer. The new regulation phased in beginning in 2014, with full compliance required by 2017. The manufacturer-specific CO 2 compliance target will be determined as a function of the weight of the vehicle in running order (including driver). Flexible compliance strategies, such as eco-innovations and super credits, are part of these light commercial vehicle standards as well. Additionally, an EU long-term target for 2020 of 147 grams of CO 2 per kilometer has been adopted for light commercial vehicles. We are developing a compliance plan to achieve the required targets. The regulatory implementation of the 95 grams of CO 2 per kilometer (for passenger cars) and 147 grams of CO 2 per kilometer (for light commercial vehicles) targets have been approved. The individual manufacturer’s targets will continue to be determined based on average vehicle mass. Other compliance flexibilities have been proposed, adding additional challenges to compliance with the CO 2 fleet target. Flexibilities include: phase-in, which, for 2020 only, excludes from the average calculation the five percent of passenger cars with higher fuel consumption; and supercredits and eco-innovations award passenger cars equipped with low emission technologies, challenging automakers to introduce increasingly innovative technologies. In this sense, phase-in makes compliance easier while supercredits and eco-innovations encourage low- 28 emission technologies and vehicles. We are also taking into consideration these challenges while defining our compliance plan. An EC regulation requiring low-rolling resistance tires, tire pressure monitoring systems and gear shift indicators was adopted in 2011 and became effective in 2012. Further, an additional EC regulation has been adopted that will require labeling of tires for noise and fuel efficiency, affecting vehicles at the point of sale as well as the sale of tires in the aftermarket. Twenty EU Member States have introduced fuel consumption or CO 2 -based vehicle taxation schemes. These tax measures are within the jurisdiction of the EU Member States. We are faced with significant challenges with respect to the predictability of future tax laws and differences in tax schemes and thresholds. In the EMEA region, other countries have introduced specific regulations to reduce vehicle CO 2 emissions or fuel consumption, such as Switzerland and Saudi Arabia (SASO). Vehicle Safety NAFTA Region Under U.S. federal law, all vehicles sold in the U.S. must comply with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards, or FMVSS promulgated by NHTSA, and must be certified by their manufacturer as being in compliance with all such standards at the time of the first purchase of the vehicle other than for resale. In addition, if a vehicle contains a defect that is related to motor vehicle safety or does not comply with an applicable FMVSS, the manufacturer must notify NHTSA and vehicle owners and provide a remedy. Moreover, the Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability, and Documentation (“TREAD ” ) Act authorized NHTSA to promulgate regulations requiring Early Warning Reporting, or EWR. EWR requires manufacturers to provide NHTSA several categories of information, including all claims which involve one or more fatalities or injuries; all incidents of which the manufacturer receives actual notice which involve fatalities or injuries which are alleged or proven to have been caused by a possible defect in such manufacturer’s motor vehicle or motor vehicle equipment in the U.S.; and all claims involving one or more fatality or in a foreign country when the possible defect is in a motor vehicle or motor vehicle equipment that is identical or substantially similar to a motor vehicle or motor vehicle equipment offered for sale in the U.S., as well as aggregate data on property damage claims from alleged defects in a motor vehicle or in motor vehicle equipment; warranty claims (including good will); consumer complaints and field reports about alleged or possible defects. The rules also require reporting of customer satisfaction campaigns, consumer advisories, recalls, or other activity involving the repair or replacement of motor vehicles or items of motor vehicle equipment, even if not safety related. The compliance of TREAD Act EWR submissions has received heightened scrutiny recently, and resulted in three manufacturers, including FCA, agreeing to pay substantial civil penalties for deficient TREAD Act EWR submissions. Furthermore, in early 2016, NHTSA announced a set of Proactive Safety Principles to be implemented collaboratively with the industry. One of these principles is to enhance analysis and examination of Early Warning Reporting data, with a goal of incorporating advanced data analytics into future EWR analyses. Recently enacted legislation requires NHTSA to implement additional enhancements. Whether these enhancements remain voluntary, or are incorporated into future regulatory requirements, they will require substantial investments in advanced information technology solutions going forward. The specific commitments and associated expenditures related to the three other Principles (which are (1) enhancing and facilitating proactive safety; (2) maximize safety recall participation rates; and (3) enhance automotive cybersecurity) are unknown at this time, but are likely to involve the commitment of significant resources, both in terms of staffing and other investments. Several new or amended FMVSSs will take effect during the next few years in certain instances under phase-in schedules that require only a portion of a manufacturer’s fleet to comply in the early years of the phase-in. These include an amendment to the side impact protection requirements that added several new tests and performance requirements (FMVSS No. 214), an amendment to roof crush resistance requirements (FMVSS No. 216), and a new rule for ejection mitigation requirements (FMVSS No. 226). In addition, NHTSA has adopted a new FMVSS that will require all light vehicles to be equipped with a rear-mounted video camera and an in-vehicle visual display, and has proposed to mandate the installation of event data recorders. NHTSA has also secured a voluntary commitment from manufacturers, including FCA, to equip future 29 vehicles with Automatic Electronic Braking systems. Compliance with these new requirements and commitments, as well as other possible prospective NHTSA requirements, is likely to be difficult and/or costly. NHTSA has published guidelines for driver distraction, and, although not rising to the level of a FMVSS, there may be substantial costs associated with conformance. At times, organizations like NHTSA or the U.S. Insurance Institute of Highway Safety, or IIHS, issue or reissue safety ratings applicable to vehicles. Changes to these ratings are subject to the agencies’ discretion. IIHS recently introduced new tests and modified its “Top Safety Pick” protocol. Pursuant to the new protocol, many of our vehicles’ existing Top Safety Pick ratings are at risk, and we could incur significant expense to maintain those ratings, or could suffer negative public relations if we do not maintain them. Finally, NHTSA previously announced that it would issue regulations regarding its Connected Vehicles strategy in 2013. A specific proposal is expected in the first half of 2016. These regulations could subject the Group to substantial costs for vehicle integration components and software and may require auto manufacturers to provide significant funding for a national technology operating system. The regulations may also implicate cybersecurity issues that place additional legal and financial responsibilities on the Group. In Mexico, a new safety regulation based on U.S. standards is expected to take effect in 2016 which will, among other things, include a deadline to provide the federal consumers agency of the launching date and a detailed description of every safety campaign related to vehicles sold in Mexico. LATAM Region Most countries, including Argentina and Brazil, have adopted standards that follow the European regulations for vehicle safety. In these countries, efforts are under way to further conform regulations to those in place in Europe. See —EMEA Region below. APAC Region Many countries in the Asia Pacific region, including China, South Korea, Japan and India, have adopted or are adopting measures for pedestrian protection. EMEA Region Vehicles sold in Europe are subject to vehicle safety regulations established by the EU or, in very limited cases and aspects, by individual Member States. In 2009, the EU established a simplified framework for vehicle safety, repealing more than 50 then-existing directives and replacing them with a single regulation aimed at incorporating relevant United Nations, or UN, standards. The incorporation of UN standards commenced in 2012. With respect to regulations on advanced safety systems, the EC now requires new model cars from 2011 on to have electronic stability control systems, required tire pressure monitoring systems beginning in 2012, introduced regulations relating to low-rolling resistance tires in 2013 and require heavy vehicles to have advanced emergency braking systems and lane departure warning systems. From April 2009, the criteria for whole vehicle type approval were extended to cover all new road vehicles, to be phased in over five years depending on the vehicle category. The extension also clarifies the criteria applicable to small commercial vehicles. In the EU, new safety requirements came into force starting in November 2012 for new vehicle types and came into force in 2014 for all new vehicles sold in the EU market. The new mandatory measures include safety belt reminders, electric car safety requirements and easier child seat anchorages. In addition, starting from 2018 in-vehicle emergency call systems will be mandatory in the EU markets. In Russia, a similar in-vehicle emergency call system became mandatory in January 2015. Industrial Environmental Control Our operations are subject to a wide range of environmental protection laws including those laws regulating air emissions, water discharges, waste management and environmental clean-up. Certain environmental statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal, or ownership of a disposal site. Under certain circumstances, these laws impose joint and several liability as well as liability for related damages to natural resources. Our Environmental Management System, or EMS, formalizes our commitment to responsible management of the 30 environment. Applied at all plants operating worldwide, the EMS consists of methodologies and processes designed to prevent or reduce the environmental impact of our manufacturing activities, and our Group Environmental Guidelines establish our policies on environmental targets. Implementing an EMS compliant with the requirements of the ISO 14001 standard is one of our main objectives. Receipt of an ISO 14001 certification confirms that an organization has a management system capable of keeping the environmental impact of its operations under control and that it systematically seeks to improve this system in a way that is coherent, effective and, above all, sustainable. Our focus on environmental and sustainability issues is also reflected through our internal WCM manufacturing system, which currently covers the majority of our plants. Workplace Health and Safety We are committed to ensuring a safe and healthy working environment for all our employees, and have also extended these efforts toward suppliers, service providers and customers. Our Occupational Health and Safety Guidelines are certified to the OHSAS 18001 standards. We focus on the following areas: application of uniform procedures for the identification and evaluation of risks, standards of safety and ergonomics in plant and machinery design, promotion of safe behavior through training initiatives and awareness campaigns, assurance of a healthy work environment and promotion of a healthy lifestyle. For several years, we have been tracking and analyzing monthly performance data in each of these areas to ensure that objectives are being met. As of December 31, 2015 , a total of 136 plants (including three operated through joint ventures), accounting for more than 180,000 employees, had an OHSMS in place and were OHSAS 18001-certified. Financial Services Because dealers and retail customers finance the purchase of a significant percentage of the vehicles sold worldwide, the availability and cost of financing is one of the most significant factors affecting vehicle sales volumes. Most dealers use wholesale or inventory financing arrangements to purchase vehicles from OEMs in order to maintain necessary vehicle inventory levels. Financial services companies may also provide working capital and real estate loans to facilitate investment in expansion or restructuring of the dealers’ premises. Financing may take various forms based on the nature of creditor protection provided under local law, but financial institutions tend to focus on maximizing credit protection on any financing originated in conjunction with a vehicle sale. Financing to retail customers takes a number of forms, including simple installment loans and finance leases. These financial products are usually distributed directly by the dealer and have a typical duration of three to five years. OEMs often use retail financing as a promotional tool, including through campaigns offering below market rate financing known as subvention programs. In such situations, an OEM typically compensates the financial services company up front for the difference between the financial return expected under standard market rates and the rates offered to the customer within the promotional campaign. Many automakers rely on wholly-owned or controlled finance companies to provide this financing. In other situations, OEMs have relied on joint ventures or commercial relationships with banks and other financial institutions in order to provide access to financing for dealers and retail customers. The model adopted by any particular OEM in a particular market depends upon, among other factors, its sales volumes and the availability of stable and cost-effective funding sources in that market, as well as regulatory requirements. Financial services companies controlled by OEMs typically receive funding from the OEM’s central treasury or from industrial and commercial operations of the OEM that have excess liquidity, however, they also access other forms of funding available from the banking system in each market, including sales or securitization of receivables either in negotiated sales or through securitization programs. Financial services companies controlled by OEMs compete primarily with banks, independent financial services companies and other financial institutions that offer financing to dealers and retail customers. The long-term profitability of finance companies also depends on the cyclical nature of the industry, interest rate volatility and the ability to access funding on competitive terms and to manage risks with particular reference to credit risks. OEMs within their global strategy aimed to expand their business, may provide access to financial services to their dealers and retail customers, for the financing of parts and accessories, as well as pre-paid service contracts. 31 Applicability of Banking Law and Regulation to Financial Services Several of our captive finance companies, each of which provide financial services to our customers, are regulated as financial institutions in the jurisdictions in which they operate. Fidis S.p.A. and FCA Bank S.p.A., each incorporated in Italy, are subject to Bank of Italy supervision. Banco Fidis S.A., incorporated in Brazil, is subject to Brazilian Central Bank supervision. Fiat Credito Compañia Financiera S.A., incorporated in Argentina, is subject to Argentinian Central Bank supervision. FCA Automotive Finance Co., Ltd, incorporated in China, is subject to the supervision of the Chinese Banking Regulatory Commission and People’s Bank of China. As a result, those companies are subject to regulation in a wide range of areas including solvency, capital requirements, reporting, customer protection and account administration, among other matters. Overview of Our Business We design, engineer, develop and manufacture vehicles, components and production systems worldwide through 164 manufacturing facilities and 84 research and development centers (excluding Ferrari facilities and centers). Our activities are carried out through six reportable segments: four regional mass-market vehicle segments, the Maserati global luxury brand segment and a global Components segment. Our four regional mass-market vehicle reportable segments deal with the design, engineering, development, manufacturing, distribution and sale of passenger cars, light commercial vehicles and related parts and services in specific geographic areas: NAFTA, LATAM, APAC and EMEA. We also operate on a global basis in the luxury vehicle and components sectors. In the luxury vehicle sector, we have the Maserati operating segment, while in the components sector we have three operating segments: Magneti Marelli, Teksid and Comau. We support our mass-market vehicle sales with the sale of related service parts and accessories, as well as service contracts, under the Mopar brand name. In support of our vehicle sales efforts, we make available dealer and retail customer financing either through subsidiaries or joint ventures and through strategic commercial arrangements with third party financial institutions. For our mass-market vehicle brands, we have centralized design, engineering, development and manufacturing operations, which allow us to efficiently operate on a global scale. The following list sets forth our six reportable segments: (i) NAFTA : our operations to support distribution and sales of mass-market vehicles in the United States, Canada, Mexico and Caribbean islands primarily through the Chrysler, Dodge, Fiat, Jeep, Ram and Alfa Romeo brands, and the sales of related parts and accessories under the Mopar brand name. (ii) LATAM : our operations to support the distribution and sale of mass-market vehicles in South and Central America primarily under the Fiat, Jeep, Chrysler, Dodge and Ram brands, with the largest focus of our business in the LATAM segment in Brazil and Argentina. (iii) APAC : our operations to support the distribution and sale of mass-market vehicles in the Asia Pacific region (mostly in China, Japan, Australia, South Korea and India) carried out in the region through both subsidiaries and joint ventures, primarily under the Abarth, Alfa Romeo, Chrysler, Dodge, Fiat and Jeep brands. (iv) EMEA : our operations to support the distribution and sale of mass-market vehicles in Europe (which includes the 28 members of the European Union and the members of the European Free Trade Association), the Middle East and Africa primarily under the Abarth, Alfa Romeo, Chrysler, Fiat, Fiat Professional, Jeep and Lancia brand names. (v) Maserati : the design, engineering, development, manufacturing, worldwide distribution and sale of luxury vehicles under the Maserati brand. (vi) Components : production and sale of lighting components, body control units, suspensions, shock absorbers, electronic systems, and exhaust systems and activities in powertrain (engine and transmissions) components, 32 engine control units, plastic molding components and in the after-market carried out under the Magneti Marelli brand name; cast iron components for engines, gearboxes, transmissions and suspension systems, and aluminum cylinder heads under the Teksid brand name; and design and production of industrial automation systems and related products for the automotive industry under the Comau brand name. The following chart sets forth the mass-market vehicle brands we sell in each mass-market regional segment: NAFTA LATAM APAC EMEA Abarth X X X Alfa Romeo X X X Chrysler X X X X Dodge X X X Fiat X X X X Fiat Professional X X Jeep X X X X Lancia X Ram X X ______________________ Note: Presence determined by sales in the regional segment, if material, through dealer entities of our dealer network. We also hold interests in companies operating in other activities and businesses that are not considered part of our six reportable segments. These activities are grouped under “Other Activities,” which primarily consists of companies that provide services, including accounting, payroll, tax, insurance, purchasing, information technology, facility management and security for the Group as well as CNH Industrial N.V. (“CNHI”), manage central treasury activities and operate in media and publishing. Mass-Market Vehicles Mass-Market Vehicle Brands We design, engineer, develop, manufacture, distribute and sell vehicles and service parts under 11 mass-market vehicle brands and designations. We believe that we can continue to increase our vehicle sales by building the value of our mass-market vehicle brands in particular by ensuring that each of our brands has a clear identity and market focus. Our mass-market vehicle brands are: • Abarth : Abarth, named after the company founded by Carlo Abarth in 1949, specializes in performance modification for on-road sports cars. • Alfa Romeo : Alfa Romeo, founded in 1910, and part of the Group since 1986, is known for a long, sporting tradition and Italian design. The Alfa Romeo brand is intended to appeal to drivers seeking high-level performance and handling combined with attractive and distinctive appearance. • Chrysler : Chrysler, named after the company founded by Walter P. Chrysler in 1925, aims to create vehicles with distinctive design, craftsmanship, intuitive innovation and technology standing as a leader in design, engineering and value. • Dodge : With a traditional focus on “muscle car” performance vehicles, the Dodge brand, which began production in 1914, offers a full line of vehicles intended to offer an excellent value for families looking for high performance, dependability and functionality in everyday driving situations. • Fiat : Fiat brand cars have been produced since 1899 and are currently primarily focused on the mini and small vehicle segments. The brand aims to make cars that are flexible, easy to drive, affordable and energy efficient. 33 • Fiat Professional : Fiat Professional, launched in 2007 to replace the “Fiat Veicoli Commerciali” brand, offers light commercial vehicles and MPVs for commercial use by small to medium size business and public institutions. • Jeep : Jeep, founded in 1941, is a globally recognized brand focused exclusively on the SUV and off-road vehicles market. Jeep set an all-time brand record in 2015 with over 1.3 million worldwide shipments. • Lancia : Lancia, founded in 1906, and part of the Fiat Group since 1969, covers the spectrum of small segment cars and is targeted towards the Italian market. • Ram : Ram, established as a standalone brand separate from Dodge in 2009, offers a line of full-size trucks, including light and heavy-duty pickup trucks, as well as light commercial vehicles. In addition, the Mopar brand provides a full line of service parts and accessories for our mass-market vehicles worldwide. As of December 31, 2015 , we had 51 parts distribution centers throughout the world to support our customer care efforts in each of our regions. Our Mopar brand accessories allow our customers to customize their vehicles by including after-market sales of products from side steps and lift-kits, to graphics packages, such as racing stripes, and custom leather interiors. Further, through the Mopar brand, we offer vehicle service contracts to our retail customers worldwide under the “Mopar Vehicle Protection” brand, with the majority of our service contract sales in 2015 in the U.S. and Europe. Finally, our Mopar customer care initiatives support our vehicle distribution and sales efforts in each of our mass-market segments through 25 call centers located around the world. Mass-Market Vehicle Design and Manufacturing Our mass-market vehicle brands target different groups of consumers in different regions. Leveraging the potential of our broad portfolio of brands, a key component of our strategic plan is to offer vehicles that appeal to a wide range of consumers located in each regional market. In order to optimize the mix of products we design and manufacture, a number of factors are considered, including: • consumer tastes, trends and preferences for certain vehicle types which vary based on geographic region, as well as regulatory requirements affecting our ability to meet consumer demands in those regions; • demographic trends, such as age of population and rate of family formation; • social and economic factors that affect preferences for optional features, affordability and fuel efficiency; • competitive environment, in terms of quantity and quality of competitors’ vehicles offered within a particular segment; • our brand portfolio, as each of our brands targets a different group of consumers, with the goal of avoiding overlapping product offerings or creating internal competition among brands and products; • our ability to leverage synergies with existing brands, products, platforms and distribution channels; • the impact of our products and processes on the environment; • development of a diversified portfolio of innovative technology solutions for both conventional engine technologies and alternative fuels and propulsion systems; and • manufacturing capacity, regulatory requirements and other factors that impact product development, including ability to minimize time-to-market for new vehicle launches. We also consider these factors in developing a mix of vehicles within each brand, with an additional focus on ensuring that the vehicles we develop further our brand strategy. We sell mass-market vehicles in all segments of the passenger car and truck markets. Our passenger car product portfolio includes vehicles such as the Fiat 500 (which has sold more than 1 million units globally since its launch in 2007), 34 Alfa Romeo Giulietta, Dodge Charger and Lancia Ypsilon. Our light commercial vehicles include vans such as the Fiat Professional Doblò, Fiat Professional Ducato and Ram ProMaster, and light and heavy-duty pickup trucks such as the Ram 1500 and 2500/3500. We also sell SUVs and CUVs in a number of vehicle segments, such as the Jeep Grand Cherokee, including expanding into the small SUV segment market with the recently-launched Jeep Renegade. In order to leverage our brand recognition and names in various regions, we re-badge certain vehicles manufactured and sold in a region under one brand for sale in another region under a different brand based on brand recognition and equity in the particular region. For instance, we sell a re-badged version of the Dodge Journey as the Fiat Freemont in several markets outside the NAFTA region. We also make use of common technology and parts in our vehicles. For example, we have produced almost six million Pentastar V-6 engines since 2010, for use in the Jeep Grand Cherokee, the Ram 1500 and 13 other vehicles. Because we designed this engine with flexible architecture, we can use it in a range of models, potentially with a variety of advanced technologies, such as direct injection or turbocharging. Our efforts to respond to customer demand have led to a number of important initiatives, including the commencement of localized production of a Jeep vehicle in China to be sold in China, which will leverage the Jeep brand’s name recognition in that market. Throughout our manufacturing operations, we have deployed WCM principles. WCM principles were developed by the WCM Association, a non-profit organization dedicated to developing superior manufacturing standards. We are the only OEM that is a member of the WCM Association. WCM fosters a manufacturing culture that targets improved safety, quality and efficiency, as well as the elimination of all types of waste. Unlike some other advanced manufacturing programs, WCM is designed to prioritize issues to focus on those initiatives believed likely to yield the most significant savings and improvements, and to direct resources to those initiatives. Concurrently with our January 2014 acquisition of the remaining 41.5 percent of FCA US owned by the VEBA Trust, FCA US entered into a memorandum of understanding to supplement the existing collective bargaining agreement with the International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (the “UAW”), and provide for a specific commitment to support the implementation of our WCM principles throughout FCA US's manufacturing facilities, to facilitate benchmarking across all of our manufacturing plants and actively assist in the achievement of FCA US's long-term business plan. Beginning in 2006, we engaged key suppliers in the pilot phase of WCM Lite, a program through which suppliers can learn and incorporate WCM principles into their own operations. Vehicle Sales Overview We are the seventh largest automotive OEM in the world based on worldwide new vehicle sales for the year ended December 31, 2015 . We compete with other large OEMs to attract vehicle sales and market share. Many of these OEMs have more significant financial or operating resources and liquidity at their disposal, which may enable them to invest more heavily on new product designs and manufacturing or in sales incentives. 35 Our new vehicle sales represent sales of vehicles primarily through dealers and distributors, or in some cases, directly by us, to retail customers and fleet customers. Our sales include mass-market and luxury vehicles manufactured at our plants, as well as vehicles manufactured by our joint ventures and third party contract manufacturers. Our sales figures exclude sales of vehicles that we contract manufactured for other OEMs. While our vehicle sales are illustrative of our competitive position and the demand for our vehicles, sales are not directly correlated to our revenues, cost of sales or other measures of financial performance, as such results are primarily driven by our vehicle shipments to dealers and distributors. For a discussion of our shipments, see