Q4 2017 Earnings Call

Operator
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2017 Arista Networks Financial Results Earnings Conference Call.
During the call, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. After the presentation, we will conduct
a question-and-answer session, instructions will be provided at that time. As a reminder, this
conference is being recorded and will be available for replay from the Investor Relations section
at Arista website following this call.
I will now turn the call over to Mr. `Chuck Elliott, Director, Business and Investor Development, Director of Business and Investor Development. Sir,
you may begin.
`Chuck Elliott, Director, Business and Investor Development `
Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us. With me on today's
call are `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Arista Networks' President and Chief Executive Officer; and Ita Brennan,
Arista's Chief Financial Officer.
This afternoon, Arista Networks issued a press release announcing the results for its fiscal fourth
quarter and year, ended December 31, 2017. If you would like a copy of the release, you canaccess it online at the company's website.
During the course of this conference call, Arista Networks' management will make forward-
looking statements, including those relating to our financial outlook for the first quarter of the
2018 fiscal year.
Industry innovation, our market opportunity and the impact of litigation, which are subject to the
risks and uncertainties that we discuss in detail in our documents filed with the SEC, specifically in
our most recent Form 10-Q and Form 10-K and which could cause actual results to differ materially
from those anticipated by these statements.
These forward-looking statements apply as of today and you should not rely on them as
representing our views in the future. We undertake no obligation to update these statements
after this call.
Also, please note that certain financial measures we use on this call are expressed on a non-
GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude certain charges. We have provided reconciliations
of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures in our earnings press release.
With that, I will turn the call over to Jayshree.
`Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you, Chuck, and welcome back. Thank you, everyone, for joining us this afternoon on our
fourth quarter 2017 earnings call. As you can see, our profitability growth combination was once
again demonstrated with our non-GAAP revenue of $467.9 million, while our non-GAAP EPS grew
to a record $1.71. Service contributed approximately 13% of revenue. We delivered non-GAAP
gross margins of 65.9% due to the favorable costs and lower cloud titan mix. Overall, in 2017,
gross margin came in at 64.8%.
In terms of customer trends, as of December 31, 2017, we have now acquired over 4,900
customers with Microsoft becoming 16% of the total revenue for the year. The Q4 2017
international contribution was our strongest to date at 33%, with the Americas contributing 67%.
For the full-year, the Americas were 73% and the rest of international at 27%.
In terms of verticals, in Q4 2017, enterprise was our number one vertical for the very first time in
our public company history. Cloud titans was the second largest vertical because of some 945
legal certifications where some of the complex use cases testing spilled into Q1 2018.
In terms of new products, December 2017 Arista unveiled its next-generation of cloud-grade
routing. Arista EOS version 4.20 with FlexRoute delivers transformative routing and automation.
And with that, we can now address a myriad of peering use cases across cloud, content delivery,
and internet exchanges. One such example in cable networks is operators migrating from
traditional headend to service-rich virtualized access together with our technology partner,
Harmonic.
Undoubtedly, 2017 has been a significant year for Arista. We increased our employee strength to
1,800, with 45.8% annual sales growth and a $1.646 billion in revenue. For the first time in nearly
two decades of stagnant IT, Arista is offering that compelling alternative.
Legacy vendors are on the wrong side of this trend with traditional Places-In-the-Network.
Instead, what Arista is doing is converging PINs into an elastic Places-In-the-Cloud or PICs with
LAN, WAN, Layer 2 and Layer 3 switching integration. 2017 has also been an important inflectionyear for both our routing and 100-gigabit Ethernet products. I expect robust growth to continue
ahead in 2018 together with our entry into 400-gigabit Ethernet next year.
We also delivered many powerful software innovations and containerization, data analyzers, and
our hybrid Any Cloud offering with Amazon, Microsoft, Google, Oracle and Equinix to name a few.
Coupled with meaningful traction of CloudVision, we see this as an emerging software category
for us in a couple of years. As we exit 2017, we have also surpassed the cumulative of a total 15
million cloud networking ports and are now the number one market share leader in 100-gigabit
Ethernet switching.
Our focus on the top-five verticals will continue this year. We foresee the balance across the
verticals to be similar to 2017 where the cloud titans was the number one followed by service
providers, cloud specialty providers, and enterprise tied in a three-way for second place and
financials at third place.
Scaling my leadership team is also an important goal to adapt to all this growth. Many of you may
recall that we hired John McCool in 2017 to drive hardware platforms in manufacturing as our
Chief Platform Officer.
Today, it's my pleasure to warmly and officially welcome Manny Rivelo as our Chief Sales Officer
who joined us this year in January. Manny brings seasoned general management and sales and SE
leadership from F5 and Cisco. He comes at the right time for Arista, I have personally known
Manny for 25 years and he's working closely with and for our Chief Customer Officer, Anshul
Sadana, to formulate international expansion and tailor go-to-market models for all our verticals.
What is becoming crystal clear to me is that Arista is in the forefront of the movement to
software-driven networking beyond even data center and cloud boundaries. Our ecosystem of
customers and partners are united in supporting us in this migration, and I want to give a special
kudos and thank you to all my dedicated Arista employees and my leadership team for the
systematic focus and results in the typical Arista way.
Now, I'll turn it over to Ita, for more financial specifics. Ita?
`Ita M. Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Jayshree, and good afternoon. This analysis of our Q4 and full-year 2017 results and our
guidance for Q1 2018 is based on non-GAAP and excludes all non-cash, stock-based
compensation impacts, legal costs associated with the ongoing lawsuits, and one-time tax
charges associated with the adoption of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Acts of 2017. A full reconciliation
of our selected GAAP to non-GAAP results is provided in our earnings release.
Total revenues in Q4 were $467.9 million, up 42.7% year-over-year and above our guidance of
$450 million to $464 million. Services revenues represented approximately 13% of revenue,
consistent with last quarter. International revenues for the quarter came in at $153.8 million, or
33% of total revenue, up from 27% in the prior period.
While some of this shift in geographical mix was driven by the timing of 945-related qualifications
with our U.S. customers, we also experienced healthy growth in our international businesses in the
period. Overall gross margin in Q4 was 65.9%, up from 64.4% last quarter and above the
midpoint of our guidance of 63% to 65%. This outperformance in gross margin for the quarter
reflected a more favorable customer mix, with a higher contribution from our enterprise and
other verticals offsetting lower cloud titans revenue.Operating expenses for the quarter were $139.3 million, up significantly from $112.9 million last
quarter. R&D spending came in at $96 million, or 20.5% of revenue, up from $68.6 million in the
prior period. This reflected increased NRE spending, combined with continued head count
growth. Sales and marketing expense was $33.5 million, or 7.2% of revenue, down from $35.5
million last quarter with reduced demo and sales costs.
Our operating income for the quarter was $168.9 million, or 36.1% of revenue. Other income and
expense for the quarter was a favorable $2.2 million and our effective tax rate was 19.8%,
reflecting the favorable impact of the increased international revenue mix discussed above. This
resulted in a net income for the quarter of $137.3 million, or 29.4%. Our diluted share number for
the quarter was 80.24 million shares, resulting in a diluted earnings per share number of $1.71, up
64.3% from the prior year.
For those of you focused on our GAAP results, our GAAP tax rate for the quarter came in at
26.7%. This reflected the favorable impact of significant excess tax benefits on share-based
awards in the quarter, combined with a favorable geographical mix mentioned above, and offset
by the inclusion of $51.8 million of additional tax charges associated with the recently enacted Tax
Act. These share-related excess tax benefits and the one-time tax charges have been excluded
from the non-GAAP tax rate discussed above. Legal expenses associated with the ongoing
lawsuits came in at $9.1 million for the quarter and are also excluded from our non-GAAP results.
Now turning to the balance sheet; cash, cash equivalents and investments ended the quarter at
approximately $1.5 billion. We generated $183.7 million in cash from operations in the December
quarter, this reflects strong net income performance, combined with a decrease in supply-chain
related working capital and deferred revenue amounts.
DSOs came in at 49 days, up from 45 days in Q3, reflecting the timing of billings in the quarter.
Inventory turns were 1.8 times, up from 1.7 times in Q3. Inventory decreased to $306.2 million in
the quarter, down from $333.2 million in the prior period, this primarily reflects reductions in raw
materials as we continue to optimize our supply chain. In addition, consistent with last quarter, we
maintained a further $34 million of inventory deposits recorded in other assets at the end of
quarter.
Our total deferred revenue balance was $515.3 million, down from $565.1 in Q3. Our product-
deferred revenue balance declined in the quarter due to the expiration of prior-period new
product and new customer acceptance clauses. The 2017 year-end product-deferred revenue
balance was essentially flat to 2016 levels. Accounts payable were 30 days, up from 19 days in
Q3, reflecting the timing of inventory receipts and payments. Capital expenditures for the quarter
were $2.9 million.
Now turning to our outlook for the first quarter and beyond; we are pleased with the strong
execution underlying our 2017 financial performance with 46% revenue growth and 70% growth in
earnings per share on a year-over-year basis. Looking forward to 2018, we believe that the
demand drivers for the business remain strong and we are well-positioned to benefit from the
continuing growth in cloud networking across our customer base. That said, we will face some
tough comparables for year-over-year revenue growth as we move through 2018.
And with this in mind, I would reiterate Jayshree's comments from last quarter with respect to
top-line growth moderating to a more typical mid-20s% rate for the year. On the gross margin
front, we would reiterate our gross margin outlook of 63% to 65%, with customer mix being the
key driver of where we operate within this range. This assumes a positive outcome on the
remaining legal matters with no disruption to our supply-chain. While we will remain cautious inrelation to our spending ramp, we also expect that over time our operating expense investments
will gravitate towards our long-term model of 20% R&D, 10% sales and marketing, and 3% G&A.
We will adopt ASU 606 (sic) [ASC 606] (13:20) in the first quarter of 2018. We expect this new
guidance will have minimal impact on our operating model. We will re-class a small amount of
sales commissions from retained earnings to other assets in the first quarter of 2018 and going
forward our CloudVision deferred revenue amounts will be reported as contract liabilities on the
balance sheet.
In addition, following the adoption of the Tax Act in December, we expect our go-forward non-
GAAP tax rate to range from 19% to 21%, reflecting the lower tax rate on our U.S. business,
partially offset by higher U.S. taxes on foreign earnings. This represents our current best estimate
of the impacts, knowing that elements of the tax legislation are still being refined.
With all of this as a backdrop, our guidance for the first quarter, which is based on non-GAAP
results, and excludes any non-cash stock-based compensation impacts, any legal costs
associated with the ongoing lawsuits, is as follows: revenues of approximately $450 million to
$468 million, gross margins of approximately 63% to 65%, operating margin of approximately
32%. Our effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 20% with diluted shares of
approximately 81 million. Please note that based on our current outlook, we expect costs
associated with the ongoing lawsuits to be approximately $8 million for the quarter.
I'll now turn the call back to Chuck. Chuck?
`Chuck Elliott, Director, Business and Investor Development `
Thank you, Ita. We are now going to move to the Q&A portion of the Arista earnings call. Due to
time constraints, I'd like to request that, everyone, please limit themselves to a single question.
Q&A
Operator
We will now begin the Q&A portion of the Arista earnings call. Your first question comes from the
line of `Mark Moskowitz, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. from Barclays. Your line is open.
Q - `Mark Moskowitz, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Yes. Thank you. Good afternoon. So my question really is around the glide path for 2018 full-year
revenue growth of the mid-20s%. How should investors think about the composition in terms of
enterprise? Will enterprise still continue to be a top one or two vertical? Or will there be other
changes with respect to the main verticals? And then within that, how important is routing to the
enterprise as far as adoption? Thank you.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, Mark. I did try to say this in my script. We had an unusual bump in enterprise for Q4, but
just to go back on 2017, our number one vertical was cloud titans and our number two vertical was
tied between enterprise, service provider, and cloud specialty providers and number three was
financials. I pretty much expect the same mix in 2018. I can't exactly tell between two, three and
four how they'll go; they may be different in each quarter, but I fully expect cloud titans to be our
number one vertical in 2018. So the mix will remain quite similar.And in terms of routing, routing is really a horizontal across all our verticals. This is a transition, as
you know, that has been going on for two years. I would say there are two forms of routing.
There's the heavy-duty FlexRoute routing, which is largely for service providers, for internet
peering use cases, and there's the, more the Layer 2, Layer 3 switching which, frankly, a majority
of our customers use.
So routing is quickly becoming an option across our entire customer base. But in terms of heavy-
duty FlexRoute, what we've now seen is we've been steadily increasing our customer base.
We're well over 200 customers in 2017. And I expect it to continue to be somewhere in the 15%
to 20% of our new customer acquisitions.
Operator
And your next question comes from `Rod Hall, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC from Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
Q - `Rod Hall, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Yes. Hi, guys. Thanks for taking the question. So I wanted to ask you, I guess, one question in two
parts. One is, one is related to 945. Can you just talk a little bit about – is there anything you can
do to quantify that for us? And also, help us understand how 945 might have impacted the
guidance?
And then can you also talk about AI workloads? And what you think your share there is? I know
you've got 25% share in 100-gig, but how are you doing in, particularly, the cloud titan AI
workloads? Are you – do you feel like you have a higher share than what we see in some of the
market data? Thank you.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Welcome, Rod, to Goldman Sachs. I'll take the first question and then punt it to my General
Counsel, `Marc Taxay, Senior Vice President & General Counsel, here. In terms of 945, we got some really good news on Valentine's Day
yesterday that I'll let Marc elaborate on that pretty much affirms the PTAB decision to invalidate
the 668 patent.
But I think the patent you're talking about, the workarounds, is really the ACCO patent, the 577.
And we expected most of the testing and certifications, the simple ones to take two to four
weeks and the more complex ones to take 10 weeks. And because we ran into the holiday
season, there were a couple of complex use cases that spilled into Q1 2018 that should really
impact our Q2, Q3, Q4 2018 revenue more than 2018 Q1 itself. So the certifications did take
longer. I'm very comfortable that there's a light at the end of the tunnel in Q1 and most of the
cases have been completed, but the complex ones will be completed in Q1. Marc, do you want to
add to the legal updates?
A - `Marc Taxay, Senior Vice President & General Counsel `
Yes. Sure. Yes, I think, first of all, we were very grateful that the Federal Circuit affirmed the PTAB
decision yesterday to invalidate the 668 patent. So, this was a very important step for us in the
945 case. The other remaining patent that Jayshree was alluding to at the outset (19:04) Apple
patent. That, as a reminder, is also subject to IPR appeal. We won the IPR on that last year. We do
feel good about that as well. But regardless of the outcome on that one, that patent expires on
June 30.
At this stage, despite the recent Federal Circuit decision and the PTAB decision, we still remainmotion – a suspension of the ITC orders based upon the recent 668 decision, at least with
respect to the 668, but in the interim, we continue to sell the re-designs, and we continue to
move forward in the modification proceeding.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
So switching gears to AI workloads, as you know, Andy Bechtolsheim spoke about this at the
technology conference, and we see this as a huge long-term driver. It's still too early to talk about
use cases in our cloud titans, most of them are in experimental stage, but we are working very
closely with storage vendors and Nvidia. And the network is clearly going to require more and
more bandwidth. So 100-gigabit Ethernet workloads and in the future 400-gigabit will become an
important requirement for the vast amount of data-crunching and analytics required on AI
workloads.
Q - `Rod Hall, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
That's great. Thank you, Jayshree.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you, Rod.
Operator
And your next question comes from Patrick Newton from Stifel. Your line is open.
Q - `Patrick Michael Newton, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
I guess recent commentary from your competitors is that they're addressing disruption in the
routing market with routers architected to deliver cloud-scale economics, like the PTX or NCS. So
do you view these solutions as cost and performance competitive with your R Series? And then
on the switching side, where competitors state their spine support routing functionality, can you
comment on how FlexRoute is fundamentally differentiated?
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Okay. So, first of all, I think some of my competitors have noted there's a routing transition and an
architectural shift going on. I just want to be clear it's been going on for three years, not one
quarter. So, legacy and core routers have been migrating to the spine for quite some time, and
the Arista 7500R and 7280R has really become the gold standard for universal leaf-and-spine,
both switching and routing. When you need that kind of cloud-grade routing and performance, a
large number of customers just love to go with that, both, not just for the performance but the
unmatched availability and programmability.
In terms of products that are in the market, there's a lot of routers in the market. Arista is not a
router company. What we are really doing is moving to more and more use cases for routing and
really peering use cases, peering across the internet, across content, across the cloud. And the
reality is our leaf-spine architecture has given us a real natural entry into that use case because
people have tested and qualified us for that, they don't have to have a separate box or a
separate function.
So I think the 7500R and 7280R really stand out for being not just great routing but great
switching. And, as I said before, they're occupying multiple positions and Places-In-the-Cloud forthat. So there's not a like-for-like comparison, we think it's truly unique and differentiated and
that's reflected in why we've been so well accepted this last year.
Q - `Patrick Michael Newton, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Thank you for taking my question.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, Patrick.
Operator
Your next question comes from Erik Suppiger with JMP. Your line is open.
Q - `Erik L. Suppiger, Analyst, JMP Securities LLC `
Yes. Coming back to the 945 case. I thought you had introduced the workarounds in the
September quarter. So I'm a little confused on the timing. Can you just walk us through the timing
on what's stalling some of the titans?
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yes, so we've – the first time we introduced it was absolutely the month of September, but
majority of the certifications – we did a little bit of it in September – but majority of the
certifications were really completed in Q4. And then some of them spilled over to Q1. So
September and Q1 was a few, majority was Q4. Do you want to add anything?
Q - `Erik L. Suppiger, Analyst, JMP Securities LLC `
And you said in September you had some business that fell out of the September quarter in light
of that, did that business close in the December quarter, and these are additional projects on top
of that?
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yes. That's exactly correct. Those that we were testing in September closed in Q4. The ones we
couldn't finish were the more complex-use cases that we were not testing in September.
Q - `Erik L. Suppiger, Analyst, JMP Securities LLC `
Okay. And those are going to probably fall into the Q1; is that correct?
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
The completion of the testing will absolutely be in Q1. The business may be...
Q - `Erik L. Suppiger, Analyst, JMP Securities LLC `
Very good.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Q1 or Q2 or Q3 or Q4. We can't say exactly.
Q - `Erik L. Suppiger, Analyst, JMP Securities LLC `All right. Very good. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from Steve Milunovich with UBS. Your line is open.
Q - `Steven Milunovich, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Thank you. You indicated that Microsoft was 16% of revenue, which I think was the same number
in the previous year, and yet coming into the year you suggested it would be less, so it sounds
like it did better than you expected. Could you talk about why that was the case, and what you're
looking for in 2018?
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yes. No. I want to give a big shout-out to Anshul Sadana, my entire Microsoft engineering team
and Areese (24:34) in Seattle. We didn't expect Microsoft spending to be so strong. And
although, we are still in the early to mid-innings with many of our cloud titans, we really attribute
this to two things. One is the success of Microsoft itself and their expansion in Azure, and the
second is Arista's expansion into a number of use cases. So, we find ourselves going into a
number of tiers ranging all the way from the SONiC tier, which is their layer 0 Tier to Tiers 1, 2, 3,
4, 5. So I think the use cases grew for Arista and grew for Microsoft as well. So it was a win-win.
Q - `Steven Milunovich, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Any expectation for this year?
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Well, since I guessed poorly last year, I'm going to refrain from guessing, but I think there'll still be
a 10% concentration customer.
Q - `Steven Milunovich, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Thanks.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Alex Henderson, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC from Needham. Your line is open.
Q - `Alex Henderson, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `
My primary question is just on the enterprise side. Can you give us some granularity on kind of
the rate of growth within that, and how that splits domestically and internationally? But I was
hoping you would give us some guidance on the 2018 tax rate, which I don't think I heard earlier.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yes. Actually, why don't I let Ita answer the tax rate question, while I rummage through some stat
for you, Alex.A - `Ita M. Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, Alex. We said we think it'll range from 19% to 21%, probably with 20% at the midpoint is a
good place to start, right, given everything that we know now about the new rules, right?
Q - `Alex Henderson, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `
Great. Thanks.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Okay. So looking at the enterprise sector, we just had a very strong sector just like we did in Q3.
Lots of new customer – it was almost neck-to-neck with Q3, record number of million-dollar
customers in both Q3 and Q4. CloudVision is becoming a very important piece of the enterprise
customer purchase. So, as you know, this has been something we launched in 2016, but we are
now well over 200, in fact, our customer count exceeds 250 cumulatively, so I'm going to
challenge the team to double that in 2018. And I think a large contribution to that is our enterprise
customers.
In terms of international and domestic mix, Mark Foss is helping me here. International is higher,
so I would say, it's like a 60/40 split in the enterprise, approximately, and that speaks to also the
way our improved stats on international overall from 2016 to 2017. Enterprise is clearly
contributing there.
Q - `Alex Henderson, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `
Could you give us any sense of the rough magnitude of the growth rate on that? Or is that too
asking too much?
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I think I don't have the answers, Alex, but probably asking too much as always, but no problem.
Thanks for trying.
Q - `Alex Henderson, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `
Thanks. Bye-bye.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, Alex.
Operator
Your next question comes from James Fish with Piper Jaffray. Your line is open.
Q - `James E. Fish, Analyst, Piper Jaffray & Co. `
Great. Thanks for the question. I really appreciate it. I guess, first, you guys had a very strong free
cash flow this quarter. How should we think about free cash flow going forward, and the
sustainability of these free-cash-flow margins? And then, any update to the 944 case at this
point?
A - `Ita M. Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `Yes. I'll take the cash flow question. Our free cash flow is going to pretty much follow our
operating, our net income performance, right, and the performance of the business. There's very
little CapEx and other adjustments that happened to that. So I think, as the business performs,
you'll see the free cash flow follow that pretty closely. There's services, deferred revenue that will
continue to grow. Obviously, that generates cash off the balance sheet, but outside of that, it's
pretty much well tied to the net income performance and, Marc, if you want to take the other
question.
A - `Marc Taxay, Senior Vice President & General Counsel `
Sure. So on the 944 there was a remand hearing in January. We believe that went well and we
continue to feel upbeat about where we stand in that litigation. The judge is supposed to issue
his decision in June with the final decision by the Commission in August, early August.
Q - `James E. Fish, Analyst, Piper Jaffray & Co. `
Great. Thanks.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from Alex Kurtz with KeyBanc Capital Markets. Your line is open.
Q - `Steven Enders, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc. `
Hey, guys. This is Steve Enders on for Alex. I was hoping we could maybe get a better
understanding of what you're anticipating from a revenue glide path, maybe, over the year? How
do you expect growth rates to kind of trend there? And also I just wanted to clarify, are you guys
expecting a 400-gigabit adoption hit this year, or is that more of a 2019 event? Thanks.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Ita is going to take the first question.
A - `Ita M. Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I mean, I think, Steve, that you've seen the guidance for Q1, so obviously, I think the
comparables for Q1 have us growing 40% year-over-year with the guide, the upper end of the
guidance that we just gave you. I think for the rest of the year, we said kind of mid-20s% for the
total year. I don't know there's any particular linearity to that that we can see at this stage, but
that's kind of the two bookends, right?
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yes. And on 400-gig, I'll just step back and give you a little bit more of a tutorial. We saw that 10-
gig had a very long tail for almost 10 years, and then many vendors jumped in with 40-gig as did
Arista, but 100 gig we believe, first of all, has an extremely long tail unlike 40 gig, so we think the
relevant bandwidth (30:08) points is really going to be 100-gig for a very long time, with the
option to do 10-gig, 25-gig, or 50-gig on the service or storage IO connections. 400-gig is going
to be very important in certain-use cases and you can expect Arista is working very hard at it and
will be as always first or early to market.The mainstream 400-gig market is going to take multiple years. I believe initial trials will be in
2019 but the mainstream market will be even later. And just because 400-gig comes, by the way,
doesn't mean 100-gig goes away. They're really going to be in tandem. The more we do of 400-
gig, the more we will also do of 100-gig, so they're really together. It's not either/or.
Q - `Steven Enders, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc. `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Ita M. Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, Steve.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Paul Silverstein, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC with Cowen & Company. Your line is open.
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Thanks. Given your response to Alex, I can't wait. Just kidding, Jayshree. So going back to the
delay by the – that you referenced last quarter and this quarter with respect to some of your
cloud customers in connection with the workaround, can you give us a sense for the magnitude of
the revenue that got displaced? I mean, clearly from your comments not all the revenue was
displaced but some of it in connection with the more complex-use cases. Any boundaries you can
put on that for us?
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yes. So, Paul, I want to reiterate for everybody that no competitor displaced our revenue.
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
No, I didn't mean to suggest competitive displacement, Jayshree, I just meant...
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Okay. Okay. So I want to be very clear on that, but it did take longer and it was really important as
we're going into some mission-critical production sites in these complex use cases that the cloud
operators and the cloud titans especially had extra testing. And so I would say – let's, you know,
roughly in terms of percentage, 20% of the use cases were complex and moved out.
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
And can you translate that for us in dollar terms?
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
No, but nice try.
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `If I may, you've been kind enough to update us periodically on the competitive landscape with
respect to cloud in general. So my question to you is has there been any changes either in terms
of competitive displacement among the web scale folks, as well as your specialty as you call
them your specialty providers either by other competitors or by any meaningful movement to
white box solutions?
And can you tell us, I think at your Analyst Day and periodically since you've told us that your
hyper-scale folks, I think the number was 25% or thereabouts, can you give us an update on what
they were collectively for calendar 2017?
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
We have seen no appreciable change in competitive landscape in our cloud titan or cloud scale
customers. So, the answer to all your questions is really in one nutshell, no, we haven't seen any
change.
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
And the contribution for 2017 from the hyper-scale?
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
It says (33:20), was the number one vertical, the cloud titans is the number one vertical out of our
five.
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Okay. All right. I appreciate it. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Stanley Kovler, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. with Citi Research. Your line is open.
Q - `Stanley Kovler, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Thanks for taking my question. Just to try on the quantification front one more time, 20% of
workloads in cloud titan being pushed out, that sounds like about 3% or so of revenue, if that
makes sense. But the broader question on the cloud titans is that if you look at it, the spending of
some of your cloud titan customers, some are doubling their CapEx spending. Do you expect
that to drive the international part of your business? Or will that be in the U.S. as we look at the
business growing mid-20s%, just curious how you think about the mix between U.S. and
international in that context? Thanks.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I think that's a really good question. So clearly, first of all, I've made this point before and I'd really
like to make it again. I know it's easy to put a one-to-one correlation between the cloud CapEx
and the Arista spend. I think it's important not to look at it so precisely because the cloud CapEx
has a lot of components to it and the networking is a very small piece. And the second point I
want to make is our visibility with our cloud customers, although getting better, is still muchSo even though the cloud cap expense for 2018 may be great, we have much more visibility to
what might happen in one or two quarters, not the whole year. So I think it's really important to
understand that.
Now, the one thing I will say is one of the things we noticed as a trend in 2017 that we think will
continue in 2018 with all the cloud titans is since they began a lot of their expansion early in the
U.S., a lot of their later expansion will be in international sites. So, we expect at least a 50-50
maybe even a higher contribution from international with our cloud titans.
Q - `Stanley Kovler, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Thanks.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, Stan.
Operator
Your next question comes from Simon Leopold with Raymond James. Your line is open.
Q - `Simon M. Leopold, Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
Just check on something of whether or not your forecast for the first quarter reflects an
assumption of some catch-up from the titans, or whether that's an event you think is later in the
year. And in terms of a big picture question, I wanted to see if you could comment on your
thoughts about the pros and cons of Arista participating in the campus switching market? I
assume that's something you're not that interested in but just wanted to understand strategically
how you would frame that? Thank you.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, Simon. So, as you know, our first quarter is usually our toughest quarter. It's seasonally
slow and our guidance reflects that. It does incorporate cloud titans like it always does but
nothing unusual in that guidance. It's normal. And we think any completion of certifications will not
have an immediate impact on Q1, but will have a more gradual impact over the rest of the year.
In terms of campus, I think one of the phenomenons I'm seeing is – and I tried to say this in my
opening script, that the well-defined boxes and Places-In-The-Network where you have a campus
box, a data center box, a branch box, a core box, is really changing. And what our customers are
really pushing us to do is look at campus as an extension of the cloud or look at new drivers in the
campus. And so while we have no intentions of participating at this time in any kind of traditional
campus market, we have every intention of disrupting the traditional campus market as currently
defined.
Q - `Simon M. Leopold, Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from James Faucette with Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.
Q - `James E. Faucette, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `Thank you very much. I just wanted to go back to the international market. And maybe can you
help us understand, they're bouncing around a fair amount in terms of contribution right now. Can
you help us understand how those – where you think those might end up? And also give us any
insight as to which geographies and types of customers you're seeing internationally? And how
we should think about the evolution of your opportunities outside the U.S? Thanks.
A - `Ita M. Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, I think James, I definitely look at the numbers for the year as a better way of looking at it. So
if you look at it, we were at 27% international, which is up from our kind of typical 25% historically. I
think that's a better way to think about it than some of the swings in the last a couple of quarters,
right?
So I think we're seeing some good, steady progress internationally. That business is growing well,
like, what I would call the in-region business, even if we carve out some of the cloud titan effects
that we just talked about, right? The in-region business is growing well, and it's still relatively
small, so you can see it be lumpy between APAC and Europe, but both are actually – if you look at
it over time – growing at a faster rate than the U.S.
Q - `James E. Faucette, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Thanks very much.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, James.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Vijay Bhagavath, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. with Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.
Q - `Vijay Bhagavath, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Yes. Hey. Good afternoon, Jayshree, Ita. Hi.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Hi, Vijay.
Q - `Vijay Bhagavath, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Hi, Jayshree. I'd like to get a state-of-state from you in the sense of international and also telcos
here in the U.S. At least our view is that's kind of your next phase of growth, so give us a state-of-
state on how business is proceeding, how is sales? Any interesting projects you could share with
us in the international markets and also at the telcos? Thanks.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Sure. I think in international we are doing very well in several countries, and in general I would tell
you we're acquiring customers faster internationally than we are in the U.S. I think 60% of our
customer acquisition in 2017 was international. So the projects are many, and the size of deal is
smaller, just to put it bluntly, right?
In terms of service providers, switching gears though, those are not small deals by any means,
and we view service providers in the midst of a transformation, where the traditional trafficengineering is going to start looking more and more like cloud networks and resemble what
we're doing with Ethernet and IP and leaf-and-spine.
So these leaf-spine cloud architectures are now permeating the service providers. We're starting
to see some big RFPs, and we've experienced some wins in 2017. I think 2018 will be an important
year. Ken Kiser, Jonathan and the entire team is really working hard on this worldwide with many.
And what we really see is that deterministic performance where getting out of leaf-spine is going
to transform the SP networks for many of the peering use cases. And this is a tremendous Layer
2 and Layer 3 opportunity for us, so we expect to see service provider contribute better in 2018
than 2017.
Q - `Vijay Bhagavath, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Okay. Thanks, Jayshree.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, Vijay. Spelled correctly.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC with Wells Fargo. Your line is open.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Yes. Thanks for taking a question. A lot of questions have already been answered, but – or asked
and answered – but I want to go, kind of, back to the guidance and, kind of, how you're thinking
about the flow-through effect of deferred revenue as we progress through 2018? I can
appreciate that you've communicated that you would have expected deferred revenue to
decline here going forward. It looks like short-term deferred was down 20-some-odd-percent
sequentially. So I'm curious of how we should think about that, relative to the revenue
expectations over the next couple of quarters?
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yes. I think now that's kind of a deferred balance – the product-deferred balance is back in line
with what we've seen historically and it's pretty much consistent with where we were this time last
year. We're not going to try to, honestly, guide the movements in the product-deferred going
forward, right? We've kind of worked through the acceptances, et cetera, that we had with the –
associated with the R Series that had caused it to move around so much. But I think we're through
that now, and it's just back to a normal kind of deferred level. But I'm not sure that we're going to
try to forecast that as we go forward.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Okay. Thank you very much.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, Aaron.
Operator
Your next question comes from George Notter with Jefferies. Your line is open.Q - `George C. Notter, Analyst, Jefferies LLC `
Hi. Thanks very much. I guess I just wanted to follow-up on that last question. So was the step-
down in deferred sequentially, was that consistent with what you guys were looking for coming
into the quarter? And then also I assume that all of that R Series product revenue is largely out of
the deferred number now. Is that correct? Thanks.
A - `Ita M. Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, I mean, I think it's pretty much in line with what we were expecting coming in. A lot of it – a lot
of what's left in the deferred revenue balance at this stage, a portion of that is going to be 945
qualification related and then some other stuff. But kind of the concentration of R Series, new-
product type stuff that was there during the year, last year has definitely been processed at this
point.
Q - `George C. Notter, Analyst, Jefferies LLC `
Great. Okay. Thanks very much.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, George.
Operator
Your next question comes from `James Kisner, Analyst, Loop Capital Markets LLC with Loop Capital Markets. Your line is open.
Q - `James Kisner, Analyst, Loop Capital Markets LLC `
Thank you for the question. I understand your comment on tough comps in 2018. I'm just
wondering if you could talk about whether you see any gating factors to your growth in 2018,
whether they be external or internal, availability of optics, availability of silicon, CapEx or
construction constraints?
And conversely, perhaps you could talk about any major swing factors that could lead to upside to
your 25% (43:37) growth forecast in 2018, and whether you have any constraints to address
potential upside opportunities? Thanks.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
James, welcome to your first Arista call. No, we don't see anything major. We've done a good job
of planning and forecasting our inventory and, from a supply-chain perspective, there's been a lot
of work that's gone on. With our top customers, we have a great deal of intimacy on the forecast,
and they let us know even before they book orders sometimes what kind of demand they
expect. Of course, it can change dramatically. But we feel good about the projects ahead and the
opportunity ahead and we are putting all the right plans in place for it.
Q - `James Kisner, Analyst, Loop Capital Markets LLC `
I guess I need a clarification here. I mean, I'm looking at the growth in 100-gig ports and optics,
for example, in 2018 and, obviously, they're going to be up a lot more than 25 and I'm just kind of
wondering if it's perhaps because switches are deployed in advance of the optics? And obviously,
you're not all 100-gig, but it just seems like quite a gap in the difference in volumes. Maybe you
could clarify that a little bit. Thank you.A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
So, the Layer 1 optics decisions aren't always made in conjunction with Arista's switching and
routing. Sometimes they're together and sometimes they're entirely separate, like data center
interconnect decisions. So you won't see a one-to-one correlation.
Secondly, sometimes you won't even see a one-to-one correlation in our applications because
they may already have acquired the optics from another vendor or they may have spares (44:53).
So, that's one area where you really can't correlate a lot between the routers and the
accessories.
Q - `James Kisner, Analyst, Loop Capital Markets LLC `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, James.
Operator
Your next question comes from Jeff Kvaal from Nomura Instinet. Your line is open.
Q - `Jeffrey Thomas Kvaal, Analyst, Instinet/Nomura `
Thank you very much. I wanted to ask about the mid-20% outlook for 2018, starting from the
40%-ish number in the March quarter. That seems like an awfully sharp deceleration. I get it that
we're not in the same 100G migration, you don't have the buildup of 7500 to work with. But why,
why might the market – why might your revenue slowdown that much? I mean, CapEx is going up
quite dramatically as was previously noted.
A - `Ita M. Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I mean, Jeff, I think if you look at the comparables for last year, I mean, we really saw the
spike in growth, kind of the 50%-plus kind of growth rates happen in the middle of the year,
right? So I think Q1, it's starting off a slightly different base, right? And, again, this is our outlook as
we sit here today, having kind of looked at all of the information that we have. We'll feel good
about that. It's a good, solid outlook for next year, and then we'll see where we go from there.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yes, and...
Q - `Jeffrey Thomas Kvaal, Analyst, Instinet/Nomura `
Okay. So maybe, Ita, it would be fair to say that you don't have the visibility beyond midyear with
some of the biggest accounts, so – which is normal. So therefore, take a pretty cautious view of
how things might proceed beyond the window of visibility?
A - `Ita M. Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I mean, it's really hard to plan out the linearity a year out, right? I think ...
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `Let me go back to – if you asked Ita and me whether we'd have 50% growth increases in 2017,
we certainly didn't forecast it. It came upon us suddenly because the cloud titans suddenly had a
use case and application. So when we look at the overall year and when we look at how to plan
the year, just like we did in 2017, we think a growth rate in the 20s to 30s, with an average of 25%
is a very, very good growth rate. It's not cautious. It's realistic. And if something really good
happens beyond that, that's great, or if something really bad happens, we'll let you know. Hope is
not a strategy. This is our best effort at predicting what that growth would be.
Q - `Jeffrey Thomas Kvaal, Analyst, Instinet/Nomura `
Yes. I didn't catch the 50% growth either. Grumpity, grumpity.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yes, so...
Q - `Jeffrey Thomas Kvaal, Analyst, Instinet/Nomura `
Okay. Thank you very much.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, Jeff.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Hendi Susanto, Analyst, Gabelli & Company, Inc. from Gabelli. Your line is open.
Q - `Hendi Susanto, Analyst, Gabelli & Company, Inc. `
Good evening, Jayshree and Ita. Good results as you finished 2017. Arista's cash has grown to $1.5
billion and it generated strong free cash flow of over $600 million in 2017. How should investors
think about the use of cash in the future?
A - `Ita M. Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I mean, I think at this stage, Hendi, we're still in the mode of growing and investing in the
business. So I think we look at that as something that we'll continue to generate and use for the
business. Beyond that, we're not opposed to looking at some capital allocation stuff later on, just
philosophically. But it's too early, right? We're still a relatively early-stage, high-growth company.
So we (48:12) think about that as cash that we'll hold for the business in the near term.
Q - `Hendi Susanto, Analyst, Gabelli & Company, Inc. `
Thank you.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
And I think we're going to continue to invest where we've always been strong in execution, which
is our R&D and our go-to-market and systems engineers and sales and marketing. So we'll
certainly put it to good use and you saw us spending a lot more than you probably forecasted in
Q4.
Q - `Hendi Susanto, Analyst, Gabelli & Company, Inc. `Got it. Thanks, Jayshree and Ita.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, Hendi.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Tal Liani, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch with Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Your line is open.
Q - `Tal Liani, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hi. Just clarification on deferred. What's driving deferred down? Is it timing of revenue recognition
following announcements of features or maybe following approvals of the workaround? I'm trying
to understand if there is the two trends here. On one hand, you get the orders in an orderly
manner and on the other hand there is like odd fluctuation because of timing of certain things. So
if it's not it, if you can just explain what are the puts and takes in the deferred revenues. Thanks.
A - `Ita M. Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
I mean, there's probably two factors, right? One is we're closing out on features, et cetera, that
we needed to deliver and on acceptances that we had in contracts. You know the R Series is over
a year and in the market now so we're seeing a lot of those close out, so we're not generating as
much deferred revenue because of that.
I think, secondly, we were still qualifying some of these design-around in the fourth quarter and
that did affect the linearity of invoicing and stuff. I think the underlying business is solid. It's more
the timing of shipments, billing, and how it's belonged to the deferred.
Q - `Tal Liani, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
So going forward, you expect the deferred – I think you said normal level but what I'm trying to
understand is going forward you would expect the deferred to go more in line with bookings kind
of with the orders you're getting? If the orders go up and you can recognize it goes up and vice
versa? Or do you still have these backlog of things that need to be recognized because of timing
of features and approvals?
A - `Ita M. Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. No, I think it's more that, you know, the deferred product, deferred revenue was never a
topic of conversation prior to 2017. It was very much a factor of the new products – new product
features and new customers that we were engaging with in 2017.
Actually, under the new accounting rules under 606, even a similar transition to that would not
drive the same amount of deferred revenue going forward in the future. That guidance is very
much geared towards an early recognition of revenue. So I think as we go forward, deferred
revenue will be much less of a topic from a product perspective and you'll see the services
deferred revenue continue to grow.
Q - `Tal Liani, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thank you.
A - `Chuck Elliott, Director, Business and Investor Development `This concludes the Arista Q4 2017 Earnings Call. I also want to mention that we have posted a
presentation, which provides additional information on our fiscal results, which you can access on
the Investor Section of our website. Thank you to everyone for joining us today.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you, everyone.
Operator
Thank you for joining, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's call. You may now disconnect.