Q4 2018 Earnings Call

Operator
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2018 Arista Networks' Financial Results Earnings Conference Call.
During the call, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. After the presentation, we will conduct
a question-and-answer session. Instructions will be provided at that time.
As a reminder, this conference is being recorded and will be available for replay from the Investor
Relations section at the Arista website following this call.
I will now turn the call over to Mr. `Chuck Elliott, Director, Business and Investor Development, Director of Business and Investor Development. Sir,
you may begin.
`Chuck Elliott, Director, Business and Investor Development `
Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us. With me on today's
call are `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Arista Networks' President and Chief Executive Officer; and Ita Brennan,
Arista's Chief Financial Officer.This afternoon, Arista Networks issued a press release announcing the results for its fiscal fourth
quarter and year ended December 31, 2018. If you would like a copy of the release, you can
access it online at the company's website.
During the course of this conference call, Arista Networks management will make forward-looking
statements, including those relating to our financial outlook for the fourth quarter of 2018 fiscal
year, industry innovation, market opportunity, the benefits of recent acquisitions, and the impact
of litigation, which are subject to the risks and uncertainties that we discuss in detail in our
documents filed with the SEC, specifically in our most recent Form 10-Q and Form 10-K, and which
could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these statements. These
forward-looking statements apply as of today and you should not rely on them as representing
our views in the future. We undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call.
Also, please note that certain financial measures we use on this call are expressed on a non-
GAAP basis, and have been adjusted to exclude certain charges. We have provided
reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures in our earnings
press release.
With that, I will turn the call over to Jayshree.
`Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you, Chuck. Happy Valentine's Day, everyone, and welcome to our fourth quarter 2018
earnings call. In terms of Q4 specifics, our profitability growth combination was once again
demonstrated with a non-GAAP revenue of $595.7 million, while our non-GAAP earnings per
share grew to a record $2.25.
Services contributed approximately 15.5% of revenue, consistent with it being typically higher as a
percentage of overall revenue towards the Q4 end of year. Our margins, in a non-GAAP basis,
were 64.1%, influenced strongly by our performance from our cloud titan vertical. Overall, 2018
gross margins came in at 64.4%.
In terms of customer trends, we registered a record number of million-dollar customers in Q4,
symptomatic of our enterprise vertical momentum. By the end of 2018, we had acquired a
cumulative of approximately 5,600 customers with Microsoft at 27% of total revenue.
The combination of an unprecedented year with multiple design wins coupled with the release of
deferred revenue due to legal certifications made 2018 a unique one-of-a-kind year at Microsoft.
Our use cases are very diverse there. They transcend classical data center use cases to regional
spine routing and DCI networking. So, this often makes it difficult to directly correlate network
spend to CapEx of server and storage spend. Without these collective one-time factors,
Microsoft would have likely been more in the normal band of teens of revenue like they have
been in prior years.
In terms of verticals, Q4 2018 and in fact, throughout 2018, cloud titans represented our largest
and strongest vertical. They were represented by our top five cloud titan customers. The modern
high-tech enterprise segment is now our second fastest growing and our second largest
segment followed by the Tier 2 specialized cloud providers in third place, and the financials and
service providers tied for fourth place.
Consistent with industry's trends, service providers have been somewhat of a low point for us
with negative annual growth after a very strong 2017. That said, we are pleased with ourincreased acceptance of our FlexRoute software licenses, growing 50% from 200 customers in
2017 to 300 customers in 2018.
Looking at the 2018 year in entirety, the 2018 international contribution was 28% with the
Americas coming in at 72%, not too different from prior years. In terms of new products, Arista
delivered a banner year of disruptive products, redefining networking with highly differentiated
EOS stack, CloudVision management software, and flagship platforms. The 7280 and 7500
series have become the gold standard in 100 gigabit Ethernet cloud networking. In
2018, we also introduced substantial software innovations. These included containerization,
tracers, and analyzers. In particular, we have doubled our CloudVision management's customers
and our Any Cloud segmentation security software with APIs for AWS, Azure, and GCP have
indeed been transformational. Undoubtedly, 2018 has been a significant year for Arista, with
revenue of $2.15 billion and an annual growth of over 30% with substantial contribution from our
cloud vertical.
At this time, I'd like to invite `Anshul Sadana, Chief Customer Officer to recap our cloud titan's strategy and really highlight
our success here. Anshul?
`Anshul Sadana, Chief Customer Officer `
Thank you, Jayshree. While we pioneered our cloud networking mission with two-tier leaf-spine
design, our customers are now using Arista products in a multitude of roles, both within and
outside the traditional datacenter boundaries, which we term as PICs or places in the cloud.
We're now successfully deployed in many PIC roles: leaf, spine, bare metal, cluster interconnect,
regional spine, DCI, metro interconnect, peering spine, private backbone, and extended long-
haul use cases.
Wire speed 256 bit MACsec encryption has secured all traffic that leaves the datacenter facility of
our customers. In addition to feeds and speeds, Arista EOS is strongly preferred for the cloud's
mission critical use cases due to superior quality, programmability via our robust APIs, and our
EOS SDK. Our state-based real-time telemetry delivers world-class analytics, monitoring and
traffic engineering of these networks.
All of these compelling advantages have created a collaborative partnership with our cloud
customers as a build for next generation architectures with ever-increasing workloads.
Back to you, Jayshree.
`Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you, Anshul. Effective March 2019, I'm really pleased to announce the promotion of Anshul
Sadana to Chief Operating Officer. In this expanded role, Anshul augments his present worldwide
product-management and customer-facing functions with platform engineering, manufacturing,
and operations.
Anshul, as many of you may know, has been a key pillar and contributor at Arista for over 11 years,
demonstrating that keen and unique sense of product depth, driving our consistent
differentiation, in the typical Arista way. Please do join me in congratulating Anshul on his very
well-deserved promotion.
Arista continues to drive cloud area networking where the future of networking is not siloed to a
switch or a router box alone, but in fact, to software-driven places in the cloud. As we exit 2018,we believe we hold the number one market spot in 100 gigabit Ethernet switching share in ports
for the high-speed data center segment.
As I had mentioned last year, scaling the company and the team was a stated goal. We
accomplished this many ways, including the addition of two senior officers to our executive
leadership team: John McCool, our Chief Platform Officer, and Manny Rivelo, our newly-
appointed Chief Customer Officer.
We also successfully integrated our first two M&A transactions last year, MoJo Networks for
cognitive WiFi in the campus, and Metamako, for ultra low-latency networking. Our employee
bench trends increased to 2,300 in 2018 from 1,700 in 2017, while maintaining our very high bar
for top-notch talent.
What is increasingly clear to me is that Arista is gaining strategic relevance and has a seat at the
table with enterprises seeking next generation cloud area networking as a compelling alternative.
And with that, I'd like to turn it over to Ita for more financial specifics.
`Ita M. Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Jayshree, and good afternoon. This analysis of our Q4 and full-year 2018 results and our
guidance for Q1 2019 is based on non-GAAP, and excludes all non-cash stock-based
compensation impacts, losses related to our private company investments, charges associated
with our recent acquisitions, and other non-recurring items. A full reconciliation of our selected
GAAP to non-GAAP results is provided in our earnings release.
Total revenues in Q4 were $595.7 million, up 27% year-over-year, and above our guidance of
$582 million to $594 million. We experienced good overall demand in the quarter with ongoing
strength across the business.
Service revenues represented approximately 15.5% of revenue, up from 13.8% last quarter,
reflecting the seasonally higher level of renewals in the period.
International revenues for the quarter came in at $144.9 million, or 24% of total revenue, down
from 28% in the prior quarter. Looking at the year, international mix remained consistent on a
year-over-year basis, at approximately 28% of total revenue. This reflected strong growth in our
international and region businesses, offset by a higher mix of U.S. deployments from our cloud
titan vertical.
Overall gross margin in Q4 was 64.1%, just above the midpoint of our guidance of 63% to 65%,
and down from 64.6% last quarter. This reflected a healthy mix of cloud titan revenues in the
period, and as expected, some incremental costs related to the previously-announced trade
tariffs.
While the operations team are making good progress toward mitigating these tariff related
costs, we expect to see some continued impact through the remainder of 2019. In the interim, we
will continue to pass a portion of these costs to our customers, pending completion of the
required supply chain changes.
Operating expenses for the quarter were $160.1 million, up from $155.1 million last quarter. R&D
spending came in at $104.9 million or 17.6% of revenue, mostly flat to last quarter on an absolute
dollar basis. This reflected heavier NRE and prototype spending in the third quarter offset by
ongoing head count growth in Q4.Sales and marketing expense was $43.8 million or 7.4% of revenue, up from $41 million last
quarter with increased head count and related sales costs. Our G&A costs remain consistent at
approximately 1.9% of revenue.
Our operating income for the quarter was $222.1 million or 37.3% of revenue. Other income and
expense for the quarter was a favorable $9.5 million. And our effective tax rate was consistent at
21.4%.
This resulted in net income for the quarter of $182.2 million or 30.6%.
Our diluted share number for the quarter was 80.93 million shares, resulting in a diluted earnings
per share number for the quarter of $2.25, up 31.5% from last year.
Now, turning to the balance sheet. Cash, cash equivalents and investments ended the quarter at
approximately $2 billion. We generated $296 million of cash from operations in the quarter,
reflecting strong net income performance combined with improvements in supply chain related
working capital, and increased deferred revenue amounts.
Overall, we generated $503 million of cash from operations for the year, which included the
payments of the Cisco settlement of $400 million in the third quarter.
DSOs came in at 51 days, down from 53 days in Q3, reflecting the timing of billings in the quarter.
Inventory turns were at 3.3 times, up slightly from 3.2 [times] last quarter. Inventory increased to
$264.6 million in the quarter, up from $216.3 million in the prior period. This primarily reflects
increases in raw materials and finished goods, as we ramp the supply chain for new products.
In addition, consistent with last quarter, we maintained a further $14.6 million of inventory deposits
recorded in other assets at the end of the quarter.
Our total deferred revenue balance was $587.2 million, up from $529.9 million in Q3. Our product
deferred revenue balance increased by approximately $18 million in the quarter, reflecting
customer acceptance requirements on new products. For 2018, closing product deferred revenue
balance was again essentially flat to the prior year, and not a meaningful contributor to revenue
for the year.
There was however a shift in the customer makeup of the product deferred with Microsoft
redesigned qualifications representing a significant portion of the 2017 balance as compared to a
negligible amount of Microsoft product deferred at the end of 2018. Accounts payable of 40
days, up from 39 days in Q3, reflecting the timing of inventory receipts and payments. Capital
expenditures for the quarter was $6.2 million.
Now, turning to our outlook for the first quarter and beyond. We are pleased with our strong 2018
financial performance with 31% revenue growth and 42% growth in earnings per share on a year-
over-year basis. As we look forward, we believe we are well positioned with our key cloud
customers and remain focused on expanding our presence across our other verticals.
Our revenue guidance for the first quarter of $588 million to $598 million represents 25% year-
over-year growth at the midpoint. On the gross margin front, we would reiterate our gross
margin outlook of 63% to 65% with customer mix being the key driver of where we operate
within this range.
While we remain cautious in relation to our spending ramp, you should expect to see us make the
investments necessary to support the expansion of the business. We believe given somereasonable top line growth, this can be accomplished while maintaining operating margin in the
previously discussed approximately 35% range.
With this as a backdrop, our guidance for first quarter, which is based on non-GAAP results and
excludes any non-cash stock-based compensation impact and other non-recurring items, is as
follows. Revenues of approximately $588 million to $598 million, gross margins of approximately
63% to 65%, and operating margin of approximately 35%. Our effective tax rate is expected to
be approximately 21.5%, and diluted shares of approximately 81.4 million.
I will now turn the call back to Chuck. Chuck?
`Chuck Elliott, Director, Business and Investor Development `
Thank you, Ita. We are now going to move to the Q&A portion of the Arista earnings. Due to time
constraints, I'd like to request that everyone please limit themselves to a single question.
Q&A
Operator
We will now begin the Q&A portion of the Arista earnings call. Your first question comes from the
line of `Jason Ader, Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC with William Blair. Your line is open.
Q - `Jason Ader, Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC `
Yes, thank you. Jayshree, I don't know if you guys – I'm sure you debated this, but have you
thought at all about providing some full-year guidance for 2019 in terms of revenue?
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, Jason. You can well imagine not only have we debated it, I think you all have debated it. If
you look back at our five year short history since IPO, we have never provided annual guidance. I
think we made an exception once when we felt that consensus was significantly different than our
guidance. And therefore, we took exception to that and wanted to course correct and let you
know that it was way off our guidance. So I think you can safely assume that since we're not doing
that that we want to go back to our normal mode of quarterly guidance, and we're comfortable
with your current consensus estimates.
Q - `Jason Ader, Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC `
Thank you.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, Jason.
Operator
Oh, sorry. Your next question comes from `Alex Kurtz, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc. with KeyBanc Capital Markets. Your line is
open.
Q - `Alex Kurtz, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc. `
Thanks for taking the question and Happy Valentine's Day. Just to Jayshree and Ita here on this
Microsoft contribution for 2018, obviously, that's well above what a lot of us were thinking mighthappen. And maybe you could frame for us how cloud titans finished out for 2018, seems like
maybe it was pushing 40% of revenue. I'd like to have you comment on that. And how should we
think about cloud titan's growth in contribution for the year? I know you're not giving guidance,
but just help us frame that, because that's a significant upside for Microsoft and sort of our
modeling of that.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. So, thanks, Alex. Happy Valentine's Day to you as well. We love you all. And what I would say
in general is, this is truly an unprecedented once in a lifetime or one of a kind year with Microsoft.
We don't expect that to repeat. We'd love for that to repeat, but we don't expect that. And we
believe there will continue to be a 10% concentration customer in 2019, but we'll go back to a
more normal percentage of our revenue.
I think cloud titans as a category did extremely well for us. All five major cloud titans that typically
contribute to Arista as part of the top 10 customers continued to make important contributions in
2018. We expect there to always be some shift in balance between the five, and 2019 will likely
be different in the contribution off the cloud titans. But I think you're right in assuming that as a
category we still expect them to be about a third of our revenue in 2019. And they were higher
due to the Microsoft concentration in 2018.
Q - `Alex Kurtz, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc. `
Thank you.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from Samik Chatterjee with JPMorgan. Your line is open.
Q - `Samik X. Chatterjee, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Hi, thanks for taking the question, and Anshul, congrats on the promotion. I just had a question
primarily on kind of the prepared remarks that Anshul had about you seeing additional users for
Arista's product in parts of the data center and outside the data center with cloud customers that
obviously has driven some of the strength here. How broad based is that? Do you see more
room with some of the cloud titans as well as the Tier 2 cloud providers to see that expand more
and probably that helps you outperform their overall spend on networking even in 2019? Can you
help us think about that?
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Customer Officer `
Certainly. Samik, you're right. There are many of the expanded use cases that we've been
growing into. But as a result of us doing routing, encryption, some of the DWDM products that we
have just for emitting colored wavelength, we are now able to participate in an increasing TAM.
And in the past, you always considered us just as a switch, but we're now able to take on these
higher lifts (00:20:17). But in addition to that, it's not just a one-for-one displacement. These are
new architectures that are significantly more resilient. The goal many of the cloud titans have and
even the smaller cloud companies just on a smaller scale, is to not focus on one network that is
this mythical five-nines, but build networks that are parallel architectures that are highly resilient.
And be able to do that with our leaf-spine architectures and some of the new use cases whetherit's appearing on DCI or regional fabric, regional spine. And it's pretty much the same approach,
but expanding to a much wider area within a metro 100-kilometer plus.
Q - `Samik X. Chatterjee, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Okay. Got it. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, Samik.
Operator
Oh, sorry. Your next question comes from `Jim Suva, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. with Citi. Your line is open.
Q - `Jim Suva, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Thanks very much. On the tariffs that you made comments on during your prepared comments
and your outlook, did you mean to say that you're building in the tariffs for your revenue outlook?
And was it the 10% rate or the potential 25% rate? And is that across all products or just those
coming for China, because I'm sure a lot of products that may be assembled in Guadalajara or
Florida could actually contain China parts. So can you just help us understand how you're
navigating through the tariff situation?
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. Let me clarify and I'll pass it over to Ita, Jim. What we said in Q3 and we continue to
reiterate in Q4 is the impact of tariffs is still very much there in our costs because many of these
components come from China. So even as you move to different contract manufacturers, you can
have second derivative effects, if you will. Arista's response to that was to absorb some of the
cost, but also have a 3.3% tariff fee assuming the 10% tariff increase. We have made no
assumptions on the 25% increase since there's still a lot of speculation there.
Ita, you want to add to that on the impact of that?
A - `Ita M. Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I mean I think it applies to products that have components that are actually tariffed, right. It
doesn't apply obviously on software and optics and similar stuff. And again, we're making plans;
we have plans for how we start to remediate this with the supply chain. It just takes time to
execute on those plans, right? You don't move – it takes time to affect the supply chain
movement, but we're working on that. We'll share more too.
Q - `Jim Suva, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
So 25% would be the same methodology is what you did in 10%, I would assume?
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, we haven't really thought it through or formulated a plan. We're hoping it never happens.
But, yes, we would apply something similar.
Q - `Jim Suva, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Thank you so much for the details and clarifications. It's greatly appreciated. Thank you.A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you, Jim.
A - `Ita M. Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Jim
Operator
Your next question comes from `Ittai Kidron, Analyst, Oppenheimer & Co., Inc. with Oppenheimer. Your line is open.
Q - `Ittai Kidron, Analyst, Oppenheimer & Co., Inc. `
Congrats, ladies, and Chuck. Thanks, great quarter. I guess I want to go back to where we started
again, which is the cloud. Jayshree, I just want to make sure I understand your comments because
I mean with Microsoft being 27% on the year, I think you made the comment to the effect that the
more normal run rate was the percentage of Microsoft was last year, which was 16%. And so that
implies about 10% is through product deferreds and delayed certifications, and all of that. And
since Microsoft is little to no presence in your product deferred right here, right now, stripping
that out, your core growth in 2018 was only 20% really, outside of the deferred. And I guess I'm
trying to think – help me think about the Titans vertical in general. Is that a vertical that grows
below corporate average do you think for the year? Are there big parts in your footprint that you
feel would be more competitive on the year? And how do you feel about your ability to protect
them when clearly – when 400 gigabit comes along, there are a lot of vendors are making a lot
of claims, and you seem to be at the top of the hill. So, clearly, you're right on the target.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Wow, that was a loaded question. Ita, you want to start by...
Q - `Ittai Kidron, Analyst, Oppenheimer & Co., Inc. `
Yeah. I tried to put three in there, yes.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, you still succeeded. Thank you for the good wishes.
Q - `Ittai Kidron, Analyst, Oppenheimer & Co., Inc. `
Yes.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Let me have Ita clarify some of the...
A - `Ita M. Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, maybe let's just talk about the deferred piece just to make sure we're thinking about that
the same way. And at the end of the day deferred revenue – product deferred revenue did not
contribute to revenue for the year, right? So, if Microsoft, the mix of Microsoft change, and
obviously that resulted in Microsoft having a higher percentage of revenue, right? But also the
deferred was back filled with some other activities. So when I think about it on an activity basis,
Microsoft's activity in the period was significantly below the 27%. Now, back to the teens becausewe had some good use cases, et cetera, but significantly below that 27%. So just to be clear. So
when you think about transactional activity in the period, the deferred kind of comes out of that
and we did back fill that deferred amount with some other customers, right.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
And to answer your question on growth, we obviously don't expect Microsoft to have the same
amazing growth in 2018 – 2019 that we had in 2018. But we fully expect the cloud titans category
to grow well, if that makes sense. So I think there will be puts and takes, and other contributors
and other customers, be it cloud titans or even some of the Tier 2 cloud providers are going to
greatly contribute to our cloud growth.
Q - `Ittai Kidron, Analyst, Oppenheimer & Co., Inc. `
Very good. Good luck.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you, Ittai.
Operator
Your next question comes from Jeff Kvaal with Nomura. Your line is open.
Q - `Jeffrey Thomas Kvaal, Analyst, Nomura Securities `
Yes. Thank you very much. I am hoping perhaps to get – ask the question that may be on many of
our minds about web-scale CapEx. And you've touched on it a little bit today and certainly in the
past. But, look, the numbers do seem to be decelerating a decent amount. And I'm wondering if
you could help us explain why there is a decent disparity between what the spenders are up to
and your revenues.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Sure, Jeff, I'll take a part of the question and I'd like my expert here, our new COO, to take the
other half. As we tried to explain, we're not able to directly correlate server spend with Arista or
networking CapEx spend. And the reason is, obviously, your service spend connects to the first
point of network attach, which is typically a leaf switch. But what we're finding is many tiers of
leafs and many tiers are spines. And I shall give you some examples of a regional spine, a core
routing spine, a WAN spine, a datacenter interconnect spine, all of those examples and especially
the MACsec security, none of them – and peering, none of them have a direct correlation to the
first use case we just talked about, which is the server and first Top of Rack switch spend. So, the
one to one correlation is difficult. However, I think you can make a correlation if the overall spend
is declining, then obviously we'll also feel the impact of that. But it's hard to pinpoint and say a
server spend is declining, network spend is declining. It's not one to one? Anshul?
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Customer Officer `
Jeff, I'll add a few things here. Number one, last year or the last few quarters, there's been
significant volatility in memory prices for servers, and that resulted in increased CapEx for many
of the cloud titans and also resulted in a reduction in cloud CapEx for many of the titans. That has
no impact to networking. As a result, we're not correlated there.And second, when you look at very large buildouts of regions, data centers, facilities, all of that
often gets counted as CapEx, but obviously, we are just focused on how much networking
interconnect you need at different layers for different architectures. And hence, you will see less
correlation in the short term, as Jayshree mentioned. In the very long run, these things can tie
back, but they're not even associated within that one year, and hence the data.
But otherwise we've done well technically with the cloud titans, and we are happy to compete
going forward as well. Thank you.
Q - `Jeffrey Thomas Kvaal, Analyst, Nomura Securities `
Anshul, do you think that networking is gaining share inside of the overall web-scale CapEx?
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Customer Officer `
I would say networking from our standpoint, not so. I think it's very, very similar to some previous
years.
However, optics is a different ballgame. And as you very well know, 400 gig optics are slightly
more expensive on a per-gigabit basis compared to 100 gig – not per-gigabit, per port. And I
think that will change some of the equation if it is being allocated to networking. But I don't think
our correlation gets changed that way.
Q - `Jeffrey Thomas Kvaal, Analyst, Nomura Securities `
Thank you, and congratulations on your appointment, Anshul.
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Customer Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from James Faucette with Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.
Q - `James E. Faucette, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Great. Thank you very much. Anshul, I wanted to follow up on your mention of 400 gig and that
coming to market and implementation later this year and through 2020 and beyond. And as
you're looking at that, what do you think the appetite is from your customers to mix and match
400 gig with existing 100 gig plan? And I guess I'm wondering how much opportunity do you see
for footprint share shift among – in your customers for that?
And secondly, maybe as you're talking about that, maybe you can also talk through kind of what
the use cases are for 400 gig that you think will, at least, start things going?
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
James, I'm going to kick it off and then Anshul will get into detail. I think one of the things we have
said consistently is that 100- and 400-gig mix and match is going to happen frequently. And in
fact, with the exception of the cloud titans that are going to push us more on 400 gig, the
mainstream use cases we see in 2019 are still heavily favored by 100 gig. And even as we go into
2020 when the optics become more available, I think you're going to see much more of a
combination. And that's going to favor Arista, because of our incumbency and leadership positionA - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Customer Officer `
Absolutely. Thanks, Jayshree. So, just adding onto what you just heard, in networking, you do not
introduce a new speed that's not backwards compatible with the existing installed base.
Otherwise you'll just never get it to work, which is how IPv5 died.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
What is IPv5?
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Customer Officer `
But if you look at 400 gig and the cloud data centers and the way the architectures are going on,
the hyperscalers are hyperactive with the next-gen design. And they all have their own problems
to solve for different use cases, whether it's public cloud or storage or video or caching and so
on.
And you can't just touch one intermediate layer and say, I'm done with my 400 gig upgrade. You
have to upgrade end-to-end. So it'll be a slow transition, and hence the interop is important. I
would say interop off a 400-gig optic back into a DR1 QSFP28 is going to be very, very important,
even for cloud customers. That's the only way you connect back to the installed base.
But because now you've attached multiple layers, it takes a long time, several quarters to several
years to actually get that upgrade done.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Rod Hall, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC with Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
Q - `Rod Hall, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Yeah, hi, guys, thanks for the question. Congrats to Anshul as well. I wanted to start off, I guess,
and just since we've talked a lot about datacenter, just ask about campus and see if there's any
update on that. If you guys have any milestones that you might be able to give us in terms of
trials, things like that, how it's going.
And then secondly, Ita, I just wanted to clarify your comments on seasonality around services.
That was quite a bit higher than we anticipated. And I'm wondering, are you saying that that's
more of a normal seasonal progression of services looking forward, or is that an abnormal
quarter that we're looking at here? Thanks.
A - `Ita M. Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, let me take that one first. Just I mean I think the 15.5% is probably high, right? Q4 tends to
be a strong renewal quarter, and there's some recognition of revenue that comes along with
that. So, I think back in the 14%, maybe 14% and change, is kind of probably a better average for
the year is how you should think about it.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
And, Rod, to answer your campus question, it's too early for revenue. I think it'll be more material
in the second half. But we've seen an extremely strong desire to have a viable alternative to the
incumbents in quality and simplicity and cognitive capabilities and automation.A - `Manuel F. Rivelo, Senior Vice President and Chief Sales Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Jayshree. Rod, good to talk to you.
Q - `Rod Hall, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Hey, Manny.
A - `Manuel F. Rivelo, Senior Vice President and Chief Sales Officer `
So, I think Jayshree classified it correctly. It is early days, and we see this being material in the
second half of 2019.
But the initial acceptance has been really well received by the customers. And I think there's two
categories you can put customers in. The first is our existing installed base. And that installed
base is looking to extend EOS across their infrastructure, into the campus, driving one
management plan, cognitive management plan, one set of telemetry, one EOS. And they're
really looking for simplicity, they're looking for agility, they're looking for scale, and they're looking
for quality.
The second type of customer we're running into are customers we haven't done business with
that know we're approaching the campus space. And those customers are really looking at us as
an alternative because of fatigue. They're seeing in the market segment, basically 30 years of
lack of innovation, 30 years of stagnant architectures, and more and more boxes being pushed
out instead of unified architecture.
So, we're seeing great traction with those customers, early days. But like I said, it's early days. We
got to round out the portfolio and bring that to the customer base, but there's a lot of
excitement there also.
And then, just to give you examples of wins, I mean we had various wins throughout the quarter
in the campus. One was a multi-million dollar account, which is a multi-national beverage company
where we basically were driving our campus solutions into that and drove great success into that.
And we expect to see expansion going on there. And we've also had lots of wins where we
began to integrate our Spline architecture inside those use cases. And again, for the same
reasons, scale, quality, fatigue, et cetera.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, Manny.
Q - `Rod Hall, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Great. Appreciate it.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Paul Silverstein, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC with Cowen and Company. Your line is open.
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Great. Thank you. Jayshree, I know how much you love to be pinned down. So with that big
windup...Depends by who. Thanks, Paul. Happy Valentine's Day to you as well.
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Right. Right back at you. Are you serious now? So for the first quarter and the 25% of thereabout
year-over-year guidance that you gave, how do you get – or could you help break it down by
customers – I'm not asking about individual customers, but in terms of customer verticals, what
drives that growth? And then I have a follow-up question. Appreciate it.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I think – I expect to see a more normal concentration of customer verticals. I think all side will be
represented in double digits. cloud titans will I think continue to be one, if I had to guess, I would
say enterprise will continue to be two again. And then it's hard to forecast between three, four,
and five.
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Wait, I just wanted to ...
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Does that make you happy?
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
No, not exactly. What I'm trying to get at is I trust it goes without saying, or maybe it doesn't, that
the customer verticals two through five, your cloud specialists, especially your enterprise service
providers, et cetera, that collectively you're expecting the growth rate from that group of
customers, i.e., the customers other than cloud titans, to increase.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yes.
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
And you're expecting growth from cloud titans to moderate. Is that a fair assumption?
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yes and no. I'm expecting growth from Microsoft to moderate, but I haven't said I'm expecting
growth from the cloud titans vertical to moderate.
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
So you're not expecting growth from your other cloud signings to moderate? And from the cloud
side vertical...
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I didn't say that, no. But I think it's fair to say it will moderate with Microsoft given the once in a
lifetime unique year we had here in 2018. So with the exception of...
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `All right. My follow-up question – go ahead.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
With the exception of Microsoft we feel very comfortable about growth in all five verticals. I think
that's right. And Paul, we can chat about this more, but we should probably allow the next
question.
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Can I just quickly ask you as a follow-up, is there anything unique about the first quarter relative to
the rest of the year?
A - `Ita M. Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
No more than the normal seasonality, right? I think it's always a quarter that tends to be flattish off
of Q4. I don't know if there is anything else particularly unique about Q1.
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
I appreciate it.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I think there's more – yeah, I think there's more similarities to Q1 with prior Q1?
A - `Ita M. Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Right, right.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Than uniqueness.
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
That's all I need. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you, Paul.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Sami Badri, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC with Credit Suisse. Your line is open.
Q - `Sami Badri, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Hi, thank you. Could we just take a few moments maybe just to discuss what you're seeing with
service provider because the one thing the entire sector seems to be very hyped up about is 5G.
And you're seeing it on the RAM side, but there seems to be a big disconnect when we get into
the equipment side of the spectrum. Can you just kind of walk us through when you think SP
spending towards equipment will start to ramp back up? And is this a back half 2019 event or is
this a 2020 event based on your purview at this juncture?
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `Okay. I'll take a crack at it, and I think Manny and Anshul may help me as well. Look, I think given
our very small presence in service provider, we don't believe we are affected by macro trends.
And in our view, at least the influence of Arista gear is not 5G dependent. Because we're really a
backhaul for IP routing and bringing switching and routing together and providing the scale of
routes and iptables and ACLs that no one does. That said I don't think we think 5G is really a
mover. If 400 gig is 2020, I think we think 5G is 2021.
So from our perspective, we've got upside in service provider because we had a very strong
2017. We're disappointed in 2018, and that gives us a chance to grow faster in 2019. We're seeing
tremendous activity both in the U.S. and we have put more emphasis in international theaters.
Manny, maybe you want to speak to that?
A - `Manuel F. Rivelo, Senior Vice President and Chief Sales Officer `
Yeah, no, I think, just to add to that, in the use cases that we play in service provider, whether it'd
be telco cloud, NSEI (00:40:05) or peering, we're doing quite well in executing across the globe
in various Tier 1 and Tier 2 operators. In other use cases, the portfolio continues to run itself out
with additional features to cover those use cases. But as Jayshree pointed out, we've also made
investments in 2018 for better coverage, both on the account manager side and SC side to
represent those Tier 1 operators. We're getting more adapt as it pertains to RFPs and proof of
concepts. So we think that that will go well as we enter 2019 and beyond.
Q - `Sami Badri, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Got it. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, Sami.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Alex Henderson, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC with Needham & Company. Your line is open.
Q - `Alex Henderson, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `
Hello, guys. Thanks for the sweetheart print. We appreciate it. I wanted to ask a question relative
to two dynamics and see if you can play them off against each other. So we're definitely hearing a
lot of conversations about slowdown in server investments based off of product cycles at Intel, as
well as some of the other cycles that are going on. That suggests a slowdown in cloud in the first
half of the year and a reacceleration in the back half of the year. So, part of the question is, are
you seeing that kind of dynamic as well?
And then the other side of it, there's a countervailing force, which we're hearing that spending on
100 gig is expected to double year-over-year in terms of port sales. So, to the extent that we're
seeing a doubling of 100 gig, are you gaining enough share in 100 gig as a result of your
dominance in that space, which, I think, is 2X the share of your overall market share. And does
that offset the dividend demand in the first half and Web 2.0, due to those product cycles?
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Customer Officer `
Sure. Absolutely. Alex, great questions. In terms of CapEx for the large cloud titans, we certainly
don't have visibility yet into second half. We would love them to forecast accurately as you very
well know. On the first half, because we're in so many diverse use cases, we are getting a little bitdecoupled in the short term from their exact server spend. They might be buying fewer racks
now, but they're still doing DCI build-outs, other things, and so on. But at the same time,
obviously, if they spend more in the long run, we could benefit.
Now, to your point on 100 gig spending or 100 gig ports are doubling, and I would emphasize, its
actually 100-gig ports that are doubling, not the spend, is because some of the next-generation
technology is now starting to show up in the market, including some of our products, which are
really being used not as 400 gig but more cost effective 4 by 100 gig. And that allows customers
to get many more ports than what they used to do in the past. But that doesn't change the
revenue dynamic significantly; it just lowers the ESP and increases the port count.
Q - `Alex Henderson, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `
But does it change share is the question.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
That will depend on our execution, Alex. We've held onto the number one position for two years
in a row. Hopefully this year will be our third.
Q - `Alex Henderson, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `
Okay. Thank you very much.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you, Alex.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC with Wells Fargo. Your line is open.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Yeah, thanks for taking the questions and also congratulations on the print. I want to go back to
the router market. You mentioned in the prepared remarks you've gone from 200 to 300
FlexRoute customers. It sounds like one of your major silicon providers has a major release
starting to ship in volume, Jericho 2, looking toward the mid-part of the year, which is very
focused on the service provider market. So, I'm curious as we look out over the next 12 plus
months, is there a natural expansion story in the router functionality that expands your
opportunity set in that incremental growth driver going forward?
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, Aaron. I think it's a really good question. I believe we have a natural expansion even
before Jericho 2, which has had to do with a lot of our FlexRoute features and the 50% growth of
our customers from 200 to 300. So, at least in 2019, I see that the more immediate success will
be not necessarily waiting from the next generation of silicon, but really going into these 200 to
300 customers and enabling greater success, many of who are service providers. After that, the
Jericho 2 cycle, which really hits in the second half of the year – Anshul is confirming – I think we
can have a multi-year success in routing in 2020 and beyond with Jericho 2.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `And I'm just kind of curious, how big do you view that total addressable router market today? And
how much do you think that can expand?
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
It's tough one to answer. The total market is $8 billion, but I think our TAM is more like $2 billion to
$3 billion. It's a good guess. But some of them end up being very specific, traditional legacy MPLS
traffic engineering boxes. Arista doesn't play into that. But as they look to come in, as Manny was
describing, into the spine peering and interconnect and NFV and telco cloud, Arista is a natural
player to combine the universal spine switching and routing.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you, Aaron.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Simon Leopold, Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. with Raymond James. Your line is open.
Q - `Simon Leopold, Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
Great. Thanks for taking the question. I wanted to see if we could maybe take a look at getting
some thoughts on 2020 in particular. If I characterize your base business as put to the side and
thinking about three growth engines, campus switching, routing, and 400-gig switching as the
incremental parts, how do you see those three in terms of rank order contributors in 2020?
Thank you.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Wow, you get the prize for the tough questions so far, right up there with Paul.
Q - `Simon Leopold, Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
I'm honored.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
We'll give it our best, but this is purely a forecast. I think if you look at TAM, the largest TAM of
these three, campus, routing, and 400 gig is campus. And it's also the most underserved by any
alternative competitor, because it's so deeply embedded by incumbency. So we believe our
largest strength and opportunity is campus and our largest pressure to execute is also campus, if
I put that in that way. And then I think if I had to split the two, I would say, routing second and 400
gig third because I think routing really doesn't come in – 400 gig doesn't really come into play in a
huge way until 2020. Thank you.
Q - `Simon Leopold, Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
Great. That's very much what I was looking for. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `Thank you, Simon.
Operator
Your next question comes from Erik Suppiger with JMP Securities. Your line is open.
Q - `Michael Berg, Analyst, JMP Securities LLC `
This is `Michael Berg, Analyst, JMP Securities LLC on for Erik Suppiger. Congrats on a great print. I just want to do a quick
question on international. Could you provide any color around what may have caused the
weakness there? I mean, was it around international, cloud spending or enterprise spending?
What are you thinking around international in the quarter?
A - `Ita M. Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I mean, the mix between international and U.S. in any given quarter is going be pretty
volatile, right? And if you look at it for the year, which I think is kind of more interesting, and you
peel it back, you've got good growth in the in-region businesses and then just a heavier
deployment of cloud in the U.S. than what we saw last year, right? We'd seen some pretty heavy
international cloud activity last year. This year it's been more U.S. focused, right?
So I think that's probably the biggest driver. If I strip all that out and look at the growth in the
region, both businesses are growing faster than the corporate average.
I think, Manny, if you want to chime in as well that should maybe help.
A - `Manuel F. Rivelo, Senior Vice President and Chief Sales Officer `
Yeah, I think what I'll add on top of that – and I think Jayshree said it – I mean Ita said it well, is we
are actually seeing great – we're making a significant investment in our international markets from
a head count perspective. And we're balancing that out fairly nicely. Approximately 40% is going
to international head count. It's a little higher than what you're seeing from a percentage of
business.
But what's more interesting is the net new logos. Where we are seeing a lot of new wins there,
approximately half of our net new logos are coming out of the international markets. So we're
having great traction there, great acceptance in the technology. You could argue in some of the
international markets, they're a little behind in the adoption of spine leaf architectures, but
they're coming along quite nicely. And we think that that's a growth engine also for the future.
Q - `Michael Berg, Analyst, JMP Securities LLC `
Okay, great. And then a quick follow-up on the Microsoft piece. I know you mentioned that if you
normalize it, it's closer to the 16%. But if I'm thinking about the deferred revenue piece being a
big contributor, wouldn't that lead it to be closer to 18%, 20%? Or how I can think about how
deferred contributed to Microsoft in the year?
A - `Ita M. Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I mean, I don't know that I'm going to put specific numbers on it. But I think it was a good
strong Microsoft year just from an organic business perspective. And it would have been ahead
of the 16% in any case. But again, a chunk of the 27% came from the deferred.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `And I think the other way to think of this is that in many ways we did get six quarters of business in
four quarters, right, because of the deferred and because of the legal certifications. So it was
unusual in every manner, right? Not just the deferred but the legal certifications, the new roles
and the time at which we could recognize it even though the activity began much before.
Q - `Michael Berg, Analyst, JMP Securities LLC `
Okay. And then I think someone asked this before, but is it fair to assume that the cloud titans
vertical was closer to 40% or even higher percentage of total revenue for the year, given the high
Microsoft contribution?
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I think around there is a fair guess.
Q - `Michael Berg, Analyst, JMP Securities LLC `
Okay. Awesome. Well, hey, congrats on a great quarter again and thank you for the time.
A - `Ita M. Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
You're welcome.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you, Eric.
Operator
Your next question comes from Steve Milunovich with Wolfe Research. Your line is open.
Q - `Steven Mark Milunovich, Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC `
Great. Thank you very much. Could you comment a bit about expenses going forward? You had a
year-over-year acceleration in marketing, a deceleration in R&D, which you talked about a little bit.
What sorts of growth rates or percentages of revenue can we look forward to? In your longer
term target of 32% operating margin, what's the timeframe for that? Is it going to be within my
lifetime?
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Depends how long you live.
Q - `Steven Mark Milunovich, Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC `
I'm getting up there.
A - `Ita M. Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Clearly it's been a while since we've updated the long-term model and we'll take the
opportunity to do that at some point here. I mean, I think what we're seeing is in the near term
timeframe, the plus or minus 35% operating margin is a good way to think about it.
And that allows us to see some movement at gross margin quarter-over-quarter and make the
investments that we want to make, right? I mean if we're – we're still in a situation where we'reinvestments that we need to make. It's letting Manny do what he needs to do on the sales and
marketing side.
And I think you will see that kind of be maybe more of a percentage of revenue than it has been.
And maybe we get a little bit of leverage on the R&D, but that's not going to be the same every
quarter and it's not significant, right? Think about the 35% plus or minus.
Q - `Steven Mark Milunovich, Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC `
Thanks.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Srini Pajjuri, Analyst, Macquarie Capital (USA), Inc. with Macquarie Securities. Your line is open.
Q - `Srini Pajjuri, Analyst, Macquarie Capital (USA), Inc. `
Thank you for taking my question and congrats, Anshul. Congrats on a great quarter as well. Just
one clarification maybe for Ita. Would it be possible to give us what Microsoft was in Q4 or even
second half versus first half as a percent of sales?
A - `Ita M. Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I don't think we're going to do that, right? I mean, it moves around. Yeah. It's not really
helpful to start to try and do that on a quarterly basis. I think the annual number is really the way
to think about it, and then take some off the top for the deferred, for the release of the legal
related certification stuff at the beginning of last year.
And so think about 16% was our norm for the last couple years. I think we'll have a good strong
year for Microsoft on top of that just from a transactional business perspective.
Q - `Srini Pajjuri, Analyst, Macquarie Capital (USA), Inc. `
Okay. Then maybe a follow-up, I guess on 400-gig, Jayshree, I think Cisco yesterday said they're
expecting volume deployment some time middle of this year, and you seem to think it's more
likely in 2020. I just want to understand why you think it's a little later than Cisco. I know Juniper
said it's also 2020, but I'm wondering why there would be a difference between their timing and
your timing.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Well, I think we actually, Srini, sell to some of the world's leading early adopters of 400-gig. And
where Anshul and the team are seeing traction is in the cloud titan vertical.
We work with a multitude of optics vendors and we see that as the longest pole in the tent. So
while we absolutely expect to see early trials in second half, we would be irresponsible to tell you
we're going to see a large market in the second half. So I guess you could chalk it down to our
responsibility.
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Customer Officer `
Maybe if I can add something here, we should not confuse product availability versus high volume
deployment, these are two different things.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `Very good point. And our products have been available since the beginning of the year.
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Customer Officer `
Yeah.
Q - `Srini Pajjuri, Analyst, Macquarie Capital (USA), Inc. `
Got it. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, Srini.
Operator
Your next question comes from James Fish with Piper Jaffray. Your line is open.
Q - `James E. Fish, Analyst, Piper Jaffray & Co. `
Hey, ladies. Congrats on a great quarter.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, James.
Q - `James E. Fish, Analyst, Piper Jaffray & Co. `
I guess a lot of questions have been asked already, but maybe asking it a different way. What are
you hearing from hyperscalers on the 400G optics and potential mix between the OSFP and the
QSFP? And secondly, on 400G, competitively do you fear kind of the white box offering more, or
do you fear, like, the Ciscos and Junipers of the world? Thanks.
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Customer Officer `
Sure.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Wow. That is two unique questions.
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Customer Officer `
So James, in terms of – first optics, on 400-gig OSFP versus DD, in the cloud titans there is a lot
of interest in moving the world forward and planning it out many, many years in advance so that
you can actually move to the next generation. So in fact, it's the hyperscalers where there is a lot
of interest in OSFP. At the same time, we are cognizant that some of the customers need DD-
based products, so we'll build those as well. But as you may recognize DD has a short life cycle
because after the 50-gig 30 cycle (00:55:27) it can't really work, so then the world has to move
forward. So, we'll do both. We believe there will be a very healthy mix and a good attach rate of
OSFP here.
But with respect to the white boxes, we've touched on this many, many times. We are very
competitive in this market. And as we mentioned before, we are not really – customers are not
looking to just buy a cheap white box and then do something cool with it, they want to solve real-problems, taking parts or all of EOS and building on top of that. And as you can see, our business
is very healthy with them and despite all the noise, we feel good about our position there.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
And I think the noise in general has reduced a lot. We don't hear white box from our customers
very much anymore. So, to answer your question more directly, it's usually a competitive position
against the specific vendor like Cisco, rather than the description or discussion of a white box.
Q - `James E. Fish, Analyst, Piper Jaffray & Co. `
Got it. That's great color. Thanks.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, James.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Hendi Susanto, Analyst, G.research with Gabelli. Your line is open.
Q - `Hendi Susanto, Analyst, G.research `
Thank you for taking my question and congrats Anshul and Manny. Jayshree and Anshul, how
should we think about market opportunity and dynamics in 2019? Like, first, specifically about
macroeconomic uncertainties, Cisco stated there was no change in demand and no impact from
macro uncertainties in their last quarter. I'm wondering like how similar your experience was in Q4.
And then second, how do you characterize market opportunity in 2019 versus 2018? Are there
more similarities or are there more opportunities versus 2018 that investors and analysts should
think about?
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Okay. Thanks, Hendi. Well, I would say, Arista has not seen any macroeconomic uncertainty either
in Q4. I think obviously we're not a bellwether here. But as far as our customers have been
signaling to us, our enterprise momentum hasn't been stronger and we continue to see strength
there in Q4, and we look forward to that strength continuing in 2019. I'm going to let Anshul
answer the 2019 trends.
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Customer Officer `
Sure, absolutely. Thanks, Hendi. We haven't seen much of a big change in terms of perception. I
think people are certainly worried that if there's a slowdown, there will be a correction. Our
customers do talk about it, but nothing material has happened so far. I think everyone's watching
these trends very carefully.
Beyond that, the actual opportunity hasn't changed for us. It's a very large TAM we are catering
to, and when you look at enterprise, there is still a very, very healthy opportunity ahead of us. The
same is true in tier 2 and the specialty cloud providers, as well as financials and even more
expansion possible for us in the future in ASPs. So, we still feel very good about the opportunity.
We believe the market has multiple players, but we are very, very strong competitor in the space
and, hence, the opportunity to grow.
Q - `Hendi Susanto, Analyst, G.research `Thank you and great performance.
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Customer Officer `
Well, thank you.
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, Hendi.
Operator
Your next question comes from `John Marchetti, Managing Director & Senior Analyst, Stifel Financial Corp. with Stifel. Your line is open.
Q - `John Marchetti, Managing Director & Senior Analyst, Stifel Financial Corp. `
Thanks very much. Jayshree, I was wondering if you could just spend a little bit of time here on
the enterprise market. We spend a lot of time on where the cloud titans are in terms of their 100-
gig adoption and maybe their shift to 400. I was wondering if maybe you could spend just a
minute or two discussing sort of how you're expecting that enterprise market to kind of follow
suit and where you think that market is kind of overall with its adoption of 100-gig?
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Well, thanks, John. I'm actually glad you asked this question because, yeah, we tend to focus on
the cloud titans a lot. But one of the things we're seeing: it is one of our second largest and
fastest growing vertical. And there's a very strong interest in bringing those same cloud principles
into the data center in the enterprise. And it really comes in three flavors. First, how to build a
private cloud with leaf spine architectures and scale out the same way, albeit in smaller scale. The
second is to bring – so mimic some of the cloud management principles, the CloudVision bringing
change control automation, network wide analytics, et cetera. And the third is the hybrid cloud, no
company is better positioned than Arista as we have deployed in both the public and the
enterprise in bringing those two together from a workload point of view. So the combination of
our vEOS Router with the right APIs to multiple public cloud vendors has been very
transformational and well received.
And finally of course the fourth, which I don't want to over-talk, but will really come to play in the
second half of this year is the campus. So when you look at our whole pens to picks (01:00:23)
transformation, there's at least four different use cases in the enterprise that are exciting.
Q - `John Marchetti, Managing Director & Senior Analyst, Stifel Financial Corp. `
Thanks. And maybe just as a quick follow-up there, given that they're looking at a lot of different
applications or use cases for the first time, does that lend itself to maybe some additional service
sales or almost from a consulting type of standpoint as you look to help them migrate to these
types of solutions?
A - `Jayshree Ullal, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I think we – definitely Arista's looked at it to be more of a consultative approach, provide the right
training. And the professional services vary. We often partner with someone or they look for us to
come in. Manny, I don't know if you have more to add to that. We don't see a pattern yet.
A - `Manuel F. Rivelo, Senior Vice President and Chief Sales Officer `No, I mean, in general it's an education for the customer base as they transform their
infrastructures to a much more digital framework, they're going to need these modern data
centers, no different than the cloud providers. So those solutions are proven and tested and we
can deliver those. Then the delivery of that solution to the customer either comes through
development effort, education training that we can provide and/or through our professional
services and/or our partner network that could offer those services. So we have a lot of flexibility
there. And we're seeing that being pretty well accepted across all three of those spectrums.
Q - `John Marchetti, Managing Director & Senior Analyst, Stifel Financial Corp. `
Thanks very much.
A - `Chuck Elliott, Director, Business and Investor Development `
This concludes the Arista Q4 2018 earnings call. Thank you for all the good questions and for the
opportunity to highlight our financial results and corporate achievements for you. I also want to
mention that we have posted a presentation which provides additional information on our fiscal
results which you can access on the Investors section of our website. We look forward to
continuing the conversation with you during the quarter.
Operator
Thank you for joining, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's call. You may now disconnect.