Q4 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2020 Arista Networks Financial Results Earnings Conference Call.
During the call, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. After the presentation, we will conduct
a question-and-answer session. Instructions will be provided at that time. (Operator Instructions)
As a reminder, this conference is being recorded and will be available for replay from the Investor
Relations section at the Arista website following this call.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.`Charles Yager, Director, Product and Investor Advocacy, Director of Product and Investor Advocacy. Sir, you
may begin.
`Charles Yager, Director, Product and Investor Advocacy `
Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us. With me on today's
call are Jayshree Ullal, Arista Networks' President and Chief Executive Officer; and `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer,
Arista's Chief Financial Officer. This afternoon, Arista Networks issued a press release announcingthe results for its fiscal fourth quarter ending December 31, 2020. If you'd like a copy of the
release, you can access it online at our website.
During the course of this conference call, Arista Networks management will make forward-looking
statements, including those relating to our financial outlook for the first quarter of the 2021 fiscal
year, longer-term financial outlooks, out total addressable market and strategy for addressing
these market opportunities, the potential impact of COVID-19 on our business, our product
innovation and the benefits of recent acquisitions, which are subject to the risks and uncertainties
that we discuss in detail in our documents filed with the SEC, specifically in our most recent Form
10-Q and Form 10-K, and which could cause actual results to differ materially from those
anticipated by these statements. These forward-looking statements apply as of today, and you
should not rely on them as representing our views in the future. We undertake no obligation to
update these statements after this call.
Also please note that certain financial measures we use on this call are expressed on a non-GAAP
basis and have been adjusted to exclude certain charges. We have provided reconciliations of
these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures in our earnings press release.
With that, I will turn the call over to Jayshree.
`Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Charles. Thank you, everyone, for joining us this afternoon for our fourth quarter 2020
earnings call. If there's one thing the pandemic has taught us, it's the importance of adapting in
real-time. In 2020, our world changed quickly and rapidly. As a cohesive leadership team, we had
to prepare for a lot of unknowns and uncertainties, where our offices were closed, our contract
manufacturers were shutting down and supply chain constraints resulted in longer lead times.
2020 created new norms as we found many virtual ways of communicating with our customers,
including access to our products for their business continuity.
With vaccines emerging, we certainly hope that all of you and your families are safe and healthy
during these unprecedented times. I am so proud of our employees and how we've handled this
and thank our partners and customers as well for placing their trust in us.
Back to some Q4 2020 specifics, we delivered revenues of $648.5 million for the quarter, with
non-GAAP earnings per share of $2.49. A-Care Services and software and support renewals
contributed approximately 20% of our revenue.
Our non-GAAP gross margins at 65% were influenced by software and services mix and a higher
enterprise contribution for the quarter and the year.
We've registered a record number of new customer logos and $1 million customers, a direct
result of our momentum in the enterprise vertical and campus this quarter. We now have
surpassed 7,200 cumulative customers over the past decade.
In Q4 2020, cloud titans were our largest vertical. Enterprise was second, followed by financials in
third place and the providers, both service provider and cloud specialty providers tied for fourth
place.
In terms of sector trends, we see cloud titan at approximately 36%; enterprises including
financials at approximately 36%; and providers at approximately 28%, consistent with effective
ranges we have provided. Microsoft was the only greater than 10% customer concentration at
21.5% for the year 2020.In terms of geographical mix, international contribution was slightly higher at 26%; with the
Americas at 74% for Q4 2020. Despite a turbulent 2020, especially with cloud titan, we believe
Arista is going to emerge stronger with more diversified products and customers.
We reiterate our multi-year growth part based on three major product line evolutions: one, our
core cloud and data center products built on a highly differentiated Arista EOS, leaf-spine
architecture and our cloud first principle based on the five As. We expect this to contribute
approximately 60% to 65% range in the future. Our second market is the network adjacencies,
with routing replacing routers and our entry into the cognitive campus workspaces. We expect
these two adjacencies together to contribute approximately in the range of 10% to 15%, as a
compelling alternative to incumbent legacy networks.
Our third category is network software and services based on subscription models, such as Arista
A-Care, CloudVision, multi-cloud EOS router, Big Switch, DANZ Monitoring Fabric or DMS, and
advanced network detection and response with the recent Awake Security acquisition.
We predict that these subscription-based network services and software will contribute
approximately in the 25% range. Please note that perpetual software licenses are not included
here and are generally counted in our core or adjacent product lines.
As we look ahead, analyst research has shown, that customers believe that COVID-19 has actually
increased the value and relevance of the network in the post pandemic era. And in our opinion,
we concur. The networking industry is undergoing a metamorphosis from point silos or places in
the network to a seamless cognitive cloud network that is data driven. Arista is helping customers
with their digital transformation to this data-centric cloud-first paradigm.
As we experience the explosion of users, devices, IoT, OT, more video, more mobility of
workloads and workflows, the boundary between all the locations, whether it's your office, cloud,
home, teleworker and transit, and user is really blurring into elastic workspaces.. We believe Arista
is well positioned to address the data driven networks for this client to cloud workspaces.
We're powering some of the world's largest data centers and cloud providers as a trusted
partner, and this expertise that we have gained has helped us modernize networking to software
driven cognitive experience. A good example of this is Arista's Q4 2020 introduction of DMF or
DANZ Monitoring Fabric for contextual observability based on our Big Switch acquisition that we
did earlier in 2020.
Our zero trust vision that we launched this month also cements the relevance of a differentiated
network protection and security. Our holistic zero trust networks require the union of network
segmentation, situational awareness and visibility, and network detection and response security.
A key part of our strategy is to bring these cloud-first principles to every aspect of our cloud
network. So we bring it to routing, observability, and security functions, and it must be inherently
designed as a part of the Arista state and AI driven network architecture and foundation.
So with this, I'd like to invite Ken Duda, our Founder and Chief Technology Officer and Senior Vice
President of Software Engineering, to share some of our latest Innovations on Security. Ken?
`Kenneth Duda, Founder, Chief Technology Officer and Senior Vice President, Software `
Thanks, Jayshree. A zero trust framework for security is top of mind at Arista. For so many years,
networking vendors have focused first and foremost on providing connectivity that is making sure
everything can talk to everything else. This was fine in the 1980s, but it makes no sense todaywhere security is a greater concern than ever for many of our customers, more important than
connectivity itself.
Arista is addressing the needs of security-conscious operators by integrating security directly into
our network devices, so that the network is secure from day one without bolt-on security
products.
You've already heard about the Awake acquisition and progress in AI driven network detection
and response. I'd like to go a little deeper on this call into another innovative Arista security
feature called macro segmentation service groups, or MSSG. With MSSG, the operator assigns
endpoints to segments. Based on the type of device that's connecting, the user of that device
and or the applications they are using. The operator then specifies a segmentation policy.
Specifying which pairs of segments are permitted to communicate. For example, the policy might
permit corporate engineering laptops to connect to manufacturing applications, but not to the
finance applications and not even to one another.
MSSG enforces that policy uniformly, whether wired or wireless, whether on the campus or in the
datacenter, on-premises or working remotely. The operator can change the policy, including
reassigning an endpoint to a different segment without requiring any other changes to the
network. In particular, the policy is completely independent of network address assignment, which
can be quite important. For example, if the user device behaves suspiciously, it can be reassigned
to an untrusted segment without triggering any network change events on the device
so that the compromised device can be quarantined and investigated without tipping off the
other adversary that they've been detected.
Arista's MSSG works with 100%-standards based packets without adding any proprietary headers,
trailers, encapsulations, et cetera, and is thus easy to deploy incrementally into existing networks.
Finally, enforcement is implemented entirely in hardware for high-performance without relying on
expensive switch TCAMs for classification, which has led to scale problems in competing
solutions.
Our view is that MSSG is an example of a larger trend in networking, where Moore's Law is
enabling a larger and larger feature set to be integrated into mainstream switching and routing
devices. This integration is essential to move beyond security as an afterthought and provide
solutions that are secure off-the-shelf. And I'm delighted in the role Arista is able to play in
helping customers address the challenges of building and operating a modern network, not just
from a performance and scale perspective, but including so many other aspects, such as visibility,
manageability, monitoring, provisioning, process automation and, of course, security. Thanks.
Back to you Jayshree.
`Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Ken. Clearly, customers are fatigued with the proprietary and silo networking you just
mentioned. And just as we all modernize the cloud network, security must turn from a noun to an
adjective to build secure networks. Ken, your world-class engineering team has mastered the art
of quality and software architecture with best-in-class agility and programmability, credit to you
for founding and building this innovation and greatness in Arista, and I can't wait to see more of it.
In addition to our campus workspaces progress that I spoke about last time, next-generation
routing is another key adjacent market. Our investments in simplification of Arista's routing stackrouting, and these are yielding good traction in cloud service provider and enterprise customer
wins.
To give you context on this, just in 2020 alone, we introduced 6 EOS software releases across 40
platforms and delivered over 800 features in routing. The result of these investments we have
made in our routing, innovation and footprint have brought us over 200 customers in 2020.
In summary, Arista demonstrates a stark contrast to the current fatigue of silos and different
operating systems for WAN, campus, cloud data center, each one generating its own disparate
data silos.
We are building upon our cloud networking heritage to unify data sets consistently and
harnessing and archiving data across one software stack EUS and one CloudVision. The
networking industry is truly ripe for this transition and change to data-driven networking. Simply
put, a good enough mediocre network is no longer good enough and acceptable. And this is why
we believe that we're poised for multi-year inflection ahead.
With that, I'd like to turn it over to Ita for the financial specifics. Ita?
`Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Jayshree, and good afternoon. This analysis of our Q4 and full year 2020 results and our
guidance for Q1 2021 is based on non GAAP, and excludes all non-cash stock based
compensation impacts, certain acquisition related charges and other nonrecurring items. A full
reconciliation of our selected GAAP to non-GAAP results is provided in our earnings release.
Total revenues in Q4 were $648.5 million, up 17.4% year-over-year and well above the upper end
of our guidance of $615 million to $635 million. While we continue to strive for improvements on
the supply chain front, shipments remained somewhat constrained in the quarter, with some
COVID second and third wave related disruptions .
Service and software support renewals represented approximately 20% of total revenue, down
slightly from 21% last quarter. International revenues for the quarter came in at a $165.7 million or
26% of total revenue, up from 25% in the third quarter. While the shift in geographical mix on a
quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year basis is largely due to the location of deployments by
our third -- by our cloud titan customers, we did see some incremental improvement in our in-
region businesses this quarter.
Overall, gross margins in Q4 were a healthy 65%, at the upper end of our guidance of
approximately 63% to 65%, reflecting a heavier mix of shipments to our enterprise and financials
customers in the period.
Operating expenses for the quarter were $178.1 million or 27.5% of revenue, up from last quarter
at $159.4 million. We continue to increase operating expense investments during the quarter, as
our top-line performance for the year continued to improve.
R&D spending came in at $110.2 million or 17% of revenue, up from $106.1 million last quarter. This
reflected increased employee costs somewhat offset by lower new product-introduction
spending in the period. Sales and marketing expense was $54.9 million or 8.5% of revenue, up
from $43.1 million last quarter with increased variable compensation and other headcount related
charges. As a reminder, we continue to benefit from lower COVID related travel and marketing
expenses.Our G&A costs came in at $13 million or 2% of revenue, up from last quarter at approximately
$10.2 million, reflecting normal fourth quarter compliance related activities. Our operating income
for the quarter was $243.5 million or 37.6% of revenue.
Other income and expense for the quarter was a favorable $1.4 million, and our effective tax rate
was approximately 19.3%. Other income and expense included $2.5 million of interest income,
offset by some unfavorable FX amounts. The favorable tax rate included the release of some tax
reserves for which the statute of limitations expired in the period. This was a one-time effect and
the rate will likely return to our more structural rate of 21.9% in future periods.
Overall, this resulted in net income for the quarter of $197.7 million or 30.5% of revenue. Our
diluted share number was 79.3 million shares, resulting in a diluted earnings per share number for
the quarter of $2.49, up approximately 9% from the prior year.
Now turning to the balance sheet, cash, cash equivalents and investments ended the year at
approximately $2.87 billion. To recap on our uses of cash for the year, we generated $735 million
of cash from operations and returned approximately $395 million or 54% of this to shareholders
in the form of share repurchases.
In addition, we used approximately $227 million or 31% to fund cash consideration for two
acquisitions which closed during the year, retaining the balance of approximately $113 million in
the business.
To-date, we have repurchased $661 million or 3.2 million shares against our board authorization to
repurchase $1 billion worth of shares over three years, commencing in Q2 '19. We will continue to
execute opportunistically against the remaining mandate.
Turning to the operational cash performance for the fourth quarter, we generated $186.9 million
of cash from operations in the period, reflecting solid net income performance and continued
investments in working capital.
DSOs came in at 55 days, up from 46 days in Q3, reflecting the linearity of billings in the period.
Inventory turns were 1.8x, downs and 2x last quarter. Inventory increased to $480 million in the
quarter, up from $438 million in the prior period as we continue to buffer certain components and
products.
Our total deferred revenue balance was $651 million, up from $562 million in Q3. This increase
largely reflected typical fourth quarter service renewal activity and a small amount of deferred
product revenue related to new product deployments. The level of services deferred revenue is
directly linked to the timing and term of service renewals, which can vary on a quarter-over-
quarter basis.
Accounts payable days were 54 days, down from 70 days in Q3, reflecting the timing of inventory
receipts and payments. Capital expenditures for the quarter were $3.2 million.
Now turning to our outlook for the first quarter and beyond, we saw good diversification of the
business in fiscal 2020, with expected declines in cloud titan revenue somewhat offset by growth
in our other market sectors.
Looking to 2021, we expect continued growth with our enterprise and provider customers
combined with the solid cloud titan and contribution. From a product perspective, we expect
strength in adjacencies and software and services continue to make these areas a more
meaningful contributor to the business over time. We believe a combination of these trendscombined with favorable year-over-year comparatives allowed for a top-line growth rate for the
year which is in-line with annual consensus growth rates of 14% to 15%. You should also note that
our second half 2020 top-line recovery will likely result in some deceleration in quarterly year-
over-year growth rates as we move through 2021.
On the gross margin front, we will continue to reiterate our overall gross margin outlook of 63%
to 65%, with customer mix remaining the key driver. Turning to spending and investments. We
remain committed to making go-forward results-based investments in the business. This includes
continued go-to-market expansion to support enterprise and campus growth and investments in
R&D to support innovation across the business.
Finally, our outlook discussion above and our guidance for Q1 reflect our current understanding of
COVID-19 and its impact on our business and supply chain. This is however an inherently uncertain
situation and we will need to continue to monitor and attempt to mitigate new challenges as the
situation unfolds.
With all of this as a backdrop our guidance for the first quarter, which is based on a non-GAAP
results and excludes any non-cash stock-based compensation impacts and other non-recurring
items is as follows: revenues of approximately $630 million to $650 million, gross margin of 63%
to 65 %, operating margin of approximately 37%. Effective tax rate is expected to be
approximately 21.9% with diluted shares of approximately 80 million shares.
I will now turn the call back to Charles. Charles?
`Charles Yager, Director, Product and Investor Advocacy `
Thank you, Ita. We're now going to move to the Q&A portion of the Arista earnings call. Due to
time constraints, I'd like to request that everyone please limit themselves to a single question.
Thank you for your understanding. Operator, take it away.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
We will now begin the Q&A portion of the Arista earnings call. (Operator Instructions) Your first
question comes from `Meta Marshall, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.
Q - `Meta Marshall, Morgan Stanley `
Great and thank you. Maybe just a comment around -- you just announced the kind of macro
segmentation kind of security portfolio. Just as you're broadening out the campus portfolio, just
other security features and functionalities that you think you will need or other partnerships that
you think you'll need to expand upon to just kind of address that customer base that maybe the
needs are different than the datacenter needs? Thanks.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Meta. As you know we've had a very robust set of partnerships. So we will be working on
securing the network. But protecting the network is only one aspect of the datacenter or campus.
You have to make sure you work with different types of firewall vendors. You have to protect the
cloud and the multi-cloud zones, you have to protect the devices and the identity.So macro-segmentation has multiple fronts. We enforce a lot of roles to our partnerships with
firewall vendors, in particular Palo Alto Networks as well as others. We enforce rules on the host
with our partnership with VMware especially. And then more recently, we've also done with our
macro-segmentation that Ken talked about more and more identity mapping and enforcement
with our partners like Forescout as well as Aruba ClearPass and Okta. So the first thing I want to
say is security is too important for just Arista to do. We will be securing and protecting the
network and working with these partners.
Looking ahead, we see other forms of security too, and I'd love for Ken or Anshul to comment
because whether it is securing the network and segmentation and the many forms we talked
about, but also more and more in the datacenter encryption, capabilities and privacy, whether it's
network-wide or hop-to-pop and in the campus, bringing security all the way down to our
wireless. So Ken or Anshul, do you want to say something more about that?
A - `Kenneth Duda, Founder, Chief Technology Officer and Senior Vice President, Software `
Sure, Jayshree. Helping our enterprise customers connect to the cloud is extremely important.
And as you know there's no one single way to connect your enterprise apps to these cloud apps.
There are 1,000 different ways, whether it's express or direct connect, different hops, meet me
in the middle, different service providers, and we're quite focused on enabling more and more
functionality there with different forms of tunneling, taking our baseline EVPN approach for
enterprises and marrying it to what happens on the cloud side, different types of encryption
channels and so on. Ken, anything you want to add?
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Operating Officer `
Yes. I just wanted to add that we -- our segmentation is simply the newest announcement that
we've made in this area, but we have a robust portfolio of security features already, including
hardware support for MACsec and IPSec to secure individual links, including multistage ACLs for
advanced packet classification and several other features, wireless intrusion prevention. So I think
that customers are already able to build a fully-secured network on Arista solutions. That said,
we'll, of course be looking to partner in the future with anyone who can help us build a more
secure solution.
Q - `Meta Marshall, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thanks.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Meta.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Ryan Koontz, Rosenblatt Securities with Rosenblatt Securities. Your line is open.
Q - `Ryan Koontz, Rosenblatt Securities `
Hi. Thanks for question. I wanted to ask you about the semi supply chain. You talked about
building inventory in the quarter on key parts. Can you give us a little more color on what's going
on there? We do hear about production capacity issues, and obviously, lead times are starting to
stretch out you feel you give us some comfort -- you feel comfortable with your commitments
from your suppliers and what you're seeing out there? I appreciate it. Thank you.A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Ryan, as we said, we have been constrained much of 2020 starting with March. So this has
been a real issue for the entire supply chain. We have products with extremely large lead times
that we plan ahead for and I would be remiss if I didn't say while we have some great partners
that the semiconductor supply chain is still constrained. Ita and her team as well as Anshul and the
team have taken some very important steps to build out our inventory for some of these long
lead-time components, but we could use a lot more parts than we still have.
Q - `Ryan Koontz, Rosenblatt Securities `
Helpful. Thanks very much.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Ryan.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Jason Ader, William Blair & Company with William Blair. Your line is open.
Q - `Jason Ader, William Blair & Company `
Yes. Thank you. Jayshree, can you talk about what's driving your momentum in the enterprise?
Would you say it's more of the product portfolio that's expanded? Or is it just the build out of
your sales and distribution infrastructure? Or maybe it's both?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I think the simple answer, Jason, is it is both. We've been making multi-year investments on
both the product side, first of all, both in the datacenter, but also going beyond the datacenter to
different roles and use cases. And Anshul and Chris Schmidt and Ashwin and the team have been
building out our capacity both in the US and internationally.
But I would say the third thing that's also clicking is our best-of-breed product capability. It's one
thing to invest in it, but customers are really resonating with the single OS. CloudVision being a
huge differentiator, we just crossed over 1,000 CloudVision customers since we started shipping
this product a few years ago. So I think the ability to not just build a great network, but to operate
it and for them to experience that quality of experience has made it much more complete. So I
would say, great products, great go-to-market and then a high quality operation and experience.
Q - `Jason Ader, William Blair & Company `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Jason.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Rod Hall, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
Q - `Rod Hall, Goldman Sachs `Yes. Thanks for the question. I just wanted to ask about the vertical with regards to providers, you
guys beat that pretty solidly against our expectations. So maybe a little bit more color there. And
then cloud was a little bit weak. And I'm just curious if you guys are still thinking you can grow
cloud this year and is it a single-digit growth rate, et cetera? Maybe you don't want to talk about
that. But just curious what your thoughts are on cloud growth this year. Thanks.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
All right, Rod. Well, as you know cloud has been tough for us and pretty volatile. The visibility on
Cloud Titan was very difficult last year. On the other hand, as we've been telling you, we're
starting to make good penetration in both Tier 2, Tier 3 service providers as well as our Tier 2
cloud providers. So that has come up nicely to make up for some of the volatility in our Titans.
In terms of your question, one of the things we felt in Q4, we did achieve was we were firing on
all five verticals and on all three sectors. But because we had so much volatility in Titans, overall in
the year, we were down. And Anshul, you may want to add to that is that, in our view, there is no
reflection on the strength and an intimacy of our preferred partnership with our Cloud Titans. But
we did have some delays in their qualification of 400 gig and in spite of all the new products we
had, decisions took longer to happen. Anshul, do you want to comment on that?
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Operating Officer `
Sure. Jason, our work with the Cloud Titans collaboration co-development partnership is coming
along fairly well both for 400 gig as well as 200 gig, we believe we will start to see these
ramping second half of the year. And we believe we will do well with the cloud. The Cloud Titan
numbers for us are already large. So obviously, you'll never have seen growth rates, but we
believe our business will remain solid with them.
Operator
And your next question--
Q - `Rod Hall, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you. And--
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Rod.
Operator
Sorry. Go ahead.
Q - `Rod Hall, Goldman Sachs `
I was going to say on providers. I don't know if you had any comment on that, but.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Providers are doing well for us. They tend to be seasonal. It depends on when a provider is
investing. So I think our specialty providers, some of them are coming back very strong and they
had investments the prior year. And some of them are also recognizing that they need to be a
specialty cloud just as the name suggests. And not just rely on the public cloud. So it's effect weQ - `Rod Hall, Goldman Sachs `
Great. Okay. Thanks, Jayashree.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Rod.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Amit Daryanani, Evercore with Evercore. Your line is open.
Q - `Amit Daryanani, Evercore `
First of all, congrats on a really good quarter given all the craziness the year had. I guess my
question really is, as I think about the calendar '21 guide, March, I think, will be up 22%, 23% year-
over-year. And I think the full year guide implied to be on 14%. Beyond the compares, could you
just maybe talk about why do you think growth will decelerate as we go through the year,
especially given the comments, I think, Anshul made about 400 gig ramping up in the back half?
Thank you.
A - `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, Amit, I think, it's really all about kind of if you look at the trend from last year, I mean, it was
really a year of two halves, right? You had some very constrained lower numbers in the first half.
And then obviously we started to recover and exit the year with a very respectable revenue top-
line number. So a lot of it has to do with the comps. So I think you have to think about it more this
year just in terms of progress as we move through the year than necessarily trying to target a
particular year-over-year growth rate just because of how the volatility that we saw in 2020.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And Amit, just to add to that, yes, we are confident of our position with Cloud Titans. But as you
know our near-term visibility is always better than our long-term. So we'll know better as we go
quarter-by-quarter. And I'm looking forward Anshul, to you raising the forecast.
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Operating Officer `
Amit, don't ask these questions again.
I like how she just (inaudible). Thank you very much.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I put him on the slot there [ph].
Operator
Your next question comes from `Jeff Kvaal, Wolfe Research with Wolfe Research. Your line is now open.
Q - `Jeff Kvaal, Wolfe Research `
Yes. Good afternoon. Thank you for taking the question. I guess first perhaps for Jayshree or
Anshul. Could you help us understand where you stand in the value proposition with Wi-Fi and SD-WAN? And I bring that up because a lot of your peers in the market will make much of what they
are up to in both of those particular categories.
And then I guess secondarily, either for you, could you perhaps frame for us a bit about the
magnitude of the revenue left on the table in the fourth quarter? And to what extent, that's a
factor in your first quarter guidance as well?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, Jeff, we will try to address your two part question, we'll do our best. So specific to Wi-Fi,
we view this as a very important component of our overall cognitive workspaces portfolio, but we
are not competing directly with Cisco or Aruba or anybody else on the controller-based
traditional Wi-Fi architecture. So our approach to Wi-Fi has been very much like our approach to
optics. We're not an optical vendor, but we view Wi-Fi and optics as an accessory to provide that
cognitive, inference, AI-driven architecture so that you can seamlessly connect across wired and
Wi-Fi. So Cloud Vision supports wired and Wi-Fi.
We have a unified edge that supports wired and Wi-Fi. Our Wi-Fi will lead to migration as
customers may need into LTE or 4G or 5G. So to us, Wi-Fi is almost a technology and a feature,
not a market segment, but it's critical to bringing our wired, wireless, unified, leaf-spine
architecture that we extended from the datacenter into the campus. So I think our competitors
are looking at it more traditionally and we're looking at modern workspaces. As for SD-WAN,
we've been very clear that we are not in that market space. We look at some of the SD-WAN
attributes as features and an extension of our WAN routing. So -- but other than that, we're not in
that low-end market where we're supplying branch offices to SMBs like VeloCloud or Meraki
might.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Sami Badri, Credit Suisse with Credit Suisse. Your line is open.
Q - `Sami Badri, Credit Suisse `
Hi. Thank you very much. My question has more to do with quantification of the campus switching
or enterprise opportunity. Would you be able to give us kind of quantified number or revenue run
rate that you guys came in at as of 4Q 2020? And Jayshree, I think, before, you have guided us
to where you want to be at some point from a run rate basis. Has that timeline accelerated? Or
has it contracted? Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sami, I think we told you we wanted to achieve at least $100 million in 2020 and we certainly
achieved that. In fact we exceeded it. And our goal is to double that in this year, and we'll give
you more quantification as the year progresses. So we're on track. We're executing well. I won't
say it's changed dramatically. Obviously, COVID has slowed down some of the large campus
decision-making, but I think it's going to get better.
Q - `Sami Badri, Credit Suisse `
Got it. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Sami.Operator
Your next question comes from `Paul Silverstein, Cowen & Company with Cowen. Your line is open.
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Cowen & Company `
Just a clarification question. The clarification, Ita, take it is basic math that Facebook for the full
year was less than $230 million, maybe meaningfully less but it certainly wasn't more. If I did the
math correctly, that would be down over 40%. I'm just wondering hoping you could confirm that, if
not tell us what it was.
And then the question would be for Jayshree and the rest of the team. Jayshree, when you talk
about your entre into these various ancillary markets, whether fabric monitoring, automation, et
cetera, I think you gave us the breakdown which I appreciate in terms of the contribution of
revenue. But any thoughts on what type of growth? I suspect some news like fabric monitoring is
coming off essentially for ground zero. You touched to the Big Switch acquisition, albeit I think you
had a presence would monitor for a while now. But any sense you can give us for what type of
growth you're looking at outside of data center switching with as much granularity as you can
summit.
A - `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Paul, just to close off on the Facebook, I mean, they were 16.6% of revenue last year. And
obviously, they're down below 10% this year. So I think that gives you something to work with,
right?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And Paul, as you know there are two types of software. There are the perpetual licenses where
we do, do some monitoring with what we call DANZ, data analyzer, that's built in with our
switches and routers. And then there's a subscription. So unlike many of our peers, we're not just
converting perpetual into subscription.
Our subscription-based software is really new markets, new markets like our Big Switch DANZ
Monitoring Fabric, CloudVision, obviously, multi-cloud US router. And then we're very-very excited
about the recent acquisition of Awake Security. So the revenue will trail the subscription but -- and
we're obviously starting off a small number. So it would be remiss if we didn't grow double-digits
on those small numbers. We expect to grow much faster than our 14% to 15% annual growth that
Ita described. And we'll leave it at that when we show our execution.
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Cowen & Company `
Any thoughts of what that could be in dollar contribution?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, what I did say is between A-Care services software renewals and all of these software, we
expect it to be in the 25% range looking ahead.
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Cowen & Company `
Looking ahead.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `And again, I think it's important to think of that as trends, not exact revenue because revenue
lags the bookings.
A - `Charles Yager, Director, Product and Investor Advocacy `
Thank you, Paul. Next question.
Operator
Your next question comes from James Fish with Piper Sandler. Your line is open.
Q - `James E. Fish, Piper Sandler `
Hey, guys. Congrats on the quarter. Just actually wanted to go off of Rod's question before.
Appreciate the year end disclosure, but I'm curious if you could actually talk about what did
happen with your second largest historical customer on why it was cut by somewhere around
50%, even backing up the deferred hair cut, it's still a pretty massive cut. And related to this, it
would imply that given the cloud vertical exposure that you had an uptick up, which I'm guessing
was for Q4, not just the entire year, but that another large hyperscaler actually had some strength
on their needs. So just kind of curious if you can walk us through the Cloud Titans vertical more
specifically. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure, James. First of all, our Cloud Titans verticals consist of only the major cloud scale
customers, right? And we list them but they're your usual suspects that you know. So we do have
other Cloud Titan customers besides Microsoft and Facebook to clarify your question. Facebook,
we've discussed a lot in the past. As you know they had a change in their product line where they
skipped a service cycle. And we saw the loss of that especially in second -- late 2019 and also
much of 2020. So we're looking forward to it coming back. Anshul, do you want to add anything
more to that on?
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Operating Officer `
Jayshree, that's it. We've been fairly transparent with what happened there on the CT cycle,
changing their plans for deployments and so on. And I think actually everything worked out as we
had stated almost four quarters ago.
Q - `James E. Fish, Piper Sandler `
Got it. Thanks.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Jim.
Operator
Your next question comes from `David Vogt, UBS with UBS. Your line is open.
Q - `David Vogt, UBS `
Thanks, guys. Great quarter. So just maybe a quick follow-up on the supply disruptions. Can you
provide more detail around sort of the nature of the disruption you experienced? And what I
mean by that is, can you comment on sort of the magnitude of the impact in the quarter? What itmight look like in the first quarter maybe in the sector where you're seeing more of an exposure
and maybe timing around your ability to recover those lost sales? Thanks.
A - `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I mean I think, look, it's more of an extended lead time environment than it is anything else,
right? And we're working very closely with customers to make sure that we're not losing business,
right, that we're actually planning carefully with them and prioritizing what's most important to
them, right? But I think we had hoped, if we talked this time last quarter, we had hoped to see
more of a recovery in the fourth quarter than we did just because we saw more COVID-related
disruptions around -- we lost some manufacturing capacity on and off, because of COVID
activities in different locations.
The supply chain, some of the suppliers into that supply chain, sells that as well, right? So it's just -
- I don't know that it's that's different to where we have been. And as we head into Q1, I think
we're in a similar position. So there's no great disruption to the numbers I think coming out of
changes in that environment. We just didn't make maybe as much progress as we would have
liked, right? So we're continuing to just stay close to customers and prioritize but we're also trying
to make sure we don't lose business as part of that.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And I just want to acknowledge that the manufacturing team led by John McCool is doing a really
good job with Anshul's leadership. We're doing the best we can, but we haven't recovered.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Samik Chatterjee, JP Morgan with JP Morgan. Your line is open.
Q - `Samik Chatterjee, JP Morgan `
Hi. Thanks for taking the question. Great. I guess, Jayshree, you guys have strong results in
enterprise and that's good to see. But you did mention campus sales cycles are probably still a
bit long. But when we focus on the overall datacenter part of enterprise, I just wanted to check
like how are you -- what are you seeing in terms of drivers of growth there ? Is it more of a land
and expand with the existing customers? Or are you -- what momentum are you seeing in
relation to new logos on the core data center part of the enterprise customer base there?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Actually, Samik, that's a really good question. Many enterprise customers are looking at us as
the thought leader on how they should proceed with their workloads in the cloud. So I think by
virtue of being consultative with them, what we're finding is some workloads move to the cloud,
but many of them end up creating more data center capability that they need for some of their
premise workloads. So this enterprise number that we are sharing absolutely includes more than
campus. It includes existing customers land and expands as well as new logos. We had one of our
best ever quarters on not only new customer logos, but million dollar customers. So you can
imagine that wasn't just campus, and so there was a lot of datacenter in there.
Q - `Samik Chatterjee, JP Morgan `
Got it. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `Thanks, Samik.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Fahad Najam, MKM Partners with MKM Partners. Your line is open.
Q - `Fahad Najam, MKM Partners `
Thank you for taking my question. I had a big picture question on architectures. We often hear
from the cloud hyperscale operators talking about 800 gig and using silicon photonics to expand
the search Redis in order to reduce the number of layers in their datacenters network. How
should we think about that impacting your revenue outlook from your hyperscale customers?
Should they achieve expanding the Redis architecture that they're talking about today?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Just before I hand it to Anshul, he is perfect to answer this. We believe Arista is number one
today in both 100-gig and 400-gig, including 200, right? And the 100-gig market is easily 40
times bigger than the 400-gig. And anybody planning 800 gig is typically doing so in a much
longer-term, especially for optics, right? So in general, if you just step back and look at 400 gig,
the quals have shifted out by a year and we expect production mainly in the second half. So we're
still in the world of 100, 200 and 400-gig I believe this year. But Anshul, do you have some more
color?
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Operating Officer `
Absolutely. Fahad, your question is right on point, but it is a sort of a futuristic discussion because
this is not something that's going to happen in the next one or two years. Customers always like
to collapse layers in the network because that is significant saving on cost and power. At the
same time, their business teams would like larger clusters, which results in adding layers. And as a
result of that, you have a balance there. Then as you may know our largest switch can support
230 terabits of throughput in a single switch. And for some of these large Cloud Titans, that's still
not big enough. They would like bigger to saw one more layer of the network.
So we're constantly engaged in these discussions, as we move from 50 gig SerDes, which is
where we are today in a 400 gig world, to 100 gig SerDes, some of these architectural points will
come up. But I think by the end this really hits, it maybe when 224-gigs SerDes come out, and
that's at least six years out, maybe five. But it's really hard to predict that. And that's when I think
you'll see some of these changes.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
That's very visionary. Thank you, Anshul.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Simon Leopold, Raymond James with Raymond James. Your line is now open.
Q - `Simon Leopold, Raymond James `
Thanks for taking the question. I wanted to see if you could touch on the routing use cases. You
mentioned in the prepared remarks the expansion of feature set. And I appreciate that there's a
bit of a spectrum between switching and routing. But if you can give us a little bit more color in
terms of the revenue that this is contributing as well as your outlook for the growth in thesemaybe wide area network and routing functional cases within your datacenter deployments?
Thanks.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Simon, I think, as you know this is a very important part of our adjacency. And I would sort of
describe our success in routing in three areas. There are very specific use cases in service
providers. We were doing very well, especially with routing and residential edge and bringing that
edge capability for mobile edge or EVP and edge, et cetera. Then there's a second, which is an
extension of our datacenter where we go into peering points and these could be cloud
providers, but they could also be enterprises in conjunction with service providers. And then
there's a third which is building the telco cloud itself where many people are looking -- many
customers are looking to build the same cloud-like principles inside their service provider
network. Anshul, do you want to add something more to that?
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Operating Officer `
Jayshree has pretty much said it. They're really outside the datacenter, the cloud connecting to
the backbone, backbone to the internet, the internet connecting to pivot points and then to the
service providers and their customers. I think we're actually doing fairly well marching along that
journey. There's a lot that has been done. There is still a lot more to be done, but I think we will
do very well, keep growing in that space.
Q - `Simon Leopold, Raymond James `
Any quantification you can offer?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
As we said in the opening remarks, our goal is together with campus for this adjacent sector to
be 10% to 15% of our business looking forward. And also remember, we struggled a little bit with
how to count routing. So we try to be much disciplined about counting routing only when there's
routing. So if it's combined with switching, it still goes into core.
Q - `Simon Leopold, Raymond James `
Thanks for that.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Aaron Rakers, Wells Fargo with Wells Fargo. Your line is open.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Wells Fargo `
Yes. Thanks for taking a question, and also congratulations on the quarter. I apologize to go back
to this, but in the context of kind of your guidance and the discussion around your second largest
customer, I'm just curious how you've thought about the move to this next-generation server
cycle with Ice Lake and AMDs Milan.
And also in the context of that second largest customer giving a CapEx guide that looks like it'syear? Or is that something that you consider, hey, let's see if this CapEx guide comes to fruition
and I'd rather take a conservative view on how that filters into the Arista business. Just curious
how you thought about that?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Aaron, I think that's an excellent question. Given we got burned the last time on some of the
forecasts, we do think that we are going to take a much more pragmatic view. And our view is
really that it's a multi-year spend not just in 2021. So there's clearly going to be some good CapEx
improvements from 2020 to 2021 specifically, but we're not counting at all for this year.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Wells Fargo `
Okay. Just to be clear, remind me again of how your business trails kind of server cycle again?
Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. That's a good question. Anshul, why don't you describe that?
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Operating Officer `
Aaron, what I would say here is, do not try to correlate us short-term to any Cloud Titan spend,
because they can spend their CapEx in many different ways. And only correlated to our business
in the long-term, never the short-term.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And typically, there's a lag of a few quarters, right? So the CapEx can be building, cooling, air
conditioning, server storage before we think of the network.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Wells Fargo `
That's helpful. Thank you very much.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Aaron.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Tim Long, Barclays with Barclays. Your line if open.
Q - `Tim Long, Barclays `
Thank you. Yes, just wonder if I could. Could you talk a little bit about when we're starting to think
about these adjacencies and service and software lines, how are you thinking about getting to
those -- growth out of those areas and those of the business that you talked about as far as kind
of cross-selling the core portfolio and the existing customers, I would assume switch to routing is
pretty synergistic. But could you talk a little bit about how much you're expecting to cross-sell into
new campus customers, new software customers or what might be some new growth areas
outside of where the core products are really strong? Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `Yes. No, Tim, that's a really good question. I think we will rely very much on our sales force and
our strength with our existing customers to achieve adjacency in campus. And the same is true for
routing as well. It's a very natural way to go because it's a directed sale for large big bets and
segments of customers. However, we will complement that. So while on adjacencies will rely on
our 7,000 or more customers. In the case of campus, we're spending a lot of time and energy on
how to augment that with channels and partner distribution.
And in the case of software and subscription services, it's not always connected. So Anshul and
the team are putting a fair amount of effort on not really just hiring salespeople, but creating
systems engineering expertise. So building that expertise for DMS, building that for a wake is an
important aspect, because often they maybe the same customer, but they maybe a different
decision maker, so that go-to market is a little more nuanced for the software and subscription,
but somewhat similar for the adjacency.
Q - `Tim Long, Barclays `
Okay. Great. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks. Tim.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Alex Henderson, Needham & Co. with Needham. Your line is open
Q - `Alex Henderson, Needham & Co. `
Thank you very much. I was hoping you could talk a little bit about the emergence of code as
infrastructure, the CICD pipelining of micro-services, edge compute and how that's going to
change traffic patterns and purchasing of your products over time, and particularly around the
implication of the service mesh at the edge. I'd think that your -- you've been talking about points
in the cloud in places in the cloud for a really long time. And this architectural change effectively
makes individuals and applications simply points in the cloud if we play out that strategy. And
therefore, data and IT protection becomes critical. So how are you thinking about those aspects
of the emergence and adoption of kubernetes, micro-services, CICD pipeline and the like
impacting your business?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I don't know if Ken is still on the line to address this in more detail. But I think in general, we
believe a data-driven network coming to the edge whether the sources are multi-cloud, wireless,
4G, 5G, WAN, kubernetes, et cetera, is very relevant to the way we develop our software. Ken,
do you want to add a little more?
A - `Kenneth Duda, Founder, Chief Technology Officer and Senior Vice President, Software `
Yes. Sure. No, I think that we're very well aware of those directions and we're maximizing our
relevance there in a couple of ways. The first is what's required for that whole computing model
for scaling your application horizontally across kubernetes is a uniform physical networking fabric.
You need low latency from physical edge to physical edge regardless of where the kubernetes
questers are deployed. And you need to be able to deploy them in a lot of different places like
you mentioned with edge compute. Also some enterprises need to be on-premises for various
reasons to want the same application architecture that they use in the cloud as well.And so there's a need to have this same sort of repeatable rollout process of the underlying
infrastructure for those kubernetes-based environments whether it's on-prem, edge compute or
in the cloud. And that's what we've achieved with CloudVision studios. So I don't know if we've
talked about this much in the context of the earnings call. But CloudVision studios enable us to
enable our customers to create automation frameworks so they can easily spin up new fabric
deployments, new pods and absolutely with supporting kubernetes in mind.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And this is probably a great topic for Analyst Day, Alex, but stay tuned for more here.
Q - `Alex Henderson, Needham & Co. `
Appreciate the answer. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Alex.
Operator
Your next question comes from Joh Lopez with Vertical Group. Your line is open.
Q - `Jon Lopez, The Vertical Group `
Hi. Thanks so much. Ita, I was wondering if you could just talk a second about deferred. The short-
term in deferred was like really, really strong, best in multiple years. And I'm wondering what was
in that, whether Awake had any influence on that? And then I think within that, you talked about
perhaps some product deferred in there. And I was just wondering if you could talk to us about
maybe when that layers in, so we don't get tripped up which happened a couple of years back.
So sorry for that, but can you just maybe discuss all those things quickly?
A - `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I mean the driver in the uptick in Q4 was really around services and services renewals, right? I
mean Q4 is a big typically a fairly large renewal quarter and we had some larger customers
renew prior period renewals of services. That's by far the biggest driver. There's a little bit of
product, but it is small. Just pure new customer new product stuff, but that's a much, much
smaller part of it, right? It's really more about services and the services.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And Awake is too small and too early to call that number.
Q - `Jon Lopez, The Vertical Group `
Got you. Okay. Thanks for the help.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Jon.
Operator
Your next question comes from `George Notter, Jefferies with Jefferies. Your line is open.Q - `George Notter, Jefferies `
It's George. Thanks for taking the question. I just wanted to get your thoughts on how you see
customers deploying 400 gig? And do you think there's an opportunity to upgrade some of the
100-gig installed base to 400-gig in the early stages? Or will much of the initial 400 gig ramp be
coming from net new port growth?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I think, George, I've always said this, there's a strong correlation especially with our cloud
customers on 100- and 400-gig being tried as we move to a 400 gig spine, and you still need a
lot of 100 gig tributaries. And in the past, that -- besides COVID, we haven't had effective
available optics. I think all of that shifted 400 gig by a year, but this is a year we really see 400 gig
will be deployed, especially in the second half.
Just to give this in context, while we have over 7,000 customers, we have about 75 customers
already deploying 400-gig in some fashion. So it's about 1% or less than 1% of our aggregate
base and so 100-gig will continue to be relevant as we augment with 400-gig both in our high-
end cloud and enterprise and service providers.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Ben Bollin, Cleveland Research Company with Cleveland Research. Your line is open.
Q - `Ben Bollin, Cleveland Research Company `
Good afternoon. Thank you for taking the question. Could you address a little bit more about the
recurring software and service revenue opportunity? Specifically, I'd be interested in what types
of customers and verticals do you see as really driving that transition? Do you have opportunities
to gain traction there with your hyperscale accounts? And then Ita, any high-level thoughts on
contract terms, average length or invoice methodology would be helpful. Thanks.
A - `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure, Ben, I think the biggest and most attractive verticals for the software subscription would be
enterprises and financials. I love to get it into others as well, but these would be the two big
areas of target. And there are clearly a lot of verticals in there, sub-verticals, and we're already
seeing a lot of interest in the financial markets for that software and subscription and I expect
we'll see many more.
Yes. And a lot of this is built upfront, and it's a two to three year type kind of term -- contract term
if you like, and usually, we're collecting kind of -- we're billing and collecting cash upfront so far. I
mean that may change over time depending on the size of the customer. But so far, that's kind of
been the model.
Q - `Ben Bollin, Cleveland Research Company `
Thank you.
Operator
Your last question comes from `Jim Suva, Citi with Citigroup Research. Your line is open.
Q - `Jim Suva, Citi `Thank you and my sincere congratulations on good results and outlook. In your prepared remarks,
I think I heard some numbers thrown out like 36%, 36%, 28%. And I think that was for the vertical
mixes. Was that more for the year out or all long, long-term? And the reason I'm asking the
question is, with your guidance of, I think you said up 12% for next year and it's off easy comp. I'm
just trying to figure out which of those three markets you're seeing the most strength? Because if
I look at those percent, it almost seems like it's a lot coming from service providers, but maybe
I'm bridging that incorrectly. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Jim, thank you for the good wishes. So the trends are not exact revenue for Q4 but it is our
best indicator of how we think the year ahead will roll out. So we'll keep updating it every quarter
to give you an idea of not how it's rolling out, but how it's actually turning out. So there are three
sectors in that, right? The first sector is Cloud Titans because it's big enough. You just have to
look at that number individual of others. The second is enterprise and financials together, which is
the other 36%; and the third is specialty cloud and service providers together.
So if you look at Q4, we believe all of the three sectors contributed strongly to the number. And if
you look ahead obviously as Anshul has pointed out the Cloud Titans are vital to our growth, but
they're operating off a large base. So we should be able to grow faster in the other sectors and
still carry a large number in Cloud Titans.
Q - `Jim Suva, Citi `
Thank you for the details and congratulations.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you so much.
A - `Charles Yager, Director, Product and Investor Advocacy `
Thanks, Jim. This concludes the Arista Q4 2020 earnings call. We have posted a presentation,
which provides additional information which you can access on the Investors section of our
website. Thank you for joining us today.
Operator
Thank you for joining, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's call. You may now disconnect.