Q4 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2021 Arista Networks' Financial Results Earnings Conference Call.
During the call, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. After the presentation, we will conduct
a question-and-answer session. Instructions will be provided at that time. (Operator Instructions).
As a reminder, this conference is being recorded and will be available for replay from the Investor
Relations section at the Arista website following this call.
Mr.`Venk Nathamuni, Head of Corporate Finance, M&A, IR, Arista's Head of Corporate and Finance and Investor Relations. You may
begin.
`Venk Nathamuni, Head of Corporate Finance, M&A, IR `
Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us. With me on today's
call are Jayshree Ullal, Arista Networks' President and Chief Executive Officer; and `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer,
Arista's Chief Financial Officer.
This afternoon, Arista Networks issued a press release announcing the results for its fiscal fourth
quarter ending December 30, 2021. If you would like a copy of the press release, you can access
it online at our website.During the course of this conference call, Arista Networks' management will make forward-
looking statements, including those relating to our financial outlook for the first quarter of fiscal
year 2022, the longer-term financial outlook for 2022 and beyond, our total addressable market
and strategy for addressing these market opportunities, the potential impact of COVID-19, supply
chain constraints, manufacturing capacity and inventory purchases on our business, product
innovation, and finally, the benefits of acquisitions.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that we discuss in detail in our SEC filings,
specifically in our most recent Form 10-Q and Form 10-K, which could cause actual results to differ
materially from those anticipated by these statements. These forward-looking statements apply
as of today and should not be relied on as representing our views in the future. And, we
undertake no obligation to update these statements after this call.
Also, please note that certain financial measures we use on this call are expressed on a non-
GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude certain charges. We have provided reconciliations
of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures in our earnings press release.
With that, let me now turn the call over to Jayshree.
`Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Venk, and welcome to your first earnings call at Arista. We're excited to have you on
board as our Executive Head of Corporate Development, IR and Finance.
Thank you everyone for joining us this afternoon for our fourth quarter 2021 earnings call. If
there's one thing the pandemic has taught us, it is that it comes with variant surprises. With
vaccines and booster choices, we certainly hope that all of you and your families are safe during
the latest spread of the Omicron variant. I am proud of our employees for adapting and thank our
partners and customers for placing their trust in us during these ever changing times.
Back to Q4, 2021, we delivered revenues of $824.5 million for the quarter, with a non-GAAP
earnings per share of $0.82. Services and software support renewals contributed approximately
21% of the revenue. Our non-GAAP gross margin of 64.3% was influenced by increasing supply
chain costs. We registered a record number of million-dollar customers as a direct result of our
momentum in the enterprise and campus section that we have experienced throughout the year.
We have now surpassed in excess of 8,000 cumulative customers.
In terms of Q4, 2021 verticals, Cloud Titans was our largest vertical, followed by the enterprise,
followed by the specialty cloud providers at third place, financials at fourth place, and service
providers at fifth place. All the verticals grew well at double-digit percentages in 2021.
In terms of Q4 geographical mix, international contributions were strong at 29% with the
Americas at 71% for the quarter.
Shifting to annual sector revenue for the year, in 2021 Cloud Titans registered approximately 30%
of the revenue, enterprise and financials came in at approximately 40%, and the providers at
approximately 30%. Microsoft was the only greater than 10% customer at a 15% contribution. We
do expect Meta, formally Facebook, to become our second 10% revenue customer in 2022 as we
improve lead times.
I would now like to invite `Anshul Sadana, Chief Operating Officer, our Chief Operating Officer to shed more light on our
Cloud Titans execution.Thank you, Jayshree.
Our cloud business continues to be strong. In 2021, we successfully transitioned from prototype
to trials to production, on our latest products for 100 gig, 200 gig, and 400 gig. The Arista 7800
is now deployed at scale for data center spine, DCI and regional spines, and AI spine clusters.
The Arista 7388, which we co-developed with Meta and announced at OCP November last year,
is also now running successfully in production data centers.
We not only continue to do well in existing use cases, but are also winning in new areas like WAN
and cloud edge. Feedback from our largest customers is consistent with the products that are
easier to work with and have far fewer issues than competition.
While there is often speculation about share shift in some of our use cases, demand for our
products from these Cloud Titans remains healthy. To quote one of our largest customers
directly, Arista continues to maintain and even grow its leadership position in these high volume
leased spine deployments.
Back to you, Jayshree.
`Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Anshul. We look forward to our continued partnership with the Cloud Titans,
something you and the entire engineering team has been nurturing for over a decade.
In terms of annual 2021 product lines, our core cloud and data center products, built upon our
highly differentiated Arista EOS stack, is successfully deployed across 10 gig, 25 gig, 40 gig, 100
gig, 200 gig, and 400 gig speeds. This drove approximately 64% of our revenue with strong
cloud and enterprise spending cycles. We believe we will continue to be the number one in
market share for both 100 gig and 400 gig ports according to industry analysts.
Our second market is network adjacencies comprised of routing replacing routers and the
cognitive campus workspaces. We doubled our campus revenue at approximately $200 million in
2021, and aiming to double again to $400 million in 2022. Our investments in the cognitive
campus switching spines and wireless, generated significant customer wins versus incumbents.
We successfully deployed in many routing edge and peering use cases, winning Tier 1 and Tier 2,
Tier 3 service provider projects for routing. Our investments in the simplification of the routing
stack and the edge is yielding traction. Just in 2021 alone, we introduced 6 EOS software releases
across 37 platforms. We delivered over 1500 features in routing over the past two years.
The total campus and routing adjacencies together contribute approximately 14% of revenue as a
compelling alternative to legacy networks.
Our third category is network software and services, based on subscription models, such as
Arista A-Care, CloudVision, DANZ Monitoring Fabric or DMF Observability, and the Advanced
Network Detection and Response, NDR with AVA sensors for security. Arista's subscription-based
network services and software contributed approximately 22% of total product revenue.
We are proud that CloudVision has now exceeded over 1300 cumulative customers as a highly
differentiated, integral element for our customers' network agility and operations.
To recap our discussion at November 2021 Analyst Day, the networking industry is ripe for this
digital transformation to data-driven networking. Arista is well-positioned as a leader in this client-to-cloud networking. A key part of the strategy is to bring these cloud-first principles to every
aspect of the data network.
Software functions such as routing, security, and observability, are inherently embedded into the
Arista EOS. Our EOS has evolved to a third-generation software stack with both state- and store-
driven NetDL functions. NetDL, our Network Data Lake architecture that we launched in
November 2021, is resonating well with customers.
We are building upon our cloud network heritage to bring proactive platforms, predictive
operations, and a prescriptive experience to unify datasets from multiple sources. We are
consistently harnessing the powerful combination of NetDL and AVA, our Autonomous Virtual
Assist, to gather, store and process, multiple modalities of network-generated data and network-
related data.
AVA uses a supervised AI/ML algorithm and natural language processing to help network
operators with root cause analysis and threat hunting.
Looking ahead into 2022, as I engage with worldwide customers, I'm observing fatigue and
frustration with our peers' discontinuity in products and low support and quality. In contrast,
Arista's pursuit of world-class data-driven networking is unwavering. It cannot be achieved by us
alone.
We're joining forces with industry leaders, to collaborate with Microsoft, VMware, Red Hat,
Equinix, Palo Alto Networks, ServiceNow, Slack, Splunk, Zscaler, and Zoom, to name a few, that
together build our collaborative ecosystem.
In summary, I'm so proud of our team's execution across multiple dimensions in 2021. With a
record setting year at $2.94 billion, 27% annual growth, and a cash flow for the first time
exceeding a billion dollars, this was indeed an exciting and memorable year for Arista. It marked
the return of the Cloud Titans growth, coupled with diversified momentum across our product
lines and customer sectors.
Arista's profile and affinity with customers has heightened to earn a strategic seat at their table.
And so, despite the supply chain obstacles that we now expect to continue into 2023, we have
emerged stronger. We reiterate our 30% annual growth outlook mentioned at November's
Analyst Day, as we now aim for $3.85 billion in 2022, and multiple years of growth ahead.
Now. I'll turn it over to Ita, our CFO, for financial specifics.
`Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Jayshree, and good afternoon.
This analysis of our Q2 and full year 2021 results and our guidance for Q1, 2022, is based on non-
GAAP and excludes all non-cash stock-based compensation impacts, certain acquisition-related
charges, and other non-recurring items. In addition, all share-related numbers are provided on a
post-split basis to reflect the 4-for-1 stock split completed in November 2021. A full reconciliation
of our selected GAAP-to-non-GAAP results is provided in our earnings release.
Total revenues in Q4 were $824.5 million, up 27.1% year-over-year, and well above the upper end
of our guidance of $775 million to $795 million. We continue to see strong demand across all our
market sectors, with particular strengths from our Cloud Titan customers as we ramp our new
products. Shipments remained constrained in the quarter as we continue to carefully navigate
industry-wide supply shortages and COVID-related disruptions.Services and subscription software contributed approximately 21.2% of revenue in the fourth
quarter, roughly in line with Q3.
International revenues for the quarter came in at $242.1 million, or 29% of total revenue, up from
25% in the third quarter. This completes a year of strong international performance, with
international revenues for the year growing 46% on a year-over-year basis. This reflects healthy
performance with our in-region customers, combined with solid contributions from our larger
Cloud Titan customers.
Overall, gross margin in Q4 was 64.3%, just above the midpoint of our guidance range of
approximately 63% to 65%. We continue to recognize incremental supply chain costs in the
period and began to see an increase in Cloud Titan revenue mix in the quarter.
Operating expenses for the quarter were $206.2 million, or 25% of revenue, up from last quarter
at $192.4 million. R&D spending came in at $130.3 million, or 15.8% of revenue, up from last
quarter at $125 million. This primarily reflected increased headcount and employee-related costs
in the period.
Sales and marketing expense was $61.2 million, or 7.4% of revenue, compared to $55.8 million last
quarter, with increased headcount and a higher variable compensation expenses. As a reminder,
we continue to benefit from lower COVID-related travel and marketing expenses.
Our G&A costs came in at $14.7 million, or 1.8% of revenue. Our operating income for the quarter
was $324.2 million, or 39.3% of revenue.
Other income and expense of the quarter was a favorable $1.5 million, and our effective tax rate
was approximately 19.4%. This resulted in net income for the quarter of $262.4 million, or 31.8% of
revenue.
Our diluted share number was 319.75 million shares, resulting in diluted earnings per share
number for the quarter of $0.82, up approximately 32.3% from the prior year.
Now turning to the balance sheet. Cash, cash equivalents, and investments ended the quarter at
approximately $3.4 billion. We repurchased $176 million of our common stock during the fourth
quarter at an average price of $113 per share.
As a recap, this completes the April 2019 $1 billion dollar repurchase authorization, having
repurchased a total of 16.7 million shares at approximately $60 per share. In addition, we initiated
repurchases against the October 2021 $1 billion board authorization, purchasing $72.9 million or
590,000 shares in the quarter, at an average price of $124 per share.
The actual timing and amount of future repurchases will be dependent on market and business
conditions, business requirements, stock price, acquisition opportunities, and other factors.
Now turning to operating cash performance for the fourth quarter. We generated $225 million of
cash from operations in the period, completing our first year with cash generation in excess of $1
billion. This reflects the strong earnings and cash flow potential of our business model, even in a
period of increasing investments in inventory and supply chain.
DSOs came in at 58 days, up from 49 days in Q3, reflecting the linearity of billings and deferred
revenue growth in the period. Inventory turns were consistent with last quarter at 1.7x. Inventory
increased to $650.1 million in the quarter, up from $575.7 million in the prior period, reflecting
increased component buffers and some added inventory costs.Our purchase commitments for the quarter were $2.8 billion, up from $2.1 billion in Q3. This is in
response to increased lead times, now extending into 2023, and continued strength in demand.
As a reminder, we continue to prioritize newer, early life cycle products for inclusion in these
strategies in order to help mitigate the risk of excess or obsolescence.
Our total deferred revenue balance was $929 million, up from $800 million in Q3. The majority of
the deferred revenue balance is services-related and directly linked to the timing and term of
service contracts, which can vary on a quarter-by-quarter basis.
Approximately $160 million of the balance, up from $113 million last quarter, represents product
deferred revenue, largely related to acceptance clauses for new products, most recently with our
larger Cloud Titan customers.
As a reminder, we remain in a period of significant new product introductions, combined with
healthy new customer acquisition rate, and expanded use cases with existing customers. These
trends, in conjunction with reduced levels of upfront in-person testing, have resulted in increased
customer-specific acceptance clauses and higher product deferred revenue amounts.
Accounts payable days were 63 days, up from 47 days in Q3, reflecting the timing of inventory
receipts and payments. Capital expenditures for the quarter were $8.5 million.
Now, turning to our outlook for the first quarter and beyond. As outlined at our Analyst Day, we
expect to achieve year-over-year revenue growth for 2022 of approximately 30%. This reflects
continued healthy demand across all our market sectors, tampered by the impact of a difficult
supply environment.
On the gross margin front, we see continued industry-wide supply constraints and elevated
logistics costs, with some offsets from customer price increases. While we expect gross margins
for the first quarter to be in the range of 63% to 64%, we would highlight the potential negative
impact of customer mix in future quarters. If we are successful in improving supply and enabling
our Cloud Titan contribution to accelerate, it would likely result in gross margins below the typical
guidance range.
Now turning to spending and investments. We remain committed to growing our investments in
R&D to support innovation across the business, and sales and marketing to support our go-to-
market expansion.
With all of this as the backdrop, our guidance for the first quarter which is based on non-GAAP
results and excludes any non-cash stock-based compensation impacts, and other non-recurring
items is as follows.
Revenues of approximately $842 million to $860 million, gross margin of 63% to 64%, and
operating margin at approximately 38%. Our effective tax rate is expected to be 21%, with diluted
shares on a post-split basis of approximately 320 million shares.
I will now turn the call back to Venk. Venk?
`Venk Nathamuni, Head of Corporate Finance, M&A, IR `
Thank you, Ita. We're now going to move to the Q&A portion of the Arista earnings call. To allow
for greater participation, I'd like to request that everyone please limit themselves to a single
question. Thank you for your understanding.Operator, please take it away.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
We will now begin the Q&A portion of the Arista earnings call. (Operator Instructions) Your first
question comes from the line of `Rod Hall, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs. Your line is open. Please go ahead.
Q - `Rod Hall, Goldman Sachs `
Yes. Hey, guys. Thanks for the question. So, my one question would be regarding the enterprise
momentum. Given the disclosure on the split, the Enterprise growth in '21 over 40%. And I
wonder if you could dig a little bit into the verticals, where you're succeeding there and talk a little
bit about sustainability of that momentum. And it's extremely strong momentum. And by the way,
congratulations over $1 billion of revenue there, well over $1 billion. So, just wonder if you can give
us more color and what's going on enterprise, how that looks for '22? Thanks.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Rod. So yes, the contribution is definitely been a pleasure to watch and the traction,
but the enterprise also includes the financial. So, we've had some very good traction with
financials, which has been a long-time customer for us. But we very much landed and expanded in
the financial, so that would be a moment of pride for us. But we are going across many cylinders
on the enterprise. We're seeing a lot of activity in the Healthcare, in the media and
entertainment, across international geographies and of course, the campus traction is also
included in the enterprise. So, a lot of diversity in our Enterprise momentum, and its one-way
product and expect to have continuous this year as well.
Q - `Rod Hall, Goldman Sachs `
And Jayshree, could you just give me to give something on Campus? Like how's that going? I
know there's been a lot of demand generally, for Campus Wi-Fi, but I don't know how you're
feeling there at the moment?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So, I think in general, as we have shared with you, we are doing extremely well with our own
Arista U.S. customer base, who's very familiar with us. And therefore, we are seeing a lot of $1
million customers just embracing Arista U.S. in the Campus. So that would be a point of real
success.
The second thing I'd say, we're seeing is -- we're not just seeing Wi-Fi, but we're really seeing the
unification of wired and wireless across the edge, and that's been a very interesting momentum
as well in the Campus. So, a lot more work ahead of us, as you'll often point out, these numbers
are still small, but we're looking to make them larger.
Q - `Rod Hall, Goldman Sachs `
Great. Okay.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `Thanks, Rod.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Samik Chatterjee, JPMorgan with JPMorgan. Your line is now
open.
Q - `Samik Chatterjee, JPMorgan `
Great. Thank you for taking my question and congrats on the results as well. Jayshree, you
mentioned in your prepared remarks about improving lead times with, I think meta, in particular.
But maybe, if you can just take into that a bit more how is busy this today in terms of improving
lead times as we go through the year. Where do you see the supply chain standing today? Is it
better or worse than maybe, a quarter ago? And any disk sort of details on where you're seeing
the most shortages? Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thank you, Samik. Well, first of all, I want to say, thank you customers for giving us more
visibility on your forecast. That has helped a lot. And usually, without Cloud Titans, we only got
one or two quarters. Now, we're literally getting a year, which helps, it helps us plan, it helps us
project, it helps us do a whole lot of things in Arista and the team have done a phenomenal job
there.
That being said, I do want to say that supply chain we felt improved in November when we met
with you all at the Analyst Day, that declined in January when we started seeing some --
decommits through some of our component vendors. So, I would describe our supply chain
shortages as two steps forward and one step backward, we don't like the one step backward.
But between the Omicron virus, the labor shortages, the logistics and the component shortages,
we're suddenly experiencing another wave of uncertainty in Q1 over here. So, we do have
elevated lead times to some of our components as I've shared with you there anywhere from 50
weeks to 70 weeks. It's no fun. But therefore, I think our commitment for the year will be backend
loaded, we'll keep approving every quarter, but Q1 isn't the great indicator of supply chain
improving.
Q - `Samik Chatterjee, JPMorgan `
Yes. Okay. Thank you. Thanks for taking my question.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Jason Ader, William Blair with William Blair. Your line is now open.
Q - `Jason Ader, William Blair `
Yes. Thanks and thanks for the disclosure on the breakdown at the campus and routing, and the
software. I guess, my question is what was the growth in 2021 for those two particular product
segments, campus or routing, which was 14% of revenue, I think you said and then the software,
which was 22%, what was the year-over-year growth rates for those two?A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Hello, Akash. Maybe, you can help me. I know, the campus is excellent, it was double, right? It was
20%. So, I don't have the numbers with me on software and routing offhand. Maybe, the software
piece was probably going pretty much in line with the business, right because the percentage of
revenue is pretty constant. The routing pieces are, but I don't have thoughts the hands.
Q - `Jason Ader, William Blair `
Okay. All right. So yes, if you can locate the kind of campus and routing for 2020, at some point,
that would be helpful. I can follow up offline. But. Yes, thanks.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Has doubled that we know that you're 100%.
Q - `Jason Ader, William Blair `
Right, but routing I was curious about you combine those two right as 14%?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. As a contributor, we did. Yes. We'll get back to you.
Q - `Jason Ader, William Blair `
Very good. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Jason.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Simon Leopold, Raymond James with Raymond James. Your line is now
open.
Q - `Simon Leopold, Raymond James `
Thanks for taking the question. I want to see if maybe, you could discuss a little bit of the moving
parts in your cost of goods sold. And what I'm thinking about specifically is, whether your
component suppliers, particularly semiconductors have retroactively raised prices on you, or if
we're going to see higher input costs, maybe six months from now as goods you've ordered last
year start coming in at higher prices, if you could help us unpack how to think about those drivers?
Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I mean, we've definitely seen increases in prices, and we've talked about that, right. We had
some orders that were repriced, so there has been some repricing of backlog, right. Given the
extended lead times, that's just the reality as people try to fulfill against that open backlog to
those suppliers. We're seeing that they need to make increases there. So, we've definitely seen
some of that. So, I think it's a combination of both. You're seeing ongoing kind of disruptions and
increases as you go forward, but also, some repricing of our backlogs to these suppliers, right.
Do we know kind of where this is going to go next? I think, we're watching that very carefully, tosee if there are further increases. We've obviously passed on some of those increases to our
customers with the price increases that we've made and we've been transparent about what
we're seeing on the cost side, and we'll continue to do that. We'll continue to monitor with the
buyers and with customers, and take what actions we need to take as we go forward.
Q - `Simon Leopold, Raymond James `
Just to more specific, do you expect gross margin would be weaker in the second half of your
calendar year, or similar to the first half?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I mean, I think what I'll go back to kind of our normal commentary around gross margin. I think
what we've said is, as we fulfill backlog that was kind of an older pricing, we'll see some pressure
there. Then, we'll start to benefit from some customer price increases that we put into place, but
that's not going to happen for some time, because we had quite a large backlog and long lead
times. At the same time, we will see some mix shifts between the different pieces of the
business.
So, I think we can maintain some similar gross margins across the various pieces of the business,
but then as the customer mix shifts, that will have a bigger impact. That's why, we would caution
as we're able to improve supply and grow that Cloud Titan piece of the business again, it will
have a negative impact in gross margin in either quarters potentially, right. So I think it's a like-for-
like kind of sector-to-sector, I think we can do a good job of kind of managing that. But then as we
mix between the different pieces again, that's going to have an impact.
Q - `Simon Leopold, Raymond James `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Amit Daryanani, Evercore ISI with Evercore. Your line is now open.
Q - `Amit Daryanani, Evercore ISI `
Thanks for taking my question and congratulations on a good print year. I was hoping if you could
just talk about the recent 7,800 (inaudible) AI Spine offering, it was set up around the same time
that they could launch a super AI super AI cluster. But I want to understand that what is this
solution all about? Are you just business just a next-gen product that we already have in place, or
is it for new workloads, new applications that's potentially expanding your time and if it is a lot
since then what are these workloads and how much would your time expand by with these
offerings? Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Always a good question, Amit. Thank you. I'll kick it off and then Anshul will go into more detail. So
first of all, we have been very strong in the cloud network, which we'll largely call the frontend
network, the least fine architecture, and we've been pioneers and thought leaders there. The
backend network, which is largely based on a lot of compute intensive and now, AI intensive
workloads also require the same focus on building a very purposeful network, especially when
you have a lot of large -- small packets and large elephant flows, you're dealing with a
tremendous amount of metaverse applications and traffic. So, this is a new area that's historically
as Facebook indicated, been implemented with InfiniBand. But the 7800 R3 has a uniqueopportunity to place a smart as the Ethernet fabric for this AI workloads with the right dynamic
load balancing, with efficient packet spring, with the congestion control and QOS. I'll turn it over to
the master of the 7800. Anshul, you want to say more?
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Operating Officer `
So, just a little bit more, Jayshree did a great job describing the address.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Oh thank you,
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Operating Officer `
Amit, Ethernet classically has had hot spots when you try to saturate it with all these types of
clothes and heavyweight traffic. But the 7800 can provide lossless networking across all of these
nodes, GPUs, CPUs datasets being sliced around and shuffled around, which is what creates the
opportunity for us, especially with the 7800 and the product is doing fairly well in this (inaudible)
use cases.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And I would say to answer your question, we are in the beginning of a new -- brand-new cycle
and a new TAM. Because historically, Arista is new to this and historically, it's traditionally been
InfiniBand.
Q - `Amit Daryanani, Evercore ISI `
Perfect. I'll leave for the next analyst and you expand your time now. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Tal Liani, Bank of America Merrill Lynch with Bank of America. Your line is now open.
Q - `Tal Liani, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hi, guys. Hopefully, you can hear me okay. I spoke with Juniper about their solution for data
centers and campus, and they're seeing great growth in orders. And you are having of course,
great results. The question I have it -- the question I have here is between the underlying growth
of the market and share gains from Cisco. Where is the answer to why suddenly this market is
growing so much? Meaning are we seeing finally Cisco starting to lose share more substantially
than before? And this is why you're growing so much, or is it -- the answer is more about
acceleration of growth in the market itself. And if that's the case, how do you look at higher level?
Meaning, what's the driver?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Oh, wow, Tal, -- you're making us really think about the answer. I tend to think of it as Arista's
execution and our relevance to our customer has gotten higher and higher. Maybe, that means
the competition is getting weaker. But more than that in the past, if you just look back three years
ago, we were data center company. If you look today, I think we have many, many more relevantcomponents for the enterprise customer whether it's campus, routing, data center interconnect,
the data center itself, observability monitoring, threat hunting, CloudVision and the entire
operation analytics and agility.
So, we have a better seat to the table for this modern set of workloads, where some of them are
in the cloud and some of them are in the premise, and Arista is being sought out as not only the
thought leader, but the advisor on how do they make this happen. So, I think that has really
changed, because of our product portfolio and because of the customer needing an alternative.
As I said, in my opening remarks, due to COVID, I think they've also had a better planning horizon.
They are increasingly more fatigued and frustrated with the existing players, and they want an
alternative. So, I think, the timing and our relevance's both now improved in the last couple of
years.
Q - `Tal Liani, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Got it. And Jayshree, do you think that market share shifts are explaining more now than before
or no, or it's the same? It's more about the growth in the underlying market and your ability to
deliver the right products to the right customers, but less about share shifts.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I think, we are definitely gaining in our market share in the 100 gig and 400 gig, and data
centers switching. The other market share shifts are still small, because we're still a small player.
Now, we have to work to get bigger. So, I wouldn't call them shifts, let's say, increased relevance
on our side, but still small numbers.
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Operating Officer `
I mean, I think, Tal, we're certainly seeing, I would say, good new logo closure rates, et cetera in
that part of the business. I think that's -- it's hard to comment on the share, but I think that there's
definitely traction there. You see it in our numbers, obviously.
Q - `Tal Liani, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Got it. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Tal.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Meta Marshall, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Your line is now
open.
Q - `Meta Marshall, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Maybe, building on that question from Tal. I guess, just from your enterprise customers,
just curious as to whether organizations being basically forced into giving more visibility has made
them more likely to be comfortable with architecture changes, or really take a higher level, kind of
look at what they really want to be doing with their data center architecture. That maybe, they
were comfortable with and kind of a, a normal course, supply chain environment, where they
were just able to get product within the quarter. Just wondering if this is triggering kind of higher-
level discussions with customers. Thanks.A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, Meta. I think, you're exactly right. I think that planning horizon is a lot better. In the past, they
were firefighting in the office. And today, we know when you have lead times that are so
extended. They've got a chance to think about alternatives. Also, the CIO is extremely pressure
to think about the cloud, and what workloads they put on the Cloud and what they put on the
Premise. So, I think the overall enterprise architecture and redesign is well underway and Arista is
a benefactor of that.
Q - `Meta Marshall, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thanks.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Paul Silverstein, Cowen with Cowen. Your line is now open.
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Cowen `
Yes. Jayshree, we look further out we're concerned that quite another investors have is the
runway to both Microsoft and Facebook, and you've start to pull -- you did build. And I recognize
the world is probably not nearly binary as many of us in the investment community think, but any
insight you could share on the run rates to those builds and what's next assuming that at some
point, they hit peak levels that slide now you've initially rolled over?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well look, we used to volatility from our Cloud Titan customers. We experienced the highs of
2018 and then the lowest of 2019 and 2020. So, we're in a period where the Cloud Titans are
clearly investing from a CapEx. And increasingly, we are more directly correlated to the network
CapEx. Anshul, you want to shed more light on that.
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Operating Officer `
Absolutely, Jayshree, I think the Cloud Titans have a very strong business model, which is
resulting in the investments we are making. So this real strength there, number one. Number two,
all of these customers are planning fairly well. So, we appreciate the visibility. And it's very clear
they're not trying to stock these products in the warehouse. They absolutely need them to go live
into their network. So, the build-ups are very real. Paul, if we had visibility for two years or three
years, we would be delighted, but we should be happy our visibility for one year. So, let's not go
beyond that. But for the near term, we believe the demand is strong.
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Cowen `
All right.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
What's interesting to me, Paul is, what we're saying consistently across all our Cloud Titan
customers and in fact some of the specialty cloud customers is their -- all their upgrades are in fullswing. They're all investing, additionally, they're putting more megawatt data center capacity
annually every year and until we -- we think this is a multi-year upgrade. But we obviously can't
see much beyond 2022 right now, but we'll let you know as we do.
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Cowen `
Jayshree, you made the point in the past about AI build-outs involving far greater infrastructure,
consuming far greater bandwidth and I assume Meta while it gets all the focus understandably
from all of us. It's not the only, it won't be the last such build-out. But let's -- if I could get a
clarification from me, Jayshree said earlier, either win clouds dominated the revenue for earlier
after you went public back in '14, you were doing 64% to 65% plus gross margin back then. I
understand things change over time, but with cloud likely to increase as a percentage of revenue
over the course of next year, and you're cautioning about the impact that customer mix impact in
gross margin, why would be different than what we saw back when -- what's changed?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So, I think there's a couple of things in there, right. I think, if you go back to what we said at
endless day, which was we could grow 30% with reasonable growth rates across the business
and being that kind of 63% to 65% range, right. And I think that's still the case, I think the script
guidance is more thing, if we're able to accelerate beyond that and we really accelerate on the
cloud pieces of business, that's when we'll see it, kind of threaten the bottom end of that range
of maybe, even go below that. It's a different environment in terms of just the cost structure. And
some of the cost inputs that we're dealing with et cetera. I think it's -- you have to think about the
different cost increases, logistics costs, instead of that.
We're dealing with down the flexibility, just isn't there in the same way as it was back then, and
we've done a really good job. I think in the team has done a really good job of optimizing gross
margin over time. All right. But now, your degrees of freedom or less, right. So, I think it's a tighter
cost structure to deal with and then it's a growing cloud presence, and we're just saying, okay, in
that scenario. You could see some pressure on the bottom end of that range.
A - `Venk Nathamuni, Head of Corporate Finance, M&A, IR `
Operator, we'll take the next question.
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Operating Officer `
Thanks, Paul.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Sami Badri, Credit Suisse with Credit Suisse. Your line is now open.
Q - `Sami Badri, Credit Suisse `
Hi. Thank you. First question is, maybe, you could just frame for us, how many uncaptured
revenue opportunities have been created in 2022 as a function of some of the supply chain
disruptions and disconnects? And just a quick follow-up after that is we kind of see the Microsoft
and Meta build up as 10% plus customers, but are there any third or fourth potential customers
that are ramping up there network in a way that they could become 10% plus over the next two
to three years that you guys are seeing? And we don't need to know who, we just need to know
if it's in the cards.A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. The second question is a little easier to answer. At the moment, there's a lot of activity with
all the Cloud Titans, but no one's substantially been like Microsoft is today and Meta will be.
Maybe, we can find another M Cloud Titan customer, we find that. Actually, a question on how
many opportunities. I mean, it's almost a theoretical question, Sami, because we go into this
engaging with all our customers and some happen right away in fact, we -- I heard today of a
customer that we engage with five years ago that we just won. So, some happened in five weeks
and some happened in five years. So, we really don't have an exact precise answer on that ratio,
but we just hope it keeps increasing, because it got plenty of time to -- time and TAM to serve it.
Q - `Sami Badri, Credit Suisse `
Got it. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Sami.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Jim Suva, Citigroup with Citigroup. Your line is now open.
Q - `Jim Suva, Citigroup `
Thank you. And Jayshree and Ita, if you take a step back say three months ago, when we had our
last call compared to now. Can you let us know what end markets are verticals really impressed
you both not only in the results, but maybe, the bookings you mentioned, you're getting a lot
more visibility now? I'm just kind of wondering about your end markets, what's really impressed
you in surprise to the upside the most versus three months ago. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Jim. I would say, I'm pleasantly surprised with the entire year, not necessarily Q3 and Q4. I
think the level of activity on enterprise has been something we're very proud of, at the same
time, our preferred partnership status with both Cloud Titans and some of the specialty cloud
providers is -- we just -- the team is just executing very, very well. And if anything, while Arista
doesn't tend to boast about that log and orders and order strength. I am most proud of the
execution that despite all of those happy capabilities executing that and translating into revenue
is a pleasant surprise from Q3 to Q4.
A - `Venk Nathamuni, Head of Corporate Finance, M&A, IR `
Operator would take the next question.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Aaron Rakers, Wells Fargo with Wells Fargo. Your line is now open.
Mr.Rakers?
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Wells Fargo `
Yes. Thank you for taking the questions and congrats on the quarter. I'm going to build off that
last comment Jayshree on kind of the backlog and as you guys contemplated the 30% growthguidance for the full year, you've got both backlog build up and you've got also, either you've got
some deferred revenue build that you've seen over the last couple of quarters. That 30%
revenue growth guidance that you've laid out. Do you assume that you carry a similar amount of
backlog coming out of the calendar year, as well as deferred revenue and products, or do you
expect that 30% of these somewhat driven by fulfilling against that backlog, that you've seen?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I don't know that we're going to get into the whole backlog bookings conversation. I mean,
it's just so hard for it to be meaningful right now given the lead times and what's been happening
with lead times, et cetera. I think, on the deferred revenue, I would say, look, it's not our intention
right now that deferred balance would feed the 30%. We'll see how that goes as go to the
quarter, but we're not assuming right now that that's coming off the balance sheet.
A - `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I think it's fair area -- I think the broader thing to take away is demand is strong. Execution
could be stronger if we had supply chain resolution.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Wells Fargo `
Right, right. Thank you, operator.
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Operating Officer `
Thank you very much.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Aaron.
A - `Venk Nathamuni, Head of Corporate Finance, M&A, IR `
Do we take our next question, please?
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Alex Henderson, Needham with Needham. Your line is now open.
Q - `Alex Henderson, Needham `
Great. Thank you very much. It's a pleasure to get one in. I'm hoping you could talk to us about
the broad problem that I think, confronts all of the analysts, who follow this category, which is that
if you look at the orders that extreme Cisco, Juniper and your 25% plus 25% growth in '21 and
30% growth in '22 forecasted. It's clearly a substantially higher rate of growth than at any time --
that this industry has produced since -- even probably the tech bubble.
And so there's got to be a resolution to this environment, which is a return towards normalized
growth, which I think, if you exclude the Titans, as probably in the 0% to 5% vicinity -- and if you
include the Titans is probably no more than 5% to 10% vicinity and which is what gave you rise to
guidance, 10% to 15% with some share gains. How do we resolve this environment that we're in
now with backlogs 30% to 50% at a number of companies, does it all roll over into down orders
at some point? Obviously, you don't have that backlog problem, but could you help us
understand how to resolve 30% to 50% type quarter growth and an industry 0% to 5%.A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I'll try to answer. I think it's a very thoughtful question, Alex, that will this period of extreme
growth continue forever. And the answer is no. Nothing continues forever. Every party has a
beginning and an end. However, for Arista, there's a tremendous opportunity. I just want to clarify
that independent of the Cloud Titan CapEx spend. I believe we can enjoy a double-digit growth
for quite some time to come in the non-Cloud Titan space. So, I just want to make sure you
understand that independent of this extreme enthusiasm and excitement year, where we're in,
Arista has a foundation to keep growing double digits for multiple years to come.
Now, I do think we're in a -- because of lead times as a frenzy, and people are booking and
planning and visibility is greater for us. And I think this will continue not only in 2021 and 2022, but
it will continue into 2023. We'll probably and this is just a pure speculation on my part settle in to a
more normal growth thereafter. But even so we don't wish for that growth to be in single-digit,
we'll be working hard for that to be much faster.
Q - `Alex Henderson, Needham `
If I could just follow up on it. So, do you think that as this occurs that the orders that some of the
other companies that have run these large backlogs start to roll over to reconcile -- I mean, this is
way above normal.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. But Alex, it's a compression of time as well, right. Instead of having visibility to a quarter,
you've got visibility to this much, much lot -- much, much longer, right. That's why you have to say
to focus on deployments and how is all of this going to get deployed. It's not all going to get
deployed at the same rate that it's booking, that's for sure, right. So, I think you have to think
about, that's why we keep trying to focus on deployments with customers and when we'll stop
actually get deployed, because the bookings number is more a factor of time and they're
planning horizon than there's anything else, right. Yes. That's a really good point.
A - `Venk Nathamuni, Head of Corporate Finance, M&A, IR `
Thank you. Alex. Operator, we'll take the next question, please.
Q - `Alex Henderson, Needham `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Erik Suppiger, JMP with JMP Securities. Your line is now
open.
Q - `Erik Suppiger, JMP `
Yes. Thanks for taking the question. Two questions. One, in the campus business, can you
comment a little bit about how much new logo business you're seeing, is that doing what you
want or how do you feel that's progressing?
And then secondly, I think the Microsoft business was 21% in '21. And then I think, you said it came
down to 15%. The question is, is the overall Titan business holding up, is that the incrementaldownshift they're being spread out across other Titans or is that being carried more by the
enterprise business that you're making up for that?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Erik, Anshul is going to answer the Titan question while I look over the campus data.
Q - `Erik Suppiger, JMP `
Okay.
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Operating Officer `
It was mentioned right at the start the start of the year, we expected many of these new
products, new technologies to be deployed second half of the year. And especially, the 7800,
the 7388 was launched November of last year. So, there were somewhat backend loaded. Other
than that, the band has been healthy and strong. So, there was -- there's a little bit of timing gap,
they're more related supply of new products and technologies. But there's nothing else to worry
about within the Cloud business. We believe they will be a strong contributor going forward.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And to ask your Campus questions and to answer the campus question. I don't have exact
numbers, but a good rule of thumb for you to think of is -- about half our customers came from
existing and half came from the prospects. And we're getting many, many new logos. Obviously,
that we're just starting with. So, some of them start small, but small and they'll get even bigger
this year.
Q - `Erik Suppiger, JMP `
Thanks, operator. Good. Thank you. Exactly.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of James Fish with Piper Sandler. Your line is now open.
Q - `James E. Fish, Piper Sandler `
Thanks and Happy Valentine's Day to the entire team.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you James, same to you.
Q - `James E. Fish, Piper Sandler `
I'm convinced you guys like spending Q4 earnings with us on Valentine's Day to avoid your
spouse's a bit, going back to Alex's question, given your comments around increased visibility for
'22 and actually Jayshree, you pointed out 2023 possibly. Can you guys help us kind of quantify
how much of the business you actually have visibility into today? And is it really just the Titans?And how are you thinking about that kind of potential net Poland effective demand and orders in
the second half of the year 2023 into what we're seeing today.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Let me just separate the question you're asking, James. In the Titans we historically had one or
two quarters. And now, we're saying we have at least a year. That's a huge factor in our planning.
It's also the volume of purchase we have to make the projects et cetera. On the enterprise,
we've always enjoyed longer-term visibility. It's always been six months to 12 months. So, I would
say in general, one year is our visibility right now on projects, not too much longer than that and
not too much less than that. It's just been enjoying the benefit of greater visibility and the Titans is
what's really changed.
Q - `James E. Fish, Piper Sandler `
On the potential for net pull-in of demand here from 2023 in the 2022.
A - `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
It kind of comes back to the deployment James, it's -- they're not telling us to contemplate all
tomorrow. They're laying out kind of project plans and deployment plans over time, right. So, it's
not so much that these orders are pull-ins, it's more we're working with them to figure out when
stuff needs and can be deployed, right. And that's going to be a solution of their orders,
obviously, but also the supply and when stuff can be deployed, all right. Let's take a campus
example, invariably it's a new building they're putting in or a new project they have. The project is
most likely to be second half 2022 or early 2023, but they're planning now. So that happens all
the time, that's not new.
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Operating Officer `
The pull-ins per se, from a revenue and business perspective, right there just giving visibility.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
But one thing, I would want to reiterate is the planning horizon and the planning time, and they
think time on this has gotten a lot larger, because of the lead time issue. They never used to
worry about it, they were doing just-in-time planning and now they have to do one-year planning.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Ben Bollin with Cleveland Research. Your line is now
open.
Q - `Benjamin Bollin, Cleveland
Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for taking the question. Ita, I had a question for you, I was
hoping you could talk a little bit more about the $2.8 billion in your non-cancellable purchase
commitments. Could you share any details on how you see that kind of timing of that comes in
over time from a component perspective? How you think it might influence the risk of
decommits? And could you comment at all about what you think, spike the decommits in January?
Thanks.
A - `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `Yes. I mean, the $2.8 billion, there's a big piece of that, that's kind of some of the key
components that we've always buffered and we've extended kind of the period of time that
we're bumping for. So, the -- some of the chips and other things that, just our new chips for new
products, relatively low excess obsolete risk and difficult to secure, and we are making kind of
investments there to do that. So, there's a, at least 50% or more is tied up in that, right? And that
those will come in and we'll hold them and we'll use them when we when we need to use them.
The rest of the class of the component. Because what we've seen is, it's not just about the key
components anymore, right? We have to get ourselves involved in, other components broader
set of components across the supply chain, because you need 100% of the bomb in order to be
able to ship, right. And that's kind of, you see decommits, the decommits are not, we would have
considered key components before, they're just smaller components embedded in the bottom.
So, we're taking a broader view of that. And that's why you've seen that step-up happened
again, this quarter. In terms of when it gets received. I mean, the chips and stuff will come in. I
mean, that they will that they will come in and we'll hold them. So, you'll see a fair amount of that
turn in 2022, because of that. Just because it's the components that we're going to hold.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I just want to add Ben that, what Anshul, John McCool, Susan Hayes, the entire team has done,
they've historically had to focus on five or 10 strategic vendors. I think that number is gone up 10x
to 50 to 70. So, the relationships we now have to maintain keep and understand, and
appropriately design our products and wait for their timing has gone up by seven times to 10
times. And therefore, we have to make more purchase commitments and plan for them for a
longer duration of time.
Q - `Benjamin Bollin, Cleveland
Thank you, ladies. Have a great night.
A - `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Ben.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `George Notter, Jefferies with Jefferies. Your line is now open.
Q - `George Notter, Jefferies `
Hi. Thanks guys very much. I appreciate it. I just want to keep going on the question of purchase
commitments. We ran a little exercise, where we looked at the combo of your inventory and your
purchase commitments, and we try to compare those to our estimate for your next 12-month
hardware cost of goods sold, and granted distance from Q3 ending and the numbers are much
higher in Q4 end. But we came up with like 281% of your next 12 months hardware cost of goods
sold, estimated. And so I guess, the question in this is, you guys seem to be so far out in terms of
magnitude relative to all the other companies in the space in terms of how far ahead you're
getting on inventory and purchase commits, it's like, is this -- are we just grossly underestimating
how much business you guys are looking at in the next 12 months, or are you anticipating some
real adverse changes in the supply chain, like what's your perspective on that?A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. George, I think it comes back to thinking about the components again, and we're the kind of
where the value of the bomb is and the commitments we're willing to make around some of
those key components. So, they're not necessarily going to be consumed in this coming year. But
we are willing to kind of take control of those components by making those commitments. And
again, it's early life products, early life silicon and we believe that that's a relatively safe bet. And
it's the cost of capital really that we're tying up. So, I think that's what you're seeing, it's not that
everything that we've got purchased commitment out for now, that will be consumed shipped in
revenues and in 2022.
A - `Venk Nathamuni, Head of Corporate Finance, M&A, IR `
Operator, we have time for one last question.
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Operating Officer `
Yes.
Operator
Your final question for today comes from the line of `David Vogt, UBS with UBS. Your line is now open.
Q - `David Vogt, UBS `
Great. Thanks for squeezing me in guys. Notwithstanding some recent operational issues at Meta.
Just want to kind of, get your thoughts on how sort of double-digit data center expansion. Both at
Microsoft and Facebook this year plays into your sort of revenue visibility the balance of this year
and then how that plays into 2023. Obviously, there's some delays in terms of qualification and
when revenue would be in the folks in 2022 from last year. But just trying to get a sense for how
we should think about that in '22 and '23 given their aggressive pace of investment? Thanks.
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Operating Officer `
Sure. David, Jayshree and Ita have mentioned, we took a lot of time at the Analyst Day and today
to go over 30% growth plans. And both of these customers are very significant parts of our
business. One is already greater than a 10% customer. The other one will likely get there soon.
So, we have taken their trend into models and into our guidance already. We believe that
demand is healthy. As we've mentioned, they are investing very well across the entire world and
new build outs, and data centers with new technology and we are clearly the preferred partner
they've had and they continue to have a networking. So, we will benefit with that as well. So to
some extent, this makes up for the lack of growth in 2019 or 2020 now with this new cycle and
we'll enjoy the growth for them.
Q - `David Vogt, UBS `
And this is a quick follow-up. What percentage of that you think spills into 2023, if -- let's say,
Microsoft is delayed in terms of or backend waited in terms of building out 400 gig in their data
centers this yea?
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Operating Officer `
It's already hard to model all the volatility we have with suppliers -- I think, right now, the demand
is strong. So, it's really tight to supply of products and these customers have enough other waysthey can figure out how to deploy technology if they give them enough heads up. So that's less
of a concern right now.
A - `Venk Nathamuni, Head of Corporate Finance, M&A, IR `
Great. Thanks, Anshul and thanks, David.
Q - `David Vogt, UBS `
Thank you.
A - `Venk Nathamuni, Head of Corporate Finance, M&A, IR `
This concludes Arista Networks' fourth quarter 2021 earnings call. We have posted a
supplemental presentation, which provides additional information on our results and you can
access that on the Investors section of our website. Again, thank you all for joining us today and
thank you for your interest in Arista.
Operator
Thank you for joining ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's call. You may now disconnect.