Q4 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2022, Arista Networks Financial Results Earnings Conference Call.
During the call, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. After the presentation, we will conduct
a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference is being
recorded and will be available for replay from the Investor Relations section at the Arista website
following this call. Ms.`Liz Stine, Director, Investor Relations, Arista's Director of Investor Relations. You may begin.
`Liz Stine, Director, Investor Relations `
Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us. With me on today's
call are Jayshree Ullal, Arista Networks' President and Chief Executive Officer; and `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer,
Arista's Chief Financial Officer. This afternoon, Arista Networks issued a press release announcing
the results for its fiscal fourth quarter ending December 31, 2022.If you would like a copy of this release, you can access it online at our website. During the course
of this conference call, Arista Networks management will make forward-looking statements,
including those relating to our financial outlook for the first quarter of the 2023 fiscal year, longer-
term financial outlook for 2023 and beyond, our total addressable market and strategy for
addressing these market opportunities, supply chain constraints, component costs,
manufacturing capacity, inventory purchases and inflationary pressures on our business, extended
lead times, product innovations and the benefits of acquisitions, which are subject to the risks and
uncertainties that we discussed in detail in our documents filed with the SEC, specifically in our
most recent Form 10-Q and Form 10-K, and which could cause actual results to differ materially
from those anticipated by these statements.
These forward-looking statements apply as of today, and you should not rely on them as
representing our views in the future. We undertake no obligation to update these statements
after this call. Also, please note that certain financial measures we use on this call are expressed
on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude certain charges. We have provided
reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures in our earnings
press release.
With that, I will turn the call over to Jayshree.
`Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Liz, and I'm glad we avoided Valentine's Day this time. Thank you everyone, for joining
us this afternoon, on our fourth quarter 2022 earnings call. 2022 has certainly been a record year
for Arista. You might recall in November 2021 Analyst Day, we had given you a guidance of 30%
growth, and instead have achieved well beyond that at 48% growth for the year, driving to an
annual revenue of $4.38 billion with a non-GAAP earnings per share of $4.58, translating to an EPS
growth of 58% for 2022. Indeed, a memorable year.
Let's get back to some Q4 2022 specifics. We delivered $1.276 billion for the quarter with a non-
GAAP earnings per share of $1.41. Services and software support renewals contributed,
approximately 15.8% of the revenue. Our non-GAAP gross margin was 61% influenced by our
supply chain overhead and Cloud Titan concentration. International contribution registered at
23.5% with the Americas at 76.5% in 2022. This was one of our strongest performing international
quarters in recent history.
In terms of Q4, 2022 verticals Cloud Titans was our largest and first followed by enterprise, and
then specialty cloud providers at third place, financial support and service providers at fifth place.
In 2023, we will report the three segment sectors instead of the verticals. Shifting to the segment
sector revenue for 2022. Cloud Titans contributed significantly at approximately 46% resulting in
a triple-digit growth annually. Enterprise and financials together were strong at approximately
32%, while the providers were at approximately 22%, both Meta and Microsoft are now far
greater than 10% customers at 25.5% and 16% contribution respectively.
Clearly, we continue to enjoy a strong and strategic partnership with M&M.
With that, I'd like to now invite `Anshul Sadana, Chief Operating Officer, our Chief Operating Officer, to shed more light on
our Cloud Titan performance.
`Anshul Sadana, Chief Operating Officer `
Thank you, Jayshree. Our partnership with Microsoft and Meta grew even stronger last year. Both
of these Titans are in the midst of deploying our next-gen, 100, 200 and 400-gig products atseveral details of their networks. The cloud is reshaping the internet. With their massive footprint,
global backbone and Edge partnerships. We are proud to have our product design into pretty
much all of these use cases. In addition our business with the other Titans continue to grow as
well, we had additional design wins in backbone WAN and Edge roles. This past year, we ramped
our 7800R3 Series high-density 400-gig near lossless spine.
We also introduced several new products based on Tomahawk 4 and our D buffer virtual output
queue system based on Jericho2, the 7280 and the 7800R3 modular systems. While we will
continue to add 100 and 400-gig products to our portfolio, we also launched our first one rack
unit 25 terabyte product, with 800-gig ports that can be broken out as 2x400-gig.
These products have good use cases and high speed applications, such as artificial intelligence.
EOS our high-quality resilient, network datalake based operating system, has also matured and
now supports cloud scale with multiple copies of the internet routing table. We co-developed
with our cloud customers, who greatly appreciate Arista engineering expertise.
This past year, we furthered our partnership with Microsoft with SONiC support on many of our
high volume switches. Our work with them on automation and monitoring our scale, is very well-
received for archer and banking deployments.
At Meta, we have our co-developed platform, such as the Tomahawk phase 7368 and 7388,
which helped them improve throughput and data center power efficiencies. FOS and EOS are
deployed with very high reliability in the cluster fabrics using these products. Our deployments in
the backbone and in generative, AI and recommendation engines with the 7800 series are now
smoothly deployed in production.
We don't control macro. We don't control our customer's CapEx plans. But when they do spend,
we are there with them to make this next-generation cloud network successful. AI is a good
example where we are continuing to grow into next-generation architectures with our cloud
customers.
The use cases we are involved in are generally core to their business, and not an optional spent.
Our cloud journey has come a long way over the last -- last decade. This is still a very exciting
market segment, given the pace of innovation and our partnership share. Back to you Jayshree.
`Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you Anshul. Wow 2022 was indeed a phenomenal year with the Cloud Titans. And these
partnerships have been nurtured for well over a decade, with expanded use cases, such as these
AI workloads. We remain confident about meaningful shares with both Microsoft and Meta, and
we expect both of them to once again contribute greater than 10% of our total revenue in 2023.
In the non-cloud category, we have registered a solid number of million-dollar customers, as a
direct result of our momentum in the enterprise and campus throughout the year. We have now
surpassed 9,000 cumulative customers.
In terms of 2022 product lines, we have three categories. One our core cloud and data center
products built upon our highly differentiated Arista EOS stack, that is successfully deployed across
10, 25, 100, 200, and 400-gig speeds. This drove approximately 68% of our revenue with strong
cloud and enterprise spending cycles. We believe that we will continue to gain market share in
the high-performance switching and have already grown from the teens to the 20s.
In the 100 and 400-gig category, we have now earned the number one position according to2022. Our second market is network adjacencies comprised of routing, replacing routers and our
cognitive campus, we doubled our campus orders to exceed $400 million in 2022, but we did fall
short of our revenue due to extreme supply chain shortages.
We maintained our campus momentum and are aiming for $750 million in revenue by 2025. Our
investments in cognitive campus spines blinds wired and wireless have generated significant
customer interest and demand based on CloudVision and CloudVision CUE. Considering this is
only our third full year of shipping versus incumbents who've been in the market for 15 to 30
years. We are very proud of our execution. Our vision for a cognitive campus with network as a
service and Edge as a service based on NetDL is resonating extremely well and being embraced
by our campus customers.
We have also successfully deployed in many routing Edge and peering use cases, such as
securing data in transit with TunnelSec encryption, precision and performance for mobile
networks, cloud exchanges, and metro ethernet. Enterprise customers can now deploy EOS with
a single EVPN protocol, whether it's for data center, data center interconnect or WAN delivering
multiple profiles. Just in 2022 alone, we introduced six EOS software releases. 600 new features
across 50 new platforms. Stay tuned for more in 2023, as we will be introducing new WAN transit
functionality. The campus and routing adjacencies together contribute approximately 14% of
revenue.
Our third category is network software and services, based on subscription models such as Arista
A-Care, CloudVision, DMF observability, advanced NDR with AVA sensors for security. Arista's
subscription-based network services and software contributed, approximately 18% of our total
product line.
We are proud to note that CloudVision exceeded 2,000 cumulative customers up from 1,500 the
prior year. And is really a compelling data driven platform, delivering network agility, continuous
integration, and operational excellence.
Arista's non non-cloud wins continue as well. While Arista's 2022 headline, has been the massive
contribution from our cloud customers, we are pleased with the momentum of our enterprise
and provider customers as well.
Arista continues to diversify its business globally with multiple use cases, hoping our prospects
and customers realize these operational benefits with modern software and automation has
been a recurring theme. And so let me share a few examples that we have earned a seat at the
table at. Our first example, highlights the Universal Cloud Network bend in the travel industry. Like
many conversations, the customer's initial ask was to gain more visibility into their infrastructure.
We presented our DMF DANZ, Monitoring Fabric Solution, but it quickly transitioned to a general
data center, for all of Arista's platform offerings. The customer chose our layered 3D spine EVPN
design as for their critical VDI environment. A customer also leveraged CloudVision for their day
zero, day one, day two operations, using our chassis spine R3 leaf and out-of-band management
to reduce their operational risk.
Our second win, highlights the financial customer's choice, to proceed with Arista's best-in-class
cognitive campus with wired and wireless solutions. As with every campus opportunity, it was
competitive. CloudVision once again was a key differentiator for us, as it quickly became their
trusted advisor.
Our virtual training environment, such as Arista's cloud tech gave architects the relevant hands-on
experience. Our low CVE count and commitment to single EOS with high quality, was unmatchedby our peers.
Arista continues to make inroads on regional Tier 2 and Tier 3 service providers, regional service
providers are in the middle of expanding and looking for reliable compressed routing footprint.
The third win highlights the evolution of our EOS routing stack but customers are now deploying
EVPN services on top of their MPLS segment core network. Arista's high-density 100-gig MPLS
routing together with long range optics and a fully automated deployment using CloudVision and
zero-touch provisioning delivered that cloud like operating model.
Our next win is an international one in the education sector for high performance computing. HPC
demands low latency, deep buffers and real-time visibility this customer chose Arista for providing
a highly elastic VXLAN based leaf spine pod with best-in-class performance, consistent
technology between our spine and Edge leaf anchored by our flagship 7800 chassis, and
combined with CloudVision based real-time telemetry, compliance and automation really created
a lasting impression.
Our final win for this quarter's announcements is an exciting international one in the government
sector. Where Arista's 400-gig ethernet was selected instead of instant events for Big Data
Hadoop Cluster deployments. In this case, the customer chose us for our 100, 400-gig solution,
with built-in encryption capabilities.
The customer saw clear differentiation in our automated operation, hit the subgrade and full real-
time telemetry, ensuring comprehensive visibility of workloads in the fabric. As we enter 2023,
Arista is well positioned, as a game changer in data-driven client to cloud networking. A key part
of this transformation is to make our cloud first principles and bring that to every aspect of the
data network. Transfer functions, such as routing for WAN zero trust security, and observability
are moving into the Arista EOS stack.
We are building upon our cloud network heritage to bring proactive platform, predictive
operations and a complete prescriptive experience, unifying data sets from multiple sources. Our
NetDL architecture and AVA our autonomous virtual assists using AI and ML and natural language
processing techniques, is a very compelling combination. Together, this architecture can gather,
store and process multiple modalities of network data. And this way, network operators can
reconcile all their different silos.
2023 is the start of Arista's 2.0 journey. Arista 2.0 is our migration from best-of-breed products to
best-of-breed platforms, as they address our expanded TAM of $50 billion ahead. We are
uniquely qualified to bring modern software principles to build that world-class data center and
data-driven networking. It is based on that foundational focus on quality availability, AI driven
deployments with top-notch support. And as we undertake this 2.0 journey, we are excited to
work with a collaborative ecosystem of our partners, and customers worldwide to realize this
vision.
In summary, I'm so proud of our team's execution across multiple dimensions, despite one of the
worst supply chain backdrops ever witnessed. A special thank you to our customers for their
patience and support to us last year and to all the Aristans for their hard work and peculiar efforts.
Our tireless mission taught us valuable lessons and we expect to emerge stronger. We reiterate
our 25% annual growth outlook that we mentioned in the November 22 Analyst Day, as we now
aim for $5.47 billion in 2023 in terms of revenue.
Now I will turn it over to Ita, for financial specifics.
`Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `Thanks, Jayshree and good afternoon. This analysis for our Q4 and full-year 2022 results and our
guidance for Q1, 2023 is based on non-GAAP. And excludes all non-cash stock-based
compensation impacts, certain acquisition related charges and other non-recurring items. A full
reconciliation of our selected GAAP to non-GAAP result is provided in our earnings release.
Total revenues in Q4 were $1.276 billion up 54.7% year over year and well above the upper end of
our guidance of $1.175 billion to $1.2 billion. While we experienced some improvements in overall
component supply in the quarter shipments remain somewhat constrained with lingering
shortages, on a handful of parts.
Services and subscription software contributed approximately 15.8% of revenue in the fourth
quarter, down from 16.3% in Q3. This is larger and reflective growth in product revenues while
services and software continue to grow on a more consistent basis.
International revenue for the quarter came in at $300 million or 23.7% of total revenue up from
17% in the third quarter. This quarter-over-quarter increase largely reflected improved
contributions from our EMEA and region customers in the quarter. Overall, however, 2022 was the
year of outsized growth in the U.S. up 61% year-over-year, largely due to domestic strength from
our Cloud Titan customers.
Overall gross margin in Q4 was 61% at the midpoint of our guidance range of approximately 60%
to 62%. We continue to recognize incremental supply chain costs in the period, combined with a
healthy cloud mix. Operating expenses for the quarter were $235.3 million or 18.4% of revenue,
up from last quarter, at $227.7 million. R&D spending came in at $153.2 million, or 12% of revenue
up from $150.1 million last quarter.
This primary reflected increased headcount and new product introduction costs in the period.
Sales and marketing expenses were $67.4 million, or 5.3% of revenue compared to $62.8 million
last quarter with increased headcounts and higher variable compensation expenses,
Our G&A costs come in at $14.6 million or 1.1% of revenue consistent with last quarter. Our
operating income for the quarter was $543.2 million or 42.6% of revenue. Other income and
expense for the quarter was a favorable $13.6 million and our effective tax rate was 20%.
This resulted in net income for the quarter at $445.1 million, or 34.9% of revenue. Our diluted
share number was 315.2 million shares resulting in a diluted earnings per share number for the
quarter of $1.41 up 72% from the prior year.
Now turning to the balance sheet. Cash equivalents and investments ended the quarter at
approximately $3.024 billion. In the quarter, we repurchased $2.8 million of our common stock. As
a reminder for the year, we have repurchased $670 million or 6.5 million shares at an average
price of $104 per share. This leaves us with $257 million available for repurchase under our
existing $1 billion board authorization. The actual timing and amount of future repurchases will be
dependent on market and business conditions, stock price and other factors.
Now turning to operating cash performance for the fourth quarter. We generated approximately
$40 million of cash from operations in the period, reflecting strong earnings performance, mostly
offset by a significant increase in working capital. We experienced growth in inventory, the receipt
of components for future shipments, including shipment delayed due to supplier decommits.
We also experienced growth in accounts receivable and DSOs in the quarter due to significant
ramp in service renewals and product shipments towards the end of the quarter. DSOs came inat 67 days up from 51 days in Q3, protecting the linearity of billings and growth in service
renewals in the period. Inventory turns were 1.6x down from 1.7x last quarter.
Inventory increased to $1.3 billion in the quarter, up from $1.1 billion in the prior period, reflecting
higher key component and peripherals inventory and an increase in switch related finished goods.
Our purchase commitments at the edge of the quarter were $3.7 billion down from $4.3 billion at
the end of Q3.
We expect this number to continue to decline in future quarters, as component lead times
improve and we work to optimize our supply positions. As a reminder, we have focused this
extended purchase commitment strategy, on early life cycle products to help mitigate the risk of
excess or obsolescence. Our total deferred revenue balance was $1.041 billion up from $941
million in Q3. The majority of the deferred revenue balance was services related, and directly
linked to the timing of term service contracts, which can vary on a quarter-by-quarter basis.
Approximately $125 million of this balance down from $165 last, quarter represents product
deferred revenue, largely related to acceptance clauses for new products most recently with our
large cloud site and customers. For clarifications, this represents a reduction in products related
deferred revenue for the year, of approximately $40 million.
Accounts payable days were 43 days down from 56 days in Q3, reflecting the timing of inventory
receipts and payments. Capital expenditures for the quarter were $10.5 million.
Now, turning to our outlook for the first quarter and beyond. 2022 was a year of outstanding
revenue and earnings growth, driven by an acceleration of demand from our Cloud Titan
customers, coupled with healthy contributions across the other areas of the business.
Supply remained constrained throughout the year and somewhat limited our ability to ramp
product shipments in response to this demand. As we head into 2023, we look forward to
resolving the final kinks on the supply side and reducing lead times for our customers. As outlined
at our Analyst Day, we expect to achieve year-over-year, revenue growth for 2023 of
approximately 25%. This reflects continued healthy demand across all our market sectors, but
recognizing that as lead times improve, we should expect to see some reduction in visibility.
In terms of quarterly trends, you should expect accelerated year-over-year growth in Q1,
moderating as the year progresses versus more difficult year-over-year comps. On the gross
margin front, we expect to continue consuming broker parts of other inflated cost items in the
first quarter, and this combined with the continuing healthy cloud contribution will pressure gross
margins. Beyond that, we should see some steady improvement as we move through the year
with fewer broker parts and the opportunity to optimize the manufacturing round.
Now turning to spending and investments we remain cognizant of the overall macro environment
and will be prudent to making investments as we move through the year. You should however
expect us to make targeted hires in R&D and go to markets at the team sees the opportunity to
secure talent.
On the cash front FY 2022 was a year where much of the $1.4 billion net income generated by the
business was consumed by incremental working capital needs and additional cash tax payments
under Section 174, which defers the deducibility of R&D spending.
As we head into 2023, you should expect to focus on supply chains and working capital
optimization by recognizing the need for balance in areas of higher supply risk or where our lead
times remains extended. Interest income should continue to increase as we move through theyear, with $20 million in Q1 going towards the quarterly contribution of $40 million, exiting the
year. With all of this as a backdrop, our guidance for the first quarter which is based on non-GAAP
results and includes any non-cash stock-based compensation impacts and other non recurring
items is as follows.
Revenues of approximately $1.275 billion to $1.325 billion. Gross margin of approximately 60%.
Operating margins of approximately 40%. Our effective tax rate is expected to be 21.5% with
diluted shares on a post-fit basis of approximately 316 million shares.
I will now turn the call back to Liz. Liz?
`Liz Stine, Director, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Ita. We will now move to the Q&A portion of the Arista earnings call. To allow for
greater participation I'd like to request that everyone please limit themselves to a single
question. Thank you for your understanding. Operator, take it away.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
We will now begin the Q&A portion of the Arista earnings call. (Operator Instructions) Your first
question comes from the line of `Jason Ader, William Blair & Company with William Blair. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Jason Ader, William Blair & Company `
Yes. Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. I just wanted to ask I guess, Ita, for you on the order
trend. We all know that the revenue is incredibly strong right now, because of all the lead time
supply chain issues, but maybe some visibility on how orders are trending versus revenue.
A - `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, Jason. You know we don't really talk about orders and backlog. I think we did talk about kind
of healthy demand across the various pieces of the business and obviously, where we are
affirming the guidance for 2023. So there is the support for that. Jayshree, I don't know if you
want to add anything to that?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
No, I think you said it well. Order trends in 2022 were good. We'll wait, watch and see if the macro
has broader effects in '23, but our guide and our tone effects that we are pretty positive at the
moment.
Q - `Jason Ader, William Blair & Company `
So, no impact from macro of significance thus far on orders?
A - `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
When we have something to state, we will Jason, so far we don't.
Q - `Jason Ader, William Blair & Company `A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Amit Daryanani, Evercore with Evercore. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.
Q - `Amit Daryanani, Evercore `
Yes. Thanks for taking my question, and congrats on the quarter. Ita, I guess when I think about
this 25% growth in calendar '23, how do you think it stacks up across the three verticals do you
fall? That'll be really helpful. And then second kind of where do you see the strongest versus
weaker growth?
And then on the Cloud Titans side, as you think about growth in '23 and maybe even beyond, do
you think that's really a function of what their CapEx spend look like on the networking side? Or
do you think there's a bigger narrative around the share gain potential against white box solution,
especially as workloads get more complicated that could help you as well? Thank you.
A - `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Okay. Well, I'll take the first one and I'm sure, Anshul have a few words on the second. How does
this break down? If you look at 20 -- let me go back to 2021, we had a very nice even split and
Cloud Titans is actually kind of on the low side. It was 30%, if I remember right, 30%, 30%, 40%.
And if you look at 2022, it was Cloud Titans has outsized, whether 30% went to 46%.
If I had to guess, I would say, we did between those two numbers. I still think we'll have a very
healthy Cloud Titan mix, but enterprise momentum continues to be strong and you'll see a
contribution from that, as well as the CO2 specialty cloud providers and service providers as well.
So I think it'll -- my guess is it'll look somewhere between '21 and '22 in terms of split, we'll see as
the quarters progress.
In terms of the CapEx and the impact of that on Cloud Titans, look, we don't exactly and
equivalently track the CapEx, but eventually CapEx is an indicator of future -- of our future Cloud
Titan progress. I don't believe at this point that our progress is coming from white box or specific
things like commodity things like that. It's really coming from, as Anshul pointed out, a very
strategic seat at the table on new use cases, like AI workloads, which has a multiplicative factor
on our bandwidth.
So I believe we'll have a real seat at the table, especially with Microsoft and Meta. And we'll
continue to see what the use cases are that emerge -- that we can imagine beyond '23. But
we've been working on this for 10 years and I think it will continue to be strong.
A - `Liz Stine, Director, Investor Relations `
Thank you. Thank you, Amit. We can take our next question, operator.
OperatorYour next question comes from the line of `Paul Silverstein, Cowen & Company with Cowen. Please go ahead. Your line
is open.
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Cowen & Company `
Thanks. I hope you answer some clarification. I just want to make sure you said Microsoft was 16
and Meta was 25 or do you have that backwards?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, 25.5 on Meta and Microsoft 16.
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Cowen & Company `
Okay. Now for the question, what portion of your Cloud Titan revenue in general? And how much
of growth in Microsoft and Meta was, if you know it? What's your sense for or how much of that
was AI-driven? Any visibility as to growth in AI and its impact on demand for your switches and
various use cases over the course of the next few years with your Cloud Titan customers in
general, including Microsoft and Meta?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. We see AI as a very, very important use case and workload for all our Cloud Titan customers.
Clearly, it's in the first innings, we're just beginning. So very much like cloud networking 10 years
ago, we see AI as an additional use case. It is a very, very small portion of our use cases so far, so
a lot of upside ahead.
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Cowen & Company `
Is it possible to quantify, Jayshree?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Too early to quantify, it's not material.
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Cowen & Company `
That's might fair. Okay. I appreciate it.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Paul.
Operator
Your next question will come from the line of `Aaron Rakers, Wells Fargo with Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Wells Fargo `
Yes. Thanks for taking the question, and congrats on the quarter as well. I guess, maybe this is for
Anshul, building on the last two questions is that, as you look at kind of adding up the Meta and
Microsoft contribution and you compare that to 46% of total Cloud Titan, your other Cloud Titan
contribution still pretty small. So Anshul, when you're engaging with other cloud opportunities,
maybe you could unpack that a little bit. What's opening up the opportunities for you? Is it AI or isit something else that you're starting to see? And how do we start to think about that as an
incremental growth driver?
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Operating Officer `
Sure.
Aaron, first of all, we are proud of our achievement for the first two M&M with the contributions
there. On the other Titans, we have been engaged really well with them. That business is also
growing, but it's based in comparison to Microsoft and Meta, but it is not insignificant compared
to other opportunities in the market and we continue achieve those, those partnerships are very,
very strong as well.
At some point in the future if the opportunity is materialized, many of these customers decide to
go big in the market and buy switches from the industry like us, I think we'll perform really well.
We just have to wait out and get to that opportunity. It's not clear I would say yet, but it'd be
happening in a year or two or three, I don't know. When it happens, we'll be there. And we will do
well in where we are today with them, which is essentially routing use cases or DCI use cases or
WAN or Edge. And we touched on this at the topic before too, but if they were shift buying more
from the outside, I think we'll be ready.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Wells Fargo `
Yes. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Jim Suva, Citigroup with Citigroup. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.
Q - `Jim Suva, Citigroup `
Thank you, Jayshree and Ita and everyone. Congratulations on great results. My question is I think
it was Ita made the comment of expect a deceleration in revenues as we progress throughout
the year just to get to the 25% revenue growth. I want to make sure I heard that right, because
that would then also mean that even with very, very stiff difficulty year-over-year comps for
revenues, you wouldn't expect them to go negative at all.
And I guess, when we look at that deceleration, it kind of seems like a steep decline to get to an
average of 25%. So can you help me with my math there or the missing pieces or is it some
conservativism or I'm just kind of wondering, but it definitely doesn't seem like negative growth is
in the works.
A - `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. No, no, we didn't talk about negative growth. If you look at the trend last year, you'll see
really accelerated post Q1, right? So that's why you're seeing much stronger growth rate year-
over-year with our Q1 guide, then you will as you move through the year. So I think after Q1 is
better to start to look at it as a quarter-by-quarter, on quarter-by-quarter basis and kind of grow
your revenues quarter-by-quarter, but certainly no kind of negative growth in that. And I think
you'll get a better answer if you got to just grow kind of quarter-over-quarter from there on. Q1
was the -- was a much lower revenue number last year kind of back on the trend.
Q - `Jim Suva, Citigroup `Great. Thank you for the details, and congratulations, and happy valentine's to all of you.
A - `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Jim.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Jim. It's all about comps. Isn't it?
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Samik Chatterjee, JP Morgan with JPMorgan. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Samik Chatterjee, JP Morgan `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question, and congrats on the results as well. I guess, I have quick one,
which is --
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Can you speak louder?
Q - `Samik Chatterjee, JP Morgan `
Yes. Hopefully, you can hear me now. Is this better? Can you hear me now?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, much better. Thank you.
Q - `Samik Chatterjee, JP Morgan `
Yes. So I was just going to ask you on your large cloud customer Meta and their recent
announcement around architecture changes related to data centers and trying to run AI
workloads and non-AI workloads together on the same data centers and some of those related
announcements if you've been able to dissect that and sort of have any thoughts about how that
might impact their spending in relation to switching and routing equipment, particularly as it
relates to your portfolio. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So Samik, I'll say some few words and obviously Anshul can get into detail. We don't foresee
any major architectural changes in the build-out of the AI clusters. Clearly, we continue to work
with them on the front-end of the network and on the back-end, these have been based on the
flagships and the 800 spines, the AI spine, where you can have a distributed AIB for it can be
going straight into the spine.
And when you have the hundreds and thousands of GPUs, you need a lossless fabric that has all
of the congestion control and bandwidth management required. So in the short-term note, no
major change in architecture. In the long-term, as these customers look for efficiency, we look for
these AI fabrics to get larger or more distributed, but they will naturally be an evolution as the
market grows, but no dramatic shift or change, just more of the same. Anshul, say few words.A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Operating Officer `
So Samik, just keep in mind, Meta slowed down spending a few years ago, right? So there's
some catching up to do the spend sort of the spend that got missed out. So you have to sort of
go back with an average it out to understand the trend.
And second as Jayshree mentioned, from what we know so far, we don't believe there's any
change in the networking spend, the CapEx optimizations they're discussing are either tied to
how the buildings are built facilities or letting go of nice to have project.
Q - `Samik Chatterjee, JP Morgan `
Okay. Got it. Thank you. Thanks for taking my questions.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Samik.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Tal Liani, Bank of America with Bank of America. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.
Q - `Tal Liani, Bank of America `
Hi. I want to ask about the other part that no one is asking about the non-Cloud Titans. So if I back
out Cloud Titans, non-cloud grew 14.6%. And the question is first of all, on last year, did you
allocate components to Cloud Titans? And was this area more pressured than Cloud Titans when
it comes to allocation? So if that's the case or what is the answer about what happens this year,
this coming year, or this year on the non-Cloud Titan portion? What drives it to accelerate from
the 14.5% growth of last year? Thanks.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Got it, Tal. So first of all, absolutely not. We don't do any allocation. It's very much a person-first
out algorithm. And many of the Cloud Titans clearly were the first in, so therefore they are the
first out. Our enterprise customers and the momentum and the demand is very high. And we fully
expect that they will get their turn in this year in 2023. But given how constrained we were in
supply, this is the way it worked out in terms of revenue.
Q - `Tal Liani, Bank of America `
Is there -- what are the underlying driver for growth acceleration? The driver -- outside of
components, better component supplies, what are the underlying underlying growth drivers for
2023 versus 2022?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I think they're very similar. You heard me talk about some of the enterprise momentum, our
customers are really looking for consolidation of their data centers in terms of a better
automation, better telemetry, better consolidation of the operational advantages in the data
center. Campus is a huge use case. Routing and bringing all of the routing features that we've
been working on for over five years to bear has been a third one. Observability of securities isanother use case. Our telemetry with CloudVision, so very similar themes to 2022 that we're
seeing in '23.
Q - `Tal Liani, Bank of America `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Tal.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of the `Fahad Najam, Loop Capital with Loop Capital. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Fahad Najam, Loop Capital `
Thank you for taking my question. I had a couple of follow-ups (Inaudible). The cognitive
adjacencies that were again 14% of revenue, is it fair to assume that fairly split evenly between
campus, switching and routing?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sorry. Fahad, can you repeat the question? I couldn't understood.
Q - `Fahad Najam, Loop Capital `
The cognitive adjacencies revenue that you gave, I think was 14% of revenue, if I'm not mistaken.
And I'm just wondering, is the split even between campus and routing?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Approximately, both of them were large contributors. So, I don't have the exact percentages, but
Fahad, we think campus over time will become larger. But at the moment, I would say, it's six of
one and half a dozen of the other.
Q - `Fahad Najam, Loop Capital `
Got it. For my question, how should we be thinking about with AI and Machine Learning becoming
more pervasive in Cloud Titan architectures in this prospective replacement of infinity band with
Ethernet? How should we be thinking about the TAM opportunity? Because how big is this infinity
band replacement opportunity so to speak?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. No, I think the infinity band TAM today it has a very nice HBC $1 billion to $1.5 billion TAM. And
it didn't address AI workloads. I think the advent of this new application is going to open up the
whole AI networking and fabric TAM to much greater than infinity band. So, not only do we have
an opportunity to replace infinity band, but we have a greenfield opportunity for new AI fabrics
and clusters. So, it's both, not just a legacy infinity band opportunity.
Q - `Fahad Najam, Loop Capital `
So roughly, how big do you think the opportunity is?A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I don't think -- there have been some market studies on this. Some people say $2 billion a year,
some people say, $4 billion, some says going to $8 billion. So I think it's still too early to call. It
depends on how quickly the adoption of AI fabric happens in all of our large customers.
Q - `Fahad Najam, Loop Capital `
Thank you. Appreciate the answers.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Fahad.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Pierre Ferragu, New Street Research with New Street Research. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Pierre Ferragu, New Street Research `
Thanks you. Good evening. I wanted to catch up on what you said Jayshree about like routing,
edge routing and deering[ph] and this opportunity still comes back as an interesting and
intriguing area. And so my question would be anything you can give us in terms of sizing how
significant it is today. And then beyond that, could you give us a sense of how you understand like
the long-term market dynamics in there?
So it's a market where all like legacy routing players are very strong and have like a very stronger
existing ecosystem. And I'm still not exactly clear on what market dynamics create the opportunity
for Arista and how we should think about it in the long run, like is there an opportunity to replace
incumbents in peering in large peering market? And if that's the case, how does that work? Is that
like operators buying from you? Is that coming from other types of clients, like a cloud players? So
what -- how does the opportunity shape up over time?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. No, Anshul, I'll love your perspective on it. Let me kick it off. We think the router market is
much bigger than the routing market. The router market is the more legacy market. That's been
so served by a number of traditional industry experts for 20 years and mostly servicing the
service provider market. And that's a very traditional market that Arista has been participating
summon, but we don't expect to be a major player in traditional service providers.
However, we've added so much routing features. Routing is now part of our switching system. It's
sometimes hard to separate it. It's the same hardware, different software. If you just look at the
last year, we've added Ethernet OEM capability, VPLS timing with stinky, EVPN MPLS gateway,
multicast VPN, Edge Services, routing scale, you heard Anshul talked about that can go over 4
million routes.
So, our portfolio is really transitioning to supporting 400 gig deployments. And routing in the
cloud scale is something we are very successful. And so on one hand, we're not super successful
in the traditional service providers. On the other hand, we're hugely successful on the cloud, and
then in between we are finding ourselves moderately successful in a lot of the enterprise and
specialty cloud providers. Anshul, you want to add a few words?A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Operating Officer `
Sure. Pierre, another angle here, if you look at how we started to enter this market. So, some of
the CDN companies, like Netflix and Spotify, these companies have an SDN approach to Edge. It's
a scalar architecture. You can take a simple router from Arista and scale it out and the automation
and the SDK we provide allows our customers to do that, which is why we do very well in these
use cases versus our legacy full feature traditional router. And our cloud customers, the Titan that
your to cloud the providers all like these architectures.
Q - `Pierre Ferragu, New Street Research `
Great. Thanks a lot guys for your answers.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Pierre.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Michael Genovese, Rosenblatt Securities with the Rosenblatt Securities.
Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Michael Genovese, Rosenblatt Securities `
Great. Thanks so much. I guess, just sort of theoretically in an AI, data center, I mean, what's your
current way of doing chat versus an AI chat? Can you give us some sense of the switching
intensity increase in the new use case with AI? Is there a multiplier to put on the switching or the
networking to think about the higher amount of content and spend for AI? Thanks.
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Operating Officer `
Sure. Michael, I'll take this one. It's very hard to generalize. So I just can't [ph] give you single
number that AI equal so much more, but I'll give you an example of something that Andy, talked
about in the last another state. And if you look at the recent cluster on which made of published
some papers about top of the time, the GPUs was sitting idle because they were waiting for the
support from big to come back. So networking becomes the bottleneck and in these cases, you
can add more bandwidth then you essentially become non blocking. You can do a job can run
faster and you can use your GPUs in a much more efficient manner. So the rope order of
magnitude is your clusters need about 3x more bandwidth than a traditional compute network
today, but again, that's a generalization, doesn't happen every use case, but if you need a single
number that one I would use.
Q - `Michael Genovese, Rosenblatt Securities `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Meta Marshall, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Meta Marshall, Morgan Stanley `Great. Thanks. I just wanted to get a sense of on supply chain what you are seeing there in terms
of did it loosen faster than you were expecting in Q4 And that was part of the upside? Or just
how you're looking at conditions kind of improving throughout the year and maybe just that kind
of release to gross margins as we think about throughout the year and kind of the overhead of
the inventory currently? Thanks.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Meta. I'll comment on it. Anshul, you do have a few words too. Look, our supply chain
hasn't eased up enough for us. Maybe we have more demand than others and that's why we're
feeling it more. But having said that, our Q4 numbers would have been even better if supply
chain had eased. And our Q1 gross margin is a reflection that supply chain is still an overhead on
our costs, right?
We expect Q1 to be the absolute worst. We're going to improve there after every other quarters.
The supply chain is going to be easing in the back half of '23. And as you know, at the Analyst
Day, we gave a guide of Ita had said, 61 to 63 for the year. So, we fully intend to improve our
gross margins every quarter there after potentially hitting a low in Q1, which is an indication of
supply chain improving. But at the same time, remember, another huge factor in our contribution
to gross margins is the healthy Cloud Titan mix. We'd like to keep it healthy and ease supply
chain. And that'll give us some improvements.
Q - `Meta Marshall, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thanks.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Meta.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Alex Henderson, Needham & Co. with Needham. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.
Q - `Alex Henderson, Needham & Co. `
Great. Thanks, and congrats on super quarter. I wanted to push a little bit more on the supply
chain issue that you're just talking about. I get the point that gross margins are the worst in the
first quarter. But when do you think the balance between availability and your backlog starts to
come into balance so that you can actually ship what orders come in and the duration on your
backlog, which I know you don't talk about, but conceptually, starts to come in line so that we're
back to fairly normal book and ship environment?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Paul, I'll let Ita answer this. But I wouldn't call our current environment approaching normality for
some time. So we hope it'll be second half that the supply and the demand catch up. But I hope it
catches up, because we improve our supply, not that demand goes down. So, we wanted to also
improve for the right reasons.
A - `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `Alex, I think the goal obviously is to improve as supply improve and then improve manufacturing
and improve efficiencies, and we'll be working on that as we go through the year. I don't know
what the final normal will be, we'll have to see. I think just given everything that we've been
through from a supply chain perspective, it's probably maybe there's a little bit more lead time
visibility that'll end up in the system at the end, but we'll have to see, right?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I think what they can safely say is, we are getting comfortable that lead times will improve
throughout the year. What -- will we get the normal lead times? I think that will still take time,
because we've got to work through our demand.
Q - `Alex Henderson, Needham & Co. `
If I could just one clarification. Did you say you had a decommitted in the fourth quarter? I thought
I heard that in the presentation. Thanks.
A - `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
No, decommit on supply side, I mean we had a (Multiple Speakers) starts of the supply side for
sure. That's the question.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Nothing to do -- it had to do with our supply constraints as a component vendors are constantly
decommitting.
Q - `Alex Henderson, Needham & Co. `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Alex.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Matt Niknam, Deutsche Bank with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Matt Niknam, Deutsche Bank `
Hey, thanks for taking the question. I just want to follow-up on the question on macro that was
asked earlier. Are there any regions, verticals where you've seen any may be greater than usual
slowness in ordering because of macro? And then maybe if I can sneak one in for Ita. On the free
cash flow trajectory, broadly speaking, just curious if there's any broad color you can provide
around working capital and primarily asking around inventory and whether that's still a drag or
whether you expect to be convert some more of that to cash this year. Thanks.
A - `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Maybe I'll take the cash piece of it first. Yes, I'm not sure that we start to see it kind of come
down just yet. I think probably at least for the first half, we'll probably still be building inventory
and when we do have some kind of key components that are still a long lead time and where we
wanted to build buffers, so we'll continue to do that. Then hopefully the second half is probably atleast kind of flattens out, but again, we'll update that as we go quarter-by-quarter. But I think
there's definitely a piece that t there's still going to be long lead time that will kind of hold
inventory a little bit higher than what we might like for the time being.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And your question on macro, like I said before, we'll call it when we see it. We're not seeing
anything major and significant yet. And customers are watching, we're watching and no major
trend I can point to.
Q - `Matt Niknam, Deutsche Bank `
That's great. Thank you.
A - `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Matt.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Tim Long, Barclays with Barclays. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.
Q - `Tim Long, Barclays `
Thank you. Just kind of a two-parter on the campus business. First, I think you guys have sort of
talked about doing a little bit better in the wireless LAN area. So curious, if you think that having a
better wired and wireless portfolio kind of accelerates the share gains potential in that area. So,
was that something that was maybe holding back some wins that could help in the future? And
then, secondly, I think at the Analyst Day you talked a little bit about SD WAN. I'm just curious, if
you can give us an update on when you might start to see another leg to the campus strategy in
what's a pretty high growth vertical. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. So Tim, on the wired and wireless, we are obviously much stronger in wired, because as a
very natural affinity to the Arista U.S. tax. So and we also have a full portfolio of what are you two?
Are you all the way to a chassis with built-in encryption? No other company maybe except one
has that. So we're very competitive there.
On the wireless, this sort of the new kid [ph] on the block. We've -- as I said, if you just look at our
campus entry, we are very new kid on the block. This is our third year. So we -- I think our going
from being a toddler to an adult now here very soon. So, we believe we have a strong portfolio
also differentiated by CloudVision for both wired and wireless coming into the same Spine and
Spline architecture that we articulate and design for the data center. So we feel very, very good
about our portfolio being strong. I think more of our efforts will go into go-to-market and reaching
these customers because much of what we've done to-date is if you will, low-hanging fruit with
our familiar customers and our existing base.
Q - `Tim Long, Barclays `
Thank you.
OperatorYour next question comes from the line of `Ittai Kidron, Oppenheimer & Co. with Oppenheimer. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.
Q - `Ittai Kidron, Oppenheimer & Co. `
Well, thanks, and nice finish what you've ladies. Couple questions for me. First of all, for you Ita,
on the cash. What just I want to piggyback on some of the previous question on the account
receivable is clearly the balloon here on the year. Are the cash payment terms of the cloud guys
any different than a normal enterprise? And what percent of this account receivables do you think
you can recoup in the year?
And then for you, Jayshree, on campus. Clearly, supply chain is a little bit of a hurdle there.
Cisco's taking action to redesign some of these solutions to products and components that are
much more readily available. Is that not a path for you? And if it is, what can you do on that front
to alleviate the supply and more easily addressed demand?
A - `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Ittai, maybe I'll take the cash one first. I mean, a lot of the DSO growth is really around those
service renewals that we saw at the back end of the quarter. If you think about those and how
they flow, they generate almost no revenue, but obviously, there the AR, they're multi-year. So it
causes the AR to spike. We'll collect kind of a lot of that in Q1, good healthy a more balanced
target heading into Q1. So, no change in aging or anything else it's really just a timing of
(Inaudible) service renewals the fact that they end up in AR at the end of the quarter.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So Ittai, on the -- thank you for the wishes by the way, and Happy Valentine's Day. We listen
to you and make sure the earnings call was not on Valentine's Day. To your question, absolutely,
we have our choice of vendors and redesigns. Redesigns take time and qualifying them with our
customer takes even longer. So we've chosen multi-pronged approach where we do have
redesigns that we can invoke. But we are also improving our relationship and partnership with our
supply chain vendors. Anshul, your team has been working on that. I think your vendor list has
gone from tens to hundreds, if I remember right, right?
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Operating Officer `
That's right, Jayshree. This the first time we're close to almost 100 suppliers, but we talk to them
directly even if you don't buy the components from them, we control the relationship and the
technology and the roadmap much (Inaudible).
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So, to answer your question, on the campus specifically, both with redesigns and with our supply
of partnerships, we fully expect to come back and not fall short of our numbers in '23.
Q - `Ittai Kidron, Oppenheimer & Co. `
Very good. Thanks. Good luck.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.Operator
Our next question will come from the line of `Ben Bollin, Cleveland Research Company with Cleveland Research. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Ben Bollin, Cleveland Research Company `
Thanks for taking the question. Good afternoon, everyone. I also wanted to piggyback a little bit
on campus. Jayshree, could you talk a little bit about how customers are responding as they're
facing the increase in lead times -- for the lead times overall? It's been a market share
opportunity. Any risk that's that shares perishable? Do they choose to opt to renew with who they
have? And then you talked a little bit about go-to-market on campus. What are you doing
differently? Or what are your thoughts on where that goes from here? Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Both are very good questions, Ben. I would say currently we are gaining share, because
others are messing up, whether it's changing to a software model or not able to supply or this
has been the benefactor of that. It's still small numbers obviously. But it's difficult to imagine that
we are at risk of losing share when we have such a small share. Our goal is to grow share at the
moment. And what was your second question? So the second part to that question?
Q - `Ben Bollin, Cleveland Research Company `
Go-to-market strategy.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
What is the go-to-market? Well, in the near-term, our go-to-market has very much been to target
our 9,000 cumulative customers. But we are building mid-market strategy. We are going to work
closely with channel partners. Those things take time. So, I would say, our initial go-to-market is
our enterprise customers. And over time, we will have a more mid market strategy.
Q - `Ben Bollin, Cleveland Research Company `
Thanks.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of James Fish with Piper Sandler. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.
Q - `James E. Fish, Piper Sandler `
Hey. Happy Valentine's Day, ladies. Great quarter. Just going back to your commentary on Cloud
Titans being kind of between '21 and '22 levels. Just given the overall growth, it does suggest a
bit of an acceleration for everybody else. I guess, what's driving that confidence? Is it just mainly
was in backlog? Is additional hyperscale win, including with AI or enterprise share gains or
something else? And then Ita, just for you as a follow-up on the cash flow, is there a way to think
about kind of a normalized cash flow level or where you expect inventory turns to get to by the
end of the year? Thanks.
A - `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `Yes. Maybe I'll take that one first, Jim. I'm not quite ready yet to call that we have turns number
for the end of the year. I think inventory dollars probably grow certainly through the first half and
then hopefully we can flatten out from there. We will look for optimization, but there is still a fair
amount of kind of long lead time items that we need to kind of carry and buffer. So, I'll come back
to you as we kind of go through the year, but I think certainly for the first half, we should be
looking for inventory to probably continue to grow on an absolute dollar business.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, James, for the wishes. I think in one word, I would say, momentum. Our enterprise
customers are really looking for an alternative to what they've got. There's a lot of fatigue in the
system. And what's driving my optimism, whether it's backlog from prior demand or present
demand is they're really hungry and Arista presents that alternative.
A - `Liz Stine, Director, Investor Relations `
Next question, operator.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `David Vogt, UBS with UBS. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.
Q - `David Vogt, UBS `
Great. Thank you everyone for taking my call. I just want to pivot back to Meta for a second. And
so in addition to the new architecture that they've been talking about and I think Anshul just did.
The company also talked about potentially using more colocation and maybe other public
company assets to kind of meet its capital intensity needs going forward. We just love to kind of
get your thoughts on how that impacts your spending going -- they're spending on Arista gear
going forward. And then just on going while some Titans mix percentages. If the rest of the
business is growing at the rates that we think it's going to grow in 2023, to end up somewhere
between the '21 and '22 level, does that suggests that the Titans business in total grows kind of
in the low-teens in '23 off of triple-digit growth in '22? Thanks.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Just to answer that one, it is definitely not going to be triple-digit in '23. We can say that with
certainty. That was a beautiful year and one for the history books. Anshul, you want to take the
rest?
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Operating Officer `
Sure. For the Meta question, David, and the architecture and so on, I think the high-level message
to us is they want to run their business efficiently as efficiently as possible and optimize. So
projects are nice to have -- obviously those are getting cut back. And as you mentioned, in place,
like colos and so on, you don't need a very large or architecture to start with, if you only have 3-
megawatt (Inaudible) as an example, you have a smaller cluster size, but our products already fit
very well in all of these use cases.
So, we don't believe there's any significant impact to networking from what we can sell today in
the near-term. But if we don't have visibility that many, many years out today, but then message
we've been given is basically no big impact with networking as far as we are concerned.Q - `David Vogt, UBS `
Great.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Dave.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Tom Blakey, KeyBanc Capital Markets with KeyBanc Capital Markets. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Tom Blakey, KeyBanc Capital Markets `
Yes. Thanks for squeezing me in here. I have a question back on Epiphany line financials and
enterprise of the drivers there. I think maybe Tal was getting at many questions ago. But I was
wondering, how much like rip and replace type of wins are kind of like starting to rear in to hear?
This implied in my mind anyway, an acceleration in growth, I mean growth in Epiphany line. And
specifically the new cloud test product that you launched in the last year, if that's kind of more of
a 2023 driver. And again, that kind of rip and replace type of wins, which is a large opportunity in
enterprises more of a '23 driver of it's more '24. And then maybe just quick for Ita, as enterprise
mixes up, just remind us what the gross margin and operating margin impact should be for mixing
more towards enterprise, that will be helpful. Thank you.
A - `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Maybe I'll that one quickly. For at the moment -- the gross margin we kind of talked about the
improving as we go though the year and kind of the mix is obviously part of that. Operating
margins it's pretty neutral actually between cloud versus the rest. So I don't know if any big
drivers there.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
No, we have much lower sales and marketing on the cloud more technically-driven. So it's not the
same. Boing back to your rip and replace for financial, I think it epiphany means financials and
enterprise, just to clarify.
Q - `Tom Blakey, KeyBanc Capital Markets `
Yes, and exactly and just talking specifically about the new cloud test product, where you can
emulate an existing network and then just kind of plug and play the Arista product over an
existing install.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. So one of those common spreads we're seeing in an enterprise and financials is that they
want -- that nobody's getting more staff to do their jobs. So they want more tools to automate
and bring the SecOps, DevOps, NetOps, all of their operations together. And this is where the
Arista introduction of our continuous integration, continuous design and continuous test has really
been strategic because not only do you have to give them a tool for automation, but you also
have to work with them and train them and teach them how to deploy it.So these end up not necessarily being rip and replace, but sort of a gradual evolution where
they'll identify the first use case or first data center that they'll do this on, and then it'll expand --
plan and expand to more use cases. So, most enterprises are not a rip and replace, but it's a use
case that we begin with and then gradually evolve to go into a rip and replace as their
depreciation gets completed on the existing legacy gear. So it's a multi-year type of deployment
and it usually begins with a couple of use cases.
A - `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Tom
Q - `Tom Blakey, KeyBanc Capital Markets `
Thank you, Jayshree.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Tom.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Erik Suppiger, JMP Securities with JMP Securities. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Erik Suppiger, JMP Securities `
Yes. Thanks for fitting me in, and Happy Valentine's. On the Meta front, I'm just curious. They
talked about adopting more of a modular kind of scalable architecture. Wondering, if that
changes any of the buying behavior or the purchasing patterns that smooth out some of the
purchasing from the likes of a Meta.
And then secondly, Ita, on the balance sheet with your purchase commitments, do you have
control over how much inventory you take on or as the inventory becomes available, do you get --
do you take it in? In which case might we see your inventory balloon if more the inventory
becomes available?
A - `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
I think I don't like balloon as a word. I mean, there are certain suppliers, where lead times are still
(Technical Difficulty) so we'll continue to do that. I think on the purchase commitment, we talked
about this little bit of at the Analyst Day as well. I mean, as lead time to start to move around,
obviously we'll work with the contractors (Technical Difficulty) those we take (inaudible). That's
why I mean overtime that number should come down (Technical Difficulty) lead time with the
contract manufacturers.
Q - `Erik Suppiger, JMP Securities `
Okay.
A - `Anshul Sadana, Chief Operating Officer `
On the Meta question, Meta architecture already is quite modular with when you talk about
design (Technical Difficulty) for developers (Technical Difficulty) terabits 73, 88, that can go up to
256 ECMP, 256 (Technical Difficulty) The cluster sizes are smaller. They don't need 256, maybeimpact on us. Same thing on the 7800 AI Spine, they can add number of line cards based on the
number of GPUs or rack that they're connected to. So we are very, very efficient already and I
think fits very well in their models.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Erik. Operator, next question?
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of the `Sami Badri, Credit Suisse with Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Sami Badri, Credit Suisse `
Great. Just (Inaudible) two quick ones. First one is for Ita. Can we just talk about the benefits of
pricing from some of the price increases that you guys have put through to the portfolio and the
effect it had on gross margins? And then the second question is for Jayshree. Jayshree, you've
given us kind of a ballpark visibility, yes, some kind of quantification in the number of months that
you see visibility with some of your biggest customers. Could you give us an update on that same
type of visibility?
A - `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I think on the pricing piece of it, I mean, for sure, we're getting some benefit from the
pricing. But as time goes on, it starts -- in the dynamic environment, it starts to be harder to
attract that kind of in to get lost in the overall growth in the business. But the view of what we did
check and there's definitely some uptick for pricing there. It's just not something that we're kind
of tracking on an ongoing basis.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And in terms of visibility, Sami, in the past we've seen as much as a years visibility. If I want to
guess, I think, as the lead times improve, that visibility was reduced. Maybe it's down to three
quarters now. And because the visibility was very much tied to planning cycles and then the
planning cycles were no longer than a year because our lead times way longer than a year, then
that -- then we got greater visibility.
A - `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Sammy.
Q - `Sami Badri, Credit Suisse `
Got it.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `George Notter, Jefferies with Jefferies. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.
Q - `George Notter, Jefferies `
Hi there. I'm curious about why you guys think you should take share from infinity band going
forward in AI in each PC environment. So I'm just curious about what the logic is there. Thanks.A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. There is two big reasons. I think in the past Ethernet was always trending in terms of
performance and bandwidth to infinity band. Today as you start talking about 400, 800, 1.2
terabits, the options on Ethernet are much greater and very cost-effective and everybody's very
(Inaudible) that. The other is I think historically, infinity band has been more for high performance
compute use cases. We are very bullish on the AI workloads and its impact on Ethernet, where we
don't believe infinite band has any particular advantage and in fact, Ethernet does.
A - `Liz Stine, Director, Investor Relations `
Thank you, George. Operator, we have time for one last question.
Operator
Your final question comes from the line of `Simon Leopold, Raymond James with Raymond James. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Simon Leopold, Raymond James `
Thanks for taking in. I wanted to maybe dig a little bit into the campus business, particularly
whether or not that unit has been more constrained and therefore recovery bounces back. And
ultimately wondering, if really an increase in campus in the mix -- I know you gave us at $750
million target by '25. Wondering, if that's considered a headwind to gross margin or whether it's
more about the market verticals that affects your margins. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. No, headwind to gross margin. Our campus business has good gross margins. I just -- as we
said on the product side, I feel very good at the campus can execute. On the go-to-market side,
we have more work. So I'm giving myself some optionality there that if we do the work really well,
we could exceed the $750 million. And if we can't, then that'll be the more likely number.
A - `Liz Stine, Director, Investor Relations `
Great. Thanks, Simon. This concludes the Arista Networks fourth quarter 2022 earnings call. We
have posted a presentation, which provides additional information on our results, which you can
access on the Investor section of our website. Thank you for joining us today and thank you for
your interest in Arista.
Operator
Thank you for joining ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's call. You may now disconnect.