Q4 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2023 Arista Networks' Financial Results Earnings Conference Call.
During the call, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. After the presentation, we will conduct
a question-and-answer session. Instructions will be provided at that time. (Operator Instructions)
As a reminder, this conference is being recorded and will be available for replay from the Investor
Relations section at the Arista website, following this call. Ms. `Liz Stine, Director of Investor Relations, Arista's Director of
Investor Relations, you may begin.
`Liz Stine, Director of Investor Relations `
Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us. With me on today's
call are Jayshree Ullal, Arista Networks' Chairperson and Chief Executive Officer; `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer,
Arista's outgoing Chief Financial Officer; and `Chantelle Breithaupt, Chief Financial Officier, Arista's incoming Chief
Financial Officer. This afternoon, Arista Networks issued a press release announcing the results
for its fiscal fourth quarter ending December 31st, 2023. If you'd like a copy of this release, you
can access it online from our website. During the course of this conference call, Arista Networks'
management will make forward-looking statements, including those relating to our financial
outlook for the first quarter of the 2024 fiscal year, longer-term financial outlooks for 2024 and
beyond, our total addressable market and strategy for addressing these market opportunities,
including AI, customer demand trends, supply chain constraints, component costs, manufacturing
output, inventory management and inflationary pressures on our business, lead times, product
innovation, working capital optimization and the benefits of acquisitions, which are subject to the
risks and uncertainties that we discuss in detail in our documents filed with the SEC, specifically inour most recent Form 10-Q and Form 10-K and which could cause actual results to differ materially
from those anticipated by these statements.
These forward-looking statements apply as of today, and you should not rely on them as
representing our views in the future. We undertake no obligation to update these statements
after this call. Also, please note that certain financial measures we use on this call are expressed
on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude certain charges. We have provided
reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures in our earnings
press release. With that, I will turn the call over to Jayshree.
`Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Thank you, Liz. Thank you, everyone, for joining us this afternoon for our fourth quarter 2023
earnings call. 2023 has been another memorable year for Arista. We gave initial guidance of 25%
year-over-year revenue growth and instead achieved well beyond that at 33.8%, driving revenue
to $5.86 billion, coupled with a record non-GAAP earnings per share for the year of $6.94, up in
excess of 50% annually. Back to some Q4 specifics. We delivered revenues of $1.54 billion for the
quarter, with a non-GAAP record earnings per share of $2.08 due to a one-time favorable tax
rate. Services and software support renewals contributed approximately 17% of revenue. Our
non-GAAP gross margins of 65.4% was influenced by improving supply chain and greater
enterprise mix.
International contributions for the quarter registered 22.3% with the Americas at 77.7%. This was
one of our strongest-performing international quarters in recent history. Shifting to annual sector
revenue for 2023. Cloud titans contributed significantly at approximately 43%. Enterprises,
including financials was strong at approximately 36%, while the providers were at 21%. Both Meta
and Microsoft are greater than 10% customer concentration at 21% and 18%, respectively. Despite
multiple CapEx reductions last year and the normal volatility of cloud titan and AI pivot, we cherish
our privilege status with both M and M. Speaking of AI, in fall of 2023, Andy and I attended the
50th golden anniversary of Ethernet at the Computer History Museum. It truly is a reminder of
how familiar and widely deployed Ethernet is with the speed increasing by orders of magnitude
from a share position, 2.95 megabits for file printed share to a terabit Ethernet switching in the AI
and ML era.
AI workloads are placing greater demand on Ethernet, as they are both data and compute-
intensive across thousands of processes today. Basically, AI at scale needs Ethernet at scale. AI
workloads cannot tolerate the delays in the network, because the job can only be completed
after all flows are successfully delivered to the GPU clusters. All it takes is one culprit of worst-
case link to throttle an entire AI workload. Three, improvements are being pioneered by Arista
and the founding members of the Ultra Ethernet Consortium to improve job completion time.
Number one, packet spraying, AI network topology needs packet spraying to allow every flow to
simultaneously access all parts of the destination. Arista's developing multiple forms of load
balancing dynamically with our customers.
Two is flexible ordering P2 and AI job completion is the rapid and reliable bulk transfer with
flexible ordering using Internet links to optimally balance AI-intensive operations, unlike the rigid
ordering of InfiniBand. Arista is working closely with its leading mix vendors to achieve this. Finally,
network congestion. In AI networks, there's a common in cause congestion problem whereby
multiple uncoordinated senders can send traffic to the receivers simultaneously. Arista's platforms
are purpose-built and designed to avoid these kind of hotspots, evenly spreading the load across
multi-packs across our virtual output queuing, VoQ lossless fabric.In terms of annual 2023 product clients, our core, which consists of cloud AI and datacenter
products are built upon our highly differentiated Arista Extensible Operating software system
stack. It is successfully deployed across 10, 25, 100, 200 and 400 gig speeds. Our cloud
networking products deliver power-efficient, high availability zones without doubling the cost of
redundancy as datacenters demand insatiable bandwidth capacity and network speeds for both
the front-end and back-end storage and compute clusters. The core drove approximately 65% of
our revenue. We continue to gain share in our highest performance switching of 100, 200 and
400 gig ports to obtain the number one position, at approximately 40-plus percent, according to
industry analysts.
We have increased our 400-gig customer base from 600 customers in 2022 to approximately
800 customers in 2023. We expect both 400 and 800 gigabit Ethernet will emerge as important
pilots for AI back-end GPU clusters. We are cautiously optimistic about achieving our AI revenue
goal of at least $750 million in AI networking in 2025. Our second market is network adjacencies
comprised of routing, replacing routers and our cognitive campus workspaces. We continue to
make progress in campus aiming for the $750 million revenue by 2025 that we have shared at
many Analyst Days. Our investments in cognitive wired and wireless, zero-touch provisioning and
the introduction of AGNI, Arista Guardian for Network Identity as well as AVA sensors for threat
mitigation is resonating well with our campus customers.
The post-pandemic campus is seeking network as a service overlay and zero-trust network
embedded in with high availability, observability and consistency across our OS and management
domains. We are also successfully deployed in many routing edge and pairing use cases. Just in
2023 alone, we introduced six EOS software releases across 600 new features and 50
platforms. In fall of 2023, we introduced our WAN routing system with a focus on scale,
encryption and WAN transit routing capabilities. It has positioned us well, giving our customers a
seamless enterprise LAN and WAN portfolio. The campus and routing adjacencies together
contribute approximately 19% of revenue. Our third category is network software and services
based on subscription models such as Arista A-Care, CloudVision, DANZ Monitoring Fabric or
DMF observability and advanced threat sensors for network detection and response.
Arista's subscription-based network services and software contributed approximately 16% of the
total revenue. We surpassed 2,400 cumulative customers with CloudVision pivotal to building a
modern operating model for the enterprise. Please note that perpetual software licenses are not
included here and accounted inside the core or adjacent markets. March 2023's headline has
been mostly about AI. We are pleased with the momentum of enterprise and provider customers
as well. Arista continues to diversify its business globally with multiple use cases and verticals. We
have more than doubled our enterprise revenue in the last three years and we are becoming the
gold standard for client to cloud to AI networking with one EOS and one CloudVision foundation.
Our million-dollar customer logos increased steadily in 2023 at approximately 35% as a direct
result of our campus and enterprise momentum. Three principles continue to differentiate us as
we are poised to be a market-share gainer in the enterprise. One, best-in-class, highly available
proactive products with resilience and hitless upgrades at multiple levels. Two, zero-touch
automation for predictive client-to-cloud one-click operations that relies less on human staff or
manual operations and is instead software-driven. And finally, prescriptive insights based on AIML
autonomous virtual assist, AVA algorithms for increased security, observability and root cause
analysis. Our foundational and network data lake architecture and the ability to gather, store and
process multiple modalities of network data is the only way to reconcile all the incongruent silos
for network operators. While legacy vendors that are 30 to 40 years old, our aiming for
consolidation, Arista remains the only pure-play networking innovator earning top spots infor campus in 2023. In December 2023, we conducted one of our largest customer events called
Innovate in Vegas. Well, not my most favorite location, our customers and prospects founded
very exciting and compelling for their network transformation initiatives. They resonate deeply
with our Arista 2.0 vision building best-of-breed, data-driven networking platforms.
In summary, as we wrap up another fantastic year in 2023, I am so proud of the team's execution
across multiple dimensions. They have all worked tirelessly to improve our operational metrics
such as lead times, gross margin and on-time shipments. Simply put, we outpaced the industry in
quality, support and innovation. We set the direction for the future of networking working
intimately with our strategic customers. Despite limited visibility at this time, we reiterate our
double-digit growth of 10% to 12% from Analyst Day, aiming for approximately $6.5 billion in 2024.
With that, I'd like to turn it one last time to review our financial metrics with `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer. Ita?
`Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Jayshree and good afternoon. This analysis, our Q4 and full year 2023 results and our
guidance for Q1 2024 is based on non-GAAP and excludes our non-cash stock-based
compensation impacts, certain acquisition-related charges and other nonrecurring items. A full
reconciliation of our selected GAAP to non-GAAP results are provided in our earnings release.
Total revenues in Q4 were $1.54 billion, up 20.8% year-over-year and towards the upper end of
our guidance of $1.5 to $1.55 billion. Services and subscription software contributed approximately
17% of revenue in the fourth quarter, up from 16.8% in Q3. International revenues for the quarter
came in at $343.5 million, or 22.3% of total revenue, up from 21.5% last quarter.
This quarter-over-quarter increase largely reflected a healthy contribution from our in-region
EMEA customers. Overall gross margin in Q4 was 65.4%, well above our guidance of
approximately 63%, and up from 63.1% last quarter. As a recap for the year, we continue to see
incremental improvements in gross margin quarter-over-quarter with higher enterprise shipments
and better supply chain costs, somewhat offset by the need for additional inventory reserves as
customers refine their forecast product mix. Operating expenses for the quarter were $262.7
million or 17.1% of revenue, up from last quarter at $255.6 million. R&D spending came in at $165
million or 10.7% of revenue consistent with last quarter, but reflecting lower level of new product
introduction costs versus what we experienced in the first half of 2023 and what we expect for
the first half of 2024.
This reflects the timing of prototype and other costs associated with the development of next-
generation products. Sales and marketing expense was $83.4 million or 5.4% of revenue, up from
$79 million last quarter, with increases -- increased sales compensation and travel costs. Our G&A
costs came in at $14.3 million or 0.9% of revenue, up from $12.1 million last quarter reflecting some
seasonal fourth-quarter spending. Our operating income for the quarter was $744 million or
48.3% of revenue. Other income and expense for the quarter was a favorable $54.5 million and
our effective tax rate was 16.8%. This slower-than-normal quarterly tax rate reflected the release
of tax reserves due to the expiration of the statute limitations and some true-up of jurisdictional
earnings mix. This resulted in net income for the quarter of $664.3 million or 43.1% of revenue.
Our diluted share number was $318.85 million shares, resulting in a diluted earnings per share
number for the quarter, up $2.08, up 47.5% from the prior year. Now turning to the balance sheet.
Cash, cash equivalents and investments ended the quarter at approximately $5 billion. We did not
repurchase shares of our common stock in the quarter. To recap our repurchase program to
date, we have repurchased $855.5 million or 8 million shares at an average price of $107 per
share under our current $1 billion Board authorization. This leaves $144.5 million available forrepurchase in future quarters. The actual timing and amount of future repurchases will be
dependent on market and business conditions, stock price, and other factors.
Now turning to operating cash performance for the fourth quarter. We generated approximately
$526.5 million of cash from operations in the period, reflecting strong earnings performance
combined with some increase in deferred revenue offset by reductions in taxes payable. DSOs
came in at 61 days, up from 51 days in Q3, second, the timing of shipments and seasonal strength
and service renewal billings. Inventory turns were 0.07 times, down slightly to 1.1 last quarter.
Inventory increased slightly to $1.95 billion, reflecting the ongoing receipt and consumption of
components from our purchase commitments and an increase in switch-related finished goods.
Our purchase commitments at the end of the quarter were $1.59 billion, down from $2 billion at
the end of Q3. We expect to continue to reduce our overall purchase commitment number.
However, we will maintain a healthy position related to key components, especially as we focus
on new products.
Our total deferred revenue balance was $1.51 billion, up from $1.195 billion in Q3. The majority of
the deferred revenue balance and services related and directly linked to the timing and term of
service contracts, which can vary on a quarter-by-quarter basis. Our product deferred revenue
balance increased approximately $153 million over last quarter. This was ahead of our
expectations for the quarter and yet again shows this balance can move significantly on a
quarterly basis. As of now, we expect its balance declined somewhat in Q1 '24, but still be up
significantly from Q3 '23 levels. Accounts payable days were 72 days, up from 44 days in Q3 and
second, the timing of inventory receipt payments. Capital expenditures for the quarter were $6
million. I would now like to turn the call back to Jayshree. Jayshree?
`Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Thank you, Ita. First of all, for an incredible eight and a half years as our Chief Financial Officer,
we're going to miss you a lot and wish you all the best in your next innings. And if you ever miss
an earnings call, please come, we'll invite you for one. Now, to describe our Q1 2024 guidance,
it's my pleasure to introduce our incoming Chief Financial Officer, `Chantelle Breithaupt, Chief Financial Officier for her
very first earnings call at Arista. Welcome, Chantelle.
`Chantelle Breithaupt, Chief Financial Officier `
Thank you, Jayshree. Ita, congratulations on all that you've achieved during your tenure with
Arista. Your partnership during our transition is greatly appreciated. Since joining Arista, I've been
impressed by both the outstanding leadership team and the highly innovative engineering team
and both serve a set of marquee customers that are redefining the future of networking. Arista
began shipping products in 2008 and in 15 years, the annual bandwidth of the datacenters has
grown 350 overall [ph]. And just the past two years, the annual bandwidth has doubled with
Arista shipping a cumulative 75 million ports in that timeframe. Our acceleration of the data
center switching market in recent quarters is evidenced by our market-share gains in the 20-plus
percent range of both ports and dollars. I am thrilled to be joining Arista is such an exciting time.
Now turning to our outlook for the first quarter of 2024 and the remainder of the fiscal year. We
remain confident with our Analyst Day view which calls for fiscal year 2024 revenue growth of 10%
to 12%. This reflects our outlook for moderated cloud spending after multiple years of
accelerated growth combined with a continued growth trajectory in the enterprise business. For
gross margin, we reiterate the range for the fiscal year of 62% to 64%, with tier-one '24
expected to be at the lower end due to a heavier cloud mix including some expected release of
deferred revenue. In terms of spending, we expect to invest in gross spending faster thanrevenue, in line with our Analyst Day view, with an operating margin of approximately 42% in
2024.
This incremental investment may include go-to-market resourcing and increased new product
introduction costs to support our product roadmap. This latter trend is already evident in Q1 '24
as R&D is expected to rebound from the unusually low levels in the second half of 2023. On the
cash front, we will continue to work to reduce our working capital investments and drive some
further reduction in inventory as we move through the year. Our structural tax rate is expected to
remain at 21.5%, back to the usual historical rate, up from the unusually low one-type rate of
16.8% experienced last quarter Q4 FY '23. With all of this as a backdrop, our guidance for the first
quarter, which is based on our non-GAAP results and excludes any non-cash stock-based
compensation in tax and impacts and other non-recurring items is as follows. Revenues of
approximately $1.52 to $1.56 billion, gross margin of approximately 62% and operating margin at
approximately 42%. Our effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 21.5%, with
approximately 319.5 million diluted shares. In summary, I'm excited to lead Arista 2.0 journey as
CFO. We will migrate our best-of-breed products to best-of-breed data-driven platforms,
enabling our impressive TAM of $60 billion. With that, I'll now turn the call back to Liz for Q&A. Liz?
`Liz Stine, Director of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Chantelle. We will now move to the Q&A portion of the Arista earnings call. To allow
for greater participation, I'd like to request that everyone please limit themselves to a single
question. Thank you for your understanding. Operator, take it away.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer portion of the Arista earnings call
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Wells Fargo from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Yeah, thanks for taking the question. And Ita, it's been great working with you, wish you the best
in retirement. I guess my question is, Jayshree, just obviously the focus on AI and the build-out,
the back-end networks based on 400 and 800 gig Ethernet. I'm just curious like as you -- as we
progress through these last three months, how has your views evolved? And just remind us of
the cadence of kind of product cycles that really set the table for Arista and this AI opportunity as
we move through '24 and in particularly in the '25? Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Thank you, Aaron. And yes, we will all miss Ita. So our AI performance continues to track well for
the $750 million revenue goal that we set last November at Analyst Day. To give you some color
on the last three months, I would say, difficult to project anything in three months, but if I look at
the last year, which may be last 12 months is a better indication, we have participated in a large
number of AI bids. And when I say large, I should say they are large AI bids, but they are small
number of customers actually to be more clear. And in the last four out of five AI networking
clusters we participated on Ethernet versus InfiniBand, Arista has one, all four of them for
Ethernet. One of them still stays on InfiniBand. So these are very high-profile customers, we are
pleased with this progress. But as I said before, last year was a year of trials, this is the year of
pilots and true production truly sets in only in 2025.Operator
Great. Your next question comes from the line of `Tal Liani, Analyst, Bank of America from Bank of America. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Tal Liani, Analyst, Bank of America `
Hi. I'm trying to find a -- because we don't have the backlog contribution of last year, I'm trying to
kind of dissect the numbers and see what's the correlation with core data center business and
traditional compute. So if service sales -- service sales cycle is low and we see some declines in
servers, does it mean that, at least in the short run excluding the backlog contribution, there is
also a decline in the orders. Just how does it work between server demand and switching
demand? Thanks.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Yeah, so, Tal, first of all, as you know, Ita and I or Chantelle and I would never really comment on
bookings, orders, we find these all to be kind of useless metrics because ultimately what matters
is what we ship, which is revenue. But just to sort of answer your question on ratio of CPUs or for
that matter, GPUs in the future to the network, typically, we have to have the CPUs or GPUs come
in before we can outfit the network. They kind of go hand-in-hand, but as you know in AI, we've
been waiting for the GPUs and in the last couple of years, they've been waiting for everything
with the long lead times. But I would say generally in the leaf architecture, they go hand-in-hand,
where you have to create a rack of 1,000 servers or whether they're CPUs and GPUs. And
generally, they look to rack and stack the cable, the CPUs and the network together; on the
spine, which is our -- which connects all of our leaf, that decision can be made independently,
even if the processors are not available. So on the leaf, it's more correlated; on the spine, it's not.
Q - `Tal Liani, Analyst, Bank of America `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of `Sebastien Naji, Analyst, William Blair from William Blair. Please go
ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Sebastien Naji, Analyst, William Blair `
Great. Thank you. I just wanted to start and echo everyone's commentary and wish you the best,
Ita, it's been a pleasure. My question has to do with white box. People have been talking about
the threat for white box since Arista has been around and it hasn't really impacted Arista's ability
to grow. Can you maybe articulate why you believe in the world of AI networks, more of the
market would not move to white box or vice-versa, maybe why more of the market would move
away from white box?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
It's a good question, Sebastien. Thank you. Look I think white box is here to stay for a very long
time as somebody just wants to throw away commodity products, but how many people want to
throw away commodity in the datacenter. They are so mission-critical, and even more mission-
critical for AI, if I'm going to spend multimillion dollars on a GPU cluster, then the last thing I'm
going to do is put a toy network in, right. So to put the sort of in perspective, then we willstandalone white box can run either SONiC or (inaudible) but many times the EOS software stack
is really, really something they depend on for availability, analytics, automation, and thus, you can
get your network for zero cost, but the cost of downtime is millions and millions of dollars.
So we have always embraced white box, we coexist with it, but it continues to be a relatively
small use-case in the larger mission-critical data centers for enterprise and for companies.
Q - `Sebastien Naji, Analyst, William Blair `
Thank you, Jayshree.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Matt Niknam, Analyst, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead,
your line is open.
Q - `Matt Niknam, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Hey, thanks so much for taking the question. Maybe a higher-level strategy question. We've seen
two of your key networking peers scale up through sizable M&A over the last several months. So
can you talk a little bit about how you view the value of such scale in order to maybe better serve
and target both the cloud and AI titan as well as enterprise verticals? Thanks.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Yeah, I know. But Matt, that's a good question. I think on the cloud and AI, we feel pretty bulked
up to deal with those customers, because they don't look for size and bulk, they look for, as you
know, networking innovation capabilities and this has been Arista's heritage for 10 years and we'll
continue to be with the AI side goal for the next foreseeable 10 years. On the enterprise, there
are multiple markets and size helps. I think if you are targeting the early adopters, service is
traditionally done very, very well there. And the last three years is a good example of how well
we've done that both in the datacenter and in the campus. If you look at the next category of sort
of the not necessarily the screening early adopters, but maybe the fast followers, I think Arista will
continue to do well there in the large enterprise.
We are so underserved and underpenetrated in both the Fortune 1000 and the Global 2000,
we've got a long, long ways to go. We probably have 20% of those customers, we got 80% of
them left to go. And that -- I'm not even talking about the mid-market and the SMB, which is a
whole other market that we are underserved in. So absolutely we need to make more
investments in enterprise there, when I look at like what Anshul, Chris Schmidt, Ashwin are doing
this is exactly where we're doubling down. This is exactly where we doubled down in the last
three years, post-pandemic. And we have more than doubled our revenue and increased our
local presence, because of this investment on the enterprise. I can't comment about
consolidation of vendors, but vendors don't grow, 5 plus 5 sometimes is 10. But if you're careful
on integration, five plus five can sometimes be seven, too.
So that's somebody else's responsibility, not mine. I think we can get a lot of organic growth.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Meta Marshall, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead,
your line is open.
Q - `Meta Marshall, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `Great, thanks. Jayshree. Maybe just a question, you noted limited visibility and understand that
this is early during the year, but would you say that it's timing of when some of these back-end
pilots scale into production, is it kind of level of front-end spending, is it enterprise projects, just
like where you are finding just more commentary on the visibility comment. And then second
question, you guys noted on the gross margin, but it's a portion of mix and kind of supply chain
costs coming down. But just if there's any one bias towards what led to the gross margin upside
in the quarter? Thanks.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Yeah. I mean, maybe I'll take that last one first. I mean, a lot of the upside in the fourth quarter
was really just customer mix, right? I mean we were wages [ph] heavily towards enterprise in Q4
not for any particular reason, it just happened to be that way and that kind of drove the margins
higher.
A - `Chantelle Breithaupt, Chief Financial Officier `
And Meta, to answer your question on enterprise and AI activity, I think Arista continues to drive
the concept of US multi-domain routing campus, high availability, mission-critical enterprises for
multiple verticals. We're making good progress there and this is going to be the heart of our
mainstream innovation and go-to-market. On the AI side, we continue to track well. I think we're
moving from what I'd call trials, which is connecting hundreds of GPUs to pilots, which is
connecting thousands of GPUs this year, and then we expect larger production called clusters. I
think one of the questions that we will be asking ourselves and our customers is how these
production clusters evolve is going to be 400, 800 or a combination thereof. The role of Ultra
Ethernet Consortium and standards and the ecosystem, all coming together very similar to how
we had these discussions and 400 gig will also play a large part, but we're feeling pretty good
about the activity, and I think moving from trials to pilots this year will give us considerable
confidence on next year's number.
Q - `Meta Marshall, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Great, thanks.
A - `Chantelle Breithaupt, Chief Financial Officier `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `James Fish, Analyst, Piper Sandler from Piper Sandler. Please go ahead, your
line is open.
Q - `James Fish, Analyst, Piper Sandler `
Hi, thanks for the question. Maybe Ita for you, and I'll miss having you (inaudible) here by the way,
congrats on retirement. But what's causing the delay in being able to ship that we saw that
product deferred revenue jump as much as we did or should we think about this as normal to see
this level of jump in Q4 and based on what you've disclosed in the past, it doesn't seem like this
is a normal jump. I guess what's the hang up and with supply chain starting to go the other way,
supply more readily available, could we actually see the price increases you guys have enacted in
the past, now have to be given back at some point in '24 and '25?Yeah, James, I think the deferred If you think back to how this works and obviously it's been
shipped for it actually be in deferred, All right? So I think that's, it's just timing. We've talked about
this a lot over the past, I'm sure Chantelle is going to talk about it again in the future, right, is that
it really is just purely timing of shipments and where we have some new type projects, new
capability that we're trialing with the customer, that's causing it to get caught in the deferred, but
it's not a fundamental underlying driver of the business. I think on pricing, and just very little is
happening in terms of pricing adjustments that's kind of out-of-the-ordinary [ph] just normal
pricing environment where we continue to compete for business, I don't think there's anything
particularly different there and that we've seen.
Q - `James Fish, Analyst, Piper Sandler `
Thanks (inaudible).
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Ittai Kidron, Analyst, Oppenheimer from Oppenheimer. Please go ahead, your
line is open.
Q - `Ittai Kidron, Analyst, Oppenheimer `
Thanks and congrats to you as well, Ita, I'll miss you. And Chantelle, good luck, of course, to you in
your new role. I have a couple of ones from me. First of all, on the cloud mix, kind of declined a
little bit on the year. Maybe you can tell us what are your underlying working assumptions for '24
and then more broadly on the '24 guide, Chantelle, Ita, it feels like, you're talking about, about
$600 million increase year-over-year in revenue. It feels like half of it can already come from the
AI networking giving your '25 targets and you seem very comfortable about your '25 targets, I
would think '24 should be comfortable as well. So why -- if I assume that $200, $300 million come
from AI networking this year, why should the rest of the business generate only $300 million to
get to your annual targets? How, why such aggressive conservatism here on the guide?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Okay, Ittai, let me take the first question and then I'll pass it over to Ita and Chantelle for what you
call conservatism. So first of all, our cloud mix is very strong, very good, but I think what you
should take away from this is not that our cloud mix came down, but I enterprise did really, really
well. And since 100% of the total pie, when something does really well, then the others look less
so, so we're doing well on all three sectors. And we're very proud of the enterprise momentum.
AI is going to come that is yet to come and certainly in 2023, as I've said to you, many many
times that was a very small part of our number. But it will gradually increase. Okay, which one of
my fantastic CFOs wants to take this conservatism question.
A - `Ita Brennan, Chief Financial Officer `
So let's start the (inaudible). Thanks Ittai and thank you for the well wishes. I think coming into '24,
it's a balanced view and the sense that we want to have multiple options to get to our year and
so we'll work through what those mixes are and how to get to that performance that we've laid
out for our guidance. I think that Jayshree very eloquently put in the sense of '23, '24, '25 of what
we expect from AI going from trials to pilots to production. So we'll work through what that
means in 2024, but I think to change anything in Q1 at this time, we're just going to go quarter at
the time, especially with me coming in and we'll see how the year progresses.
Q - `Ittai Kidron, Analyst, Oppenheimer `All right, good luck.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yeah. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Alex Henderson, Analyst, Needham and Company from Needham and Company. Please
go ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Alex Henderson, Analyst, Needham and Company `
Ita, cant believe, you're leaving, going to miss you. So, g -ahead.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
No, she said she will miss you.
Q - `Alex Henderson, Analyst, Needham and Company `
I'm sorry, go ahead.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Go head, Alex. (inaudible).
Q - `Alex Henderson, Analyst, Needham and Company `
So the question I have really is what are you hearing from the field, particularly in the enterprise
segment, there has been a lot of noise about indigestion of large move-outs of volume that had
been shipped to various companies. And clearly, there is some concern that there is some over
supply over the last year into the enterprise market, and I think you've talked to a lot of CEOs.
What are they telling you in terms of where their IT spending intentions are for '24, where they
think the spending is going relative to the networking gear versus alternative spending priorities?
Thanks.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
And that's a good question, Alex. I certainly talk to a lot of CEOs. And if I rewind the clock to
January last year, (inaudible) a lot, good to go then, we were going through this whole financial
crisis, Silicon Valley Bank, this, that, the other. And if I now fast-forward to a year later, our
momentum in the (inaudible) actually stronger now than it was a year ago. So (inaudible)
customers are looking for that innovation, modern network model, CI/CD principles bringing
DevOps, NetOps, SecOps all of this together and so Arista continues in my view, with the large
TAM, we have in the enterprise of at least a $30 billion out of that $60 billion to have the
opportunity to really deliver that vision of client to cloud, breakdown the operational silos and I
would say today the CIOs recognize us as the pure-play innovator more than any other company.
Q - `Alex Henderson, Analyst, Needham and Company `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `Thanks, Alex.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Atif Malik, Analyst, Citi from Citi. Please go ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Atif Malik, Analyst, Citi `
Thank you for taking my question. This is -- thanks for providing that comments on the poor wins
against InfiniBand. Now your networking competitor announced a collaboration with Nvidia on
Ethernet AI enterprise solutions last week. Can you talk about what this means for your Ethernet
back-end business if anything?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Yeah. I don't understand the announcement as well as probably my competitor does, I think it has
more to do with UCS and Cisco-validated designs. Specific to our partnership, you can be
assured that we will be working with the leading GPU vendors. And as you know, Nvidia has 90%
or 95% of the market. So, Jensen and I are going to partner closely, it is vital to get a complete AI
network design going. We would also be working with our partners and AMD and Intel. So we will
be the Switzerland of XPUs [ph] whatever the GPU might be. And we will look to supply the best
network ever.
Q - `Atif Malik, Analyst, Citi `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Tim Long, Analyst, Barclays from Barclays. Please go ahead, your line is
open.
Q - `Tim Long, Analyst, Barclays `
Thank you. Yeah, Ita, good initiatives as well, Good luck. So wanted to follow-up a little bit more
on that AI, Jayshree you talked about those wins. Could you just talk a little bit about, a little bit
more color there? Do you think these deployments are going to be more sole-sourced or will
there be multiple vendors? Did you face kind of a different competitive landscape than normal in
these and what are you thinking about breadth of this business? I'm sure it's a lot of the really
large customers as you said, right now, but can you talk a little bit about how you see this moving
into whether it's other service providers or the enterprise vertical?
Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Yeah, thanks Tim. Okay, so let me just step back and say, the first real consultative approach from
Arista is to provide our expertise on how to build a robust back-end AI networks. And so the
whole discussion of Ethernet versus InfiniBand becomes really important, because if you may
recall, a year ago, I told you we were outside looking and everybody had an Ethernet --
everybody had an InfiniBand HPC cluster, that was kind of getting bundled into AI, but a lot of
change in a year, and the popular product we are seeing right now and the back-end cluster for
our AI is the Arista 7800 AI Spine, which in a single chassis with north of 500 terra bit of capacity
can give you a substantial number of ports, 400 or 800, so you can connect up to 1,000 GPUs,just doing that and that's kind of deal parallel scale out can improve the training time dimensions,
large LLMs, massive integration of training data and, of course, as we shared with you at the
Analyst Day, we can expand that to a two-tier AIB from Spine with a sustained way [ph] CMP to
support, close to 10,000 GPUs nonblocking, this lossless architecture for Ethernet.
And then the overlay we will have on that with the Ultra Ethernet Consortium in terms of
congestion control, package spring and working with a suite of UEC mix is what I think will make
Ethernet the default standard for AI networking going forward.
Now, will it be sole sourced, gosh, I would be remiss if I didn't tell you that our cloud networking
isn't sole-source, so probably our AI won't be (inaudible) but today's models are moving very
rapidly, relying on high-bandwidth, predictable latency that focus on application performance,
requires you to be sole-sourced initially and over time, I'm sure they'll move to multiple sources,
but I think Arista is very well-positioned for the first innings of AI networking, just like we were for
the cloud networking to decade. And one other thing. I want to say is, although a lot of these
customers are doing AI pivots, these AI pivots will result in revisiting the front-end cloud network
too, so that this AI anatomy is being really well understood. And if you take a deep look at the
centerpiece of it, which is all the GPUs, they have to connect to something very reliable and this is
really where we come in and so this, being actively involved, has -- is going to pay a lot of
dividends. But we're still very much in our first innings of AI.
Q - `Tim Long, Analyst, Barclays `
Great, Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thanks, Tim.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Ben Reitzes, Analyst, Melius Research from Melius Research. Please go ahead.
Q - `Ben Reitzes, Analyst, Melius Research `
Hey, thanks for the question and obviously, Ita, it's been great working with you. Thanks for all
you've done for us. I wanted to ask about your guidance and the conservatism from another lens
here. With regard to 2024, since your November 9th Analyst Day, some things have changed.
Microsoft, Meta and Google have all raised their CapEx forecast for 2024, obviously, your
guidance for 2024 stays the same and I know you're usually conservative. And then for 2025.
AMD upped their TAM very significantly for AI and by a multiple, and, I guess they're seeing
something that many of us are seeing with regard to the future demand and you've kept your
guidance of 750, I just, with that backdrop and the changes since November 9th, and you guys
are keeping your guidance, I understand you're conservative.
Do you mind addressing your conservatism or your guidance from those lenses, but with regard
to '24 and '25, Jayshree?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
So Ben, I'm going to let my two CFOs speak to the conservatism. And then I'll add more color
about that. Who wants to go first?
Q - `Ben Reitzes, Analyst, Melius Research `Okay, great.
A - `Chantelle Breithaupt, Chief Financial Officier `
Ben, (inaudible) it's Chantelle. I think, but, you know, a change from November to January-
February timeframe, I don't think would change our guidance on the year, kind of similar to the
question before. I think that our guide right now resembles where we think we're at in a sense of
what we'll materialize in '24, we'll take it one-quarters at a time. The reflections of the changes
you are mentioning, the timing of that, we have to wait and see, there's no guarantee that's
within our 12-month guidance timeframe and what should we didn't see, but Jayshree...
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Yeah, I think that says it all. I mean, all the drivers that you mentioned are great drivers, the timing
of everything that it's always complex, right, so we'll take it a quarter at a time to see how things
play out.
A - Unidentified Speaker
And look, if conservatism changes to more optimism in the second half or more likely in 2025, will
keep you posted.
Q - `Ben Reitzes, Analyst, Melius Research `
All right, thanks a lot. Take care.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Operator, we have time for one last question.
Operator
Thank you. Your final question comes from the line of `Karl Ackerman, Analyst, BNP Paribas from BNP Paribas. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Karl Ackerman, Analyst, BNP Paribas `
Yes, thank you for squeezing me in and good evening from Paris. So there have been several
companies with me (inaudible) supply chain that indicate the market for 800 gig and early
deployments of 1.60 ports will begin in fact later this year for actually front-end networks and so I
guess, why would I be wrong to conclude that your hardware sales would be a leading indicator
of that and I guess, as a result, should cloud titan revenue grow at least in line with your outlook
for 2024, double-digit growth?
Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Yeah, thank you, Karl. Again, I'll step, history is a good indicator of future. And if you look at our
400 gig, everybody asked me the same question is that how can 400 gig taking off in 2019 or
'20 and it turned out, it took our ecosystem several years and of course the pandemic didn't help
whether it was optics and net for the whole entire thing to come together and, I don't doubt, we
will have trials for 800 gig this year, but I think real production 800 gig will happen in 2025, I'd like
to be proven wrong and maybe will come in sooner, in which case, like I said, we'll let you know.But at the moment, this is our best-case prediction.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thanks, Karl.
This concludes the Arista Networks Fourth Quarter 2023 earnings call. We have posted a
presentation, which provides additional information on our results, which you can access on the
Investors section of our website. Thank you for joining us today and thank you for your interest in
Arista.