Q4 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2024 Arista Networks Financial Results Earnings Conference Call.
During the call, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. After the presentation, we will conduct
a question-and-answer session. Instructions will be provided at that time. (Operator Instructions)
As a reminder, this conference is being recorded and will be available for replay from the Investor
Relations section on the Arista website following this call.
Mr.`Rudolph Araujo, Head of Investor Advocacy, Arista's Head of Investor Advocacy. You may begin.
`Rudolph Araujo, Head of Investor Advocacy
Thank you, Regina. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us. With me in today's
call are Jayshree Ullal, Arista Networks Chairperson and Chief Executive Officer; and Chantelle
Breithaupt, Arista's Chief Financial Officer. This afternoon, Arista Networks issued a press release
announcing the results for its fiscal fourth quarter ending December 31, 2024. If you want a copy
of the release, you can access it online on our website.
During the course of this conference call, Arista Networks management will make forward-looking
statements, including those relating to our financial outlook for the first quarter of the 2025 fiscal
year, longer term business model, and financial outlooks for 2025 and beyond, our totaladdressable market, and strategy for addressing these market opportunities, including AI,
customer demand trends, supply chain constraints, component costs, manufacturing output,
inventory management, and inflationary pressures on our business, lead times, product
innovation, working capital optimization and the benefits of acquisitions, which are subject to the
risks and uncertainties that we discuss in detail in our documents filed with the SEC, specifically in
our most recent Form 10-Q and Form 10-K, and which could cause actual results to differ
materially from those anticipated by these statements.
These forward-looking statements apply as of today, and you should not rely on them as
representing our views in the future. We undertake no obligation to update these statements
after this call. Also, please note that certain financial measures we use on this call are expressed
on a non-GAAP basis and have been adjusted to exclude certain charges. We have provided
reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures in our earnings
press release.
With that, I will turn the call over to Jayshree.
`Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Thank you, everyone, for joining us this afternoon for our fourth quarter 2024 earnings call. First,
I'd like to warmly welcome our new IR leadership duo of `Rudolph Araujo, Head of Investor Advocacy, our Director of IR
Advocacy, supported by Rod Hall, that many of you may know as our leader for IR strategy.
Special thanks to Liz Stine for her tenure, both as a systems engineer and IR lead at Arista.
Well, I think you'll all agree that 2024 has been a memorable and defining year for Arista. We
started with an initial guidance of 10% to 12% annual revenue growth. With the momentum of
generative AI, we have achieved well beyond that at almost 20% growth, achieving a record
revenue of $7 billion, coupled with a non-GAAP operating margin of 47.5%.
Before I dwell on that more, let me get back to Q4 2024 specifics. We delivered revenues of
$1.93 billion for the quarter with a non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.65, adjusted for the recent
four-to-one stock split. Our non-GAAP gross margins of 64.2% was influenced by efficient supply
chain and manufacturing as well as a good mix of enterprise and software in the quarter.
International contribution for the quarter registered at 16%, with the Americas super strong at
84%.
Now shifting to annual sector revenue for 2024. Our cloud and AI titans contributed significantly at
approximately 48%, keeping in mind that Oracle is a new member of this category. Enterprise
and financials were strong at approximately 35%, while the providers, which now includes Apple,
was at 17% approximately. Both Microsoft and Meta are greater than 10% concentration
customers at approximately 20% and 14.6%, respectively. As you know, we cherish our privileged
partnerships with both of them very much. It has spanned over 14 years as we collaborate deeply
with joint engineering and innovative AI and cloud products.
In terms of annual 2024 product lines, our core cloud AI and data center products are built off a
highly differentiated extensible OS stack and is successfully deployed across 10, 25, 100, 200,
400, and 800 gigabit ethernet speeds. It delivers power efficiency, high availability, automation,
and agility, as the data centers demand insatiable bandwidth capacity and network speeds for
both front end and back end storage, compute, and AI zones.
This core product line drove approximately 65% of our revenue. We continue to gain market
share in the highest performance of the switching category of 100, 200, and 400 gig ports to
attain the number one position at greater than 40% market share according to industry analystsin ports. We have increased our 400 gig customer base to approximately 1,000 customers last
year in 2024. We expect 800 gigabit ethernet to emerge as an AI back end cluster in 2025. We
remain optimistic about achieving our AI revenue goal of $1.5 billion in AI centers, which includes
the $750 million in AI back-end clusters in 2025.
Our network adjacencies market, comprised of routing, replacing routers, and the cognitive AI
driven campus, is going well. Our investments in cognitive wired, wireless, zero-touch
provisioning, and network identity, as well as sensors for threat mitigation, is being received
extremely well by our campus customers. Our recent modern stacking introduction of SWAG,
Switched Aggregation Group, is a fitting example of our compelling innovation for open and
efficient networking, conserving IP addresses without proprietary methods.
The post-pandemic campus is very different, and our customers are seeking alternatives to
legacy incumbents with deep zero-trust security, high availability, and observability embedded in
the network across our software stack with cloud vision management. We are committed to the
$750 million goal in 2025 and much more ahead.
We are successfully also deployed in routing edge and peering use cases. Just in 2024 alone, we
introduced six EOS software releases with greater than 600 new features across our core and
adjacent offering. The campus and routing adjacencies together contribute approximately 18% of
revenue.
Our third category is network software and services based on subscription models, such as the
Arista A-Care, CloudVision, DMF, Observability, and advanced security sensors for network
detection and response. We added over 350 CloudVision customers, translating to literally one
new customer a day. CloudVision is pivotal to building pivotal to building our network as a service
and deploying Arista validated designs in the enterprise. Arista's subscription-based network
services and software contributed approximately 17% of total revenue. Note that perpetual
licenses do not count here and go into the core or adjacent sections.
While the 2024 headline has clearly been about generative AI, Arista continues to diversify its
business globally with multiple use cases and verticals. We are viewed as the modern network
innovator of choice for client to campus, to cloud and AI networking, ideally positioned with our
differentiated foundation. We celebrated two milestones in 2024, our 10th anniversary of going
public at the New York Stock Exchange and our 20th anniversary of founding.
In the past decade, we have exceeded 10,000 customers with a cumulative of 100 million ports
of installed base as Arista drives the epicenter of mission-critical network transactions. Arista 2.0
strategy is resonating exceptionally well with our customers. Customers are not only looking to
connect but unify and consolidate their data across silos for optimal networking outcomes.
Our modern networking platforms are foundational for transformation from incongruent silos to
centers of data, and it places us in a very unique position as the best-of-breed innovator for data-
driven networking. These centers of data, as we call it, can reside in the campus as a campus
center or data centers or WAN centers or AI centers, regardless of their location.
Networking for AI is also gaining traction as we move into 2025, building some of the world's
greatest Arista AI centers at production scale. These are constructed with both back-end clusters
and front-end networks. And as I've shared with you often, the fidelity of the AI traffic differs
greatly from cloud workloads in terms of diversity, duration, and size of flow. Just one slow flow
can slow the entire job completion time for a training workload. Therefore, Arista AI centers
seamlessly connect to the front-end of compute, storage, WAN, and classic cloud networks withour back-end Arista EtherLink portfolio. This AI-accelerated networking portfolio consists of three
families and over 20 EtherLink switches, not just one point switch.
Our AI for networking strategy is also doing well, and it's about curating the data for higher level
network functions. We instrument our customers' networks with our publish-subscribe state
foundation with our software called Network Data Lake to deliver proactive, predictive, and
prescriptive platforms that have superior AIOps with A-Care support and product function. We
are pleased to surpass for the first time the $1 billion revenue mark in 2024 for the software and
subscription service category.
In 2024, we conducted three very large customer events in London, New York, and Santa Clara,
California. Our differentiated strategy and superior products are resonating deeply as we
touched over 1,000 strategic customers and partners in these exclusive events. Simply put, we
outpaced the industry in quality and support with the highest net promoter score of 87, which
translates to 93% of customer respondent satisfaction. Of course, we do that with the lowest
security and vulnerabilities and steadfast network innovation.
In summary, 2024 has been a pivotal turning point for Arista. It has been a key breakaway year as
we continue to aim for $10 billion annual revenue with a CAGR of double digits that we set way
back in November 2022 Analyst Day. While I do appreciate the exuberant support from our
analyst community on our momentum, I would encourage you to pay attention to our stated
guidance. We live in a dynamic world of changes, most of which have resulted in positive
outcomes for Arista. We reiterate at the upper range of our 2025 guidance of our double-digit
growth at 17%, now aiming for approximately $8.2 billion in 2025 in revenue. The Arista leadership
team has driven outstanding progress across multiple dimensions.
In 2024, we are at approximately 4,465 employees, rooted in engineering and customer
investments. I'm incredibly proud of how we've executed and navigated the year based on our
core principles and culture. While customers are struggling with customer fatigue from our legacy
incumbents, Arista is redefining the future of data-driven networking intimately with our strategic
customers.
With that, I'd like to turn it over to Chantelle, who has transitioned to become our core Aristan
and Chief Financial Officer in record time, less than a year. Over to you, Chantelle, and welcome
again, and happy one-year anniversary.
`Chantelle Breithaupt, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Jayshree, and congratulations on a great 2024. My first full year at CFO has been
more than I could have hoped for, and I am excited about Arista's journey ahead.
Now on to the numbers. As a reminder, this analysis of our Q4, our full year 2024 results, and our
guidance for Q1 2025 is based on non-GAAP and excludes all non-cash stock-based
compensation impacts, certain acquisition-related charges, and other non-recurring items. In
addition, all share-related numbers are provided on a post-split basis to reflect the four-to-one
stock split in December 2024. A full reconciliation of our selected GAAP to non-GAAP results is
provided in our earnings release.
Total revenues in Q4 were $1.93 billion, up 25.3% year-over-year, and above the upper end of our
guidance of $1.85 billion to $1.9 billion. For fiscal year 2024, we are pleased to have delivered
19.5% in revenue growth, driven by achievements in all three of our product sectors.Services and subscription software contributed approximately 18.3% of revenue in the fourth
quarter, up from 17.6% in Q3. International revenues for the quarter came in at $311.1 million or 16%
of total revenue, down from 17.6% last quarter. This quarter-over-quarter decrease was driven by
the relative increased mix of domestic revenue from our large global customers.
The overall gross margin in Q4 was 64.2%, slightly above the guidance of 63% to 64% and down
from 65.4% in the prior year. As a recap for the year, we delivered a gross margin result of 64.6%
compared with 62.6% for the prior year. This increase is largely due to a combination of improved
supply chain and inventory management.
Operating expenses for the quarter were $332.4 million or 17.2% of revenue, up from the last
quarter at $279.9 million. R&D spending came in at $226.1 million or 11.7% of revenue, up from 9.8%
last quarter. This matches the expectations discussed in our Q3 earnings call regarding the timing
of engineering costs and other costs associated with the development of our next-gen products
moving from Q3 to Q4. This finishes the year of R&D at 11.2% of revenue, demonstrating a
continued focus on product innovation.
Sales and marketing expense was $86.3 million or 4.5% of revenue, up from $83.4 million last
quarter. This was driven by continued investment in both headcount and channel programs.
Our G&A costs came in at $19.9 million or 1% of revenue up from $19.1 million last quarter,
reflecting continued investment in scaling the company. Our operating income for the quarter
was $907.1 million or 47% of revenue. This strong Q4 finish contributed to an operating income
result for fiscal year '24 of $3.3 billion or 47.5% of revenue. Congratulations to the Arista team on
this impressive achievement.
Other income and expense for the quarter was a favorable $89.3 million, and our effective tax
rate was 16.7%. This lower than normal quarterly tax rate reflected the release of tax reserves
due to the expiration of the statute of limitations and favorable changes in state taxes. This
resulted in net income for the quarter of $830.1 million or 43% of revenue.
Our diluted share number was 1.283 billion shares, resulting in a diluted earnings per share for the
quarter of $0.65, up 25% from the prior year. For FY '24, we are pleased to have delivered a
diluted earnings per share of $2.27, a 31.2% increase year-over-year.
Now turning to the balance sheet. Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities ended the
quarter at approximately $8.3 billion. In the quarter, we repurchased $123.8 million of our common
stock at an average price of $94.80 per share. Within fiscal '24, we repurchased $423.6 million of
our common stock at an average price of $77.13 per share. Of the $1.2 billion repurchase program
approved in May 2024, $921 million remains available for repurchase in future quarters. The actual
timing and amount of future repurchases will be dependent on market and business conditions,
stock price and other factors.
Now turning to operating cash performance for the fourth quarter, we generated approximately
$1 billion of cash from operations in the period, reflecting strong earnings performance combined
with an increase in deferred revenue, offset by an increase in income tax payments.
DSOs came in at 54 days, down from 57 days in Q3, reflecting the timing of shipments and the
strong collections performance by the team. Inventory turns were 1.4x, up from 1.3x last quarter.
Inventory increased marginally to $1.83 billion, reflecting diligent inventory management across
raw and finished goods. Our purchase commitments at the end of the quarter were $3.1 billion,
up from $2.4 billion at the end of Q3. As mentioned in prior quarters, this expected activity
represents purchases for chips related to new products and AI deployments.We will continue to rationalize our overall purchase commitment number. However, we expect to
maintain a healthy position related to key components and continue to have some variability in
this number to meet customer demand and improve lead times in future quarters. Our total
deferred revenue balance was $2.79 billion, up from $2.51 billion in the prior quarter. The majority
of the deferred revenue balance is services related and directly linked to the timing and term of
service contracts, which can vary on a quarter-by-quarter basis.
Our product deferred revenue balance increased by approximately $150 million over the last
quarter. Fiscal 2024 was a year of new product introductions, new customers and expanded use
cases. These trends have resulted in increased customer trials and contracts with customer
specific acceptance clauses that have and will continue to have increased the variability
magnitude of our preferred deferred revenue balances. We expect this to continue into fiscal
2025.
Accounts payable days were 51 days, up from 42 days in Q3, reflecting the timing of inventory
receipts and payments. Capital expenditures for the quarter were $12.5 million. In October, we
began our initial construction work to build expanded facilities in Santa Clara, and we expect to
incur approximately $100 million in CapEx during fiscal '25 for this project.
Now turning to our outlook for the first quarter of 2025 and the remainder of the fiscal '25 year.
We continue to gain confidence in our view for fiscal year '25 and now place our revenue growth
outlook at approximately 17% or $8.2 billion. This is up from our initial FY '25 guidance of 15% to
17%. This reflects our combined outlook for cloud, AI, enterprise, and cloud specialty providers,
along with a recognition of the volatility that we have seen in the market since the beginning of
the year.
For gross margin, we reiterate the range of the fiscal year of 60% to 62% with Q1 '25 expected
to be above the range due to the anticipated mix of business in the quarter. Similar to others in
the industry, we will continue to monitor the fluid tariff situation and be thoughtful for both the
short and long-term outcomes to both our company and our customers.
In terms of spending, we expect to invest in innovation, sales and scaling the company, resulting
in a continued operating margin outlook of 43% to 44% in 2025. On the cash front, we will
continue to work to optimize our working capital investments, with some expected variability in
inventory due to the timing of component receipts on purchase commitments. Our structural tax
rate is expected to remain at 21.5%, back to the usual historical rate, up from the unusually low
one-time rate of 16.7% experienced last quarter, Q4 FY '24.
With all this as a backdrop, our guidance for the first quarter is as follows. Revenues of
approximately $1.93 billion to $1.97 billion, a slightly stronger seasonality in Q1 than prior year
trends, an outcome of the timing of our customers' priorities; gross margin of approximately
63%; and operating margin at approximately 44%. Our effective tax rate is expected to be
approximately 21.5%, with approximately 1.285 billion diluted shares.
In summary, we at Arista are enthusiastic about 2025 and the general networking outlook ahead.
We have an impressive portfolio and are ready to solve our customers' needs across all the
centers of data. Combined with our Arista team spirit, we are ready to realize our fair share of
the $70 billion market temp.
With that, I too would like to welcome Rudy and Rod to the Arista IR team. Back over to you, Rudy,
for Q&A.
`Rudolph Araujo, Head of Investor AdvocacyThank you, Chantelle. We will now move to the Q&A portion of the Arista earnings call. To allow
for greater participation, I'd like to request that everyone please limit themselves to a single
question. Thank you for your understanding. Operator, take it away.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
We will now begin the Q&A portion of the Arista earnings call. (Operator Instructions) Our first
question will come from the line of `Michael Ng, Goldman Sachs at Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.
Q - `Michael Ng, Goldman Sachs `
Hi. Good afternoon. Thank you for the question. I was just wondering if you could talk about the
timing of how the year might look like and how you expect Arista switches in the AI backend to be
rolled out into production. Are the sale of these switches tied to deployment of next-generation
NVIDIA chips or hyperscale custom ASICs on the compute side? And is that a gating factor that
you're watching out for? Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Yes. Thank you, Michael. First, I want to say Arista is still committed to four out of our five AI
clusters that I mentioned in prior calls. The fifth one is a little bit stalled. It is not a cloud titan. They
are awaiting new GPUs and some funding, too, I think. So I hope they'll come back next year. But
for this year, we won't talk about them.
But the remaining four, let me spend some -- give you some color. Three out of the four
customers are expected to, this year, roll out a cumulative of 100,000 GPUs. So we're going to
do very well with three of them on the back end. And you can imagine they're all pretty much one
major NVIDIA class of GPU. They will be waiting for the next generation of GPUs, but independent
of that, we'll be rolling out fairly large numbers.
On the fourth one, we are migrating right now from InfiniBand to proving that Ethernet is a viable
solution. So we're still -- there's historically been InfiniBand. And so we're still in pilot, and we
expect to go into production next year. So doing very well in four out of four. The fifth one
installed, and three out of the four are expected to be 100,000 GPUs this year.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Amit Daryanani, Evercore with Evercore. Please go ahead.
Q - `Amit Daryanani, Evercore `
Good afternoon. Thanks so much for taking my question. I guess, Jayshree, there's always this
concern around the impact of white box vendors to your revenue growth, and clearly over the last
decade, I don't think it's been an impediment for the company. But can you maybe just share your
perspective that when it comes to AI networks, especially the back-end networks, how do you
see the mix evolving, white box versus OEM solutions? And maybe just help us understand the
differentiators that help Arista be successful on the front end. Do they extend to the back-end
networks as well? Or is there something different we should be aware about? Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `Yes. Sure, Amit. Gosh, this feels like a deja vu question, but thank you for asking it. I'm sure it's on
a lot of minds. We've been going through this for at least 10 years on the cloud. And the first
thing I just want to say is this 10 is so huge and so large, we will always co-exist with white boxes
and operating systems that are non-EOS, much like Apple co-exists on their iPhone with other
phones of different types.
When you look at the back-end of an AI cluster, there are typically two components, the AI leaf
and the AI Spine. The AI Leaf connects to the GPUs and, therefore, is the first, if you will, point of
connection. And the AI Spine aggregates all of these AI Leafs. Almost in all the back-end
examples we've seen, the AI Spine is generally 100% Arista-branded EOS. You've got to do an
awful lot of routing, scale, features, capabilities that are very rich that would be difficult to do in
any other environment.
The AI Leaf can vary. So for example, let's take the example of the five customers I've mentioned
a lot. Three out of the five are all EOS in the Leaf and Spine. Two out of the five are kind of hybrid.
Some of them have some form of SONiC or FBOSS. And as you know, we co-develop with them
and co-exist in a number of use cases where it's a real hybrid combination of EOS and an open
OS. So for most part, I just like to say that white box and Arista will co-exist and will provide
different strokes for different folks.
Now in terms of differentiators, a lot of our deployments right now is 400 and 800 gig. And you
see a tremendous amount of differentiation, not only like I explained to you in scale and routing
features, but cost and load balancing, AI visibility and analytics at real time, personnel queuing,
congestion control, visibility, and most importantly, smart system upgrade, because you sure
don't want your GPUs to come down because you don't have the right software to accelerate so
that the network provides the ideal foundation that if a GPU is in trouble, we can automatically
give it a different connection and an alternate connection. So, tremendous amount of
differentiation there and even more valid in a GPU which costs typically 5x as much as a CPU.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Tim Long, Barclays at Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Tim Long, Barclays `
Thank you. I wanted to touch on the cloud titan numbers, a few parter there. Obviously, one of
them, Meta, looks like based on the numbers you gave, if I heard it right, down year-over-year. If
you could touch on that. And then the other, if we do the math for the other cloud titans, it looks
like it went up a lot. I don't know. I think Oracle was kind of in that already. Is there anything else
going on other than the Oracle shift with the rest of the cloud titans where it looked extremely
strong in 2024? Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Yes. So speaking specifically to Meta, we're obviously in a number of use cases in Meta. Keep in
mind that our 2024 Meta numbers is influenced by more of their 2023 CapEx, and that was
Meta's year of efficiency where their CapEx was down 15% to 20%. So you're probably seeing
some correlation between their CapEx being down and our revenue numbers being slightly lower
in '24.
In general, I would just say all our cloud titans are performing well in demand, and we shouldn't
confuse that with timing of our shipments. And I fully expect Microsoft and Meta to be greater
than 10% customers in a strong manner in 2025 as well. Specific to the others we added in,they're not 10% customers, but they're doing very well and we're happy with their cloud and AI
use cases.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Ben Reitzes, Melius Research with Melius. Please go ahead.
Q - `Ben Reitzes, Melius Research `
Yes, darn `Tim Long, Barclays took my question, so I'm going to ask about gross margins.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Okay.
Q - `Ben Reitzes, Melius Research `
Darn that guy. So about gross margins, so obviously they go between -- to 61% at the midpoint,
after being much higher in the first quarter. I would think that implies significant cloud titan mix,
though going throughout the rest of the year. Do you mind just giving some color on what is
pushing down the gross margin a little more and does that mean that cloud titans do accelerate
throughout the year because the gross margin gets pushed down vis-a-vis -- in your guidance.
Thank you.
A - `Chantelle Breithaupt, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes --
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Go ahead, Chantelle.
A - `Chantelle Breithaupt, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, sorry, Jayshree. No, absolutely, I think you got it right Ben from that perspective as we
entered Q4 last year talking about '25 guidance and as we enter into this quarter, it is and still
remains a mix. Jayshree kind of gave some thoughts on to the timing to the first question. So it is
mix-driven. There were some questions last quarter if it was price-driven, this is just a mix-driven
conversation. I would say we have absorbed a little bit of the specific tariffs on China in that
number, so we are absorbing that on behalf of our customers. But otherwise it's mix-driven. And
we'll continue to update as we do the quarterly guidance through the year.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
John, you can add some --
Operator
Our next question --
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Sorry, I'm just going to add that John's done a fantastic job on the planning for China ahead of
time. So while we're absorbing the costs, most of it is related to the mix and some of it is related
to the China tariffs. Would you say that?A - `John McCool, Chief Platform Officer, Senior Vice President of Engineering and Operations `
That's right, absolutely. We've been working on China mitigation for some time and happy to
report we've made good progress.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Meta Marshall, Morgan Stanley at Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Meta Marshall, Morgan Stanley `
Great, thanks. Maybe another topical question from investors just over the past month has been
DeepSeek and just as you think about kind of this one to one ratio you've talked about on back-
end versus front-end, how you kind of see that changing as we've seen some of kind of the
changes to kind of thoughts around training investments. Thanks.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Yes, thank you, Meta. Well, DeepSeek -- certainly, DeepDeek is many stuff. But I actually see this
as a positive because I think you're now going to see a new class of CPUs, GPUs, AI accelerators
and where you can have substantial efficiency gains that go beyond training. So that could be
some sort of inference or mixture of experts or reasoning and which lowers the token count, and
therefore the cost.
So, what I like about all these different options is Arista can scale up networks for all kinds of XPUs
and accelerators. And I think the eye-opening thing here for all of our experts who are building all
these engineering models is there are many different types, and training isn't the only one.
So, I think this is a nice evolution of how AI will not just be a back-end training, only limited to five
customers type phenomena, but will become more and more distributed across the range of
CPUs and GPUs.
Q - `Meta Marshall, Morgan Stanley `
Great, thanks.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Thank you, Meta.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Aaron Rakers, Wells Fargo at Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Wells Fargo `
Yes, thanks for taking the question. Jayshree, I'm curious, just kind of thinking about some of the
questions we've gotten recently is when you see announcements like Stargate, and obviously
Stargate has the involvement of one of your newer cloud titan customers, how do you
conceptualize the opportunity set for Arista vis-a-vis both back-end and front-end networking in
deployments like that? And then, do you have any thoughts on just the broader context of what
you're seeing on sovereign AI opportunities in your business? Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `Yes. Thank you, Aaron. Stargate and sovereign AI are not quite related, so let me take the first
one, Stargate first. If you look at how we have classically approached GPUs and collective libraries,
we've largely looked at it as two separate building blocks. There's the vendor who provides the
GPU, and then there's us who provides the scale-out networking. But when you look at Stargate
and projects like this, I think you'll start to see more of a vertical rack integration, where the
processor, the scale-up, the scale-out, and all of the software to provide a single point of control
and visibility starts to come more and more together. This is not a 2025 phenomenon, but
definitely in '26 and '27, you're going to see a new class of AI accelerators and a new class of
training and inference, which is extremely different than the current more pluggable Lego type of
version.
So we're very optimistic about it, and Andy Bechtolsheim is personally involved in the design of a
number of these next-generation projects. And the need for this type of, shall we say, pushing
Moore's law of improvements in density and performance that we saw in the 2000s is coming
back, and you can boost more and more performance per XPU, which means you have to boost
the network scale from 800 gig to 1.60. There are other things to consider, like liquid cooling and
co-packaging of copper and optics, so lots going on there that Arista is in the middle of, best-of-
breed hardware that `John McCool, Chief Platform Officer, Senior Vice President of Engineering and Operations's team is working on, as well as Andy's team is.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Atif Malik, Citi at Citi. Please go ahead.
Q - `Atif Malik, Citi `
Hi, thank you for taking my question. I appreciate you calling out to pay attention to the guidance.
Now, you are reiterating $750 million AI back-end sales this year, despite the stalled or the fifth
customer. Can you talk about where is the upside coming from this year? Is it broad-based or one
or two customers? And also, if you can talk to the $70 billion TAM number for 2028, how much is
AI?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Okay. So I'll take your second question first, Atif. On the $70 billion TAM in 2028, I would roughly
say a third is AI, a third is data center and cloud, and a third is campus and enterprise. And
obviously, absorbed into that is routing and security and observability. I'm not calling them out
separately for the purpose of this discussion. So roughly 20% to 25% on each to get to that $70
billion. So coming back to your original question, which was, help me out again.
Q - `Atif Malik, Citi `
The $750 million in back-end sales.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Yes, yes. So as I said, we're well on our way and three customers deploying a cumulative
100,000 GPUs is going to help us with that number this year. And as we increased our guidance
to $8.2 billion, I think we're going to see momentum both in AI, cloud and enterprises. I'm not
ready to break it down and tell you which where. I think we'll see -- we'll know that much better in
the second half. But Chantelle and I feel confident that we can definitely do the $8.2 billion that
we historically don't call out so early in the year. So having visibility of that helps.
Q - `Atif Malik, Citi `Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Samik Chatterjee, JP Morgan with JP Morgan. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Samik Chatterjee, JP Morgan `
Hi. Thanks for taking the question. Jayshree, maybe I can sort of bring up one more topic that's
come up a lot in the last few days, which is the value of the EOS software layer to the back-end
of the network. And particularly in that discussion in terms of relative competition to like a white
box player, how do you sort of emphasize the value of EOS to your customers? Can you sort of
outline some of the sort of what are the key drivers we should keep in mind? And again, in that
competitive landscape between white box and Arista? Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Yes. Sure, Samik. First of all, when you're buying these expensive GPUs that cost $25,000, they're
like diamonds, right? You're not going to string a diamond on a piece of thread. So first thing I
want to say is you need a mission-critical network, whether you want to call it white box, blue box,
EOS, or some other software, you've got to have mission-critical functions, analytics, visibility, high
availability, et cetera.
As I mentioned, and I want to reiterate, they're also typically a leaf-spine network. And I have yet
to see an AI Spine deployment that is not EOS-based. I'm not saying it can't happen or won't
happen, but in all five major installations, the benefit of our EOS features for high availability, for
routing, for VXLAN, for telemetry, our customers really see that. And the 7800 is the flagship AI
spine product that we have been deploying last year, this year, and in the future. Coming soon, of
course, is also the product we jointly engineered with Meta, which is the distributed Etherlink
switch, and that is also an example of a product that provides that kind of leaf-spine combination,
both with FBOSS and EOS options in it.
So in my view, it's difficult to imagine a highly resilient system without Arista EOS in AI or non-AI
use cases. On the leaf, you can cut corners. You can go with smaller buffers. You may have a
smaller installation. So I can imagine that some people will want to experiment and do
experiment in smaller configurations with non-EOS.
But again, to do that, you have to have a fairly large staff to build the operations for it. So that's
also a critical element. So unless you're a large cloud titan customer, you're less likely to take that
chance because you don't have the staff. So all in all, EOS is alive and well in AI and cloud use
cases, except in certain specific use cases where the customer may have their own operations
staff to do so.
Q - `Samik Chatterjee, JP Morgan `
Sure. Thank you. Thanks.
OperatorOur next question comes from the line of `Ben Bollin, Cleveland Research Company with Cleveland Research. Please go ahead.
Q - `Ben Bollin, Cleveland Research Company `
Good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for taking the question. Jayshree, I'm interested in your
thoughts on your enterprise strategy within G2000 and how that may be evolving as it looks like
refresh opportunities are intensifying. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Yes. No, listen, we're always looking at three major threads, our classic cloud business, our AI, and
the enterprise led by Ashwin and Chris is a very significant area of investment for us. From a
product point of view, we have a natural trickle-down effect from our high-end data center
products to the cloud. And so whether it's the enterprise data center or the campus, I've never
seen our portfolio be as strong as it is today.
So a lot of our challenges and our execution is really in the go-to-market, right? And that just
takes time. As you know, we've been slowly but steadily investing there. And our customer count,
the number of projects we get invited to, especially as you pointed out in the Global 2000, has
never been stronger.
One area I'd like to see more strength, and Chris Schmidt and the team are working on it, as you
can tell from our numbers, is international. We're bringing in some new leadership there and
hope to see some significant contributions in the next year or so.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Ryan Koontz, Needham & Co. with Needham & Company. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Ryan Koontz, Needham & Co. `
Great. Thanks. Jayshree, can you comment -- there's been a lot of chatter lately about co-
packaged optics. Can you maybe speak about its place in your roadmap and how investors
should think about that, the effect on your TAM and your opportunities to sell?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Well, first of all, Andy has reminded me that me that co-packaged optics is not a new idea. It's
been around 10 to 20 years. So the fundamental reason, let's go through why co-packaged
optics has had a relatively weak adoption so far, is because of field failures, and most of it is still
in proof of concept today.
So going back to networking, the most important attribute of a network switch is reliability and
troubleshooting. And once you solder a co-packaged optics on a PCB, you lose some of that
flexibility and you don't get the serviceability and manufacturing. That's been the problem. Now, a
number of alternatives are emerging, and we're a big fan of co-packaged copper, as well as
pluggable optics that can complement this, like linear drive or LPO, as we call it.
Now, we also see that co-packaged optics improves some of the metrics it has right now. For
example, it has a higher channel count than the industry standard of eight-channel pluggable
optics, but we can do higher-channel pluggable optics as well. So some of these things improve.
We can see that both CPC and CPO will be important technologies at 224 gig or even 448 gig.
But so far, our customers have preferred a Lego approach that they can mix and match pluggableswitches and pluggable optics and haven't committed to soldering them on the PCB. And we feel
that will change only if CPO gets better and more reliable, and I think CPC can be a nice
alternative to that.
Q - `Ryan Koontz, Needham & Co. `
Appreciate your thoughts. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Simon Leopold, Raymond James with Raymond James. Please go ahead.
Q - `Simon Leopold, Raymond James `
Thank you very much for taking the question. I was hoping you could maybe double-click on the
cognitive adjacency. It's been a meaningful part of revenue. I think you said 18%. If you could offer
a little bit more color about how the elements of that are trending and your expectations for how
that part of the business is growing in your 2025 expectations? Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Yes, no, as you can imagine, that's an important both the routing and the campus, and we've
already signed up to $750 million. So we clearly, out of our $8.2 billion, expect that to be over $1
billion this year, right?
Now, we don't -- in the routing use case, which is particularly enterprise and service provider
related, it's -- as I've often said, it's difficult to measure it in isolation. So we're very strict about
the definition being it has to be a combination of the software running with a dedicated routing
hardware. So, for example, if the hardware is shared across switching and routing, we don't count
it there. So I think sometimes we shortchange the numbers a little bit, and more of it goes in the
core. But I just want you to be aware that's a very strategic piece.
You add that to the fact that the SD-WAN market is now evolving. It's not just about how do you
do encryption and encryption and tunnels and migrate from MPLS, but you really need a routed
backbone. So the combination of SD-WAN in the edge and a routed backbone really falls into the
sweet spot for Arista, both in the enterprise and service providers.
I don't need to tell you about our campus initiatives. We are very, very keen there. We see a
parting of those seas, if you will, where there's a lot of fatigue with subscription models on the
campus from one competitor and another set of competitors who are trying to do a merger or
acquisition. So Arista is the only pure-play campus innovator who can provide that best of breed.
And we're particularly getting traction there where our data center customers are already familiar
with us, and they're using a data center spine and they can extend that same universal spine to
wired and wireless leaf.
So using CloudVision as a management domain, we're seeing much, much more traction, be it
for automation, zero trust security, or observability with our campus products. So I think both of
those are meaningful, and we expect them to exceed $1 billion.
Chantelle, you want to say a few words?
A - `Chantelle Breithaupt, Chief Financial Officer `Yes. The only other things I'd add, Jayshree, to your points, which are completely showing the
intent, the other things for campus are a couple fold. First is, John, who's here with us, has spent
a lot of time getting us better lead times coming into this year. So we have a great lead times
conversation. We're very excited about that. And the customers seem to be pretty excited as
well. We also have a curated preferred partner program, particularly international, to your point
earlier, Jayshree, on growing the international revenue. And we're excited because we've seen
some campus first wins where not only is the DC bringing us in, but we're actually bringing the
DC through a campus win. So, just add a couple more points to the enthusiasm for 2025.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Thank you. Great reminders.
Operator
Our next question will come from the line of `Tal Liani, Bank of America at Bank of America. Please go ahead.
Q - `Tal Liani, Bank of America `
Hi guys. Two questions, one on routing and one on enterprise. Enterprise grew 16% this year.
What drives it? Is it just regular growth of data centers, or do you start to see enterprises
investing because of AI and applications for AI? The second thing is about routing. Routing used
to be a small opportunity when it was just a license. Can you elaborate on routing? What is your
differentiation versus the others? Others are bundling it with optics. How do you sell it? And then
how big is the opportunity? Not in terms of numbers, but is it now a hardware with software? Or
is it just software license, like it used to be? Thanks.
A - `Chantelle Breithaupt, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, Jayshree, I can start with enterprise and then do you want to take routing?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Sure, please go ahead.
A - `Chantelle Breithaupt, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So I think for enterprise, there are a few ways I would describe kind of our growth vectors in
'24 and continuing into '25 and into the following years. One is coverage, you've seen we've
invested in sales and marketing headcount in '23, '24. And going into '25, '24, we had double-
digit increase in sales and marketing headcount. So we're just getting more coverage.
We're also using that preferred partner program I mentioned to get into the enterprise. We do
have international kind of campaigns that we're working on. We do have a new logo focus. And so
I think that all those land-and-expand motions are the growth vectors.
I would say for the AI perspective, speaking with the customers, it's great to move from kind of a
theory to more specific conversation. And you're seeing that in the banks and some of the
higher-tier Global 2000 and Fortune 500 companies. And so, they're moving from theory to
actual use cases they're speaking to. And the way they describe it is it takes a bit of time. They're
working mostly with cloud service providers at the beginning, kind of doing some training, and
then they're deciding whether they bring that on-prem and inference. So they're making those
decisions. So I think those are early days, but we're having really great conversations for the AI
part of that. Jayshree, did you want to cover that?A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Yes. So Tal, on routing, routing's always been a critical part of our offerings for the cloud and data
center, where, as you rightly described, it was more of a software enhancement. But as we are
getting more meaningful and important to the service providers, as well as to the large
enterprises, I was just with a very large bank in New York last week. It was snowing there, so it's
super cold, so I stayed indoors most of the time. And the use case there is not data center. It's
not campus. It's all a WAN-routed fabric. It's pretty amazing. And then they're looking for us to not
just build that core routing as a hub, but also take it into the spoke.
And you mentioned features. I think what happened with Arista is we were largely building
features for the cloud and data center, which is 20% of the features. But today, our routing
portfolio is much more complete. VXLANSec, TunnelSec, MacSec encryption, MPLS, segment
routing, OSPF, BGP, we got it all. So we're no more apologizing for what we don't have in routing.
And we obviously have the best software stack in terms of quality and support in the industry. So
while we are selling a lot of software SKUs, we are now finding ourselves in a lot of dedicated
hardware SKUs, particularly with the 7280 platform. That has been a real workhorse for us and
very successful.
Q - `Tal Liani, Bank of America `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Thank you, Tal.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Antoine Chkaiban, New Street Research with New Street Research. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Antoine Chkaiban, New Street Research `
Hi. Thank you for taking my question. I'd love to get your latest perspective on what you're
hearing from service providers in AI. One of your competitors mentioned that they were seeing
AI driving demand for service providers because they're building out their network in anticipation
of an increase in traffic driven by AI. So just wondering if you could comment on that as well.
Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Antoine, do you mean the classic service providers or generally the neo clouds?
Q - `Antoine Chkaiban, New Street Research `
The classic service providers.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Okay. So we haven't seen a huge uptick there yet. I think, maybe some experimental. But we
have, to answer a question you didn't ask, we have seen much more activity and somebody
earlier that I didn't answer, the sovereign cloud, the neo cloud, we are seeing a new class of Tier
2 specialty cloud providers emerge that want to provide AI as a service and want to bedifferentiated there. And there's a whole lot of funding, grant money, real money going in there.
So service providers, too early to call, but neo clouds and specialty providers, yes, we're seeing
lots of examples of that.
Q - `Antoine Chkaiban, New Street Research `
Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Matt Niknam with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
Q - `Matthew Niknam, Deutsche Bank `
Hey, thanks so much for taking the question. Maybe for Chantelle, I mean, you're sitting now on
$8 billion worth of cash and equivalents on the balance sheet. So maybe just an update on how
you prioritize uses of cash heading into 2025. Thank you.
A - `Chantelle Breithaupt, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, no, it's great. Thank you for the question. Very pleased with the performance, and our capital
allocation strategy has not changed coming into FY '25. Just to kind of reiterate and remind, and I
appreciate the opportunity to do so. First of all, in the sense of investing that cash where we can
still get a very reasonable and respectable return continues to be a priority. Repurchasing, you
saw the way we did through '24 and willing to do what we can through '25. Organic investment,
so you saw that in the sense we're still looking to scale the company in R&D, sales, back office.
And probably the one that's the -- probably the one that's the least on the scale is sizable
inorganic activity. So I would focus on the first four. And that's how we'll remain in '25.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `David Vogt, UBS with UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `David Vogt, UBS `
Great. Thanks, guys, for taking my question. So, Jayshree, I have a question about sort of the
evolution of speed deployment that some of your M&M customers, obviously you mentioned
400 and 800 Gs have been obviously a principal driver. How are you thinking about how that
plays out in '25 and beyond? There's some wins out there. I know different parts of the network
have 1.6, but trying to get a sense for how you're thinking about 400 into 800 into ultimately 1.6,
not just in '25, but in '26 and beyond. Thanks.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Yes. No, I think that's a very good question. The speed transitions because of AI are certainly
getting faster. It used to take -- when we went from 200 gig, for example, at Meta or 100 gig in
some of our cloud titans to 400, that speed transition typically took three to four, maybe even
five years, right? In AI, we see that cycle being almost every two years. So I would say 2024 was
the year of real 400 gig. '25 and '26, I would say is more 800 gig. And I really see 1.60 coming
into the picture, because we don't have chips yet, maybe in, what do you say, John, late '26?A - `John McCool, Chief Platform Officer, Senior Vice President of Engineering and Operations `
Yes.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
And real production maybe in '27. So there's a lot of talk and hype on it, just like I remember talk
and hype on 400 gig five years ago. But I think realistically, you're going to see a long runway for
400 and 800 gig.
Now, as you get into 1.60, part of the reason I think it's going to be measured and thoughtful is
many of our customers are still awaiting their own AI accelerators or NVIDIA GPUs, which -- with
liquid cooling, that would actually push that kind of bandwidth. So, new GPUs will require new
bandwidth, and that's going to push it out a year or two.
Q - `David Vogt, UBS `
Great. Thank you very much.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Thank you. David.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Karl Ackerman, BNP Paribas with BNP Paribas. Please go ahead.
Q - `Karl Ackerman, BNP Paribas `
Yes, thank you. Could you discuss the outlook for services relative to your outlook for March and
the full year? I ask because services grew 40% year-over-year, and your deferred revenue
balance is up another $250 million or so sequentially, nearly $2.8 billion. So, the outlook for that
would be very helpful. Thank you.
A - `Chantelle Breithaupt, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. We don't usually guide the piece parts of that. So, all I would say is that the thing to keep in
mind with services is a little bit of timing in the sense of catching up to product, especially kind of
post-COVID. So, I would kind of take the trend that you see over the last few years, and that's
probably your best guide looking forward. We don't guide the piece parts. Thank you.
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Thanks, Karl.
Operator
Our next question will come from the line of `Sebastien Naji, William Blair with William Blair. Please go ahead.
Q - `Sebastien Naji, William Blair `
Yes, thanks for taking the question. And you talked about this a little bit, but there's been a lot of
discussion over the last few months between the general-purpose GPU clusters from NVIDIA and
then the custom ASIC solutions from some of your popular customers. I guess just in your view,over the longer term, does Arista's opportunity differ across these two chip types? And is there
one approach that would maybe pull in more Arista versus the other?
A - `Jayshree V. Ullal, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson `
Yes, no, absolutely. I think I've always said this, you guys often spoke about NVIDIA as a
competitor, and I don't see it that way. I see that thank you, NVIDIA, thank you, Jensen, for the
GPUs because that gives us an opportunity to connect to them, and that's been a predominant
market for us.
As we move forward, we see not only that we connect to them, that we can connect to AMD
GPUs and built-in in-house AI accelerators. So a lot of them are in active development or in early
stages. NVIDIA is the dominant market share holder with probably 80%, 90%. But if you ask me to
guess what it would look like two, three years from now, I think it could be 50-50. So Arista could
be the scale-out network for all types of accelerators. We'll be GPU-agnostic. And I think there'll
be less opportunity to bundle by specific vendors and more opportunity for customers to choose
best of breed.
A - `Rudolph Araujo, Head of Investor Advocacy
This concludes Arista Network's fourth quarter 2024 earnings call. We have posted a presentation
that provides additional information on our results, which you can access on the Investors section
of our website. Thank you for joining us today and for your interest in Arista.
Operator
Thank you for joining, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's call and you may now
disconnect.