Q4 2015 Earnings Call

Operator
Good afternoon. My name is Abigail, and I'll be your conference facilitator today. At this time I
would like to welcome everyone to the Micron Technology's fourth quarter 2015 financial release
conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the
speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer period.
Thank you. It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host, Ivan Donaldson. Sir, you may
begin your conference.
Ivan Donaldson `
Thank you very much, Abigail. I'd like to welcome you to Micron Technology's fourth quarter 2015
financial release. On the call today is Mark Durcan, CEO and Director; Mark Adams, President; and
Ernie Maddock, Chief Financial Officer. This conference call, including audio and slides is also
available on our website at micron.com. In addition, our website has a file containing the quarterly
operational and financial information and guidance, non-GAAP information with reconciliation,
slides used during the conference call, and a convertible debt and capped call dilution table. If
you have not had an opportunity to review the fourth quarter 2015 financial press release, it is
also available on our website at micron.com.
Our call will be approximately 60 minutes in length. There will be an audio replay of the call by
dialing 404-537-3406 with a confirmation code of 43149721. This replay will run through Friday,
October 19, at 11:30 PM Mountain Time. A webcast replay will be available on the company's
website until October 2016. We encourage you to monitor our website at micron.com throughoutthe quarter for the most current information on the company, including information on the various
financial conferences that we will be attending. You can also follow us on Twitter @microntech.
Please note the following Safe Harbor statement.
Unverified Participant
During the course of this meeting, we may make projections or other forward-looking statements
regarding future events or the future financial performance of the company and the industry. We
wish to caution you that such statements are predictions, and that actual events or results may
differ materially. We refer you to the documents the company files on a consolidated basis from
time-to-time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, specifically, the company's most
recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.
These documents contain and identify important factors that could cause the actual results for
the company on a consolidated basis to differ materially from those contained in our projections
or forward-looking statements. These certain factors can be found in the Investor Relations
section of Micron's website. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-
looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity,
performance or achievements. We are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking
statements after the date of the presentation to conform these statements to actual results.
Ivan Donaldson `
Thank you very much. And before I turn the call over to Mark Durcan, we want to make a quick
update. There was some information posted on our website under the earnings call – earnings
slides, which were posted to micron.com. On page 20, the summary key data slide, does include
some errors on the Q1 2016 guidance. That is being updated and will be replaced shortly. Please
note page 17 is accurate which shows our fiscal Q1 2016 non-GAAP guidance on that page.
So with that I will turn it over to Mark Durcan.
D. Mark Durcan `
Thank you, Ivan.
For fiscal Q4 2015 Micron posted total revenue of $3.6 billion within our revenue guidance of
$3.45 billion to $3.7 billion. Revenue is sequentially lower as expected in fiscal Q4 due to near
term market headwinds, driven primarily by weakness in the PC sector. Micron posted overall
gross margins of 27%, while generating operating cash flow of over $1 billion. Non-GAAP net
income was $399 million, and non-GAAP earnings per share were $0.37. We're pleased with the
execution that delivered these results. We continue to invest in our business with capital
expenditures of $1.85 billion in Q4, as well as ongoing investments in technology and product
development.
For fiscal year 2015, we achieved revenue of $16.2 billion, $2.72 per share in non-GAAP earnings,
$5.2 billion in cash from operations, and $2.3 billion in dilution management activities, including
convert retirements, and over $800 million in share repurchases. While fourth quarter results
were impacted by continued weakness in the PC sector, we believe that memory industry
fundamentals remain favorable over the long-term. And we're focused on improving our
competitive position through deployment of advanced technologies and system-level solutions.
Reflecting on market conditions, despite the recent softness in the PC market, we continue to
see healthy end market demand in other segments.Within the context of that variability we will continue to manage product mix and allocate our
capacity to maximize our opportunities over time. Demand for NAND is relatively stable. We're
encouraged by customer response to early samples of our 16-nanometer TLC products as well
as the significant customer interest in our early 3D NAND products. We expect the majority of our
NAND production on 3D by late calendar 2016, which should put us in a stronger competitive
position.
We expect the demand environment to stabilize and improve as we move through calendar 2016.
In general, we expect the industry supply and demand for both DRAM and NAND to be relatively
balanced in 2016.
Stepping back for a minute, Micron produces technologically advanced subsystems and systems
for global marketplace. And today's customers are looking for value-added memory solutions to
drive innovation and efficiency in system design. This creates a tremendous opportunity for
Micron moving forward, and we'll continue to invest to enhance our competitive position.
Relative to those investments, Micron's capital investments are primarily focused towards the
deployment of advanced technology to drive manufacturing efficiency and to enable innovative
new products to support technology advancement in our NAND business.
We're also investing in an expansion of our cleanroom facility to enable cost effective 3D NAND,
and are continuing to support R&D facilities in Boise. These investments in aggregate will
accelerate Micron's bit growth over the next 12 to 18 months. For DRAM, we expect to be above
market for calendar year 2016 based on market growth assumption of low to mid-20%. A majority
of this growth will occur in the latter half of Micron's fiscal 2016 and then continue into fiscal 2017.
For trade NAND, we expect our bit growth to be below the market in calendar 2015 and 2016,
based on a market growth assumption of mid to high 30% and as 3D conversion reduces wafer
output in the near term. For our fab 10X expansion and 3D conversions, we expect we will
position us to significantly outgrow the market for NAND in fiscal 2017.
On the call today, Mark Adams will summarize our operational and BU results. Ernie Maddock will
cover Q4 financial results, and I will conclude with a couple of thoughts prior to Q&A. Mark?
Mark W. Adams `
Thank you, Mark. I will begin by reviewing our performance in DRAM and non-volatile memory,
which on a going-forward basis will include our NAND and 3D Crosspoint products. I will follow
and update on each of our four business units before closing with commentary on our
operational performance and focus.
Let's begin with DRAM, which represented 60% of our total revenue in fiscal Q4. PC DRAM ASPs
remained under pressure in Q4. As a result, gross margins were down sequentially, in line with
our expectations. While we did see some mild spillover effect to pricing in other DRAM
segments, overall gross margin in these other segments and demand remained relatively
healthy. As a percentage of DRAM revenue in fiscal Q4, mobile was in the low 30%, up from the
high 20% in Q3. The PC segment was in the low 20 percentile, down from about 30% in the prior
quarter. The server business was in the low to mid 20%, up from the low 20% in Q3. And our
specialty DRAM business, which includes networking and graphics, automotive, and other
embedded markets, was in the low 20 percentile in aggregate.
Moving on to our non-volatile memory business, trade revenue represented 32% of total revenue
in fiscal Q4. Performance was consistent with our guidance, highlighted by stable gross margins.
As a percent of trade non-volatile memory revenues in fiscal Q4, consumer represented about40%. That includes our cards, USB, and components. Mobile included in multichip packages was in
the low 20 percentile. SSDs were in the mid-teens, and automotive and industrial mid-markets
and other embedded segments were mid-teens as well, while 3D Crosspoint technology was
immaterial. These percentages were generally consistent with the prior quarter. Positive mix
effects, including growth in enterprise SSDs and a reduction of our spot market more
transactional type businesses, led to stable ASPs and gross margins for our non-volatile memory
business.
Moving on to our business units, our Compute and Networking business unit posted revenue of
$1.3 billion in fiscal Q4, down 14% versus the prior quarter, with operating income of $99 million or
7.6%. When looking at the fourth fiscal quarter, CNBU was impacted by lower ASPs, driven by
continued softness in demand from the PC segment. In response to this softness, we reduced
our bit shipments into the PC segment by approximately 20% and shifted bits toward other more
stable segments. We anticipate additional reduction in PC DRAM production in fiscal Q1 of 2016.
CNBU had a very strong quarter in the enterprise segment.
We were able to drive additional qualifications of our 8-gigabit DDR4 solutions, resulting in
shipments of DDR4 increasing by more than double Q3's volume. The performance-driven
workloads in compute intensive applications in the Enterprise space should drive additional
demand growth in the future. We are confident that the migration of our product portfolio to our
20-nanometer technology will put us in a great position to support this growth in the future.
The Networking segment continued to be stable, and over time we expect to see demand in this
space increase as build-out of LTE deployment in emerging markets continues. Revenues in
Micron's Storage Business Unit were $848 million in fiscal Q4, down 6% sequentially. SBU's gross
margins were flat quarter-over-quarter. Operating margins were negative, reflecting our
continued investment in development of next generation flash storage technologies.
SBU continues to focus on optimizing the mix of our products to mitigate transactional market
exposure, while serving higher value segments. One good example is in the Enterprise segment.
We continue to gain traction in the deployment of Micron branded SSDs in the hyperscale
segment with our M500 SSD family-based products focused on high reliable, high-performance
20-nanometer MLC product. While an entry-level client segment's TLC NAND flash has been
deployed due to cost benefits, we have had many customers come in with upside requests for
our MLC-based technology to truly meet the demand of the end market needs.
We continued to make progress in TLC as well during Q4, which will help us better serve the
lower end value segments in NAND. Our 16-nanometer planar TLC NAND was qualified with
several customers. We began shipping components in the quarter, and will begin shipping
consumer SSDs based on TLC in the current quarter.
Revenue in Mobile was $958 million in fiscal Q4, up slightly sequentially. Operating income was
$262 million. Micron's Mobile Business Unit continues to benefit from the evolving mobile system
architectures that steadily increase memory density requirements at all product levels. Our broad
and diverse product portfolio including eMCPs, POP DRAM, and KGD which is commonly known
for known good die, allows us to maximize our operating results by rapidly adjusting to changing
customer requirements and market conditions. Despite slower growth in China, revenue in the
overall eMCP product category was flat when compared to Q3. As eMCP densities continue to
increase, our combined DRAM and NAND portfolio only strengthens our competitive position.
Micron has ramped production in Low Power DDR4 with shipment increasing from 4% to 24% of
total mobile DRAM volume, and expects LP4 volumes to surpass LP3 by the end of our first halfof the fiscal 2016. The Embedded Business Unit posted revenue of $474 million, down
approximately 2% from prior quarter. Gross margins for EBU were 35%, up two percentage
points when compared to Q3. Operating margins were 22%, also up 2 percentage points when
compared to the prior quarter. It is worthy to note EBU's revenue reached $2 billion in fiscal year
2015, which is a big milestone for a business unit that has historically been our most stable,
profitable business.
Fiscal Q4 results were driven by record revenue in our automotive segment, and continued
strength in our Industrial Multi-Market business. Growth in automotive supporting applications
including infotainment, instrument cluster, and ADAS, which stands for Advanced Driver
Assistance Systems, drove record sales of DDR3 in eMMC. Japanese regulatory changes has
been a catalyst for strong demand in our amusement business, driving shipments of NOR and
NAND-based multichip products that support machine-to-machine communication modules.
I want to close with some updates on technology development and deployment activities. At our
summer analyst conference, we described our fiscal year 2015 and 2016 strategic investment
priority focus. We continue to be pleased with our progress across our focus areas of DRAM, non-
volatile, and emerging memory. We're ahead of our previously communicated scheduled on both
the 20-nanometer DRAM and 3D NAND conversions. We expect 20-nanometer to represent
more than half of our DRAM output in fiscal year 2016, and our 3D NAND is on track to be a
majority of our NAND output by the end of the calendar year 2016.
An important milestone for our 3D NAND progress is beginning tool installation in the Singapore
fab by the spring of 2016, and we are on track to meet that timeline. In the quarter, we
announced 3D Crosspoint technology, and are on track for commercial shipments in calendar
year 2016. This is an exciting new memory technology, which has the potential to drive innovative
new memory intensive applications. We also continue to expand our strategic customer and
partner relationships, exemplified by our recently announced 3D Crosspoint technology and 3D
NAND supply agreements with Intel.
As we continue to execute our technology conversion and fab expansion plans, these types of
strategic relationships can offer another path to enable our technology in the market, as well as
they can provide additional capital to support technology transitions. With this successful
execution in technology development, we are confident that our relative competitiveness will
improve during fiscal year 2016. We believe that the ongoing growth in customer demand for
memory products will provide healthier market conditions going forward.
Now to continue our commentary on fiscal Q4 results and Q1 guidance, I will turn the call over to
Ernie.
Ernest E. Maddock `
Thanks, Mark.
Our GAAP net income for the fourth quarter was $471 million, or $0.42 per diluted share on net
sales of $3.6 billion. Compared to the third quarter, margins declined primarily as a result of
pricing in the DRAM space. Non-GAAP income for the fourth quarter reflects adjustment for the
following; recurring adjustments for the amortization of debt discounts primarily relating to the
imputed interest on the convertible notes in the MMJ creditor debt; and nominal amounts for the
loss of our debt restructuring activities; and the effects of changes in currency exchange rates for
the quarter.Technology acquisitions or technology-related acquisitions in the quarter resulted in a $21 million
gain from the remeasurement from a previous equity method investment held in the acquired
entity, as well as $21 million in tax benefits recognized in the purchase accounting. Non-cash taxes
relating to the MMJ and MMT operations reflected a benefit in the quarter, primarily as the result
of increased estimated utilization of operating loss carry-forwards in Japan. As a result, our non-
GAAP income was $399 million or $0.37 per share. As a reminder, Micron includes both
amortization and acquisition intangibles and stock-based compensation expense in our non-
GAAP reporting. Taken together these two items represent approximately $0.04 per share for
the recently completed quarter.
Now let's look at our results by product line. Historically, we've referred to our product
classifications as DRAM and NAND. As Mark Adams just noted, rather than NAND, we will refer to
non-volatile which includes NAND and 3D Crosspoint, but we'll continue to exclude NOR. DRAM
revenue decreased approximately 8% compared to the third quarter, primarily as the result of
lower selling prices. DRAM gross margin was in the 30% range, lower than the previous quarter.
On the trade NAND non-volatile side, revenue decreased approximately 7% in the fourth quarter,
primarily as a result of lower bit sales volume. Gross margin was relatively flat compared to the
prior quarter in the low to mid 20% range. Both bit costs and selling prices decreased slightly for
the quarter.
In the quarter, the company generated operating cash flow of $1 billion and ended the quarter
with $5.6 billion in cash and marketable investments. Expenditures for property, plant and
equipment during the quarter were approximately $1.85 billion. During the fourth quarter, we
repurchased $63 million in face value of convertible notes for $112 million, and approximately 36
million shares of common stock for $638 million for a total of $750 million. Operating expense
was less than anticipated in the fourth quarter, primarily as a result of lower variable
compensation expense and lower volumes of wafers used for development of new products and
technologies.
For the full year fiscal 2015 ended September 3, net sales were $16.2 billion with GAAP net
income of $2.9 billion, or $2.47 per diluted share, while non-GAAP net income was $3.1 billion or
$2.72 per diluted share. The impact of acquisition intangibles and stock-based compensation on
our full year non-GAAP results was approximately $0.13 per share. As Mark Durcan noted, during
FY 2015, we used approximately $2.3 billion for dilution management activities. Of this total, $832
million was spent on share repurchase and the remainder on convert retirements. Cash
expenditures for property, plant and equipment during fiscal 2015 were $4.1 billion, and we
continue to expect fiscal 2016 capital expenditures to be in the $5.3 billion to $5.8 billion range.
We also continue to expect third-party investments of between $700 million and $900 million, as
well as a $600 million to $800 million expense for our 3D NAND, fab 10x expansion in Singapore.
As mentioned in our summer analyst conference, we are simplifying the guidance that we
provide. For Micron's first fiscal quarter 2016, our non-GAAP guidance is as follows; consolidated
revenue in the range of $3.35 billion to $3.6 billion; gross margin in the range of 24.5% to 27%;
operating expenses between $580 million and $620 million; and operating income between
$260 million and $320 million, with EPS between $0.20 and $0.26 per diluted share based on an
estimate of 1.1 billion diluted shares and a tax rate in the mid-teens.
This EPS range includes expenses related to acquisition intangibles and stock-based
compensation, which together represent approximately $0.05 per share. Although we continue
to expect some challenges in the pricing environment during the current fiscal quarter, our
guidance, particularly at the gross margin line, also reflects the early capture of operational
improvements that we have been sharing with you for some time. In the materials posted on ourwebsite, we have included a dilution table that reflects the anti-dilutive effects of our cap calls at
various stock prices.
Now, I'll turn it back over to Mark Durcan.
D. Mark Durcan `
Thank you, Ernie. Let me just conclude our prepared remarks by summarizing our major focus
areas for the coming year. There are three such focus areas; first is technology deployment and
manufacturing efficiency; second is delivering value added solutions for a growing set of
customers and market segments; and third is investing in our long-term customer and partner
relationships. As we embark on our new fiscal year, I'd like to take a moment to thank our
customers, partners, shareholders, and team members for their continued support.
Let me stop here. And operator, I think we're ready for Q&A.
Ivan Donaldson `
We'll now take questions from callers. Just as a reminder, if you're using a speakerphone, please
pick up the handset when asking your questions so that we can hear you clearly. Operator?
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. Our first question comes from the line of `Kevin Cassidy, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. with Stifel. Your line is open.
Q - `Kevin Cassidy, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Thank you for taking my question. Just on the guidance for gross margin, can you give us some of
the moving parts on that, where it's coming down?
A - Ernest E. Maddock `
As always, it's a combination of mix and pricing, and both of those move around within ranges
that are quite similar to one another. So part of the reason why we wanted to talk to you about an
aggregate gross margin was, in fact, that both of those factors are things in some cases that we
don't control and in other cases that we do in response to the changing pricing environment. So
we can't really provide too much color on that or else it would negate why we chose to go to this
more broad-based guidance across the company's revenue stream.
Q - `Kevin Cassidy, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Okay, maybe if I could just ask one detail around that then. With the TLC NAND products ramping
or becoming a larger percentage of revenue, should we expect that gross margins can move up
with that ramp?
A - D. Mark Durcan `
I think the ramp through fiscal year 2016 will generally lead to that trend, certainly from a cost
basis. I'm not trying to forecast where the ASPs go from here from a competitive cost position
yet.
Q - `Kevin Cassidy, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `Okay, great. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from line of Vijay Rakesh with Mizuho. Your line is open.
Q - `Vijay R. Rakesh, Mizuho Securities USA, Inc. `
Hi, thanks, just a question here. If you look at first half 2016, what do you think your mix will be on
16-nanometer TLC NAND? And I have a follow-up, thanks.
A - D. Mark Durcan `
So we're early in the ramp of the TLC NAND. We're shipping products this quarter to customers.
But as we move through the first half of the year, it will be into the 20% range, and we'll see
where it goes from there.
A - Mark W. Adams `
If I could just add one more comment that what we're hearing and seeing from the market is that,
by segment, TLC is interesting in some segments but not all segments. As a matter of fact, in the
last part of Q4 and early into Q1, we've seen significant interest for higher-performing more
reliable MLC both 20-nanometer and 25-nanometer products where they're designed in, and
even new customers in the hyperscale environment. And so while 20% might not sound as high
as one would have forecasted six months ago, we're getting significant interest again in
enterprise-type applications for better margins. And so we're going to dial that in around market
opportunity and customer needs.
Q - `Vijay R. Rakesh, Mizuho Securities USA, Inc. `
Got it. And if I may, on the DRAM side, as you look at – you mentioned – introduced – improved
calendar 2016. But any thoughts on how you see inventory and yields playing out here through
the end of the year? Thanks.
A - Mark W. Adams `
Did you say – were you saying yields?
Q - `Vijay R. Rakesh, Mizuho Securities USA, Inc. `
Yes, yields and just channel inventory on the DRAM side. Thanks.
A - Mark W. Adams `
Let me handle the channel inventory and the market. Interestingly enough, in terms of the DRAM
market, except for one large channel player, the channel itself is pretty low inventory in the two
weeks to three weeks, and one larger channel player who in fact services a lot of the OEMs has
more than that from a fulfillment standpoint. That's the role that they play with these customers.
So it's not a significant inventory problem in the channel today.
I think to extend the question a little bit, the PC demand, the PC ecosystem is also not as much of
an inventory problem. It's more of a demand problem. And I think with new chipsets and new
operating systems and what have you, I think the buying side of the market has been a little
conservative in terms of how they procured PC parts over the last three to six months. And I thinkterms of the consumer and corporate behavior because at some point they're going to start to
replenish.
A - D. Mark Durcan `
Let me handle the yield question. I think the thing we can say about yields is we're clearly ahead
of our plan and running at least as good as or probably slightly better than we have on previous
similar conversions. So we're very happy with the way that's going, and we look for significant bit
generation and bit crossover in our third fiscal quarter.
Q - `Vijay R. Rakesh, Mizuho Securities USA, Inc. `
Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from line of Timothy Arcuri with Cowen & Company. Your
line is open.
Q - `Timothy M. Arcuri, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Thanks a lot. I had two. Ernie, I know you don't want to talk too much about cost going forward,
but that's obviously been an issue. DRAM costs were up this quarter, and the guide seems to
imply that DRAM cost per bit is going to go down just a touch in fiscal Q1. Is that right?
A - Ernest E. Maddock `
If you go back to the chart that we showed at our Analyst Day, it shows you what we're expecting
in general relative to output. And costs move in an inverse way with output. So as output moves
up, costs decline a little bit. In addition to that, as we move down the technology curve, we also
get the benefit of that. So without being overly specific, I think the best thing I can do is refer you
back to that curve and the gross margin guidance we have provided, and you can draw the
picture from there.
Q - `Timothy M. Arcuri, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Okay, thanks. And then I guess, Ernie, also there's a lot of debate about when gross margins will
bottom and where they'll bottom. So you're beginning to see some benefit of the investments in
the operational things you're doing. So can you give us some sense that maybe you think that
November might be the bottoming in gross margin?
A - Ernest E. Maddock `
I can't really comment on that. And again, I'd refer you back to some of the major levers that we
have, which is output that we can control and whatnot. But the biggest lever of all is pricing, which
is something that we can't fully anticipate. So I can't really give you any indication that November
would be the bottom because I just don't know at this point, although we continue to make
progress on our operational improvements.
Q - `Timothy M. Arcuri, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Okay, Ernie, thanks so much.
OperatorThank you. Our next question comes from the line of Rajvindra Gill with Needham & Company.
Your line is open.
Q - `Rajvindra S. Gill, Needham & Co. LLC `
Thanks for taking my question. I guess to follow up on the gross margin, I am trying to get a
sense of why gross margins are coming down if some of these things that you talked about are
stabilizing, for instance, a more rational environment, ramping more on 20-nanometer, some
stabilization on pricing.
A - Ernest E. Maddock `
So I think it's really important to parse costs and pricing. If you look at what's happening in the
market, there's still a significant amount of data that suggests DRAM pricing continues to come
down a bit and so that has an offsetting impact to the improvements in the operational execution.
So we're really focused on driving the operational execution and getting costs where, as well as
we can effectively manage costs to get those to that level and then the pricing environment we
have to deal with.
Q - `Rajvindra S. Gill, Needham & Co. LLC `
I'm just trying to square with what you're saying in your outlook, in your slide deck. You basically
are saying despite recent softness in PC DRAM market, you continue to see healthy end market
demand, and demand environment to stabilize as we move into calendar 2016. So it just seems
like while there's some hint that demand is stabilizing or some stabilization across the board, the
margins continue to drift fairly lower. So I'm not very clear on why that's happening.
A - D. Mark Durcan `
Okay, let's just step back a little bit and think about – the marketplace has been weakened in PCs,
we've seen pricing erosion there. It doesn't take much of a shift in the supply and demand
balance where you're moving big numbers up and down, and subtracting them to get a
difference for the supply/demand balance to swing from slightly over to slightly under supply. And
at the end of the day, that's a tough question that we've all got to try and figure out what the
answer is.
But as we think about what our end markets look like in 2016, the products we have and the
customer interest we have, we think that the market is generally going to be relatively balanced,
and we think we have significant operational improvements coming down the pipeline. So that
underlines the commentary we're giving you. And we're trying to give you a view as to how we
think that's going to balance out in the quarter ahead. And it's close to flattish gross margins
quarter over quarter based on our guidance, and we'll just have to go from there and see. We're
all trying to figure this out together.
Q - `Rajvindra S. Gill, Needham & Co. LLC `
Okay, great, and just last question on the cost side. Some of the cost headwinds that you
experience this year, in theory should become tailwinds in 2016. And I was wondering if you could
talk about some of those potential tailwinds, and any thoughts on the shift to DDR4 and server,
the shift to mobile overall, and within mobile, the shift to LPDDR4. These are all things that could
potentially be tailwinds once costs are normalized. So if you could maybe talk about some of
those specific things, that would be helpful. Thank you.A - Mark W. Adams `
Sure. This is Mark Adams. Just responding to the last part of your question. I think that if you break
all of that down, certainly DDR4 and LP4 in their early ramp don't lend themselves to the cost
benefits right away like any of the semiconductor ramps that you deal with in terms of market.
And so we will see that shift from early ramp headwind to advanced process tailwind in the mid-
part of our fiscal year. That's also true with our 20-nanometer product coming out – by the time, I
said second half of my script, second half, at the end of the first half going into second half, we'll
be at bit crossover, more than 50% of our production will be on the 20-nanometer, and we'll be
in an improved position there as well. So all in all, I think what you're asking about, we can confirm
is the direction we see our cost position in the marketplace.
Q - `Rajvindra S. Gill, Needham & Co. LLC `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Doug Freedman with Sterne Agee. Your line
is open.
Q - `Douglas Freedman, Sterne Agee CRT `
Great, thanks for taking my question, guys. Mark, in the past you've offered commentary in terms
of the impact of the new contract with Inotera. Given the present pricing dynamics in the market,
in the DRAM market, can you offer us some insights into how much impact that will have on gross
margins when it kicks in in the February quarter?
A - Mark W. Adams `
Doug, we commented on this last quarter. It's still mid to high single-digits impact in fiscal Q3 as
we realize the transition to the updated 20-nanometer technology coming out of Inotera.
Q - `Douglas Freedman, Sterne Agee CRT `
Okay. And that's just to make sure I understand that correctly, that's just on the DRAM side of the
business, so if we aggregate that into corporate...
A - D. Mark Durcan `
That's right. It's just DRAM and that's just on the Inotera output. And the fiscal Q3 is the relevant
time because the contract kicks in at the beginning of the year, but there's a lag effect in terms of
when it flows through our financials, and that's just the best time to look at it because that also
happens to be when the 20-nanometer output's coming.
Q - `Douglas Freedman, Sterne Agee CRT `
So we'll see that impact in the May quarter and not in the February quarter. Great. That's very
helpful. If I could move on, my next one is really in looking at the NAND market, and your NAND
output. I know you mentioned not moving as quickly to TLC because of market demands. There
really are two different products that you're ramping right now if I'm correct. You've got the TLC
at 15-nanometer, but you also have your 3D product, I know you gave us an endpoint that you'll
be at a majority of 3D by the end of 2016. Can we get any interim points for the November andmaybe February quarter? What percentage of your output will be 3D NAND, and how much of
that will be MLC versus TLC?
A - D. Mark Durcan `
Let me take that one, Doug. So you're right, we're going to play this by ear in terms of the planar
TLC. As Mark mentioned, there's a resurgence in interest in our high-quality MLC offerings for
enterprise and high-end client applications. And so we're just going to have to see how we dial
that piece. You're also right that we've said our plan is to have the majority of our 3D NAND on
TLC in short order. It's still a new technology, it's still ramping, and I think it's probably a little
premature to try and predict what that looks like in – the 3D TLC, what that mix looks like in the
first half of the year.
Q - `Douglas Freedman, Sterne Agee CRT `
How about total output for the November/February quarters?
A - D. Mark Durcan `
Of TLC?
Q - `Douglas Freedman, Sterne Agee CRT `
Of 3D NAND in any flavor.
A - D. Mark Durcan `
Of 3D NAND. No, it's going to be relatively small until we get to that crossover point.
Q - `Douglas Freedman, Sterne Agee CRT `
All right, great. Thanks for taking my questions.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Monika Garg, Pacific Crest Securities LLC with Pacific Crest Securities.
Your line is open.
Q - `Monika Garg, Pacific Crest Securities LLC `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. The first question I have is on the SBU business unit. We have
seen negative op margins for two quarters, three quarters now, and you've talked about like 3D
NAND is more end of calendar 2016 weighted. So is it fair to think, then, your NAND – so when do
you expect your NAND margins to improve, when 3D picks up or sometime even before that?
A - Mark W. Adams `
I think it's important, Monika, – again, this is Mark Adams, I think it's important to make a distinction
here. Directionally, your categorization of our SBU margins are correct, but I would also suggest
on a relative basis to our competitors, our SBU business has held up quite nicely relative to where
we were 12 months ago. And I mean that because there's a number of different market
segments that the team had developed and cultivated that we feel will continue to benefit us as
we get some of the tailwinds in place that we describe in the back half of 2016. So that's a long-
winded way of saying I expect that on a relative basis we get more competitive in 2016, and that
our overall performance in SBU will improve based on a number of the elements we've talkedabout, whether it be TLC or vertical and some of the other higher-end enterprise type products
we've described.
A - Ernest E. Maddock `
Keep in mind, when you look at SBU numbers you're also looking at a blended trade and zero
gross margin business to our partner.
Q - `Monika Garg, Pacific Crest Securities LLC `
Got it, okay. This is last one, the DRAM side. Mark, you talked about you expect a relatively
balanced supply/demand in DRAM in 2016. The Micron's DRAM margins have come down quite a
bit this year. So if it's a balanced environment next year, should we expect the margins to improve
next year then?
A - D. Mark Durcan `
Again, Monika, we can't predict the ASPs or the margins for you, we're just telling you what we
generally see. And then you got to layer in that obviously we're pretty bullish on what we're doing
internally and our operational improvements it'll play out through the year.
Q - `Monika Garg, Pacific Crest Securities LLC `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Chris Hemmelgarn with Barclays. Your line is
open.
Q - `Christopher Hemmelgarn, Barclays Capital, Inc.
Thanks very much for taking the question. I guess, I'll take a little different tack. Could you talk a
bit about the factors that would get you to the high end, low end of your gross margin guidance?
A - D. Mark Durcan `
ASPs are a big one. We always reserve the right to dial mix, and we'll take advantage of any
opportunities we see there. I think we have a pretty good beat on what our output's going to be,
absent some dramatic mix changes. So I don't think that's as big a lever this particular quarter.
Q - `Christopher Hemmelgarn, Barclays Capital, Inc.
Okay, thanks very much. I guess different direction, talk a bit about 3D XPoint. Intel is clearly going
to be pushing the technology, but in terms of monetizing it from the Micron end, where
specifically are you seeing strong customer interest?
A - Mark W. Adams `
Well, let me – I'll see your different tack with my different tack, how's that? More broadly the
technology, we see in a number of different end market segments, both in current application
environments and some kind of innovative new areas that might drive some new development
on just solution and technologies to address markets. The type of markets that we see 3D
Crosspoint benefit from are either super high-end gaming applications which could be for just
more real environment 8-K type applications, and provide the exact gaming performance thatdoesn't have to flush out to a different type of storage media, it can all be done in 3D
Crosspoint.
Another good one would be super high-end and reliable system storage, enterprise storage
applications. We think as far as emerging application development, we think the technology lends
really well to medical diagnostics, for example, where the instantaneous response time of
symptoms going in and research data analysis coming out with what that might be is a real-world
application that could benefit from Crosspoint. So these are the type of markets that the
technology fits, and I think that it's just a quick summary of a few that are of interest to where the
market can drive this technology.
A - D. Mark Durcan `
Think in terms of anywhere where you want a large in-memory database or anywhere where you
want ultra-high-performance storage systems.
Q - `Christopher Hemmelgarn, Barclays Capital, Inc.
That's very helpful. Thanks much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Steven Fox with Cross Research. Your line is
open.
Q - `Steven B. Fox, Cross Research LLC `
Thanks, good afternoon, just one question from me. You mentioned that there was some
spillover effect in the DRAM market into some of your better mix markets in the last quarter. I
guess I was curious. Do you expect to see that in this quarter? How much could compute
seasonality lead to some more spillover effect later on in the fiscal year, and what are you guys
doing to firewall against that? Thanks.
A - Mark W. Adams `
I think the big – you said something there. How much can compute seasonality affect it? And it
depends on how you see the compute market. What I mentioned earlier was some of the
environments that consume similar capacity, like the very low-end part of the server business, has
some pricing pressure. Notwithstanding all that, margins held up pretty well. So my interpretation
to your question is, if PCs rebound somewhat, and we're not talking about a wild rebound, but if
they rebound somewhat going into the holiday season, that can have a positive impact on overall
pricing in the market. But we think that the diversification of the end markets lends well to
relatively stable pricing and margins, as Ernie highlighted.
Q - `Steven B. Fox, Cross Research LLC `
Just a quick follow-up on what you just said. Are there any kind of tactics you're willing to share in
terms of what you're most focused on in shaping demand to your benefit when you see some of
these excesses the next couple quarters?
A - Mark W. Adams `
Not more than what we've talked about in the past, which is we have these end markets that we
have developed product strategies in. And by shifting some of the capacity away, it relievessome of the pressure in one area. And the interesting thing overall about DRAM, which we
haven't really talked a lot about is, some of these newer categories, LP4, DDR4, some of these
categories actually take or have a limiting effect or reducing effect on overall wafer production in
the industry. And so as these categories take off and grow, we are of the opinion that that can
have a stabilizing effect too.
Q - `Steven B. Fox, Cross Research LLC `
Great, thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Steven Chin with UBS. Your line is open.
Q - `Steven Kinney Chin, UBS Securities LLC `
Hi, thanks for taking my questions. First one, Mark, if I could, on the demand side, both on PC and
smartphones, could you provide a little color on what you're hearing from your customers in
those two end markets in terms of their sentiment, and how the seasonality quote/unquote, for
the back half, how that's shaping up so far relative to expectations?
A - Mark W. Adams `
I think the PC is about where it's been. I can't advertise that there's been a major uptick in PC
demand. The only data point that I would say that is new for us is that as we sit today, the relative
channel inventory on PCs is not a huge burden to a recovery. I think that it's too early to tell what
consumers and even in the corporate environment are going to be doing through the holiday and
through the rest of the year. So I can't give you a great sense of what's going to play out other
than the inventory validation of what we see in the channel. And that's true not only for end units
in PCs. It's also overall true for PC memory relative to where the pricing pressure has been. So I
don't think it's going to take a wild shift in behavior for the PC environment to stabilize. It's
probably too early for the holidays to see that.
On the mobile side, despite what we've read in the media about slowdown in China, which in fact
is somewhat true, there seems to be an offset in two areas, one of which is that memory content
in phones continues to move upwards, which is more broadly positive; as well as despite the high
end and mid-range smartphones in China, the entry-level smartphone, which are really
configured to be pretty good density configurations, are still in pretty good shape coupled with
other emerging markets. So we continue to be bullish on the mobile market, and the team's
performance has been pretty good. When you think about some of the areas that we've shifted
to, mobile, networking and automotive, the net of it all has been that we've been able to keep
our margin in a relatively healthy place, and we'll continue to monitor that.
Q - `Steven Kinney Chin, UBS Securities LLC `
Great, thanks for that color, Mark. As a follow-up for Ernie, Ernie, in terms of the repurchases, if I
have my math correct, I think you have about $170 million left in share repurchase capacity for this
quarter. Just given how much you bought back in this last quarter with the stock under $20, any
thoughts on potential expansion in the repurchase program?
A - Ernest E. Maddock `
So the amount is actually probably a little closer to $130 million versus $170 million. And we're
certainly going to continue to be opportunistic. And as we think about the market during thefourth quarter, we'll be making decisions as we think is appropriate.
Q - `Steven Kinney Chin, UBS Securities LLC `
Okay, great. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Amir with Ladenburg. Your line is
open.
Q - `Daniel L. Amir, Ladenburg Thalmann & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
Thanks a lot. So another way of just following up on the previous question, how should we look at
fiscal year 2016 in the mix that you're aiming to in terms of the DRAM business? Mobile, PC,
server, should we expect in general terms PC to decline a little bit more, mobile to a little bit
increase, and server and networking to stay about the same?
A - Mark W. Adams `
It's difficult to necessarily forecast because we'll keep adapting our overall approach as the
market conditions warrant. But if I were to categorize how we see it today, we think mobile in
general will consume more than where we sit today. We see PC on the consumption side of
memory flat to down somewhat just based on the overall market demand trends that we see. In
general, we think other embedded markets will only increase given automotive gaining and the
launch and growth of the IOT end segments.
Networking and server are very interesting because you can – what we've seen in the trend in
those two markets are, as much memory as they can get in they'll put in. And as technology and
configurations allow us, DDR4 will drive pretty high growth in terms of memory consumption. So
when you hear us bullish on the overall demand of the end markets, it's with good reason.
Memory consumption is really driving either reliability, performance or really new market
applications. And in the DRAM segment we continue – notwithstanding of the PC business,
continue to see growth across the board.
Q - `Daniel L. Amir, Ladenburg Thalmann & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
Okay. Just follow-up question on the non-volatile memory side. Your SSD business is around mid-
teens. I guess if we stood here a year ago I think some of us would have thought that, that would
be a higher number of your overall sales. What do you need to do in order to make that a bigger
focus given the opportunity in SSDs, is it really related to the progress of TLC and 3D NAND, or is
there something else that you can drive that business forward?
A - Mark W. Adams `
Well, I think that's true, I think a year ago we might have said that. As things have played out, the
low end of the SSD market where a lot of volume units go, that's starting to be a bit of a blood
bath in the NAND environment, and the TLC pricing, it was just not something we were going to
go fight with our MLC product when we can ship that to other market segments. Secondly, as we
think about the Mobile Business, the Mobile Business at Micron had a great year in NAND,
tremendous growth, 2015 over 2014. So we're going to continue to optimize around returns and
market attractiveness. And between some of the competitive pricing as well as the growth in
mobile, we altered our strategy mildly. And I think with TLC and with our entrance in the vertical, Ithink you'll see SSDs become more prominent because we think we're going to be in a better
position to compete with the rest of the market.
Q - `Daniel L. Amir, Ladenburg Thalmann & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
Okay, thanks.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `C.J. Muse, Evercore ISI with Evercore. Your line is open.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Evercore ISI
Good afternoon, thank you for taking my question. I guess first question, you sound a little bit
more upbeat on your ramp of 20-nanometer and talked about more than half I guess your output
in the latter half of fiscal half 2016. But I'm just curious, if we could talk a little bit about, not
production but revenues, and what that number would look like, and what kind of contribution, if
at all, we could see in the February quarter.
A - Mark W. Adams `
Hey, C.J., this is Mark Adams. Unfortunately, we're going to probably punt on the revenue
qualification. I would think – I would just validate what you started with which is, we're generally
very pleased with the ramp and the yield terms that we're at today and we see – as we
communicated very consistently, we see a crossover by the end of our first half fiscal year, so
we're very excited about that, not just from a raw cost perspective, that's great, but also from a
product enablement on 8-K configurations, and open some doors for us. So without qualifying
the revenue number it's a real positive tailwind for us.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Evercore ISI
That's helpful. And I guess, Ernie, a broader question, looking out to the February quarter, and I
know you don't want to talk about bits and mix and all that. But curious, what should we be
thinking of as the most material drivers of up or down kind of impact to gross margins, and there,
I guess, thinking about startup costs 20-nanometer mix shift, given seasonal demand trends for
DRAM, any other kind of investments that you're thinking about? How should we think about
those moving parts and headwind/tailwind looking out into the February quarter?
A - Ernest E. Maddock `
So obviously the biggest one we can't tell you whether it's a headwind or tailwind, which is market
pricing. As we think about the cost side, we should continue to see some improvement as we go
further down the curve with 20-nanometer and 16-nanometer TLC NAND. And then obviously, it's
going to be the mix between end markets, and as we've talked about before, we do have the
ability, certainly, in the February quarter at this point to think about where we want to direct that
mix. So those are the three big levers, and they're going to move in ways that we can't fully
predict right now on the market pricing side, the other two things, we're actually thinking about
quite carefully right now.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Evercore ISI
Very helpful, thank you.
A - Ivan Donaldson `And operator, I think we have time for one more question.
Operator
Our last question comes from the line of Mark Newman with Bernstein. Your line is open.
Q - `Mark C. Newman, Sanford C. Bernstein (Hong Kong) Ltd. `
Hi, thanks for squeezing me in. A question on DRAM pricing. PC DRAM pricing was extremely
weak during July and August, but since then there have been some significant mix changes in
including Micron but also including Samsung as well away from PC DRAM. And I think some of the
statements recently from Samsung have indicated that they are not lowering their PC DRAM price
any more. So I'm wondering if you're starting to see a stabilization in PC DRAM prices already.
And also following up to that, on the other parts of DRAM, server and mobile, with all this mix
change, is there going to be more weakness in these other parts of the market as we go forward
to the rest of the year and into next year? And then I have one follow up as well.
A - Mark W. Adams `
That was a pretty good question in of itself, but there's a lot there. I think that, yeah, we followed
the media, we saw the quotes in the press and all that stuff. We did see some very short-term
improvement on pricing at the end of – mid to end of August and even early September. But it
kind of has since – we've seen some softness again, some mild softness off of the high, and so
we're just tracking that as we look at it, and see where it goes from a demand standpoint, if
there's any improvement with holidays. But when you talk about the other markets, and I think the
question you're asking is what happens when you continue to shift, is there a danger of over-
supplying the other market segments, and while it's hard to predict with the data set that hasn't
happened today, and we don't sense it, we don't see it in the market at this point, mobile has
been pretty stable despite the mix move.
And I think a lot of that is because the market probably didn't have an appreciation six months to
nine months ago on what mobile densities would be doing, and in fact, you've seen tremendous
growth not just in the low end but across the smartphone segment on DRAM content. So we
don't think it's dramatic. We have heard positive signs on industry supply potentially slowing over
the next year or so, but we've got to wait and see how that comes out and shakes out in terms
of market. But as far as demand, we are very upbeat, as you've heard on the call today, about
some of the end market trends we're seeing and our ability to drive our technology there. It's
really a byproduct of this PC environment, and it can that rebound and then create more balance
in the overall end markets.
Q - `Mark C. Newman, Sanford C. Bernstein (Hong Kong) Ltd. `
Thanks. And then on the cost side for DRAM, you obviously brought in, you pulled in your 20-
nanometer RAM guidance during your analyst day. There wasn't very much further comments in
today's call about it. I'm just wondering if there's any latest and greatest comments about how
that's going, and when we're going to actually start seeing cost declines from 20-nanometer
shrink.
A - D. Mark Durcan `
Yes, Mark, still tracking pretty well with what we indicated at the analyst day, ahead of original
plan, and we like the way it's going. We think you may start to see small impact in fiscal Q2, but
really it's a fiscal Q3 story.Q - `Mark C. Newman, Sanford C. Bernstein (Hong Kong) Ltd. `
All right. Thanks very much.
A - Ivan Donaldson `
All right, we'd like to thank everyone for participating on the call today. If you'd please bear with
me, I just need to repeat the Safe Harbor protection language. During the course of this call we
may have made forward-looking statements regarding the company and the industry. These
particular forward-looking statements and all other statements that may have been made on the
call that are not historical facts are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual
results may differ materially. For information on the important factors that may cause actual
results to differ materially, please refer to our filings with the SEC, including the company's most
recent 10-Q and 10-K.
Operator
Thank you. This concludes today's Micron Technology fourth quarter 2015 financial release
conference call. You may now disconnect.