Q4 2016 Earnings Call

Operator
Good afternoon. My name is Abigail, and I will be your conference facilitator today. At this time, I
would like to welcome everyone to the Micron Technology's fourth quarter 2016 financial release
conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the
speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer period.
Thank you. It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host, `Ivan Donaldson, Senior Director-Investor Relations. Sir, you may
begin your conference.
`Ivan Donaldson, Senior Director-Investor Relations `
Thank you and welcome to Micron Technology's fourth quarter and 2016 fiscal year financial
release conference call. On the call today with me are Mark Durcan, CEO and Director; and Ernie
Maddock, Chief Financial Officer.
This conference call, including audio and slides, is also being webcast from our Investor Relations
website at investors.micron.com. In addition, our website contains the earnings press release filed
a short while ago and supplemental information, including quarterly operational and financial
metrics and guidance, GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations, slides used during today's conference
call and a convertible debt and capped call dilution table.
Today's call will be approximately 60 minutes in length. A webcast replay will be available on our
website for one year. We encourage you to monitor our website at micron.com throughout the
quarter for the most current information on the company, including information on the various
financial conferences that we will be attending. You can also follow us on Twitter, @MicronTech.As a reminder, the matters we will be discussing today include forward-looking statements based
on the environment as we currently see it. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks
and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from statements made today.
We refer you to the documents the company files with the SEC, specifically our most recent Form
10-K and Form 10-Q for a complete discussion of these important risk factors and other risks that
may affect our future results. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-
looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity,
performance or achievements. We are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking
statements after today's call to conform these statements to actual results.
I'll now turn the call over to Mark.
`D. Mark Durcan, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you, Ivan.
For fiscal Q4 2016, Micron posted total revenue of $3.2 billion with gross margin of 18% and a
non-GAAP net loss of $56 million or $0.05 per share. Both revenue and gross margin were at the
high end of the guidance range and together generated earnings per share that exceeded
guidance. Operating cash flow was $896 million.
On the last call, we reported that while we were seeing signs of improvement in selected
markets, we were uncertain of the extent and the duration of the improvements. During the
quarter, we continue to see market conditions improve, driven by both supply and demand
fundamentals. Industry inventory appears lean, and the current market outlook for both NAND
and DRAM continues to be positive. Currently, prices are increasing in a number of segments,
stabilizing in others, and we're seeing fewer segments showing residual declines.
This environment framed our thinking on the guidance that Ernie will provide a little later on. We
made significant progress on a number of key initiatives in the quarter, including the completion
of the mobile product qualifications that we have been discussing and our early 1x nanometer
DRAM deployment. We are also seeing the benefits of the 3D NAND yield ramp, which
generated stronger than expected NAND bit growth in the quarter.
I'm going to provide a high level overview of each of the business units, and Ernie will follow with
more details on each business's financial performance. In our Compute and Networking Business
Unit, we experienced accelerating revenue growth in the face of moderating pricing environment.
Revenue growth was driven by continued increases of 20-nanometer shipments as well as the
significant transition to DDR4 in the cloud and client segments where shipments exceeded DDR3
for the first time.
We saw ongoing strength in graphics, driven by GDDR5 and 5X products which supported
NVIDIA's introduction of the 5X based TITAN X, the highest performance consumer graphics card
in the market. In the enterprise segment, Micron was recognized at the Flash Memory Summit as
the innovation leader in non-volatile DIMMs, an important solution for high-performance servers.
Turning to our Mobile Business Unit, China's becoming a more significant growth driver in mobile
devices. Most of these devices are differentiated by large amounts of memory, including up to six
gigabytes of low-power DRAM. Additionally, the top of the line Apple and Samsung models now
ship with 256 gigabytes of NAND and we see mid-range Chinese handsets heading in this same
direction in order to compete. Although there is a moderating pace of smartphone unit growth,
significant content increases of both NAND and DRAM will generate strong overall bit growth.During the quarter, we introduced four new mid to high-density mobile 3D NAND products, with
positive reviews from the press and from our customer base. Mobile DRAM and eMCP price
declines moderated in the quarter with more recent signs of stabilization and increases. Revenue
growth in our Embedded Business Unit has been driven by a record automotive business and
increased performance in the consumer and connected home segments as well as a
strengthening industrial, multi-market business during the quarter.
We have maintained our leadership position in automotive through strong customer support and
the introduction of new products that meet the fast-growing memory content requirements for
infotainment, ADAS and instrument cluster applications. High-temperature DRAM and
automotive-grade NAND products are enabling a strong design win pipeline.
The introduction of several new industrial solutions has positioned us to grow our share within
IMM and retain our high market share in machine-to-machine communication modules as the
industry migrates from 2G to 4G and LTE. We have also been successful in achieving strong
market share positions in consumer applications from action cameras and home automation to
high-volume markets including digital TV and set-top boxes.
Finally, our Storage Business Unit is continuing to transition its product line through our leading-
edge 3D NAND technology. We've seen positive response from customers this quarter related to
our refreshed SSD portfolio which offers a breadth of solutions to meet diverse application
requirements. We're finalizing qualification with eight major OEMs on our 1100 Client drive and
are engaging with cloud customers on future designs. In the enterprise, we're seeing companies
begin to retrofit HDD infrastructures with SAS SSDs as they modernize existing investments.
Our customers in demanding sectors like financial services and energy are moving storage closer
to the server. We've seen significant interest in our PCIe, NVMe drives in these applications due
to their ability to deliver very consistent high performance.
We are actively extending TLC 3D NAND across our cloud and enterprise portfolio and expect to
introduce our first TLC 3D SATA drive for these markets later this year, followed by a server-
focused version early next year. We expect to see positive supply and demand dynamics in the
SSD market for 2017.
Turning to the memory industry more generally, we've seen further evidence that DRAM wafer
output is declining as a result of lost throughput related to the 20-nanometer and 1X-nanometer
conversions. Absent some replacement of these wafers, we could see industry supply growth as
low as mid-teens in 2017. As some of the lost wafer output is replaced, industry supply growth
could be in the high-teens percent range. This compares to our long-term bit demand growth
forecast in the low to mid-20% range.
For NAND, we estimate 2017 industry bit growth in the high-30% to low-40% range, which is in
line with 2016. This compares to our long-term bit demand growth forecast in the low to mid-40%
range. Despite significant investments in 3D conversions across the industry, we believe that 2017
supply growth will be relatively balanced with demand given the disruption in the fab output
related to these conversions.
For our operational priorities for fiscal 2017, or our operational priorities for fiscal 2017 continue to
be targeted at ramping advanced technologies with an added focus on building out a more
robust product portfolio, in particular for non-volatile memory products. For DRAM, we begin the
1X-nanometer ramp and expect to have meaningful output by the middle of 2017. At our winter
Analyst Day, we shared two-year bit growth targets for DRAM, and we are on track to meet thesetargets. We were slightly below the range in fiscal 2017 (sic) [2016] and expect to be above the
range in fiscal 2017.
All of the DRAM bit growth will come from technology transitions, and we currently have no plans
to add wafer capacity. We expect our fiscal 2017 DRAM cost per bit to decline 20% to 25% as a
result of completing the 20-nanometer migration and initiating the 1X-nanometer conversion. Our
cash cost per bit declines will be meaningfully higher than this range.
For NAND, we will continue to focus on ramping our gen-one 3D as well as TLC. As we updated
at our last analyst meeting, 3D bit output will exceed 2D output in the current quarter, ahead of
our initial target. We will also be working on deploying second generation 64-layer 3D technology.
Similar to DRAM our 2016 NAND bit growth came in below the two-year CAGR shared at our
analyst event, and we therefore expect 2017 to be above that range. We are forecasting our
fiscal 2017 NAND cost per bit to decline 20% to 25% as a result of the 3D and TLC conversions.
This cost per bit includes the impact of our planned build-out of SSDs, eMCPs, and managed
NAND solutions all of which carry additional bill of materials costs but will also enable a richer ASP
mix. On a like-for-like basis, cost per bit will decline more substantially.
Relative to 3D XPoint technology, we are working with market enablers on adoption of our
QuantX solutions and continue to believe this innovative technology will be an important
contributor to Micron's future success, with initial revenue later in 2017.
Now I'd like to turn the mic over to Ernie.
`Ernest E. Maddock, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President-Finance `
Thank you, Mark.
We had a solid end to our fiscal year, as our continued focus on execution coupled with a more
favorable business environment resulted in improved financial performance. I'll begin my
comments today with some technology and business unit details, followed by an overview of the
company's results for the quarter and guidance for our first fiscal quarter of 2017.
DRAM represented 60% of our total revenue, with the following segmentation. Mobile
represented about 25%, similar to the prior quarter. The PC segment was in the upper 20%
range, up slightly from the prior quarter. Server business was in the high teens percent range,
down from the prior quarter. And specialty DRAM, which includes networking, graphics, auto, and
other embedded technologies, was in the low 30% range, up from the prior quarter and primarily
driven by an increase in graphics, which represented more than 10% for the quarter.
In our non-volatile memory business, trade revenue represented 31% of total revenue, with the
following segmentation. Consumer, which includes memory cards, USB, and components,
represented about 50%, down slightly from the prior quarter. Mobile was in the high teens
percent range, up from 13% in the prior quarter, as we began to see the impact of our completed
customer quals. As a reminder, eMCPs are primarily in the mobile segment. SSDs represented
13%, similar to last quarter. And the automotive, industrial multi-market, and other embedded
applications were in the high teens percent range, similar to the prior quarter.
Turning to performance by business unit, the Compute and Networking business unit delivered
fiscal Q4 revenue of $1.25 billion, up 14% sequentially, primarily driven by 20-nanometer shipment
growth accompanied by strengthening demand in a moderating pricing environment across all
segments. The non-GAAP operating loss was $7 million or less than 1% of revenue.In the enterprise segment, conversions to DDR4 are now largely complete, and we are focused
on enabling our solutions for the next-generation server platform. We are seeing continued
interest in both higher density RDIMMs and LRDIMMs as well as NVDIMM solutions. The cloud
component of the enterprise segment is growing quickly, driven by continued growth in density
across both DDR3 and DDR4 solutions.
In graphics, we saw growth well above typical seasonality driven by our GDDR5 and GDDR5X
products. There are additional G5X based product announcements from NVIDIA in both the
graphics and workstation segments during the quarter. In networking, we enjoyed double digit
revenue growth with strength across all regions and growing interest in applying the high
bandwidth capabilities of GDDR5 and GDDR5X to the networking segment. Finally, within the
client segment we saw market demand which exceeded our expectations as well as a continued
transition to DDR4 which, for the first time, represented a majority of client shipments.
The Mobile business unit delivered fiscal Q4 revenue of $671 million, up 20% sequentially, driven
by a strong quarter in our eMCP products. The non-GAAP operating loss was $45 million or 7% of
revenue, and was partially impacted by the consumption of higher cost to early production
inventory accumulated over the last two quarters. We saw significant growth in the recently
qualified higher density MCPs as smartphone OEMs are positioning their products based on
higher memory density specifications, which is helping to accelerate adoption of smartphones
with richer memory content.
The Embedded business unit delivered fiscal Q4 revenue of $513 million, up 5% sequentially.
Non-GAAP operating income was $133 million or 26% of revenue. The results were primarily
driven by record automotive and increasing consumer business, combined with some recovery in
our industrial multimarket business. The automotive business delivered solid results with revenue
up 6% sequentially, driven by strong and increasing demand for both DRAM and e.MMC solutions
for infotainment, instrument cluster and advanced driver systems applications. European, Korean
and Japanese customers continue to fuel this growth and our portfolio of leading edge
automotive-grade solutions is continuing to enable platform design wins.
The industrial and multimarket business increased 16% sequentially, primarily driven by the ramp
of our NAND solutions into the Japanese amusement market. In addition, we continued to see
strong demand for our NOR and NAND based MCPs used in machine-to-machine wireless
communication modules. Consumer and connected home revenue was up 7% sequentially with
solid demand for MCPs used in action cameras and home automation applications. We continued
to see this demand pattern continue in the current fiscal quarter which typically sees strong
seasonal demand. Our 20 nanometer DDR4 products continued to ramp into set-top boxes and
IMM applications.
The Storage business delivered fiscal Q4 revenue of $758 million, up 5% sequentially. The non-
GAAP operating loss was $69 million or 9% of revenue. During the quarter, we entered
production and OEM qualification of TLC 3D NAND-based SSDs in the client and consumer
segments providing customers with a refreshed 3D-based portfolio of storage products that
span the demand spectrum in these markets. In the enterprise SSD segment, consecutive
quarter bits sold were up 45% based on higher sales of our planar MLC-based cloud drive. We
are deploying 3D TLC across the enterprise and cloud portfolio, with several product launches
over the next few quarters.
Moving on to overall company results, revenue for the fourth fiscal quarter was $3.2 billion at the
top end of our guided range and up 11% sequentially. Fairly significant increases in volume
shipments for DRAM were offset by moderating ASP declines while trade NAND shipmentsincreased as a result of early success of our 3D ramp and we experienced generally stable ASPs.
Gross margin for the quarter was 18% also at the top end of our guided range. The non-GAAP
net loss for the quarter was $56 million or $0.05 per share, significantly better than our guidance.
For the full fiscal year, we achieved non-GAAP profitability despite our technology transition and
memory market pricing pressure achieving non-GAAP net income of $66 million or $0.06 per
share. As a reminder, Micron included both amortization of acquisition related intangibles and
stock compensation expense in our fiscal Q4 non-GAAP results. Taken together, these two items
represent $0.04 a share in the fourth fiscal quarter and $0.20 per share for the full 2016 fiscal
year.
Turning to results by product line, DRAM revenue increased 13% compared to the prior quarter as
a result of a 20% increase in bit shipments, partially offset by a 6% decrease in ASPs. DRAM gross
margins for the fourth quarter increased two percentage points to 20%, primarily driven by
strong cost reductions as a result of the continued 20-nanometer ramp. Our non-volatile trade
revenue increased 12% compared to the prior quarter reflecting a 13% increase in bit shipments,
partially offset by a 1% decrease in ASPs. Gross margin decreased a couple of percentage points
to 16% as cost per bit was up related to the 3D ramp and build out of higher cost storage and
mobile solutions to support future growth.
Non-GAAP operating expenses for the quarter were $559 million. This was below our guidance,
primarily due to continued expense control and the timing of prequalification expenses for the
fourth quarter, some of which will now occur in fiscal Q1. The company generated operating cash
flow of $896 million which included a strong quarter for collection activity and we ended the
quarter with cash and marketable investments of approximately $4.8 billion. In the fourth fiscal
quarter, capital expenditures net of partner contributions were approximately $1.7 billion.
Before we move on to our guidance for the upcoming quarter, I wanted to share some changes
to our reporting. The first of these changes relates to the depreciation schedule for our DRAM
capital equipment. Previously this equipment had been depreciated over five years, however,
given the longer intervals between technology transitions, we have changed the depreciable life
of our DRAM capital equipment from five years to seven years. This change will reduce
depreciation by approximately $100 million per quarter on a going-forward basis. The
depreciation schedule for NAND-related equipment remains unchanged.
Additionally, and to be consistent with the majority of semiconductor companies who report non-
GAAP results, Micron will exclude stock-based compensation and the amortization of acquisition-
related intangibles from our non-GAAP reporting. These expenses on average are approximately
$50 million per quarter.
Moving on now to our guidance for the first fiscal quarter, which we developed in the context of
the market environment that Mark described earlier, on a non-GAAP basis we expect the
following, consolidated revenue in the range of $3.55 billion to $3.85 billion, gross margin in the
range of 23% to 25.5%, operating expenses between $600 million and $650 million due to the
resumption of variable compensation expense, and the higher pre-qual expenses that we spoke
of earlier. Taken together, these items represent a sequential increase of approximately $80
million, of which $25 million resulted from the timing of pre-qual between fiscal Q4 and fiscal Q1.
Operating income in the range of $245 million to $330 million, and EPS range between $0.13 and
$0.21 per share, based on 1.046 billion diluted shares.
Relative to our capital spending plans for fiscal 2017, as we shared last month, we expect to
spend between $4.8 billion and $5.2 billion net of partner contributions. Between 40% and 50%of the total will be allocated to DRAM, between 30% and 40% to non-volatile memory, and
between 15% and 25% to technology and product enablement. Consistent with our public
comments, this level of CapEx allows us to appropriately fund our technology investments while
achieving neutral to positive free cash flow generation in fiscal 2017.
Operationally, we are on track to deliver the bit growth and cost per bit reduction targets that we
previously shared as we complete the 20-nanometer DRAM conversion, reach crossover of first
generation 3D NAND this quarter and commence the ramp of 1x nanometer DRAM and second
generation 3D NAND in 2017. For FY 2017 specifically, we expect DRAM and NAND cost per bit
reductions between 20% and 25%.
Finally, relative to the Inotera transaction, Micron and Inotera have concluded that sufficient
progress has been made in Inotera addressing the issues that caused the delay in closing. An
Inotera board meeting has been scheduled for October 11 and the directors of Inotera are
expected to set a share swap record date at that meeting. We anticipate that the share swap
record date will be set for the first half of December of 2016.
With that, I'll turn it back to Mark.
`D. Mark Durcan, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you, Ernie.
To summarize, we faced challenging market conditions in fiscal 2016 in addition to going through
a transition period for our technology migrations. Despite these headwinds, we ended the year
with positive non-GAAP EPS. Compared to prior cycles, this represents a material improvement in
our performance and further reinforces our belief in structural industry improvements. We are
now experiencing a more positive and improving environment, and Micron is committed to
making even further improvements in our relative performance with enhanced growth and cost
reductions and expanded capability to deliver value-added products to enable our customers.
Okay. Operator, we are now ready to begin Q&A.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. Our first question comes from C. J. Muse with Evercore. Your line is open.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore ISI
Good afternoon. Thank you for taking my question. I guess, first question, Ernie, for you on the
pricing front. I know you don't want to go into specific details, but curious, as you think about
November, what you're embedding in terms of, I guess, changes to mix and perhaps any flow-
through of lower margin inventory and any other factors that we should be thinking about as it
relates to DRAM ASPs?
A - `D. Mark Durcan, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
This is Mark. Maybe I'll take that one, C.J. Certainly, relative to the sell-through of inventory, there
is an impact there, given some of the inventory we've built up over the last couple of quarters
relative to the qualifications we mentioned. Relative to market assumptions, we're not going get
into the detail, as always, of the embedded margin because we don't want to forecast the ASPs
for you. But I think it's fair to say that we're seeing some early signs of significant pricemovements. And as we've done in the past, we want to wait before we get ahead of ourselves in
predicting what may come as we move further out into the quarter. But I do think that the trend is
positive and the bias is positive.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore ISI
Mark, that's very helpful. I guess as my follow up, how do you think about channel inventory
today? And I guess this is another DRAM question. And then as part of that, how do you expect
customers to act as you look into 2017 in an environment where bit supply is sub-20% and
demand presumably higher than that? How do you expect the kind of changes in behavior there?
Thank you.
A - `D. Mark Durcan, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Certainly, if we think about inventory in the marketplace, certainly channel inventory I think is very,
very tight, maybe one to two weeks or less than a week. At the major customers, we have less
precision relative to that, but I'd say it's certainly down and there's a sense of urgency at the
large OEM customers as well. In some cases, we may be looking at allocation of certain products
in certain markets. And certainly, the customers are beginning to ask for longer-term price
commitments, which is in my mind always a good thing. And we'll look at those on a case-by-case
basis and potentially take customers up on that where appropriate, but obviously, always keeping
the long-term interest of the shareholders in mind.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore ISI
Very helpful, thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Romit Shah with Nomura. Your line is open.
Q - `Romit J. Shah, Analyst, Nomura Securities International, Inc. `
I just want to come back to the guidance because it's something that people are trying to gauge
given that last quarter, at least relative to how you originally guided, you guys came in a lot better.
And I know at the time that there were a lot of moving pieces and you guys wanted to give
yourself cushion. So could you talk a little bit about visibility? And at least on the pricing front, if we
could get a sense just directionally how you're thinking about ASPs in the November period? And
then I have a follow-up.
A - `Ernest E. Maddock, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President-Finance `
Sure, this is Ernie. So I think it's important to acknowledge that although we beat our EPS
guidance, we actually were well in the ranges of both our revenue and our gross margin
guidance. And so we did think about the opportunity that was ahead of ourselves as we were
giving the guidance for last quarter, and we've done the same thing in essence this quarter as
well. So I think you can look at the range of our guidance and it generally contemplates the
outcomes that we see. And obviously, if things continue on a strong and favorable momentum,
it's reasonable to think that you'd end up at the upper end of both pieces of the range, which
would generate a result similar to this quarter.
And I think consistent with Mark's prior comments, we are continuing to see positive momentum. I
do think it's important to understand that that momentum has existed and has started to
strengthen. And so as a result of its actual impact in our fiscal quarter, with part of it alreadycompleted and we're in negotiations for others, I think the trap we want to avoid is presuming
that whatever the latest pricing news is gets retroactively applied across the entire quarter
because that's certainly not the environment that we're living in. But I do think we were pretty
thoughtful about the revenue range. And obviously, we're going to work hard and try to do as
well as we can. But we put a lot of thought behind the numbers we just shared with you.
Q - `Romit J. Shah, Analyst, Nomura Securities International, Inc. `
That's helpful. And then, Mark, I have a strategic question for you, which is you talk about one of
the priorities being to just ramp advanced products in non-volatile memory. But at the same time,
implicit in the fiscal 2017 free cash flow guidance is that you, at least the way I'm interpreting it, is
that you'll continue to burn cash in NAND. And so I guess my question is at what point do you
consider a partnership to lessen the period expense and the CapEx burden associated with
running this business?
A - `D. Mark Durcan, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
We're always looking for ways to improve our relative competitive position, and we've used
partnerships and strategic relationships extensively in the past. We'll continue to evaluate that
and again, always with the long-term in mind. There's an embedded assumption in there that
there are lots of opportunities out there today, and I think I would not try to dissuade you of that
view of life. I would just caution you that we're going to be pretty careful and deliberate about
making sure we take a long-term view relative to the relationships and the partnerships that we
engage in and that we're doing something that really drives a long-term strategic benefit for the
company as opposed to a short-term fix of more supply in the marketplace.
Q - `Romit J. Shah, Analyst, Nomura Securities International, Inc. `
Helpful, thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Mark Delaney, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. with Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
Q - `Mark Delaney, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Yes, good afternoon and thanks very much for taking the question. First question is I'm hoping
you could update us on the Inotera transaction. And if that were to close, if you can, help us
understand the potential accretion or dilution from that transaction. And then related to it, to what
extent is Inotera closing already embedded in any of the financial guidance that you gave for
fiscal 2017?
A - `Ernest E. Maddock, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President-Finance `
So as we had in our prepared remarks, we do expect the transaction to close at this point
sometime in the middle of December. We did contemplate that timing in our guidance. So it
doesn't really have a dramatic impact on our fiscal Q1 guide at all. And certainly the transaction will
continue to be accretive to gross margins. It will continue – and continues to be accretive to free
cash flow. And essentially the EPS accretion is really dependent on how we choose to finance that
last $1 billion component, which we don't have to make a decision on until about 30 days or so
prior to closing. So as we said before, we have the option of using equity or a convert or cash or
a combination of those. And so the specific EPS accretion will really be dependent upon what we
finally decide for those things.Q - `Mark Delaney, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
That's helpful, and then a clarification on your comments that Micron will be above the CAGRs
that it provided for DRAM and NAND bit growth in fiscal 2017. I just wanted to clarify you would
expect to be above the high end of your guidance for both DRAM and NAND, so I think it was
over 30% in DRAM for fiscal 2017 and over 40% in NAND for fiscal 2017.
A - `D. Mark Durcan, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
What we said, Mark, was that we had given these two-year CAGRs and we were slightly below
for both NAND and DRAM in fiscal 2016. So it's reasonable to think that we'd be slightly above the
range that we've provided in fiscal 2017, so that we, over the two-year CAGR, fulfill the
commitment that we made around those bit growth CAGRs. So yes, that's a reasonable thing to
assume.
Q - `Mark Delaney, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
That's very helpful. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC with Cowen. Your line is open.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Thank you. I had two. Ernie, I'm still a little confused on the guidance. If I try to adjust for the
changes in the reporting, it sounds like you're excluding about $150 million per quarter now. So,
on an apples-to-apples basis the guidance is actually like $0.13 or something like that lower than
what the headline number is or more like $0.04 at the midpoint. Am I not thinking about that
right?
A - `Ernest E. Maddock, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President-Finance `
That's a reasonable way to think about it. Sure, Tim.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Okay. And then I guess that leads me to the question about OpEx, because it seems like some of
that's related to OpEx. I guess if you add the stock comp back and you assume it's mostly OpEx,
you're guiding to like $650 million to $700 million but it sounds like maybe $80 million of that is
really one-time in nature so maybe the baseline is more like $600 million going into next quarter.
Is that – or sorry, going into the fiscal Q2, is that the right run rate headed into the January
quarter?
A - `Ernest E. Maddock, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President-Finance `
So let me try to frame that for you a little bit. We had a couple things that are impacting this
quarter's OpEx. The first was, that about $25 million give or take are pre-qual expenses that we
had planned to spend in F Q4 are appearing in F Q1. And then secondly, we had, even prior to
this rollover, the highest point of pre-qual expenses for the entire fiscal year was actually
occurring in Q1 plus we have the resumption of variable compensation given the new pricing
environment. And so what we've tried to frame for folks is sequentially between the variable
comp being reinstated as well as the pre-qual expenses that's a sequential increase of about
$80 million from F Q4 to F Q1. So that predominantly explains the change to the OpEx.And then certainly we're hopeful that the variable compensation piece continues because we're
hopeful that the business environment is favorable. And we would expect pre-qual expenses to
moderate such that we should be in that range of $600 million plus or minus. So we'd probably
midpoint around $600 million a few quarters, maybe a couple quarters higher, a couple quarters
a little bit lower under the new framework for recording OpEx. So those numbers would still
exclude stock based comp. But you would expect to see a pretty meaningful moderation of
OpEx as we go forward throughout the year as a result of this pre-qual situation being resolved
from the rollover.
Operator
Our next question comes from Ian Ing of MKM Partners. Your line is open.
Q - `Ian L. Ing, Analyst, MKM Partners LLC `
Yes, thank you. Congrats on the guidance. DRAM question here. You've got favorable contract
pricing. You didn't quite get the bit output acceleration in Q4, just wanted to understand that a
bit. And are there any shortages in terms of meeting customer demand at this point?
A - `Ernest E. Maddock, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President-Finance `
I think part of the explanation of Q4 bit growth being slightly below I think what we previously
talked about was, in fact, that as we watched the market evolve we made some choices around
where we'd like that output to be and the result is that our Q1 fiscal Q1 bit output is now going be
higher than what we had expected it to be. So obviously that did play into our thinking as we saw
the market evolve. Relative to specific shortages, I'm not aware of any. I don't know, Mark, if you
are. But certainly all of our customers are being very attentive to making sure that their supply
needs are taken care of and we are seeing certain segments and certain customers where the
possibility of allocation is present.
A - `D. Mark Durcan, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I don't think we want to call those out today on this call. But there's certainly that risk.
A - `Ernest E. Maddock, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President-Finance `
Yes.
Q - `Ian L. Ing, Analyst, MKM Partners LLC `
Okay, thanks. For my follow-up here, server as a percent of DRAM that is down sequentially in
August. What's happening here? Perhaps enterprise is offsetting the cloud? And shouldn't this be
a pretty attractive market to serve? I think pricing in server typically attracts PCs with a little bit of
lag.
A - `D. Mark Durcan, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I think it will reaccelerate relatively quickly. It has been a little bit more of a lumpy business here
over the last year or so. But we like the trends there.
Q - `Ian L. Ing, Analyst, MKM Partners LLC `
Okay. Thank you.Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Rajvindra Gill with Needham & Company. Your line is
open.
Q - `Rajvindra S. Gill, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `
Yes, thanks and congrats on good execution. Just a question on the inventory increase on a year-
over-year basis relative to the revenue increase year-over-year based on your guidance. So it
seems like the – it seems like that the inventory is increasing at a faster clip than revenue. So just
wanted to get a sense in terms of any concerns you see there.
A - `Ernest E. Maddock, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President-Finance `
Sure. So we....
Q - `Rajvindra S. Gill, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `
Then....
A - `Ernest E. Maddock, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President-Finance `
I'm sorry. Go ahead.
Q - `Rajvindra S. Gill, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `
So with inventory outgrowing revenue on a year-over-year basis.
A - `Ernest E. Maddock, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President-Finance `
I think you have a couple things. First, as we've talked about in the last quarter or so, as we are
ramping on the new technologies and predominantly because of these delayed mobile quals, we
had some inventory built up that is now flowing through. However, we absolutely still continue to
get more and more output from the factory and it's going be a couple of quarters before that
inventory actually starts to decline. But we have a very clear view of an ability to decrease
inventory meaningfully over the course of fiscal 2017.
I'd also remind you that we are also building supply chains for SSDs and MCPs which take longer
in terms of their aggregate end-to-end cycle time than selling components. So we have that
effect as well. That will cap out here in the next quarter or so, and then you'll see a normalization
and a flow-through of that as well. So we're not – we're cognizant of the inventory position. We
like to think that we anticipated that and shared that with you. And we're equally confident that
the inventory will decline nearly every quarter in fiscal 2017.
A - `D. Mark Durcan, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, to be honest, we feel pretty good about where we sit given the trends in the marketplace
as well. We don't feel quite as much urgency as we might under different market conditions.
Q - `Rajvindra S. Gill, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `
Okay, that was helpful. And just last question for me on the cash flow. And obviously, you can't
talk a little bit about fiscal year 2017, but if you take your CapEx guidance and your depreciation
add back, it does seem like it still will be kind of difficult to generate a meaningful free cash flowto increase above and beyond the – what you're guiding for November. So I just wanted to get a
sense of how you're looking at free cash flow. And the Inotera agreement, how much free cash
flow does that add to the company if we were to add that back on?
A - `Ernest E. Maddock, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President-Finance `
On average, the Inotera transaction is going to add somewhere between $300 million and $600
million of cash flow on a free cash flow basis. But I'd really stress that that's an average amount
which would be sort of the free cash flow net of the incremental depreciation – the incremental
CapEx. But I think that the best way I could guide your thinking there is that we have prepared a
pretty conservative plan and we have a free cash flow neutral position in the context of that
conservative plan.
Obviously, Q4 was a little bit stronger. It's fair to say that Q1 was a little bit stronger as we look at
it now versus our conservative plan. And so we would expect to be able to accumulate cash over
the course of 2017 if in fact this current market environment continues. Any time we use words
like significant, it kind of gets hard to determine what's significant to you or significant to me. But
trust me, every dollar is significant to us, and so we're being very careful and monitoring that very
carefully.
Q - `Rajvindra S. Gill, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `
Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Harlan Sur, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC with JPMorgan. Your line is open.
Q - `Harlan Sur, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my question. NAND cost per bit was actually up slightly in Q4.
Was most of this mix related? Maybe you could just tell us what cost per bit declines were on a
like-for-like basis. And should we anticipate an acceleration of cost per bit starting here in the first
quarter, especially, I think as you mentioned, you get the 3D bit crossover over 2D, but it seems
like to me is gross margins for NAND should be inflecting up here in Q1, but I'm just trying to get a
sense for that.
A - `D. Mark Durcan, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
A lot of moving pieces, Harlan. I think just to get to the crux of your question, yes, you should
anticipate cost per bit start coming down nicely with the 3D ramp as we start flushing those
wafers through the back end and out in the marketplace. Costs are coming down nicely this
quarter, and we see a continued roadmap ahead for that as we move through the year.
A - `Ernest E. Maddock, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President-Finance `
And we've provided a cost per bit reduction forecast for the year to you. And I think everything
Mark said is absolutely true. And counterbalancing that just a bit is this supply chain buildup that I
talked about because those MCPs and those SSDs have a higher COGS component theoretically.
They are also generating more margin. But if we're only looking at the cost perspective, that will
have a tendency to dampen the cost per bit reduction because the mix is changed.
Q - `Harlan Sur, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `Great, thanks for the insights there. And then on the 1X-nanometer DRAM ramp that you
highlighted in your slides, when does that ramp actually commence? Is it end of this year,
beginning of next calendar year? And you mentioned also that you expect significant output by
middle of next year. Maybe you can just be more specific on when you expect bit crossover, 1x
versus 20-nanometer. Thank you.
A - `D. Mark Durcan, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, so we actually have wafers in manufacturing fabs in both Hiroshima and Taiwan that are
yielding. The output today is insignificant. We'll continue to run engineering pilot line launch and by
the time we get to the middle of next year, you should see it be significant in terms of our overall
output. I think I'm probably going to wait another quarter before we give you a little bit more
precision on when the bit crossover might be.
Q - `Harlan Sur, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Great, thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Steven Fox, Analyst, Cross Research LLC with Cross Research. Your line is open.
Q - `Steven Fox, Analyst, Cross Research LLC `
Thanks, good afternoon, just two questions for me. Just following on that prior question
regarding NAND cost per bits and other mix issues, can we just take that one step forward and
talk about maybe how the Storage business unit starts to recover in terms of profitability? Is there
a path to turning profitable this fiscal year?
And then secondly, can you just talk about the seasonality this year maybe versus last year in
terms of what kind of unit shipments you're seeing versus content shipments from some of your
core markets and whether it's stronger or weaker than a year ago? Thanks.
A - `Ernest E. Maddock, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President-Finance `
Sure, so let me address the question about the Storage business. We are certainly hopeful that
we can exit the year at least with a profitable note for the Storage business. I think it's dependent
on a few things. Obviously, we're in the middle of a very significant portfolio change-out, and we
have to execute on those. So far, our record has been good with respect to the client and
consumer segments, but we have some big product launches with respect to both data center
and enterprise coming up here toward the end of this calendar year and in early calendar 2017,
and those would be really pivotal to us in completing that transition. I think that, again, track
record has been good. The SSDs have been well reviewed, and we're very optimistic that our
subsequent product launches will be equally successful.
I also think it's important to keep in mind that we also are seeing the benefit of 3D in the memory
– I'm sorry, in the Mobile business unit as well. We saw that we had the Mobile percentage of our
NAND business this quarter move from the low teens essentially to the high teens as a result of
more and more quals there and the increasing importance of the MCP portfolio. So we are
seeing the benefit of that really across multiple business units.
A - `D. Mark Durcan, Chief Executive Officer & Director `Let me just add to that on the seasonality question. Q4 obviously typically is a very strong quarter
for NAND. Hard to know for sure, but our sense is that the demand picture probably has more
staying power than just the typical seasonality that you would see given the strong growth in the
end applications.
Q - `Steven Fox, Analyst, Cross Research LLC `
Thanks very much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Kevin Cassidy with Stifel. Your line is open.
Q - `Kevin E. Cassidy, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Thank you for taking my question. Your guidance for first quarter is significant increase over fourth
quarter. Can you give us a ranking of the end markets or the end products that are driving the
increase?
A - `D. Mark Durcan, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I'll take that. So obviously, as has been the case, the specialty markets, the embedded markets,
whether it's automotive, industrial, medical, probably top of the list. Within the computing and
networking segment, graphics has been quite strong. Server probably next, and then followed up
with mobile and client.
Q - `Kevin E. Cassidy, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Okay. And are you seeing a significant increase with 3D NAND versus the planar NAND?
A - `Ernest E. Maddock, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President-Finance `
In terms of...
Q - `Kevin E. Cassidy, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Growth, I'm sorry.
A - `Ernest E. Maddock, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President-Finance `
...demand?
Q - `Kevin E. Cassidy, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
No, growth. I'm sorry.
A - `D. Mark Durcan, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
It's a very quickly moving dynamic right now. So yes, we're seeing that happen real time as we sell
through the early production and move more and more of the products into the TLC format.
A - `Ernest E. Maddock, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President-Finance `
And certainly more of that opportunity is ahead of us than it is behind us given that we're just
going to hit bit crossover for 3D in this quarter. And as Mark said, we're continuing the transition,which adds cost because it suppresses output. But with more significant bit growth ahead, we
would expect the cost reduction opportunity to accelerate a little bit here throughout fiscal 2017.
Q - `Kevin E. Cassidy, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Okay, great. Congratulations on the good results.
A - `D. Mark Durcan, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from John Pitzer with Credit Suisse. Your line is open.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Good afternoon, guys. Thanks for letting me ask a question. I guess I want to go back to the cost
side of the equation, guys. I guess just given the change in the depreciation schedule for the
November quarter, I would have thought your ability to get gross margins at the high 20% range,
especially in this pricing environment, would have been fairly easy. So I'm just curious as to what
the offsets are in the November quarter. Is this all about the quals on mobile? And if it is, what do
you estimate that to be a hit to gross margins, and when might that be done?
And then, Ernie, I know you gave full-year cost targets on a per bit basis. Did you give them for
the fiscal first quarter? If you did, I missed them.
A - `D. Mark Durcan, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I think, John, actually it's really a little bit more about the lag that you typically see as pricing starts
to turn around on some of these things. Yes, there is an inventory effect relative to some of
these products that we've built up in inventory that were early production on either 20-
nanometer or 3D NAND, et cetera. As we sell through, that's a little bit of a headwind until that's
flushed out. But it's really more around as ASPs turn around, they don't turn around
instantaneously. And they didn't turn around until we were end of the quarter last quarter. So
remember, we had a pretty significant beat relative to the midpoint of our guidance last quarter,
which gives you an indication that pricing was starting to accelerate then. It takes a little while to
play out and to flush through as we see these things happen. So the trends are all in place. And I
think we're heading where you think you are – where we ought to be, but it can take a little while
to play out through the financials.
A - `Ernest E. Maddock, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President-Finance `
And I didn't provide a specific cost per bit target for F Q1.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Okay. And I guess as my follow-up, Mark, just on the Inotera acquisition, if you go back and look at
what you guys have tried to accomplish over the last seven, eight years, it's actually been to try to
mitigate the cyclicality of the industry within your financials by setting up some of these JVs.
Buying Inotera reverses that. I'm curious. Is this purely a financial decision on your part? You
mentioned in your prepared comments that this downturn troughed at much higher levels than
past downturns. So is that giving you the confidence, or is there actually a fundamental reason toown the asset? Will this allow you to ramp 1x or 1y or 1z more quickly owning Inotera? If you could
just give a justification, that would be great.
A - `D. Mark Durcan, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
There's a lot of components to it. I think you put your finger on a piece of it, which is the volatility
in this business I think we can conclude is going be less going forward. This certainly seems to
have been borne out as we move through this last cycle. It doesn't mean the cycles are gone; it
just means that the volatility is less. And so that is less of a defensive driver, so to speak.
An important thing for us in this whole picture is operational flexibility and control. As we think
about our ability to drive new technologies either into manufacturing or through transition
technologies with the Inotera assets, having ownership of that asset and the ability to mix and
match different technologies as well as potentially more value add products and capture that
value is significant. Notwithstanding the fact we had a good operating relationship with Inotera.
We believe that there is more value we can bring as sole owners than as board members and
operational partners. And at the end of the day, it gives us the ability as well to take cash flow
that's going to be generated with Inotera and deploy it across our network wherever we find that
most useful. So number of different factors playing into it, all of which I think point in the direction
that we're moving.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group with SIG. Your line is open.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
Yes, thanks for taking my question. Ernie, just going back to your CapEx for the next fiscal year, it
sounds like you're incrementally more confident with the Inotera deal. And in that context, how
should we think about the incremental CapEx requirements for Inotera in the context of your
comment that Inotera would help with free cash flow accretion? I'm just trying to reconcile
everything. And I have a follow-up.
A - `Ernest E. Maddock, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President-Finance `
Sure. So when we provided that CapEx guidance of essentially a midpoint of $5 billion net of
partner contributions, we did say it included contemplated investments from Inotera, so that's an
all-in number. And as you know, we don't break out specific CapEx by fab. So we don't plan to
start doing that now. But that $5 billion midpoint with a little range around it is inclusive of
anticipated investments at Inotera.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
Got it. Got it. Thanks for clarification. And then with the 3D NAND and a crossover with planar
NAND, should I assume that all the 3D NAND, the capacity coming on line, is TLC? Or is there still
any MLC left in the mix?
A - `Ernest E. Maddock, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President-Finance `No, the first out 3D was MLC, but we very quickly introduced TLC. And as we said in our prepared
remarks, most of our client and consumer SSDs are now out on TLC. And we're qualifying TLC
into mobile applications as well. And we will be majority TLC by the middle of fiscal 2017 here as
we go forward. So that's part of the engine of the significant bit growth that we've contemplated
and forecast.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
Okay, thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Joe Moore with Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Great, thank you. I wonder if you could talk about the decision to move to seven-year depreciable
life on DRAM. I guess that strikes me as a long time and I look at your CapEx ratio to PP&E as sort
of a third. What was the thinking behind seven years? And can you remind us the depreciation life
of the NAND equipment?
A - `Ernest E. Maddock, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President-Finance `
So the depreciation life of the NAND equipment is about five years. And really, we conducted
quite an extensive study around how long the technology transitions existed – or took in the
DRAM world, how long they were contemplated to take on a going-forward basis. We looked at
the practices of others, both competitors and partners. But really, the substance of the decision
was related to what we anticipate and what we've been saying for some time is sort of a slowing
of the technology transitions and therefore, the longer usability of that equipment as those
technology transition times change.
And the reality is there's a range of answers you come up with when you do a study like that and
much like the midpoint of a guided range, and seven years felt to us like it was not overly
aggressive, but not overly conservative, either. So you could assume that we could have gone a
year or two years on either side of that and we chose the position that we thought was
reasonable given what we know and understand about the pace of technology transition.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Okay, great. Thank you for that. And then as a follow-up, have you given or can you give an
absolute number for depreciation for either the quarter or for the fiscal year?
A - `Ernest E. Maddock, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President-Finance `
Yeah, we expect depreciation to be somewhere in the range of $4 billion for the year, give or
take.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Great, thank you very much.
A - `D. Mark Durcan, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
And, operator, I think we have time for one more question.Operator
Thank you. Our last question comes from David Wong with Wells Fargo. Your line is open.
Q - `David M. Wong, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Thanks very much. Ernie, earlier you noted that you might be able to generate cash over the –
some point in the next few quarters. Can you give us any idea what you would do with any net
cash generated? Will you be able to pay down debt? Or are there other uses for cash?
A - `Ernest E. Maddock, Chief Financial Officer & Vice President-Finance `
Certainly, first thing we're going to be focused on is actually accumulating the cash. So that's my
first priority because I have to have some of it to be able to decide what to do with it. And
certainly, at that point in time, we would certainly look at the opportunities that were available to
de-lever and we would look at those in the context of everything else that's going around. And
it's really impossible to say specifically what we would decide to do in the context of a future
that's not yet here. But I can tell you that de-levering is an important priority. And depending on
how much cash we generate, we may choose to deploy $100 million of that or so back into
CapEx, if that's the right decision, but de-levering is certainly nearest and dearest to our hearts at
the moment.
Q - `David M. Wong, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Great, thanks very much.
Operator
Thank you. This concludes today's Micron Technology Fourth Quarter 2016 Financial Release
Conference Call. You may now disconnect.