Q4 2019 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good afternoon. My name is Sherry, and I'll be your conference facilitator today. At this time, I
would like to welcome everyone to Micron's Fourth Quarter 2019 Financial Release Conference
Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers'
remarks, there will be a question-and-answer period. (Operator Instructions)
Thank you. It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host, Mr. `Farhan Ahmad, Senior Director, Investor Relations, Head of
Investor Relations. You may begin your conference.
`Farhan Ahmad, Senior Director, Investor Relations `
Thank you, and welcome to Micron's -- Micron Technology's fourth fiscal quarter 2019 financial
conference call. On the call with me today are `Sanjay Mehrotra, President and Chief Executive Officer, President and CEO, and Dave
Zinsner, Chief Financial Officer.
Today's call will be approximately 60 minutes in length. This call, including the audio and slides, is
also being webcast from our Investor Relations website at investors.micron.com. In addition, our
website contains the earnings press release and the prepared remarks filed a short while ago.
Today's discussion of financial results will be presented on a non-GAAP financial basis unless
otherwise specified. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures can be found on
our website, along with a convertible debt and capped call dilution table. As a reminder, a
webcast replay will be available on our website later today. We encourage you to monitor our
website at Micron.com throughout the quarter for the most current information on the Company,
including information on the various financial conferences that we will be attending. You can follow
us on Twitter at MicronTech.As a reminder, the matters we will be discussing today include forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual
results to differ materially from statements made today. We refer you to the documents we file
with the SEC, specifically our most recent Form 10-K and 10-Q, for a discussion of risks that may
affect our future results. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-
looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity,
performance, or achievements. We are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking
statements after today's date to conform these statements to actual results.
I'll now turn the call over to Sanjay.
`Sanjay Mehrotra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Farhan. Good afternoon. Fiscal 2019 was another solid year of execution as we
continue to transform the New Micron. Despite the challenging industry environment, we
achieved the second-best year in our history for revenue, free cash flow and earnings, which
underscores the strength of the New Micron. We improved structural profitability by further
reducing the technology gap with competitors and by strengthening our product portfolio. We
also made progress on our $10 billion share repurchase program by returning $2.7 billion to our
shareholders.
In the fiscal fourth quarter, the Micron team's strong execution resulted in financial performance
exceeding our guidance ranges. Market trends were broadly consistent with our expectations
discussed on the last earnings call. DRAM demand bounced back as the factors that impacted
calendar first half demand largely dissipated. NAND elasticity is driving robust demand growth,
causing industry inventories to improve rapidly. While the demand recovery in DRAM and NAND is
encouraging, we remain mindful of ongoing macroeconomic and trade uncertainties.
I will provide more color on our view of the market after a review of progress on our key strategic
objectives. Since 2016, the actions we have taken to reduce our cost structure, increase our mix
of high-value solutions, and enhance our customer engagement and go-to-market strategy have
significantly improved our profitability relative to our peers. In fiscal 2019, our DRAM cost per bit
declines led the industry and exceeded our internal plans, despite the headwinds from our
announced reduction in wafer starts.
In the fiscal fourth quarter, we began mass production and volume shipments of the industry's
first 1Z products, giving Micron feature size leadership for DRAM. We are also making good
progress migrating more of our production to leading-edge nodes. While we entered fiscal 2019
with more than half of our bit production on 20 nanometer or older nodes, we ended the fiscal
year with approximately three-quarters on 1X and beyond, with a meaningful portion on 1Y. As
previously announced, we are expanding cleanroom space in our Taichung, Taiwan, site to
support future node transitions of our existing wafer capacity, and we expect output from this
facility in calendar 2021.
In NAND, we continued to outpace industry cost declines during fiscal 2019. 96-layer 3D NAND is
continuing to increase as a portion of our mix. Meanwhile, we achieved our first yielding dies using
replacement gate or RG for short. This milestone further reduces the risk for our RG transition. As
a reminder, our first RG node will be 128 layers and will be used for a select set of products. We
don't expect RG to deliver meaningful cost reductions until fiscal 2021 when our second-
generation RG node is broadly deployed. Consequently, we are expecting minimal cost
reductions in NAND in fiscal 2020.Our RG production deployment approach will optimize the ROI of our NAND capital investments.
In addition, we announced the grand opening of our Singapore cleanroom expansion in August,
which will enable the transition of our existing NAND wafer capacity to future generations of 3D
NAND technology. We are continuing to make solid progress with our 3D XPoint product
development and remain on track to launch our initial products in calendar 2019.
Now turning to highlights by markets. In SSDs, the industry transition from SATA to NVMe in fiscal
2019 continued at a rapid rate. While we have been late to the NVMe market, our progress
positions us to gain share starting in fiscal 2020. For OEMs, bundling on -- for OEMs building on
strong growth last quarter, we more than tripled revenue shipments of our NVMe client SSD
sequentially with sales penetration in multiple tier 1 PC OEMs.
Our QLC-based NVMe consumer SSD was a best-selling SSD on Amazon Prime Day in North
America. Our consumer SSD segment achieved record revenue and unit shipments with bits
posting triple-digit percentage growth year-over-year, driven by our strategy to pursue channel
expansion that extends our geographical and customer reach. Price elasticity is driving an increase
in attach rates and capacities, leading to solid demand growth across client and consumer SSDs.
We are also making solid progress on advancing our roadmap of NVMe SSDs for the enterprise
and cloud markets.
In fiscal 2019, we introduced the high-performance 9300 line of NVMe products, targeting high-
end data center applications, and are looking forward to increasing adoption of this product. In
mobile, our portfolio featuring the industry's lowest-power and highest-density products is
enabling our customers to bring differentiated capabilities to the market and helping us deliver
outstanding financial performance in a challenging industry environment. In fiscal 2019, we
delivered mobile revenue that was down only 3% from 2018's record performance, despite a
significant drop in market pricing and the impact from the addition of Huawei to the Entity List.
Our mobile margins were resilient, and our managed NAND bit shipments in fiscal 2019 more
than tripled year-on-year, driven by growth of MCP and discrete NAND eMMC and UFS products.
In the fiscal fourth quarter, we started volume shipments of a new leading-edge UFS-based MCP
that uses our 1Z LPDRAM. This new UFS MCP will bring flagship-like performance and densities to
mid- and high-end smartphones. We are also leading the industry in power-efficient, high-
bandwidth LP5 DRAM, which positions us well as 5G begins to accelerate in 2020.
In data center, customer inventories for DRAM have reduced significantly, driving solid sequential
demand growth for server solutions in both cloud and enterprise markets. New processor
platforms are also creating an uptick in demand for higher-density and higher-performance
DRAM modules.
In graphics, we saw strong sequential bit growth, with increases for graphics cards and gaming
consoles, as normal buying resumed following inventory reductions in DRAM. In the PC market,
DRAM module and SSD shipments continued the growth trend from last quarter, as CPU
shortages further subsided. In automotive we continued to increase revenue year-over-year,
despite weak auto industry unit sales and a challenging DRAM industry environment. Our growth
was supported by secular content increases, our superior quality, and well-established customer
relationships. LP4 shipments in the fiscal fourth quarter were over five times higher year-over-
year, as lower-power DRAM becomes increasingly important for new Infotainment and ADAS
systems. We continue to have leading industry share in automotive.
Before talking about the market outlook, I want to provide an update on our business with
Huawei and the ongoing impact of trade uncertainties. As we noted last quarter, we startedshipping some products to Huawei that are not subject to Export Administration Regulations and
Entity List restrictions. In the fiscal fourth quarter, sales to Huawei declined sequentially and were
down meaningfully from the levels we anticipated prior to the addition of Huawei to the Entity
List.
We have applied for licenses with the Department of Commerce that would allow us to ship
additional products, but there have been no decisions on licenses to date. We see ongoing
uncertainty surrounding U.S. China trade negotiations. If the Entity List restrictions against Huawei
continue and we are unable to get licenses, we could see a worsening decline in our sales to
Huawei over the coming quarters.
Now, turning to our market outlook, which assumes that the macroeconomic environment doesn't
materially deteriorate from current levels. I'll begin with our industry outlook, and then turn to
Micron's outlook for DRAM and NAND. The DRAM and NAND industry demand growth in the
second half of calendar 2019, compared to the first half, is primarily being driven by a
normalization of inventories at most customers, and secular growth trends in various end
markets. In recent months, we have seen increased demand from customers headquartered in
mainland China, some of whom could be making strategic decisions to build higher levels of
inventory in the face of increased trade tensions between the U.S. and China, as well as Japan
and Korea.
Our view of calendar 2019 DRAM industry bit demand growth remains unchanged at mid-teens,
with supply exceeding demand due to previously discussed factors that impacted first half
calendar 2019 demand. Based on our early view of calendar 2020, we expect the industry to see
bit demand growth of high teens to 20%, above supply growth of only mid-teens, which should
help normalize supplier inventories and enable a healthy industry environment. We expect the
long-term DRAM bit demand growth CAGR to be mid-to high teens.
Turning to NAND industry outlook, demand elasticity and industry supply reductions are resulting
in improving market conditions and declining industry inventory. On the supply side, CapEx and
wafer start cuts across the industry are leading to supply reductions. A power outage at a
competitor's fab also reduced industry supply and inventory. We now expect calendar 2019
industry bit demand growth in the low to mid 40% range, which will exceed industry bit supply
growth of approximately 30%. Based on our view of calendar 2020, we estimate industry bit
demand growth of high 20%s to low 30% range, with supply growing somewhat below demand.
We believe that NAND industry margins, which are at the lowest levels in the last 10 years, should
start increasing for the rest of the year. We expect the long-term NAND bit demand growth
CAGR to be in the low 30% range.
Specific to Micron's DRAM outlook, we are seeing solid demand from customers across multiple
segments. This is improving our inventory, and we have started to see pockets of tight supply,
particularly in leadingedge nodes. However, we still have elevated inventory levels on older
nodes. As a result, we are continuing with the previously disclosed DRAM wafer start reductions
of 5%. We expect Micron's calendar 2019 bit supply growth to be slightly below industry demand
growth of mid-teens, and expect our calendar 2020 DRAM bit supply growth to be close to the
market demand growth. We also expect our DRAM cost reductions to moderate in fiscal 2020 to
high single digits.
As we have said before, the increasing complexity of more advanced DRAM nodes is resulting in
slower pace of cost declines for the industry. As our DRAM inventory improves, we are
committed to maintaining price discipline. While we are having to respond to some aggressivemarket pricing, we have started walking away from some transactions, as we look to optimize our
profitability.
Turning to Micron's NAND outlook, we expect our calendar 2019 bit growth to be slightly above
industry supply growth, and in calendar 2020, we expect Micron's bit supply growth to be
significantly below the industry demand growth as we transition a limited portion of our wafer
starts to our first-generation replacement gate node and use inventory to support customer
demand. Supply growth will also be impacted by our previously announced wafer start reductions
of approximately 10%. We are seeing some capacity tightness in our back-end manufacturing
operations due to significant increases in demand for high-capacity NAND products. This is
another datapoint of elasticity kicking in on high-value NAND solutions.
While NAND and DRAM market conditions are showing some promising signs, in order to bring
our supply in line with the market demand, we are targeting our fiscal 2020 front-end equipment
CapEx to be reduced by more than 30% from fiscal 2019. Our CapEx decision is also influenced
by macroeconomic uncertainty and low industry profitability. Our front-end CapEx outlook reflects
our strategy for limited ramp of our first RG node. While we are reducing front-end equipment
CapEx, we are spending significantly more on shell space to enable future node transition, and
also investing in a new SSD packaging facility in Penang, Malaysia. As always, we will maintain
flexibility and discipline while investing appropriately for Micron's long-term success.
I want to emphasize that our goal is to manage our DRAM and NAND bit supply growth CAGR in
line with industry demand. As we catch up on the technology and cost gaps to best-in-class
competitors in DRAM and transition to RG technology in NAND, our supply growth may fluctuate,
but we expect the medium-to-long-term growth rate of our supply to approximately equal the
rate of demand growth across both NAND and DRAM markets. We are also focused on
maximizing the ROI of our CapEx investments, and for this reason we are not emphasizing wafer
capacity growth, but instead focusing on bit growth driven by technology transitions.
In addition, some of our CapEx is dedicated to increasing our internal capacity for assembly,
packaging and test, which helps drive cost reductions without adding any bit growth and has
good ROI.
I'll now turn it over to Dave to provide our financial results and guidance.
`David Zinsner, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Sanjay. As Sanjay mentioned, Micron delivered resilient performance throughout a
challenging year for the industry, highlighted by fiscal Q4 results that exceeded our guided
ranges for revenue and earnings. As market conditions evolved during the year, we curtailed our
planned operating expenses and capital expenditures, allowing us to preserve margins and
generate healthy free cash flow. We achieved our first corporate investment grade rating,
strengthened our balance sheet, and meaningfully reduced our share count. All-in-all, fiscal 2019
was a year of stellar progress that sets Micron up for attractive growth as industry conditions
recover.
Turning to our recent financial results, total fiscal Q4 revenue was approximately $4.9 billion.
Revenue was up 2% sequentially and down 42% year-over-year. Revenue exceeded our guidance
range largely due to better-than-expected demand. Full fiscal 2019 revenue totaled $23.4 billion,
down 23% year-over-year.
Fiscal Q4 DRAM revenue was $3.1 billion, representing 63% of total revenue. DRAM revenue
increased 1% sequentially and declined 48% year-on-year. Bit shipments grew approximately 30%sequentially and in the mid-teens percent range year-on-year, as customer inventories improved
significantly. ASP declined approximately 20% sequentially. For full fiscal 2019, DRAM revenue was
$15.2 billion, down 28% from fiscal 2018 as bits grew in the low-single-digit percent range and ASP
declined approximately 30%. Fiscal Q4 NAND revenue was approximately $1.5 billion, or 31% of
total revenue. Revenue was up 5% sequentially, but declined 32% year-on-year. Bit shipments
grew in the low-to-mid-teens percent range sequentially. ASP declined in the upper-single-digit
percent range. We are starting to see supply tightness in portions of the NAND market, and
prices are beginning to increase. Full fiscal 2019 NAND revenue was $6.9 billion, down 12% from
fiscal 2018, as ASP declines of mid-40% range more than offset strong bit shipment growth.
Now turning to our revenue trends by business unit. Revenue for the Compute and Networking
Business Unit was $1.9 billion in fiscal Q4, a decline of 8% sequentially and down 56% year-over-
year. ASP declines across most segments continued to be the leading cause of lower revenue.
For the fiscal year, revenue was $10 billion, down 35% year-over-year. Revenue for the Mobile
Business Unit in fiscal Q4 was $1.4 billion, up 20% sequentially and down 26% year-over-year. Both
DRAM and NAND bits had strong growth driven by seasonality and continued content growth in
smartphones.
Our mobile business gained share in the year, driven by a stronger product portfolio. For the full
fiscal year, MBU revenue was $6.4 billion, down only 3% from fiscal 2018. Revenue for the Storage
Business Unit in fiscal Q4 was $848 million, an increase of 4% from fiscal Q3 and down 32% year-
over-year. For the fiscal year, SBU revenue was $3.8 billion, down 24% from fiscal 2018.
And finally, revenue for the Embedded Business Unit was $705 million in fiscal Q4, up 1% from
fiscal Q3 and down 24% from the prior year. For the fiscal year, EBU revenue was $3.1 billion, down
10% from fiscal 2018. The consolidated gross margin for fiscal Q4 was 30.6%, above our
guidance range due to our strong execution, improving demand and slightly better pricing. Q4
gross margins included approximately 200 basis point negative impact or approximately $100
million due to underutilization charges at IMFT.
Starting in fiscal Q1 and continuing for the foreseeable future, we expect to incur an
underutilization impact of approximately $150 million per quarter, with about half of the impact
consisting of non-cash items. Over time, as our 3D XPoint business ramps, this underutilization
impact will be mitigated, but as you can expect, it takes time to commercialize a new
breakthrough technology. Meanwhile, we will continue to look for ways to optimize our costs and
will provide updates on material progress over time. With respect to U.S. tariffs on imports from
China, with continued mitigation, we were able to contain their impact on our consolidated gross
margin in fiscal Q4 to less than 20 basis points.
Operating expenses were $797 million, and included some one-time expenses. We continue to
control our expenses tightly, and our SG&A as a percent of revenue is meaningfully lower than
our competitors. fiscal Q4 operating income was $694 million, representing 14% of revenue.
Operating margin was down 38 percentage points year-over-year and down 9 percentage points
from fiscal Q3. Our full fiscal 2019 operating income was $7.8 billion or 33% of our fiscal year
revenue.
Our fiscal Q4 effective tax rate was 8.8%. For the fiscal year, our effective tax rate was
approximately 7.3%, which included the tax benefit we recorded in fiscal Q3. Going forward, we
expect our tax rate to be mid-to-high single digits. Non-GAAP earnings per share in fiscal Q4
were $0.56, down from $1.05 in fiscal Q3 and $3.53 in the year-ago quarter. For full fiscal 2019,
our non-GAAP earnings per share were $6.35, down from $11.95 in fiscal 2018.Turning to cash flows and capital spending, we generated $2.2 billion in cash from operations in
fiscal Q4, representing 46% of revenue. For full fiscal 2019, cash from operations was $13.2 billion,
representing 56% of revenue, down from $17.4 billion or 57% of revenue in fiscal 2018. Cash flow
margins remained almost flat due to effective working capital management.
During the quarter, net capital spending, was approximately $2 billion, down from $2.2 billion in
the prior quarter. For full fiscal 2019, our net CapEx was $9.1 billion, up from $8.2 billion in fiscal
2018, but down meaningfully from the $10 billion to $11 billion plan we originally had entering fiscal
2019. We expect our fiscal 2020 net CapEx to be in the range of $7 billion to $8 billion, down
meaningfully from fiscal 2019. We expect that CapEx for buildings and back-end manufacturing
will increase significantly from last year, while the front-end equipment CapEx will decline more
than 30% year-on-year.
Looking at cash generation, we generated adjusted free cash flow of approximately $260 million
in fiscal Q4 compared to $500 million in fiscal Q3 and $3.1 billion in the year-ago quarter. Adjusted
free cash flow for fiscal 2019 was $4.1 billion, down from $9.2 billion in fiscal 2018. We received
notice for approximately $180 million of convertible note redemptions in the quarter, which will
remove approximately 4.0 million shares from our ongoing share count in fiscal Q1. For full fiscal
2019 we returned approximately $2.7 billion to shareholders in the form of buybacks,
representing 65% of free cash flow, at an average purchase price of $40.
Including these share repurchases and our convertible note redemptions, we reduced our
average diluted share count by 80 million shares in fiscal 2019, representing 7% of shares
outstanding. We remain committed to returning at least 50% of our annual free cash flow to
shareholders in the form of share repurchases in the future. Days of inventory was 131, down from
143 days in fiscal Q3. Inventory ended the quarter at $5.1 billion, increasing from $4.9 billion at the
end of fiscal Q3. We will continue to focus on reducing our days of inventory and expect to see
further reduction in fiscal Q1. As mentioned before, we are seeing pockets of tight supply in
certain parts of our business.
Our long-term normalized inventory target has increased over time to above 100 days as a result
of greater process complexity and the broadening of our product portfolio to high-value
solutions, such as SSDs that require longer assembly and test cycle time. Total cash ended the
quarter at $9.2 billion, up quarter-over-quarter, largely as a result of our $1.75 billion investment
grade debt issuance. Our total debt increased to $5.9 billion. Total liquidity ended fiscal Q4 at $13
billion. We are holding approximately $1.4 billion of liquidity for the acquisition of the IMFT joint
venture, expected in fiscal Q1, '20. This acquisition will eliminate approximately $700 million of
member debt financing and will be funded by drawing down $1.25 billion from our term loan
facility secured in fiscal Q4.
Before moving on to guidance, I want to share some expected changes to our upcoming
reporting. We continue to evaluate planned technology node transitions, capital spending, and re-
use rates for NAND equipment. Based on our preliminary assessment, we anticipate changing the
depreciable life of our NAND equipment from five to seven years beginning in fiscal Q1 '20. This
change will reduce our depreciation expense included in cost of goods sold for Q1 by
approximately $80 million, and increasing to approximately $100 million to $150 million per
quarter for the remainder of fiscal 2020. As a reminder, depreciable life for DRAM equipment is
already seven years.
Also starting in Q1, we expect to change how we report MCP revenue, which we currently include
within NAND revenue. We will begin disaggregating MCP revenue into DRAM and NAND, which
will reduce our reported NAND revenue and margins in FQ1 while increasing our DRAM revenue.We believe that this change will help improve the transparency of our DRAM and NAND
businesses.
Now turning to our financial outlook. As our portfolio strengthens and we improve our share in
high-value segments, we are seeing growing demand for both DRAM and NAND and this is
creating pockets of supply shortage, particularly in some leading-edge nodes and back-end
manufacturing. However, the market remains competitive and industry inventories continue to
adjust to economic and geopolitical uncertainties. Notwithstanding these challenges, we expect
bit shipments for both DRAM and NAND to grow in fiscal Q1, with NAND increasing more than
DRAM.
With that in mind, our non-GAAP guidance for fiscal Q1 is as follows. We expect revenue to be in
the range of $5 billion, plus or minus $200 million, gross margin to be in the range of 26.5% plus
or minus 150 basis points, and operating expenses to be approximately $780 million, plus or
minus $25 million. Based on a share count of approximately 1.13 billion fully diluted shares, we
expect EPS to be $0.46, plus or minus $0.07.
Despite a variety of industry and trade-related challenges in fiscal 2019, Micron delivered strong
financial results. At our 2018 Analyst Day, we laid out how we believed Micron was structurally
improved and able to weather the storm in even challenging periods for the industry. While we
are not out of the woods, we are proud of our execution and we have moved through out --
through the as we -- while we are not out of the woods, we are proud of our execution as we
have moved through the current cycle. We are exiting the fiscal year with a stronger product
portfolio, deeper customer relationships, and our highest liquidity and net cash position to date,
and we have also made good progress on our share buyback program. We are well-positioned to
emerge from the current cycle ready to capitalize on the secular growth trends driving our
business.
I will now turn the call over to Sanjay for concluding remarks.
`Sanjay Mehrotra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Dave. Fiscal 2019 has been a solid year of accomplishments for the New Micron, as
we continue to focus on structural improvements across a range of functions in the company, to
take our performance to new heights. While we have made dramatic progress over the last
couple of years, there is significant opportunity ahead of us to further improve our operations,
drive product cost reductions, further improve engineering execution, build on our go-to-market
strategy and initiatives, deepen customer engagements, and enhance the core competitiveness
of the Company to best-in-class levels.
As we look ahead, the long-term opportunities are exciting, and we are extremely enthusiastic
about the momentum we have established at the New Micron. On October 24th, we'll be hosting
our second annual Micron Insight event, which will bring together leaders from across the industry
to discuss how a world activated by data can transform the way we use information to enrich life,
and how memory and storage are vital to these efforts. We will be webcasting Micron Insight live
from San Francisco, and I encourage you all to tune in.
We will now open for questions.
Questions And Answers
OperatorThank you. (Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from `Mark Delaney, Analyst, Goldman Sachs with Goldman
Sachs.
Q - `Mark Delaney, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Yes, good afternoon and thanks for taking the questions. So I'm going to talk a little bit about
your customers' inventory levels. And one of the big concerns or debates in the financial
community at the moment is whether the pickup in memory volumes that I think Micron is seeing,
is that mostly being driven by fundamentals or is it just potential inventory stocking because of
some of the trade concerns? And Sanjay, I think you maybe talked about a bit of both factors in
your prepared comments and some potential inventory stock, but also inventory coming down in
some important markets like data center. So maybe you can just kind of level set and put those
things together and do you think the pickup in your business is primarily been driven by
fundamentals or how much of this is maybe some of that inventory stocking because of trade
concerns? Thank you.
A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I think certainly the pickup in business is being driven by the industry fundamentals. I would just
like to remind you that in the first half of calendar 2019 because of the inventory that the
customers has built or had built up the demand to the producers was low, yet the end market
demand for all applications continued to be robust. And now as the customers have worked
down their inventory to normal levels, the demand is coming back to the producers and as a
result, you saw in our calendar -- I mean fiscal Q4 results a strong growth in DRAM bit as well as
NAND.
And second half is the demand is back the -- customer demand is back and yes, there may be
some level of inventory build in China, due to the reasons that I mentioned by certain customers,
but I'll tell you that we do not think that that inventory build is anywhere close to the kind of
inventory build that had gone on in the second half of last year. So nowhere materially close to
that level. So overall, the industry environment in terms of demand return is certainly solid,
certainly in DRAM. There is still some supply -- excess supply with the producers, but the
inventory is improving fast. We talked about our inventory actually improving faster than what we
perhaps anticipated some time ago and our overall -- we even see some shortages in some
leading edge products, particularly on the DRAM side.
So overall we think that industry inventory at the producers is being consumed at a rapid clip, the
demand trends are back to normal levels. And especially when you look at the trends of through
next year 5G, you look at smartphone average capacities continuing to increase both for NAND
and DRAM and cloud demand drivers, continuing to be solid, new platforms, new CP
architectures being used that allow greater use and higher use of DRAM capacities as well as AI
applications driving more DRAM and NAND.
So the demand trends, when I look at 2020, I believe that the industry demand-supply
environment will be in a lot healthier place. Yes, maybe calendar Q1 may have some cyclicality, but
the industry fundamentals overall from demand-supply point of view, I think in 2020 will be in a
much healthier place.
A - `David Zinsner, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Another way to look at this and kind of back it up mathematically is if you look at the year-over-
year bit growth in the fourth quarter, it's only in the kind of 14% kind of range. So that kind ofbacks up the idea that this is really about industry fundamentals, more so than it is about stocking
inventory.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `John Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse with Credit Suisse.
Q - `John Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Yes, good afternoon, guys. Congratulations on the solid results given the macro uncertainty.
David, I guess I have several questions, just around the guided gross margins for the fiscal first
quarter. If you look at the incremental you think you're still getting from IMFT that's more than
offset by kind of the change in depreciation and yet you're still kind of getting sort of a 400 basis
point drop sequentially in gross margin on kind of flattish to up revenue. And I know you guys
don't comment about future pricing, but can you talk about other puts and takes around mix that
might be negatively impacting kind of the gross margin? And I guess given that the incremental
cost of IMFT is probably driven by you taking receipt of the whole joint venture in the month of
November, why wouldn't that hit get higher as you go into the fiscal second quarter and have it
for the full quarter?
A - `David Zinsner, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Okay. So yeah, let me kind of walk through a little bit of the puts and takes. Obviously pricing is a
factor in the expectations around gross margins for the first fiscal quarter. And of course we don't
talk necessarily about forward pricing, but the second piece is cost and as Sanjay mentioned our
cost declines for fiscal '20 in total will be kind of high single digits. That's lower than the cost
declines we got in fiscal 2019 versus fiscal 2018. And so we are seeing a slower rate of cost
declines for DRAM. And that's of course something we've indicated was coming, given the
complexities that we face as we migrate nodes. And as we talked about, obviously on the NAND
side, we're going to have very minimal cost declines as we kind of transition to replacement gate.
So those are certainly factors in that. And I would tell you that the first quarter cost declines are
very minimal.
The third piece is mix. If you look at the mix from just a move to high value solutions that of
course is positive, but what is overshadowing that is the mix of NAND and DRAM and of course
NAND has a lower gross margin than DRAM and we are -- we will see likely a higher mix of NAND
next quarter, which will affect gross margins negatively.
And then as you pointed out, there is two kind of unusual items, I guess in the quarter. One is the
change in the useful life of NAND equipment that will be positive. But more than half of that will
be offset by underutilization expenses associated with IMFT. So those are kind of all the puts and
takes of gross margins. I think it's likely that it will be a little higher from Q1 to Q2 in terms of
underutilization expenses, but it was somewhat in the noise. We might be a little bit lower than
$150 million of underutilization expense in fiscal Q1 and we might be a little higher than that in
fiscal Q2.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Mitch Steves, Analys, RBC Capital with RBC.
Q - `Mitch Steves, Analys, RBC Capital `
Hi guys. Thanks for taking my question. I just wanted to kind of poke again on the gross marginpricing getting better, but then you're talking about gross margin is going down on a higher
revenue base. So if you offset that with depreciation as well, I mean does that imply that
November quarters should be the bottom for gross margins? Are you guys implying that February
could also be down sequentially?
A - `David Zinsner, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Well, I think clearly, we're talking about NAND getting better and we are seeing the early signs in
DRAM of kind of the fundamentals getting better, demand is coming back, inventories on our
balance sheet and on the industry's balance sheets are coming down. Of course, that hasn't
gotten completely to where it needs to be. And also Sanjay mentioned in his prepared remarks
the market continues to be a bit competitive. And so we will have to see when that -- all those
things come together and supply kind of aligns with demand to drive more healthy market for --
healthier market for DRAM.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Harlan Sur, Analyst, JPMorgan with JPM.
Q - `Harlan Sur, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Good afternoon. Thank you for taking my question. On your fiscal '20 DRAM outlook for high
single-digits cost reductions versus fiscal '19, is that how we should think about your longer-term
annualized cost down profile, given the higher complexity capital intensity that you outlined or are
there some impacts from the pullback in utilizations, drawdown of your own inventories and/or
maybe a slower 1Z transition that's impacting the cost down profile as well?
A - `David Zinsner, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
We definitely have some underutilization expenses in DRAM. Certainly we have that built into our
expectations for the first fiscal quarter. It may last into the second fiscal quarter. And so that
certainly has an impact. But I would tell you that over time as complexity of these nodes goes up
and as capital intensity goes up the cost declines are going to become more challenging. So, the
high-single digit will probably not be something we can routinely do year-to-year.
A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And just to add to that, we are certainly narrowing the cost gap in terms of DRAM production cost
overall. 1Z node is a good example of Micron's leadership being the first one to introduce the 1Z
node with a smallest feature size in the industry. And the result of cost improvements that we are
making on DRAM as well as of course the high value solutions that are driving higher mix on
NAND side is major improvement, 2,500 plus basis point improvement in our EBITDA margins
versus the competition compared to the past 2016 time frame.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Mark Newman, Analyst, Bernstein with Bernstein.
Q - `Mark Newman, Analyst, Bernstein `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. You talked about inventory down quite a bit Q-on-Q and gave
[ph] some numbers on that. Do you have a little bit more breakdown on how that compares
DRAM versus NAND? And then, looking toward to the next-gen [ph] technology, you've obviously
got it's quite difficult to transition to (inaudible) demand. Can you give an update on the timing forthat, where you are on the 96 layers for your current generation in terms of (inaudible)? And
where -- can you give a little bit details on the timing for the ramp of replacement gate? Thanks
very much.
A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So Dave will comment on your inventory part of the question, but let me just address your
question on the 96 layers. As we have said before, 96 layer execution has gone very well at the
Company. In terms of yield ramp, 96 layer technology has given us the fastest yield ramp of other
-- any other NAND technologies in the past. So we are very proud of that accomplishment and 96
layer is continuing to ramp during the course of our fiscal year 2020. In fact 96 layer will be the
major driver of our NAND bit growth in fiscal year 2020.
As I mentioned in my prepared remarks with respect to replacement gate, we have seen now
functionality and yielding dies. We are certainly quite encouraged by that and continue to work on
technology and product development. In fiscal year 2020, 64 layer and 96 layer will continue to
be the workhorse technologies and our replacement gate technology of course will have a small
mix in fiscal year '20 for us as well.
Keep in mind, the first replacement gate node, which will have small production in fiscal year '20
will be a rather limited node because we'll be deploying it across select set of products. It's our
second generation node which will of course come in the subsequent fiscal year that will give us -
- position us well for the end of June the year-over-year strong cost reductions for us. But
basically the 96 layer will continue to ramp during fiscal year '20 for us.
A - `David Zinsner, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Okay. So on the inventory question, if you -- so we had 143 days of inventory in the third quarter
that came down to 131 days in the fourth fiscal quarter. If you kind of break that out between
DRAM and NAND, DRAM was meaningfully below that and NAND was meaningfully above that, I
would say in terms of days. Obviously in absolute dollars DRAM has more inventory than NAND.
I would say that was -- you got to remember there are two reasons why inventory was building
for NAND. It was building as we kind of slowed down our supply, but customers were working
down their inventory. Now we've -- the adjustments we've made to our supply both in terms of
capital spending reductions and in terms of utilization adjustments we have brought our inventory
down pretty meaningfully this quarter. We expect to bring it down again meaningfully next
quarter.
On the NAND side we have elevated levels of inventory, but that's more strategic. What we're
trying to do is, have some built up inventory in fiscal '19 that we can use in fiscal '20 to support
the RG transition because the replacement gate transition will not drive a lot of bit growth. And so
in order to support the increased demand next year we will have to utilize this inventory for that
purpose.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `C.J. Muse, Analys, Evercore with Evercore.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Analys, Evercore
Yes, good afternoon. Thanks for taking the question. I just wanted to -- on your commentary
around DRAM and undergrowing industry in calendar '19, within that, is that largely driven byhear your thoughts on that? And then as we move into calendar '20 and what are your
expectations vis-a-vis in the market for your market share? Thank you.
A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So in terms of overall debt with respect to DRAM growth in terms of revenue, I mean it has
primarily been impacted by the customer inventories that were built up last year for the first half
and our overall DRAM shipments are in line with overall the industry in this regard. And I think what
we said is that the industry demand mid teens, and our overall supply growth during the calendar
'19 to be slightly below the industry of course, as a result of some of the under-utilization actions
that we have taken. And of course, there is an impact of Huawei in terms of our overall business.
We have said before that compared to the levels that we anticipated before Huawei's placement
on the entity listing, our revenue is lower and, of course, we are very much focused on continuing
to diversify our revenue base. But, yes, I mean, the Huawei entity listing does have an effect on
some of our shipments to the customer. I mean, some of our overall shipments in the market.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Raji Gill with Needham & Co.
Q - `Rajvindra S. Gill, Analyst, Needham & Company `
Yes, thanks for taking my questions. You had mentioned that you did see some elevated
inventory levels in the lower process node. I was wondering if you could kind of elaborate on that
particular comment.
A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
This is really related to some of our overall production mix and some of the older nodes have
lower demand compared to our total supply available and therefore that's where we are primarily
running underutilization on the DRAM side. So it really is about the overall demand and this is
good inventory that will overall will get consumed over time.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities with Wells Fargo.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities `
Yeah. Thanks for taking the questions. I was wondering if you could help me parse out the CapEx
guidance a little bit more in detail. I know last quarter relative to the $9.1 billion you did for the full
year, you talked about roughly $2 billion for kind of clean room and facility kind of CapEx. Was that
the case? And I think on the basis of that, what is that kind of CapEx spend specifically embedded
into your fiscal 2020 guidance?
A - `David Zinsner, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. It was a little bit lower than the $2 billion number, but certainly a meaningful part of our
spend and you could probably parse out from what Sanjay said, we expect that number to
increase in fiscal 2020. And the opposite is, we expect the front-end equipment spend to
decrease in fiscal 2020 versus fiscal 2019. We also -- we'll obviously make another investment in
the back end and we're expecting that to be roughly similar to what we're spending in -- or what
we spend in fiscal 2019.Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Vijay Rakesh, Analyst, Mizuho Securities USA LLC with Mizuho.
Q - `Vijay Rakesh, Analyst, Mizuho Securities USA LLC `
Yeah. Hi, guys. Just wondering on the same CapEx line, I know you guys talked about CapEx
being -- equipment CapEx being down 30%. So, it looks like close to $5 billion for fiscal '20. Just
wondering what the split would be on NAND and DRAM. Thanks.
A - `David Zinsner, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
We don't tend to break that out, but I guess I would just tell you that our plan is to reduce front-
end equipment spend in both DRAM and NAND next year.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group with SIG.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group `
Yes. Thank you for taking my question. Two follow-ups. We talked about the demand trends that
are all positive, but I want to get a better assessment of how do you see data centers. There has
been some conversation in industry that data center demand is seasonal. Some argue that it is
better than seasonal. And, Sanjay, I want to get your view, how do you see the data center
demand for both SSDs and server DRAM is tracking? And in that context, I'm surprised with your
NAND bit demand projection for next year. This is well below historical trend of nearly 40%. What
do you attribute this NAND demand trend into 2020 which, in my opinion, is well below trend
line?
A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So with respect to the NAND demand trend in '20 -- calendar year 2020, I mean, just keep in
mind that in calendar 2018 the industry grew by approximately 45%, in calendar year '19, again, by
about 45% or so, low 40%s to 45%. And that then definitely, I mean, when you look at a multiyear
CAGR, I think, it does lead to calendar year '20 to be approximately in low-30%s or in that range,
high-20%s to low-30%s kind of range in terms of calendar year '20.
And I think what you have to realize is that, with such aggressive pricing decline that had occurred
in NAND over 2018 and 2019 time frame, elasticity definitely has kicked in substantially. And as we
said, pricing environment actually has started improving in NAND. And some of the average
capacity growth that you perhaps would have seen next year actually has been pulled in faster
into this year as a result of some of these aggressive price declines that have occurred and have
driven the usage of higher capacities in terms of increasing average capacities of SSDs,
increasing the attach rate of SSDs, as well as continuing to drive higher average capacities in the
smartphone market as well. So these are some of the factors that are absolutely playing an
important role in terms of our assessment that for calendar year '20 the year-over-year bit
growth will be high-20%s to low-30%s range. Again, keep in mind that we still are a few months
away from next calendar year and we, of course, will continue to assess the overall industry
demand trend, but this is our latest projection on that.
Your first question was around cloud, and let me just point out that cloud definitely demand grew
nicely for us on the DRAM side in F Q4. Strong demand increase there. And, yes, the cloudthe cloud side continue to be solid. In fact, we see cloud demand consumption, both for DRAM,
as well as for SSDs continue to be higher than the average of the respective DRAM and the
NAND industries. So overall, cloud again, new architectures, new CPU platforms that are really
enabling more channels, as well as usage of higher density of DRAMs, as well as again, as I spoke
earlier, the trend of AI applications all of this is driving greater usage of memory and storage in
cloud. So cloud, we see as absolutely strong. Cloud customers inventories have normalized and
it's back to normal levels. Other than any aspects perhaps in China, as I talked about, of maybe
some element of strategic inventory build by certain customers. But overall the cloud demand
trends are solid.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question will come from `Ambrish Srivastava, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets with BMO.
Q - `Ambrish Srivastava, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets `
Hi, thank you. I just wanted to get back to NAND for fiscal '20 and I just wanted to reconcile the
comments you've made and wanted to make sure I'm walking away with the right takeaway, is
that you have limited cost down and then you also talked about very low gross margin and then
you're also selling from already built inventory. So, what's the trade-off between all these factors
as I compare your profitability in NAND versus competition in fiscal '20?
A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So I think in fiscal '20, the main focus for us on NAND will be to continue to increase the mix of
high-value solutions. I think in mobile you have seen us increase managed NAND solutions in
terms of share gains substantially on -- and I reported in my prepared remarks on the
tremendous progress that we have made with our mobile business and most of it driven by the
progress on the managed NAND side. And we plan to continue to increase that part of the
business in fiscal year 2020.
I also spoke about SSDs. SSD was certainly a headwind in terms of share opportunities for us in
fiscal year '19 and as we now have expanded our portfolio of NVMe solutions, actually have
introduced our first NVMe solutions during fiscal year '19. Now, we can leverage those solutions to
expand our opportunities in fiscal year 2020, and we certainly look forward to gaining share and
assuming gaining share in SSD on fiscal year '20. So I think those are important pieces of our
strategy of continuing to drive healthier revenue mix of NAND in fiscal year 2020.
And, of course, we are extremely focused on cost reductions on assembly, test and non-memory
BOM as well, which are important factors, particularly when it comes to products like SSDs or
multi-chip packages, et cetera, and we are making good progress on cost reductions on non-
memory part of the BOM as well. So these are all opportunities for us in fiscal year '20. But no
question that at the guide level, our cost reduction capabilities will be overall limited in terms of
the cost reductions due to RG transition that we talked about earlier.
Operator
Thank you. And our final question will come from `Joe Moore, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Mr. Moore, your
line is open.
Q - `Joe Moore, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Yeah, hi. Can you hear me?A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
Q - `Joe Moore, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Sorry. Yeah, I wonder if you could talk about with your forecast that demand will accelerate next
year on the DRAM side, can you kind of break that down between units and content and just
generally, what's your expectation for DRAM content per smartphones and service next year.
A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I think on the smartphone side the average DRAM content if you look at it this year, it increased
by nearly 25%, slightly above 3 was the -- 3 gigabyte was the average capacity last year,
expected to be in calendar year '19 around 4. And pretty similar double-digit gains continuing. 5G,
if you look at Mobile World Congress phones that were introduced there were 8-gigabyte and 12-
gigabyte DRAM density in those phones.
So as 5G phones start selling in the marketplace, some of those phones are already introduced
in the market today in some parts of the world, and this will continue to build momentum during
calendar year '20 and the years beyond. Those phones will also require more DRAM and again
the phones are becoming more and more feature rich, more AI applications are being built into
the smartphones today and rich video and imaging capability and lot more intelligence behind all
those applications, they require more DRAM as well.
So looking at next year, we will certainly be seeing continuing average capacity increases next
year as well. In fact, in calendar year 2020. If you look at industry projections average capacity is
expected to increase by another 20% next year going to something closer to 5-gigabyte per
smartphone.
Operator
Thank you. Ladies and --
A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
But as I said before the -- as I said before, the DRAM is not only about smartphone it's other
applications related to server as well where the average content continues to increase as well as
the average content continues to increase in PCs as well where the applications such as gaming
driving higher need for more DRAM.
Operator
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for
participating. You may now all disconnect.