Q4 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good afternoon. My name is Latif, and I will be your conference facilitator today. At this time, I
would like to welcome everyone to Micron's Fourth Quarter 2021 Financial Release Conference
Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers'
remarks, there will be a question-and-answer period. (Operator Instructions) Thank you.
It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host, `Farhan Ahmad, Vice President, Investor Relations, Vice President of Investor
Relations. You may begin your conference.
`Farhan Ahmad, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, and welcome to Micron Technology's fiscal fourth quarter 2021 financial conference
call. On the call with me today are `Sanjay Mehrotra, President and Chief Executive Officer, President and CEO; and Dave Zinsner, Chief
Financial Officer. Today's call will be approximately 60 minutes in length. This call, including the
audio and slides, is also being webcast from our Investor Relations website at
investors.micron.com.
In addition, our website contains earnings press release and the prepared remarks filed a short
while ago. Today's discussion of financial results will be presented on a non-GAAP financial basis
unless otherwise specified. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures may be
found on our website. As a reminder, a webcast replay will be available on our website later
today. We encourage you to monitor our website at micron.com throughout the quarter for the
most current information on the company, including information on the various financial
conferences that we will be attending. You can follow us on Twitter at MicronTech.
As a reminder, the matters we will be discussing today include forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual
results to differ materially from the statements made today. We refer you to the documents we
file with the SEC, specifically, our most recent Form 10-K and 10-Q, for a discussion of the risks
that may affect our future results.Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are
reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, level of activity, performance, or achievements.
We are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after today's date to
conform these statements to actual results.
I'll now turn the call over to Sanjay.
`Sanjay Mehrotra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Farhan. Good afternoon, everyone. We delivered outstanding results in fiscal Q4,
achieving robust profitability and the second-highest quarterly revenue in Micron's history. Strong
execution drove healthy results across segments, including record quarterly revenue in NAND as
well as in our embedded business.
Fiscal 2021 was a year of many records for Micron. We achieved our highest-ever mobile revenue,
driven by all-time-high managed NAND revenue and MCP mix. Our embedded business had a
tremendous record-breaking year, with auto and industrial businesses both at substantial new
highs. And our Crucial branded consumer business and overall QLC mix in NAND all hit records in
fiscal 2021.
Through the year, we successfully navigated multiple obstacles brought on by the pandemic and
reached several key milestones. For the first time in Micron's history, we established technology
leadership concurrently in both DRAM and NAND. Micron's 1-alpha DRAM and 176-layer NAND are
the industry's most advanced nodes in high-volume production. And we further strengthened our
product leadership by becoming first to introduce LP5X DRAM and uMCP5 managed NAND in
mobile, and the industry's first functional safety-capable LP5 for automotive applications.
The secular demand for memory and storage, combined with Micron's focused execution and
our rock-solid balance sheet position us well to deliver strong financial performance and create
significant shareholder value in fiscal 2022 and beyond. Demonstrating our confidence in our
business trajectory, we initiated a quarterly dividend that we aim to grow over time.
Memory is at the leading edge of semiconductor manufacturing, and Micron has leadership in
both DRAM and NAND technology. This quarter, we reached mature yields in our ramp of 1-alpha
DRAM and 176-layer NAND, 20% to 30% faster than prior nodes and delivered performance and
feature improvements that will help unleash customer innovation. We believe we are several
quarters ahead of the industry in deployment of these process technologies.
Additionally, through deeper customer collaboration, we have further accelerated the time to
market for value-added solutions built using these nodes. 1-alpha and 1z DRAM nodes combined
now represent the majority of our DRAM bit production, driven by strong growth of 1-alpha
production, and by the end of the calendar year, 176-layer NAND will make up the majority of our
NAND bit production.
Looking beyond 1-alpha DRAM and 176-layer NAND, we are investing to sustain scaling in both
technologies for the next decade. Adding momentum to our years of R&D in EUV, we recently
took delivery of the industry's latest EUV system, NXE 3600, at our Boise headquarters, where
we operate one of the world's most advanced centers for semiconductor research and
development. The delivery of this tool is an important milestone toward our previously disclosed
plan of implementing EUV in high-volume manufacturing in the 2024 time frame. We expect that
the integration of EUV with our existing multi-patterning immersion lithography expertise will help
us maintain DRAM technology leadership for many years to come.In addition to being a technology leader and an innovation partner, we are uniquely positioned as
a strategic supplier to our customers. Micron is the only U.S.-based memory company, and our
strong global manufacturing network provides us with a diversified source of supply, which has
become increasingly critical to ensure that we continue to deliver product reliably to our
customers. The advantages of this unique position have been proven throughout the past 18
months, as we have successfully navigated the challenges of COVID-19 across our global
manufacturing network while maintaining continuity of supply to our customers.
Now, let us review our end markets. The demand for memory and storage has evolved
dramatically from the PC-centric era. Today, demand for memory and storage is driven from
diversified end markets that extend from data center to the intelligent edge and to a growing
diversity of user devices. As a result of growing memory and storage content per device, DRAM
and NAND now account for an ever-increasing portion of the bill of materials for our customers.
DRAM and NAND TAM share of semiconductor industry has steadily grown over the last two
decades from around 10% to approximately 30% today. The AI and 5G revolution is only in its
infancy, and as these secular growth drivers gain further traction, we expect new data-intensive
applications to continue to fuel significant increases in DRAM and NAND TAM.
In the fiscal fourth quarter, data center revenue grew sequentially and year-over-year, fueled by
secular drivers in cloud demand and a resurgence of enterprise IT investment linked to improving
economic growth. Data center has become the largest market for memory and storage, driven
by the rapid growth in cloud.
With our broadening portfolio of differentiated products across memory and storage, we are in a
strong position to drive strong growth and profitability in this important segment. We have been
engaged on DDR5 from initial specification development and are well placed to support
customer transitions to DDR5-enabled platforms starting later this calendar year.
We are also enhancing our NVMe SSD portfolio and will soon introduce PCIe Gen4 data center
SSDs with Micron-designed controllers and leveraging the full benefit of vertical integration.
These SSDs will strengthen our market position over the course of the coming quarters and years
in the fast-growing data center NVMe storage market.
Work and learn-from-anywhere trends are driving a second consecutive year of double-digit PC
unit sales growth in calendar 2021. In the fiscal fourth quarter, PC DRAM revenue was up
significantly year-over-year. We are making strong progress transitioning our PC DRAM to our 1-
alpha node, which represented a meaningful portion of our FQ4 PC bit shipments.
Client QLC SSD bit mix hit a new record and made up the majority of our client SSD bit shipments
in FQ4. Our QLC leadership enhances our bit supply capability and product profitability. We also
have continued momentum ramping 176-layer NAND products for the PC market, and we
qualified our 176-layer NAND-based Gen4 NVMe client SSDs with several PC OEMs during the
quarter.
In graphics, revenue increased sequentially and year-over-year, driven by a continuation of last
quarter's strong next-generation game console and graphics card shipments. Micron holds an
excellent position in the fast-growing graphics market, with a broad product portfolio featuring
our proprietary GDDR6X product line and deep partnerships with leading GPU suppliers.
FQ4 mobile revenue increased more than 25% year-over-year, driven by continued unit sales and
content growth. We expect overall smartphone unit sales to grow this year, with sales of over
500 million 5G mobile phones forecasted. These content-rich 5G phones feature more than 50%higher DRAM and double the NAND content than 4G phones. We expect 5G and AI to drive new
innovation in applications such as AI-optimized video capture and editing that will fuel DRAM and
NAND content growth for years to come.
Our 1-alpha LP4 16-gigabit design is now fully qualified and ramping at multiple OEMs, while our
176-layer NAND achieved its first UFS 3.1 qualifications at two OEMs.These wins demonstrate
Micron's leadership in the mobile market and our continued strength in managed NAND products,
where MCP sales surpassed $1 billion for the third straight quarter.
We are continuing to see strong demand in our edge markets, which includes automotive and
industrial IoT. We expect the automotive and industrial markets to be the fastest-growing
memory and storage markets over the next decade. As the number one player in these markets,
Micron is exceptionally well positioned to benefit from these secular growth trends.
Our automotive business delivered a fourth consecutive record quarter, driven by continued
recovery in auto manufacturing and the growth of memory and storage content driven by in-
vehicle infotainment and driver-assistance applications.
Industrial IoT revenues also set records in the fiscal fourth quarter, benefiting from the continued
growth of applications, such as point-of-sales devices, factory automation and surveillance. We
expect industrial demand trends to accelerate further as 5G speeds the adoption of data-
intensive applications powered by intelligent edge infrastructure. We are also seeing an
acceleration in our consumer IoT business, driven by rapid growth in devices, such as VR
headsets, smart exercise equipment and smart speakers.
Turning to market outlook, calendar 2021 is shaping up to be a strong year. We expect calendar
2021 industry DRAM bit demand growth to be in the low-20% range and industry NAND bit
demand growth to be in the high-30% range. Overall, our preliminary view is that calendar 2022
industry bit demand growth will be consistent with long-term industry bit demand growth CAGRs
in the mid to high-teens for DRAM and approximately 30% for NAND. We anticipate underlying
demand in calendar 2022 to be led by increasing data center server deployments, 5G mobile
shipments and continued strength in automotive and industrial markets.
Additionally, non-memory supply shortages that are constraining customer builds across various
end market segments and that are pushing out some demand should ease throughout 2022,
supporting demand growth during the year. Given prudent industry CapEx and very lean supplier
inventories, we expect healthy industry supply-demand balance and robust profitability for both
DRAM and NAND in the year.
In the near-term, our FQ1 bit shipments will decline modestly in both DRAM and NAND from very
strong levels in FQ4. Some PC customers are adjusting their memory and storage purchases due
to shortages of non-memory components that are needed to complete PC builds. We expect
this adjustment at our PC customers to be largely resolved in the coming months. We are also
seeing constraints within our supply chain for certain IC components, which will somewhat limit
our bit shipments in the near-term.
Bit shipment growth will resume in the second half of the fiscal year, and we are planning to
deliver record revenue with solid profitability in fiscal '22. Our calendar year '22 bit shipment
growth for DRAM and NAND will be in line with the industry. However, due to the strong
shipments in fiscal year '21 and our below-normal current inventory level, for fiscal year '22, our bit
shipment growth for DRAM and NAND will somewhat lag the long-term CAGR.In fiscal year '22, the continued ramp of 1-alpha and 176-layer NAND should provide us with good
front-end cost reductions. Our efforts to increase supply chain resilience and provide business
continuity to our customers will cause headwinds to our assembly and packaging costs, consistent
with the trend in the overall industry. Overall, we expect annual cost per bit reductions to be
competitive with the industry in fiscal year '22 and over the long term.
Turning to capital expenditures. We expect fiscal year '22 CapEx in the range of $11 billion to $12
billion. The year-on-year increase in CapEx is driven by our continued 176-layer NAND transition,
pilot line enablement for next-generation NAND and DRAM, and continued infrastructure and
prepayments to support the introduction of EUV. Fiscal year '22 DRAM equipment CapEx for
manufacturing will decline from fiscal year '21, as we benefit from the capital efficiency of our
mature 1-alpha node.
For fiscal year '22, our bit supply growth will be achieved through node transitions alone, as we
are a few years away from needing wafer start additions to keep up with the industry demand.
We also expect to increase fiscal year '22 R&D investment by approximately 15% from fiscal year
'21 to deliver bold product and technology innovations designed to fuel the data economy, as
well as to expand our portfolio to capitalize on opportunities, such as high-bandwidth memory
and CXL solutions.
Our leadership portfolio, product quality, supply chain agility and deep customer relationships
make us a preferred partner in many of our markets, and we are confident in our ability to
continue to create long-term, sustained profitability and returns built on that leadership.
I will now turn it over to Dave.
`David Zinsner, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Sanjay. Micron delivered excellent FQ4 results, highlighted by our second-highest
quarterly revenues, strong gross and operating margins, and our substantial positive free cash
flow. Total FQ4 revenue was approximately $8.3 billion, up 11% quarter-over-quarter and up 37%
year-over-year.
As a reminder, FQ4 of last year was a 14-week quarter and impacts our year-over-year
comparisons. FQ4 revenue growth was broad-based with solid demand and price increases in
both DRAM and NAND. Our robust growth in FQ4 contributed to strong performance in FY '21
with revenue of $27.7 billion, which was up 29% from the prior fiscal year.
FQ4 DRAM revenue was $6.1 billion, representing 74% of total revenue. DRAM revenue increased
12% sequentially and was up 39% year-over-year. Bit shipments increased in the lower-single-digit
percentage sequentially, and ASPs increased in the high-single-digit percent range quarter-over-
quarter. For the fiscal year, DRAM revenue increased 38% year-over-year to $20 billion,
representing 72% of total fiscal year revenue.
FQ4 NAND revenue was approximately $2 billion, an all-time high, and representing 24% of the
total revenue. NAND revenue increased 9% sequentially and was up 29% year-over-year. Bit
shipments increased by low-single-digit percentages sequentially, while ASPs increased in the
mid-single-digit percent range quarter-over-quarter. For the fiscal year, we achieved a new
company record for NAND revenue of $7 billion, an increase of 14% year-over-year. NAND
revenue represented 25% of our total fiscal year revenue.
Now turning to our FQ4 revenue trends by business unit. Revenue for the Compute and
Networking Business Unit was $3.8 billion, up 15% sequentially and up 26% year-over-year. Growthwas led by the data center and graphics markets. Revenue for the Mobile Business Unit was $1.9
billion, down 5% sequentially and up 29% year-over-year. Mobile demand remained healthy in the
quarter with continued momentum from the rollout of 5G. MBU revenue for fiscal '21 exceeded $7
billion and set a new record.
Revenue for the Storage Business Unit was $1.2 billion, up 19% from the prior quarter and up 32%
year-over-year. Data center SSDs had strong growth in the quarter driven by enterprise and cloud
strength. QLC shipments set a new record in the fiscal year, in terms of percentage of our NAND
shipments.
Finally, the Embedded Business Unit generated record revenue of $1.4 billion, which was up 23%
sequentially and more than doubled year-over-year. We continue to experience strong demand
across the automotive and industrial markets. For the fiscal year, EBU revenue easily exceeded $4
billion, setting a new revenue record.
The consolidated gross margin for FQ4 was 47.9%, up 500 basis points from the prior quarter.
Pricing increases across DRAM and NAND as well as strong execution in our ongoing product
portfolio transformation drove margin expansion in the quarter.
Operating expenses in FQ4 were $891 million, on the lower-end of the range we provided in last
quarter's earnings call. FQ4 operating income was $3.1 billion, resulting in an operating margin of
37%, up from 32% in FQ3 and up from 21% in the prior year.
FQ4 EBITDA was $4.7 billion, resulting in an EBITDA margin of 57.1%, compared to 53.3% in the
prior quarter and 47.4% in the prior year. For the fiscal year, total EBITDA was $14 billion, up from
$9 billion in the prior fiscal year, and represented 50.4% of revenues.
Non-GAAP earnings per share in FQ4 were $2.42, up from $1.88 in FQ3 and up from $1.08 in the
year-ago quarter. EPS included approximately $0.02 of gains from investments in our venture
arm, Micron Ventures. For the fiscal year, total EPS was $6.06, up more than 100% from the $2.83
achieved in the prior fiscal year.
Turning to cash flows and capital spending, we generated $3.9 billion in cash from operations in
FQ4, representing 47% of revenue. For the fiscal year, cash from operations totaled $12.5 billion,
up from $8.3 billion in the prior fiscal year.
Net capital spending was $2 billion during the quarter and $9.7 billion in fiscal '21. We generated
positive free cash flow of $1.9 billion in FQ4 and over $2.8 billion for the fiscal year. The increased
cash flow was driven by strong revenue growth, increased profitability and efficient working
capital management.
As Sanjay mentioned, we expect our fiscal '22 capital spending to be between $11 billion and $12
billion. Like fiscal '21, we expect our capital spending to be weighted more to the first half of the
fiscal year, which will constrain free cash flow in FQ1 and FQ2.
We do expect to generate healthy free cash flow in fiscal '22, but weighted toward the back-half
of the year. We also expect to close our Lehi fab sale within FQ1, and we will receive
approximately $900 million in proceeds from the sale.
We completed share repurchases of $1.1 billion, or approximately 13.9 million shares, in FQ4. For
the fiscal year, we repurchased $1.2 billion or approximately 15.6 million shares. From fiscal '17 to
fiscal '21, we generated over $20 billion of free cash flow. During this period, we usedapproximately $5 billion of that cash flow to retire debt and $7 billion towards buying back stock
and eliminating the dilution from convertible debt, reducing our share count by 148 million shares.
We also improved our total cash and investment position by $5.5 billion. We expect that we will
continue to generate strong free cash flow in the future, and as we discussed on our capital
return strategy call in early August, we are committed to returning more than 50% of cross-cycle
free cash flow to shareholders through a combination of buybacks and a quarterly dividend that
we expect we can grow over time.
The first dividend payment of $0.10 per share will be paid on October 18th to shareholders of
record as of October 1st. The initiation of a dividend is an important milestone that reflects the
structural transformation Micron has undergone over the last several years, and it shows our
confidence in the sustainability of our cash flow generation.
Our ending FQ4 inventory was $4.5 billion and average days for the quarter were 94 days, below
our normal range of 95 to 105 days. FQ4 finished-goods dollar inventory ended at the lowest
level since the Elpida acquisition in 2013. We ended the fiscal year with $10.5 billion of total cash
and investments and $13 billion of total liquidity. Our FQ4 total debt was $6.8 billion.
Now, turning to our outlook. End demand across our major markets remains strong. As Sanjay
mentioned, our bit shipments are expected to decline modestly in FQ1, as we normalize our
inventory position and work with PC customers as they manage through their supply chain
challenges.
And on the gross margin side, our outlook is similar to how we viewed FQ4. While we will benefit
from our node transitions on both DRAM and NAND, we will continue to see near-term headwinds
from COVID-related expenses in assembly and packaging. As a result, we expect the gross
margins in FQ1 to be largely a function of the mix.
With all these factors in mind, our non-GAAP guidance for FQ1 is as follows. We expect revenue
to be $7.65 billion, plus or minus $200 million; gross margins to be in the range of 47%, plus or
minus 100 basis points; and operating expenses to be approximately $915 million, plus or minus
$25 million. Excluding the impact of any potential new tax legislation, we expect our non-GAAP tax
rate to be approximately 10% for FQ1. Based on a share count of approximately 1.14 billion fully
diluted shares, we expect EPS to be $2.10, plus or minus $0.10.
In closing, fiscal 2021 was a year of considerable growth and success for Micron. Looking at four-
year average metrics reveals the sustained cross-cycle performance of our business. Over the
last four years, our gross margins have exceeded 40% and our operating cash flow margins have
been approximately 50%.
Despite the challenges stemming from the ongoing pandemic, we have continued to generate
significant positive free cash flow while making substantial investments to grow our business. Our
technology, product and financial position provide strong momentum as we enter the new fiscal
year.
I'll now turn it back to Sanjay.
`Sanjay Mehrotra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Dave. I would like to share a recent accomplishment that makes me especially proud
of our company. Our strong Micron culture has played a significant role in driving our results
aligned to our broader vision to transform how the world uses information to enrich life for all.Our company culture, community leadership and business performance is being recognized
globally, earning multiple industry awards and recognitions this year. This month, we were ranked
by Fortune as one of the top 20 best places to work in manufacturing and production, the only
semiconductor company to earn this recognition.
Fiscal '21 was an excellent year for Micron, as our fourth quarter results clearly demonstrate we
are delivering strong financial results. We are planning to deliver record revenues and solid
profitability in fiscal year '22. Demand for memory and storage is solid across market segments.
Industry trends like the broad integration of artificial intelligence into all computing, proliferation
of the intelligent edge, continued data center growth, and deployments of 5G networks create
new and expanding opportunities for Micron.
The importance of semiconductors to these markets is underscored by government initiatives to
invest in domestic semiconductor production, both here in the U.S. through the CHIPS Act and in
other countries around the world. We are focused on building our technology leadership to
deliver bold new solutions that offer unique value to our customers. Our business is robust, and
we are energized to seize the opportunities ahead of us at a truly exciting time in the
semiconductor industry.
We will now open for questions.
`Farhan Ahmad, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Operator, can you please open the line for questions?
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
(Operator Instructions) We have your first question from `Harlan Sur, JPMorgan with JPMorgan. Your lines
open.
Q - `Harlan Sur, JPMorgan `
Good afternoon. Thank you for taking my question. There are a lot of concerns on inventories in
all of your end markets especially PCs if given the non-memory component shortages that are
limiting notebook and desktop shipments in the second half of the year.
Can you guys just qualitatively describe customer and channel inventories in PC, server and
smartphone segments of your business and also as you normalize your inventories to the first
half of this fiscal year, do you guys anticipate normal level of inventories on your balance sheet as
you enter the second half of the fiscal year?
A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So I will have Dave comment on the second part of your question. And on your overall inventory
question. I would say that by and large inventory among our customers is in decent shape. Of
course, we talked about the PC market where due to semiconductor component shortages, our
PC customers, some of them are not able to fulfill all of their end demand and therefore they
have made some adjustments in their purchases impacting some of our demand in the near-term
into the PC market.And we think this is short-lived and over the course of next few months this will work itself out.
And on the smartphone side, of course, you know that new phone cycle, new phone launches are
coming up and this tends to be a seasonally strong quarter for new smartphone shipments as
well and while some customers made because of geopolitical considerations or through the
lessons learned during the pandemic or their own supply chain considerations or supply chain
shortages maybe having a strategy of carrying more inventory than some other customers.
Overall, the smartphone market continues to be driven by 5G transition smartphones over the
course of calendar year 2022 with 5G, increasing by 50% from the 2021 levels. And on the data
center side, of course the investment cycle is strong on the data center side and of course the
pandemic has driven a strong acceleration and digital transformation and that's certainly
extending into the cloud, cloud services, video streaming, e-commerce all of these trends.
Along with new architectures, new processors that are being introduced that actually enable
greater AI capability into the workloads and greater usage of greater attach of memory in the
servers. All of these also are creating new demands, so overall data center inventory levels also
in decent shape. So inventory in our markets today is in much better shape than it was back in the
2018 timeframe.
Again, some customers may have higher levels due to their strategic considerations and they
may choose to continue to do so in the longer term as well, given the challenges faced by the
supply chains during the pandemic as well as given geopolitical considerations. So this is what I
would like to share with you on inventory. And Dave, you can add to the second part of the
question.
A - `David Zinsner, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
So, just as a reminder, we look at our optimal level of inventory. We like to see it be a 100 plus in
terms of days, we can operate slightly below that we are definitely below the optimal level at 94
days. I'd say they'll what we never like to see it goes below 95 days. And so we think we will
make a little bit of improvement next quarter on -- in terms of days, it will probably be up a few
days, but I think it's going to kind of be still below that 100 day figure.
As we look through the year, assuming we can make some progress on inventory we think we
can get it more into the what we would call the optimal stage which is 100 to 105 days of
inventory probably going to exit the year somewhere in the 100 days of inventory as we already
talked about finished goods inventory is really where we're particularly lean and we do have to
make some progress in that space to get ourselves into a better position. But overall I'd say the
back half of the year will probably be in the optimal range.
Q - `Harlan Sur, JPMorgan `
Yeah, thank you for the insights Dave. And you mentioned in your prepared remarks seeing
constraints within your supply chain for certain IC components, which is going to limit some of
your big shipments also here in the near term. Can you just give us some examples of some of
these IC components both in DRAM and in NAND, I assume, for example, you have some NAND
controller constraints but what about in DRAM?
A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So, Harlan, you are right to note that some of the controller shortages are there with respect to
SSD and particularly impacting the data center SSD. We also have certain shortages of analog ICs
and these kind of shortages are impacting our ability to ship to the full demand level that we areseeing from the customers. And but, if we look at controllers, some of the analog ICs as well as in
general overall supply chain is running tight and we are -- we have done a great job by our supply
chain team in addressing these needs in the past and they continue to work on securing the
supply for the future and we would expect that over time this will get better.
Q - `Harlan Sur, JPMorgan `
Thank you, Sanjay.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `C. J. Muse, Evercore of Evercore. Your question
please.
Q - `C. J. Muse, Evercore `
Yes, good afternoon, thanks for taking the question. I was hoping to drill into your gross margins,
pretty impressive despite the top-line guide. So, I guess a couple parts here, first in terms of the
cost down within the November quarter, I'm assuming more DRAM than NAND can you speak to
that? Can you also speak to mix shift in the quarter? And then for all of fiscal 2022 how should we
be thinking about the type of cost downs across both DRAM and NAND? Should we think 10-plus-
percent is sustainable year-on-year for DRAM and similar type number if not higher on NAND or
how should we think about that? Thank you.
A - `David Zinsner, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Okay, so let me start with the near-term outlook. I would say the cost declines for the November
quarter are going to be pretty minimal, we obviously are getting a benefit from both our 1-alpha
node and our 176-layer node in NAND. But we are running into some cost headwinds as it relates
to the back end mostly a function of the pandemic and the disruptions that's caused to the
supply chain and so forth.
And that's actually both a NAND and a DRAM comment, quite honestly, so no specific direction
either way on DRAM and NAND. As it relates to mix, obviously, we have a range, it can go a
couple of different ways obviously, but there could be a little bit of a mix shift between DRAM and
NAND that could impact where the gross margins end up. Also by business unit, we could see
some mixed shifts within the business units which could impact our margins as well and even
down to the product level.
So, it's hard to call within a couple of hundred basis points. So that's why we gave this range. As
I've mentioned in the prepared remarks, it's pretty similar to the range we gave back is exactly
the same as we gave in the prior quarter. So we're roughly seeing things pretty similarly to what
we saw in the fourth fiscal quarter. And I agree with you, these are great gross margins, we're
pretty happy with them.
The operating margins that this generates is in mid-to-high-30s, we're expecting something
similar for the first fiscal quarter. So we think we're executing very well on the profitability side of
the business. On fiscal 2022, we do expect really good cost declines on the front-end side for
both DRAM and NAND, again a function of 1-alpha in DRAM and 176-layer in NAND. When we look
at kind of longer-term cost declines for DRAM, we see them as being mid-to-high single-digit
percent cost declines for the industry.
We think from a front-end perspective for DRAM, we'll do better than that next year. On thelayer next year will drive cost declines in that range next year as well. Obviously, Q1, Q2 will likely
have these cost headwinds as it relates to the pandemic and the supply challenges.
So those things might impact us in the first couple quarters, but hopefully over time that starts to
go away and we'll start to see the benefit also on the back end. We've made a lot of investment
on the back end to improve our cost structure and I think once we get behind us or get this
behind us I should say, as it relates to the pandemic we'll start to experience a lot of the cost
benefits that we put in place on the back end as well.
I'd also note that when we look at our cost structure today and as we are looking into next year,
all the way through the year, we think the cost reductions that we're seeing are very competitive
with the industry and the cost headwinds we're seeing are very similar to the cost headwinds that
others within the industry, not only in memory but also across the entire semiconductor space are
seeing. So, we think this sets us up for as Sanjay mentioned very good profitability for next year.
And I think that's pretty much covers it.
Q - `C. J. Muse, Evercore `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Shannon Cross, Cross Research of Cross Research. Your line is open.
Q - `Shannon Cross, Cross Research `
Thank you very much. The first question I had is with regard to pricing. Can you talk about some
of the pricing dynamics especially with the pullback in demand from the PC vendors? Are you
expecting to see any more aggressive moves from your competitors, although given your
comments on gross margin, I'm guessing the answer maybe, no.
And then my second question is just with regard to your PC OEM partners. How are you tracking
confidence that they're going to actually see the demand comes through in second half of the
year? Because I get a lot of questions from people about double ordering even just from their
end customers. So I'm just wondering if you've changed any methodology in how you're tracking,
what your partners are seeing or how you're providing guidance as you look out? Thank you.
A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So with respect to pricing, we do not provide comments on pricing. But you can look at our FQ4
results and of course we reported that both for DRAM and NAND in FQ4 pricing increased and
you are right to note that our gross margin guidance for FQ1 is strong, in fact same as Dave
earlier pointed out, as our FQ4 guidance was at the time of our June call. And as you look at and
not only just FQ1 for fiscal year 2022, we are projecting record year for the company with solid
profitability for the full year as well.
And just remember that pricing is always a function of the mix overall as well. And with respect to
your questions around PC, again as I mentioned, the PC customers have been impacted by their
own semiconductor shortages and their supply chain constraints. Their end demand, their end
user demand is very strong. In fact, they have unfulfilled backlog generally among these
customers which is quite extensive.
And you know that even in the PC industry while prices have gone up, if the customers are able
to maintain a strong backlog that speaks to the end strong demand, it really is all driven by workfrom home, learn from home, that demand acceleration that has taken place through the
pandemic will continue to support healthy environment for PC in calendar year 2022 as well.
Of course, in 2020 and 2021, PC has gone through a double-digit unit growth on a calendar year
basis. We expect that to moderate in calendar year 2022 to perhaps from flat to low single-digit
year-over-year growth in terms of PC units sold, yes, it will be a healthy market. And again, driven
by the trends such as that the economy is opening, business is opening, workers coming back
that drives a greater mix of enterprise PCs, commercial PCs.
So while some of the consumer PC such as Chromebooks maybe compared to last year, maybe
less in demand today, but the commercial PC demand is getting stronger as well. So overall PC
continues to be a healthy market and we were closely with our customers and today, they are
really constrained by their supply chain shortages and that's what is adjusting their purchases.
As I said before we believe this is going to be short-lived and we look forward to continuing to
support our customers with our products and as we highlighted our new technologies, new
products, 1-alpha transitions, PC customers are qualifying them fast and we are focused on
delivering those in calendar year 2022 as well as fiscal year 2022 time frame.
Q - `Shannon Cross, Cross Research `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs of Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs `
Hi, good afternoon. Thanks so much for taking the question. I was hoping you could provide a
little bit more context around your Fiscal 2022 CapEx guidance of $11 billion to $12 billion. If you
can kind of speak to WFE within that number for Fiscal 2022 and then differentiate between
DRAM and NAND that would be super helpful? And then just remind us what kind of bit supply
growth? Are you expecting purely from transitions in both DRAM and NAND as you think about
calendar 2022? Thank you.
A - `David Zinsner, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Okay, so, maybe as I -- I'll go through the CapEx for you. So as Sanjay mentioned and as I
reiterated, we expect CapEx to be in the $11billion to $12 billion range we were roughly a little bit
less than $10 billion, $9.7 billion in fiscal 2021. If you look at it by the elements of CapEx we are
going to invest more in pilot enablement this year last year was a relatively low year for us in
terms of pilot enablement. So that's going to be a reasonable step up in our CapEx spending.
We feel CapEx equipment in DRAM will be down you down year-over-year. We think we made a
good investment in fiscal 2021, and we don't need to invest as much in fiscal 2022, so that, that
will be down in and will actually step up pretty meaningfully in fiscal 2022 versus 2021, if you
remember, we took CapEx way down in fiscal 2020, boosted up a little bit in 2021. Now, we're up
to kind of a full investment level in 2022 to support 176-layer and that was caused because of this
transition from floating gate to replacement gate when we made kind of a pause in terms of our
CapEx investment to get the first line out at relatively minimal levels.
Back-end, we should be up a bit in back-end spend as we make, continue to make investments
on the backend to put that cost structure into better places I intimated before, we've beenmaking investments to improve our cost structure there. Clean room will be down a little
modestly. And of course, we have UV spending that also will impact our CapEx in fiscal 2022 as
well.
A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
The one other thing just to remind you. So we will be kind of like 60% of our CapEx kind of
weighted to the first half, probably 40% to the second half. So, this was similar to what we saw in
fiscal 2021 we're likely to see in fiscal 2022 which is kind of our, have it's been our typical pattern
over the last couple of years.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs `
And Dave, the transitions, you guys talked about calendar 2022 bit strong, mid-to-high-teens on
the DRAM side and approximately 30% on the NAND side in line with the industry. What portion
of that growth are you guys expecting purely from transitions to 1-alpha and 176?
A - `David Zinsner, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Forget that again. Yeah, so it's all from no transitions. We're not adding wafers. We don't see for
the foreseeable future adding wafers in either DRAM or NAND. In the next few years we might be
adding wafers in dram as Sanjay mentioned, but NAND we think we can continue with no
transitions to support the growth.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Aaron Rakers, Wells Fargo of Wells Fargo. Your question please.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Wells Fargo `
Yeah, thanks for taking a question. I wanted to ask about a little bit more about the end demand
dynamics. Particularly around the data center, I'm curious as we move forward. How are you
thinking about the bit demand profile of the data center and the server market? And what are
you seeing as far as kind of the progression of kind of the progression of memory to compute
ratio as we move forward to next generation CPU? I'm just curious to how you're rolling forward
the expectations over the next year and that growth profile from a bit perspective?
A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Within the data center, both for DRAM and NAND demand trends would be strong. In fact data
center today have become the largest market for DRAM and NAND and will continue to grow
faster than the average of the industry, both for NAND and DRAM in the foreseeable future as
well.
So it's really being driven by the trend of AI, driving greater need for memory in addressing data
intensive workloads, the BOM is going from about the memory and storage part of the BOM in
the servers, in data centers is going from about 30% few years ago to around 40% now and
going to 50% in few years' time frame as well. And new architectures, new processors are
enabling more cores. And there are more course means more memory attached per core,
therefore greater gigabytes per server for DRAM as well as for NAND. DDR5 is a transition thatwill be occurring over the course of next couple of years as well as new CPUs get launched into
production and DDR5 is a higher bandwidth solution. It of course enables more value higher
performance in the applications.
So that adoption will be going on and over the course of the years, of course, CXL and HBM
these are ultra-bandwidth solutions, these will also be continuing to grow in the data center
space. So average content per server for both DRAM and SSD will also be growing over 20% on a
CAGR basis in each of these applications. So strong opportunity ahead and Micron is very well
placed with respect to our own product portfolio in terms of SSD is displacing HDDs in terms of
us providing higher density memory modules for servers and data center applications.
So as cloud gets bigger, the data center market gets bigger for us and we are very well
positioned and this is an area we are focused on and continue to focus on expanding our product
portfolio particularly on the side of the data center SSDs. So we look at this as a strong growth
opportunity for the industry as well as for Micron.
The value that memory and storage solutions providing in the space is really critical for the
services that our cloud customers are providing and just keep in mind that enterprise as well
while it grows at a lower rate compared to the cloud we are seeing a resurgence in enterprise
applications as well driving for overall healthy demand trends in data center in calendar year
2022, fiscal year 2022, as well as beyond.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Wells Fargo `
And then as a quick follow-up. Dave I'm just curious as you start to know this last quarter
implement some share repurchases. How do you think about the liquidity on the balance sheet or
managing the company from a cash on hand perspective versus continuing to lean more in on
share repurchase? How much cash you need operationally to comfortably run the company?
A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So we roughly are holding about mid-30s as a percent of revenue in terms of liquidity, but $2.5
billion of that liquidity is our unused revolver, so cash is obviously less than that. We're obviously
have more liquidity than we need which of course is a good opportunity as it relates to the
buyback.
As I mentioned, we're also going to receive $900 million from the sale of our Lehi fab that also
can be utilized for returns to shareholders and we're expecting healthy free cash flow in fiscal
2022 as well. And so we'll be able to leverage that. We've committed to return at least 50% of it
in the form of dividend and buyback, mostly in buyback. And we could, obviously go higher than
that. Our authorized plan, we still have $6 billion left in our authorized plan for repurchases and if
we see the stock be weak which of course is how we viewed it in the fourth quarter, we'll be
aggressive about buying back stock.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Wells Fargo `
Perfect. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Joe Moore, Morgan Stanley of Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Joe Moore, Morgan Stanley `Great, thank you. I wonder if you could address what transitions going on in both DRAM and
NAND to 1-alpha and RGQ. Are there any issues that creates from a mix standpoint in terms of, in
terms like there's a quite bit of demand for the older products, where are you in terms of getting
qualified and maneuver products, just how is that affecting you guys?
A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Actually we are doing very well. With respect to ramping up these new nodes in production, right
on our plan, in fact in terms of yields ahead of our plans, I highlighted that the yields in these 176-
layer NAND as well as 1-alpha DRAM have ramped 20% to 30% faster than our prior 1z generation
node and the prior FG node, the last FG node.
So, and customer qualifications actually are going very well with these nodes as well as I
mentioned earlier that we are already shipping our 1-alpha in the PC space as well as broadening
its shipments to other parts of the markets as well. In fact, customers are working closely with us
in qualifying these products. One of our 176-layer NAND based mobile product went from just the
introduction to 1 million unit shipments in the record time, fastest RAM in the history of the
company.
So overall these nodes in production as well as in terms of deployment in the marketplace are
doing very well for us. And of course this is all baked into our guidance that we have provided in
terms of our revenue as well as our cost expectations.
Q - `Joe Moore, Morgan Stanley `
Okay. Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `John Pitzer, Credit Suisse of Credit Suisse. Your line is open.
Q - `John Pitzer, Credit Suisse `
Yeah, thanks guys. Thanks for letting us ask questions. Congratulations on the solid execution.
Sanjay, you sort of characterize in the current environment as relatively short-lived, are we
supposed to read into that as we go into the February quarter your business might normally kind
of buck normal seasonal headwinds. And I guess importantly upturn to date this memory cycle
has been very different than prior memory cycles, typically you have sort of eight quarters of
unabated ASP growth and margin expansion, we're kind of at least plateauing here three
quarters into it, what's different about this cycle, and I guess what makes you confident this is just
a pause and not something more nefarious?
A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So with respect to the comment on the short-lived just to be clear, what I was mentioning was
that with respect to PC part of the market where our customers some of our customers in the PC
market have experienced semiconductor shortages impacting their decisions on purchases of
memory that's what I was mentioning short-lived because their end user demand on PCs is still
very strong and lot of unmet demand that actually stretches the demand over time and make the
demand longer stronger for longer.
But my comment regarding short-lived and addressing it in the next few months was related to
the PC part of the market. And outside of that in other markets, as we discussed earlier we see
strong demand trends, strong end-user demand trends and of course, the supply chainshortages that are being experienced in PC are also being experienced in other parts of our
markets as well by our customers, but of course, different customers are handing them in overall
different fashion.
But the underlying demand trends driven by AI and 5G from data center to the intelligent edge,
to the user devices are strong, they are secular in nature, COVID further accelerated it.
Semiconductor supply chain shortages are only stretching that demand out as because some of
the demand gets pushed out. So as I said, making those demand growth drivers actually stronger
for longer as well. So you can call it pent-up demand but that's what I'm referring to.
So on the demand side, things are here overall strong. On the supply chain aspects, of course,
this is something that the lead time in the semiconductors is long and this will take several
quarters to continue to improve parts of the semiconductor supply chain have already seen
improvements they have -- our expectation is that these will continue to improve as well over the
course of the coming quarters.
And also keep in mind that our industry, the memory industry over the course of last couple of
years has tapped into the inventory to ship beyond the supply growth and this is a phenomena
that has occurred across the industry certainly you have seen that how Micron has brought its
inventory to the leanest level in many years, in fact below our target inventory levels.
So this is something that is common to all suppliers in the memory industry and as we look ahead
the supply growth will not only have to meet the customer requirements, but it will also have to
replenish the inventory that has been taken to such low levels, inventory has to be replenished in
order to make sure that we are able to service our customers and meet their demands
requirements which from time-to-time change. So, these are all factors as well, very lean levels of
inventory by the suppliers as well as need to replenish that inventory will drive for a healthy
demand-supply balance in calendar year 2022 timeframe as well.
So, yes, some of this, in terms of our own supply chain shortages and some, that are being
experienced by our customers, we expect to be addressed over the course of time and some of
these shortages on the semiconductor ecosystem may take through 2022 time-frame by the end
of 2022 maybe some of them will be lead.
However, we expect them to continue to be improving through the course of time all the way
through calendar year 2022, but the demand dynamics of the underlying strong drivers and the
supply dynamics that I discussed, including the prudent CapEx investments that have gone on in
the industry and the lean supply all of this will lead to healthy supply demand involvement in the
industry.
So it's really the combination of the demand drivers and their suppliers -- supply capabilities and
shipment capabilities that combination I think really sets us up well as an industry for revenue
growth and strong profitability in 2022, and of course, we have projected based on our
expectations, that we will have record revenue in fiscal year 2022 and solid profitability as well.
Q - `John Pitzer, Credit Suisse `
Sanjay, those inventory comments were very helpful. I'm just kind of curious as a quick follow on
your guidance for bits to be down in the November quarter. How much is that a conscious
decision by you to hold bits off the market to help maybe cushion pricing and how much of that is
just be driven by there's no demand for those bits and that's why bits is down.
A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, President and Chief Executive Officer `Well again, I think keep in mind that our inventory is very lean, it is at the leanest level and below
our target levels and that is impacting some of our ability to meet the demand as well.
And overall our projection of bids with respect to FQ1 is really a function of our own supply chain
capabilities in terms of where our inventory is and what we can ship at this point to the
customers, certainly impacted by some of the components shortages, non-memory components
shortages that we are seeing in the marketplace as well and our assessment of overall demand.
And the main thing there really is around the PC where the some of the demand is impacted but
overall when you look at our guidance for FQ1 which takes into account any aspects of seasonality
as well, but the guidance for FQ1 at its midpoint is about 32%, 33% higher than the same quarter
last year. So our inventory capability is also overall impacting some of the ability for our customers
in terms of what we can ship.
Q - `John Pitzer, Credit Suisse `
Perfect. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our last question comes from the line of `Timothy Arcuri, UBS of UBS. Your line is open.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, UBS `
Thanks a lot. Appreciate that. Dave. I guess I had a question on gross margin, I wanted to go back
to a question asked earlier. It's down only 100 basis points basis points on your guidance are like
8% down revenue quarter and it sounds like bits are only down modestly in both DRAM and
NAND. So it sounds like the delta is probably pricing I would think more on the DRAM side.
And then, somebody asked you about costs and you said well costs aren't coming down very
much. So I guess I'm trying to figure out how gross margin is so good. Is this going back to some
of the mix comments that you made last quarter? It seems like a more sustainable trend that
maybe people are missing. So I'm wondering if you can kind of put that for us. Thanks.
A - `David Zinsner, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, sure Tim. Yeah, so cost declines are going to be relatively muted, remember that. There
will be some mix changes that might impact gross margins to bring it down somewhere within the
range that we gave. Obviously the rest is a function of pricing and you have to infer what you can
out of pricing. Obviously, if mix is the predominant factor in driving gross margins, pricing and cost
will not be major factors in driving gross margins. Maybe, that's the best way to say it.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, UBS `
Got it. Okay, and then, I guess, just last thing. So, just on the cost curve. So you reached, you said
you reached production crossover on 176 and on 1-alpha and 1z. So how much, like what's the lag
effect in terms of when that really starts to bend the cost curve in a favorable direction given that
you've hit production crossover on those things? Thanks.
A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, well to be clear 1-alpha and 1z, we hit crossover 176 we hit at the end of the year. They're
already met by the way benefiting us from a cost perspective. It's hard to see it, maybe as muchjust because we're getting a little bit impacted obviously on the back end which is impacting the
cost declines.
But next year we do anticipate that both of them will drive good cost reductions for us on the
front-end side. So they will be good notes for us in terms of cost structure and I think we'll see
that from a front-end perspective every quarter.
Again, I think the first couple of quarters it may not be as noticeable in our cost per bit
calculations because of this more of a headwind on the backend side of the cost structure but
after we get behind that, I think you'll see that show up on the cost per bit basis as well.
The only other factor will obviously be mix as well and we're going to drive like, heck, to get our
mix to be more to be a richer mix of higher value products and which is always our goal and of
course with higher value products you get higher cost but higher profitability, higher gross margin.
So that's a good strategy, but that also kind of distorts the picture and will distort the picture over
the course of the year as well.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, UBS `
Perfect. Awesome. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating, you may now
disconnect.