Q4 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Thank you for standing by and welcome to Micron's Post-Earnings Analyst Call. At this time, all
participants are in listen-only mode. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-
and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, today's program is being recorded.
And now I'd like to introduce your host for today's program, `Satya Kumar, Corporate Vice President, Investor Relations and Treasury, Investor Relations.
Please go ahead, sir.
`Satya Kumar, Corporate Vice President, Investor Relations and Treasury `
Yes, thanks, Jonathan. And thank you, and welcome to Micron Technologies' fiscal fourth quarter
2024 post-earnings analyst call. On the call with me today are `Sumit Sadana, Executive Vice President and Chief Business Officer, Micron's Chief
Business Officer; `Manish Bhatia, Executive Vice President, Global Operations, EVP of Global Operations; and `Mark Murphy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, our CFO.
As a reminder, the matters we're discussing today include forward-looking statements regarding
market demand and supply, market trends and drivers, and our expected results and guidance in
other matters. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may
cause actual results to differ materially from statements made today. We refer you to documents
that we have filed with the SEC, including our most recent Form 10-Q and upcoming Form 10-K for
a discussion of risks that may affect our results. Although we believe that the expectations
reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results,
levels of activity, performance, and achievements. We are under no duty to update any of the
forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results.
We can now open the call up to Q&A.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)Certainly. And our first question comes from the line of `Karl Ackerman, BNP from BNP. Your question,
please.
Q - `Karl Ackerman, BNP `
Yes, thank you. Two questions, if I may. First, from a demand perspective, you indicated that
server will continue to become a growing area of revenue growth as PC and smartphone
demand remains mixed near-term. I was curious if you could discuss your assumptions for server
unit growth in fiscal '25. And as you address that question, is your high-capacity DRAM DIMMs,
such as 128-gigabyte, only used in AI servers, or is it balanced across traditional servers that you
indicated are going through a product cycle refresh?
A - `Sumit Sadana, Executive Vice President and Chief Business Officer `
Yes. In terms of -- Karl, in terms of the server mix, we do expect that the traditional servers will
continue to improve in terms of the tone of the demand and will grow because the applications
that -- and the software that IT departments across large companies have been running, that
software deployment continues. You can see the growth in the application software industry. So
general purpose server growth can be compressed only so much, has been compressed quite a
bit over the last couple of years. So we do expect this year there will be some modest unit
growth in general purpose servers and it'll continue into next year. And then of course the growth
in AI servers is expected to be strong this year, strong next year. We don't see any kind of change
in that expectation that we have provided over the last couple of quarters.
For 2025, definitely that momentum in AI continues. And of course we have a lot of improvement
in our competitive positioning in the server arena. We have spoken extensively about that. We
have HBM growth in AI servers. Of course, we have high-cap DIMMs that you mentioned. These
128-gigabyte DIMMs do get used in both AI servers as well as traditional servers. But
predominantly they are used in AI servers, because they are more expensive on a per-bit basis
than 64-gigabyte DIMMs.Consequently, they tend to get used more in AI servers, both on the
training as well as inferencing side. And we expect that to continue.
Q - `Karl Ackerman, BNP `
Thank you. I appreciate that. If I could sneak in one more. I would just hoping you could clarify your
comments on inventory. Obviously inventory rose $300 million as you maintain discipline around
supply. Are you suggesting that fiscal Q4 remains the peak dollar value of inventory as PC and
smartphone demand begins to improve in the first half of the year? Thank you.
A - `Mark Murphy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, Carl, it's Mark. We don't typically give dollar estimates, because clearly what happens with
our forecast where modulating builds, and building, we have raw materials and WIP and so forth.
Our -- so we tend to focus on providing you a DIO number. We did think that on a dollar and DIO
basis, it would be elevated going into '25. And what we will see, we believe, is inventory days
improving through '25. And particularly in the second half of our fiscal year, as our fiscal year is
more second half weighted on volumes. Now, of course, the business is getting larger. So on a
dollar basis, there won't be the same degree of change. But on the DIO, we do see
improvement through the year, particularly in the back half of the year.
Q - `Karl Ackerman, BNP `
Thank you.Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of `Harlan Sur, JP Morgan from JPMorgan. Your
question, please.
Q - `Harlan Sur, JP Morgan `
Yes. Hey, good afternoon, and congrats on the strong overall operational execution. On the
better DRAM bit shipment outlook in November up sequentially versus prior view of flat to up
slightly, how much of that is better than expected yield improvements in HBM, right? Because we
know your AI customers are supply constrained on HBM3E. So any better yield and resulting
supply unlock would be consumed right away, right? So as part of the better bit shipment outlook
this quarter due to better HBM supply unlock versus your prior expectations?
A - `Manish Bhatia, Executive Vice President, Global Operations `
Maybe I'll answer Harlan just on the HBM ramp, and then Sumit, you can answer on some of the
other drivers on -- of the guidance for DRAM. But our yield ramp is continuing to be strong. We
feel good about where we are with our yields on HBM. We were able to achieve our goal for
fiscal Q4, and in terms of shipping several hundred million dollars worth of revenue, and we said
that these were both quarters of Q3 and F Q4 were at gross margins that were above our -- the
rest of the DRAM products. So we feel like we've executed well on this ramp and we continue to
look forward to being able to support this multi-billion dollar business opportunity for us in fiscal
year '25. So we feel good about where we are with HBM, and I'll let Sumit talk about some of the
other demand drivers of the -- strengthened since our last public comments at some
conferences earlier this year.
A - `Sumit Sadana, Executive Vice President and Chief Business Officer `
Yes, thanks, Manish. So in terms of demand, definitely the strength in the data center is driving
upside to what we had prior communicated on the F Q1 trajectory on DRAM shipments and we
continue to see really strong demand from the data center. The demand is coming from both the
cloud and enterprise AI servers as well as a traditional server origin.
Q - `Harlan Sur, JP Morgan `
Okay. Perfect. And then maybe just to follow-up, there's been so much noise in the market
around excess supply for more lagging-edge DDR4 DRAM. I mean, the Micron team, as a part of
your CapEx capacity optimization initiatives over the past 12 months, has really been focused right
on converting lagging-edge capacity to leading-edge capacity. On top of that, the team has been
focused on sort of more value-added solutions, right? So I assume that all of this is translated to
less DDR4 output as well, but can you guys just level set us like what percentage of your DRAM
bit shipments are DDR4 today? And where do you expect that mix to be exiting this calendar
year?
A - `Sumit Sadana, Executive Vice President and Chief Business Officer `
Yes. So we don't provide percent of bits that are DDR4 or DDR5, but I can just provide some
color that DDR4 shipments continue to fall as a percent of our overall DRAM bit shipments over
the last year, and looking ahead, will again fall into next year, because more-and-more of our mix
is shifting towards DDR5 over time. It's shifting towards LP5 that we are now shipping to the data
center. We had mentioned that Micron is a pioneer in use of low-power DRAM in the data center.So LP5 in the data center itself is going to become a very significant product category for us and
we are leadership in the industry. It's a very important product opportunity for us. So when we
drive more of the shipments there as well, it further reduces the mix of DDR4 and LP4 as part of
the overall number. And then, of course, we have mentioned to you multiple times about HBM
mix increasing every quarter, and getting to fairly high levels of our mix. And when we think about
the overall bit mix of HBM, and then the -- over 3 to 1 trade ratio on the wafer mix, you can
imagine that that also constrains the overall mix of the wafers that are going towards DDR4 and
other lagging technology products.
A - `Manish Bhatia, Executive Vice President, Global Operations `
And (Multiple Speakers) --
Q - `Harlan Sur, JP Morgan `
I appreciate --
A - `Manish Bhatia, Executive Vice President, Global Operations `
Yes. And just to your question on the transitions and what we've been doing, we've talked about.
And I think I've mentioned in the past that our one beta node is actually optimized for DDR5 and
LP5.
Q - `Harlan Sur, JP Morgan `
Yes.
A - `Manish Bhatia, Executive Vice President, Global Operations `
Also has HBM on it as well. So as we've been converting to one beta, and we said even in the
prepared remarks that we're continuing to increase our mix of one beta as we move forward
here in fiscal '25. So you can kind of see that that is supportive of the comments Sumit made in
terms of those high value applications, DDR5 --
Q - `Harlan Sur, JP Morgan `
Yes.
A - `Manish Bhatia, Executive Vice President, Global Operations `
-- LP5, HBM and our moving -- growing in our supply capability to serve those markets.
Q - `Harlan Sur, JP Morgan `
Yes. I appreciate the color. Thank you.
A - `Mark Murphy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. And I would -- Harlan, maybe just to add, our inventory values, most of that is leading edge.
So as defined -- as we've defined it. So that, through the year, we need that inventory to help
with that transition that Manish mentioned as we bridge to increasing one beta capacity.
Q - `Harlan Sur, JP Morgan `
I appreciate that. Thank you, guys.Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of `Aaron Rakers, Wells Fargo from Wells Fargo. Your
question, please.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Wells Fargo `
Yes. Thank you for taking the question. Just building on the prior question from Harlan, we've
talked a lot about the industry, about the trade ratio, the 3 to 1. As you guys move to the 12-high
stack, and you talk about the confidence moving towards HBM4 and 4E, I'm curious about how
you see the evolution of that trade ratio? Do you think it actually, does it ever go down because
yields improve, or is there a propensity to see that maybe even increase as we think about HBM4
and beyond? I'm curious as to how that's evolved, how you've thought about that, and I have a
quick follow-up as well.
A - `Manish Bhatia, Executive Vice President, Global Operations `
Sure. Sure, Aaron. So we have talked about how HBM3E will have a 3 to 1 trade ratio, and that is
made up of primarily factors of the die size growth, HBM die size is larger than standard products
in the same node in order to be able to provide the high bandwidth capability and performance
capability that HBM -- that defines HBM. And we have -- and also based on the yields in the
throughout the process and in particular the assembly process. So you can assume that the 12-
high will have maybe a slightly higher trade ratio than 8-high.
And we've said also that as we move towards HBM4, we see that trade ratio increase as well. We
haven't really commented beyond that, but you can kind of imagine that as the performance gap
between the HBM standard at the time and the standard products of LP and DDR, as the
performance gap between those widens, then that's what's the biggest driver in terms of the
trade ratio, because the -- more and more of the die size is dedicated to providing high
bandwidth capability on the die that's differentiated in HBM versus standard DDR and LP
products.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Wells Fargo `
Yes, that's very helpful. And then it's just a quick follow-up. I know you've given some framework
around CapEx and the guidance for the first fiscal quarter. I'm just curious Mark, as we think about
the CapEx trajectory, is there things with as you look forward that make CapEx more back-half
weighted relative to past years, any kind of trajectory of how you're thinking about the CapEx
spend relative to what we've seen the last few years as far as the cadence through the fiscal
year?
A - `Mark Murphy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
No, Aaron, at this time, we've given quite a bit on CapEx for this fiscal year '25. We indicated that
would be up meaningfully. We gave $3.5 billion for the first quarter. We've given that we expect a
full year estimate of mid 30-ish percent of revenue. So we'll provide more through the year. We
can provide a bit more color on the nature of that CapEx. I mean, the overwhelming majority in
'25 is a support HBM. CapEx as well as facility construction, backend, and R&D. WFE was down in
both '22 to '23, then down again in '24, or down from '22 to '23, then down again in '24. We do
expect WFE to be up a bit, increase in '25, but we'll remain disciplined on WFE. And just to
manage overall supply growth maintain stable bit share, as we say.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Wells Fargo `Yes. Thanks, Mark.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of `Chris Caso, Wolfe Research from Wolfe Research. Your
question, please.
Q - `Chris Caso, Wolfe Research `
Yes. Thank you. Good evening. The first question is about any potential impact from some of the
China capacity that we've had added -- we've seen added, and naturally that's on the lower end
of the market, and you've said that you are -- it's becoming a smaller percentage of your
business, but is that causing some disruption in what you're seeing now, and is that having any
meaningful impact for you now? And then perhaps if you -- if that becomes a smaller part of
revenue next year, does it become a smaller impact if there is any impact now?
A - `Sumit Sadana, Executive Vice President and Chief Business Officer `
Yes, Chris, so in terms of China supply, yes, there has been China supply in the market. It's
primarily limited to China-oriented, China-exported customers who are using some of that supply
or attempting to use it, and generally focused on the product categories that have lower
performance associated with them. So DDR4, LP4, on the DRAM side, and some of the lower
end products on the NAND side, especially in mobile and consumer SSD type of product
categories.
Our focus has been to really have flat share on a global basis for DRAM and NAND, and within
that, focus on the higher profit pools of the industry, and we have made significant progress on
that strategy, and you can see that in action now, because we are in the midst of what is the best
product cycle that we have had in the history of Micron. We are gaining share in all of the big, high
profit portions of the product portfolio of the industry. We have HBM share gains happening,
really robust share in high-cap DIMMS, pioneer and leaders in LP5 in the data center, data center
SSDs at record share levels. So you can see how the portion of the business that's exposed to
those kinds of trends in China are really becoming smaller as a percent of our revenue over time.
Q - `Chris Caso, Wolfe Research `
Right. That's helpful, thank you. I guess as a follow-up, just kind of wrapping up all your CapEx
comments, and you provided a lot of detail, obviously, but it is -- I guess what you've said in the
past is basically that the amount of bit growth, or the CapEx that's oriented towards bit growth is
actually really small, that this is mainly technology transitions, and as you migrate out to the next
nodes, that that you're, I guess in some cases in the past, you've actually been reducing capacity
on that. Is the view as you go into '25 that there's no meaningful increase in bit capacity even as
you migrate to some of these more advanced nodes in support of HBM?
A - `Manish Bhatia, Executive Vice President, Global Operations `
So Chris, we had talked about in the last few calls and throughout fiscal '24 about this capital
efficient approach that we were taking to continuing technology conversions. For example,
previous question, trying to convert more towards one beta, which was a D5 and LP5 optimized
node from older nodes in an efficient way where we utilize some of the equipment that was for
the prior nodes and reduce wafer capacity structurally. So I think that's sort of what you're
referring to.Net, we do get bit growth capability still, because there is still bit growth capability provided by
the new technology. But it's not as much as it would have been if we had maintained the same
wafer capacity, right? So that's sort of the put and take. As the wafer capacity comes down, the
technology, new technology provides more bit growth and net, we still do get some, get some --
get bit growth. It's just not as much as it would have been.
And we believe this is something that's there throughout the industry, not just us, but both DRAM
and NAND have had structural wafer capacity reductions in the industry since peak levels in 2022.
And we're still going to be growing bit share long-term in line with the demand that we see and
taking into account things like the HBM trade ratio, which it makes it more difficult to sort of a
headwind to bit growth, because as the mix of wafers moving towards HBM grows the bit
capability for the -- for given amount of wafer capacity is lower.
Q - `Chris Caso, Wolfe Research `
All right. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of `Harsh Kumar, Piper Sandler from Piper Sandler. Your
question, please.
Q - `Harsh Kumar, Piper Sandler `
Yes, hey guys, first of all, congratulations. It seems like you guys are doing a good job with the
turn in the cycle. Maybe a question for Sumit or Mark. I wanted to understand your visibility,
wanted to just, we get this question a lot from our investors, wanted to kind of understand
maybe the dynamics of a typical contract, how long it is, whether it's for a particular generation or
even beyond, or if you don't want to get that specific, maybe you could talk about your design
engagements with your larger customer, the handful that make GPUs. What kind of visibility do
you have either with the contracts for supply or even your design contracts, and then I had a
follow-up.
A - `Sumit Sadana, Executive Vice President and Chief Business Officer `
Yes. So in terms of the kind of agreements that we do with customers on this front, we have a
couple of different types. We obviously -- when we do LTAs, or long-term agreements, they are
focused on the next calendar year, typically. And so it goes January to December of 2025, in this
case. And we tend to have visibility to the breakdown of bits in DRAM and NAND by quarter.
Typically, we work with our customers to figure out what kind of products they are in advance.
And we get an understanding of that based on the product type, what kind of node these bits
are going to be manufactured in. So we can translate that to our manufacturing operations
demand signal.
Now, when it comes to HBM, so by the way, before we talk about HBM, so these tend to be
mainly volume agreements that get negotiated for price on a monthly or quarterly basis,
depending on the customer. And that pricing gets negotiated over time as we go through the
fiscal and calendar year.
When it comes to HBM, the agreements are different, and the terms are different. The visibility is
longer. And we tend to have -- these agreements do have pricing already concluded for all of
calendar '24 and '25. And the thing that is obviously different for HBM and also for LP DRAM that's
going into the data center is we have very deep engagements with our customers on their R&D.The roadmap that they're working on, whether it's GPUs or ASIC accelerators that they're
designing, requires multi-year outlook on the roadmap, requires alignment on specs, alignment
on features and functionality.
When it comes to LP, what kind of capability on the RAS site they need, reliability, availability, and
serviceability that we design in and lead the industry on that. So these are all multi-year
engagements on the R&D front, and that is what gives us the confidence when we make the
statements that we feel we'll have leadership in HBM4 and HBM4E as well.
And as it gets to 4E, then we even talk to them about customization that is going to be
happening in 4E where certain kinds of IP a customer may want to embed in our HBM product,
and then it becomes very different than a regular standard product. And when it becomes
different than a standard product, then it comes with very different terms in terms of the business
arrangement that we have, and that is part of what we say that this growth of the data center,
ultimately growth of AI is going to create opportunities to transform the business model of the
industry over time as well. So that's sort of a window into how those engagements happen.
Q - `Harsh Kumar, Piper Sandler `
This is super helpful. So another one is a follow-up. Another one that we get is there's this fear
that we hear from some of our clients and investors that the third competitor will suddenly wake
up and just get into the game. I suspect from what you're saying, it's not that easy that this
customer, the third customer, would have to get in line, get some share, and you would have your
own share contracted out. So you're probably not likely to get surprised. Am I mistaken in this
assumption?
A - `Sumit Sadana, Executive Vice President and Chief Business Officer `
I mean, we do have an expectation that ultimately all three of the large DRAM suppliers will be
able to supply HBM. Our goal is to have the best HBM on the planet with the best performance,
the best functionality, and features and specs. I think it is really remarkable that a 12-high product
from Micron can have 20% lower power than an 8-high product from the nearest competitor. That
kind of power savings directly helps with saving of data center power needs, because next to the
processor, the DRAM is a huge part of what happens to the power consumption in the data
center. So it's not just about our share, it's also about how this share can -- how Micron's products
can actually be leveraged for end-to-end advantage for our customers.
And consequently, we have seen very high demand for our product and we feel confident that
we'll be able to ramp. I mean, all of the ramp that we have for '25 is really limited by the supply
and the rate and pace at which it can be brought to market because we definitely have a lot of
demand for this industry-leading product. Now, as you look past that, obviously there is always
competition and we are not afraid of competition. And so, we plan for our supply to ensure that
it's in sync with the demand, and when we look at the industry model for supply and demand, we
are capturing in that model what portion of the demand is HBM, what portion of the demand is
non-HBM.
And as we have discussed in the prior call as well today, that the non-HBM portion of the industry
is being compressed by the growth in HBM, and overall bit growth can be brought online only at a
certain rate and pace, especially when HBM is so capital intensive to bring up so much volume so
fast for the whole industry. And so we do feel that the mixed changes will happen, but we'll be
able to manage them well, because the aggregate level of supply and demand ought to be in a
healthy place based on our outlook for how 2025 fiscal and calendar year is likely to evolve.Q - `Harsh Kumar, Piper Sandler `
Wonderful. Thank you, guys. Thanks so much.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna from Susquehanna.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna `
Yes. Thank you. Yes, thank you, operator. It's actually `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna. I just have a couple of
follow-up question, all the good questions have been asked. Mark, given your OpEx increase of
15% and the fact that you're sold out for HBM and HBM also accounting for a higher mix of your
capacity, do you -- what is your confidence level in operating margin expanding throughout '25?
And I have a couple of other follow-ups.
A - `Mark Murphy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, Mehdi, the -- yes, we're guiding one quarter at a time. We did provide color on the industry
or on the year and the market environment. We -- as it relates to the year, and maybe to help you
with some view on the year, we do see a healthy supply-demand balance and a constructive
environment to help with our financial profitability through the year. We've said we expect a
significant revenue record and improved profitability.
We've said today that our volumes in the year would be second-half weighted, which is important
for a number of things, including our drawdown of inventories and our timing on node transition
and output from that. Maybe one additional comment keep in mind that in the second quarter, it
tends to be a seasonally weaker quarter for us, our second fiscal quarter, which would be the
calendar first quarter, tends to be a weaker quarter for the industry.
So something to keep in mind. But overall a year fiscal '25 with increasing volumes, second half
fiscal year weighted, healthy supply-demand environment, executing really well on the product
roadmaps and increasing mix of HBM, high-capacity DIMMs, LP, data center SSD, and then a
broadening of demand through the year from what has been very strong AI data center to
broader traditional and then other markets.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna `
So you feel pretty good for at least fiscal year '25. You just don't want to set a bar and be
accountable to that bar, but you feel pretty good. Is that a fair way of summarizing everything you
said?
A - `Mark Murphy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
We've given some positive indications for the year and we're vigilant at all times about our cost
structure, about our cost performance, about the discipline of our capital spend and maintaining
stable bit share. And we're -- we think we're doing a good job of executing well and managing
the risks in the business.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna `
Got it. Thank you. And then a question from Manish. Everyone is focused on back-end yield
associated with HBM and TSV, but can you help me understand how your front-end yield
compares to competitors and the same thing for the back-end of HBM facilities? So, kind of thiscould help us to better evaluate how well Micron is executing. So, if you could just break it up
between the front-end and back-end and how it's compared to the peers, that would be great.
A - `Manish Bhatia, Executive Vice President, Global Operations `
Well, I won't comment specifically, Mehdi, on competitors, but I will tell you that, and we have
made comments on this before, we have made significant investments into what we call smart
manufacturing and artificial intelligence for many years now. And we focus those in manufacturing,
both between technology development and manufacturing and at that interface as we ramp new
nodes so that our yield ramps, and we have given some color on this in the past, our yield ramps
continue node over node to be faster than prior nodes and more predictable and achieve higher
mature levels as we move forward.
So I think you can rest assured that all of those structural capabilities, we feel Micron is very, very
well-positioned. And we are utilizing, this is all the latest techniques, and in fact, many of the
equipment vendors that we talk to tell us that we are leading in smart manufacturing utilization of
these techniques to be able to improve efficiency in the fab as well as yield performance and
quality performance. So I think, feel good about that. And I already on the, previously on the call, I
think it was Harlan who asked about yields on HBM and just continue to reiterate, we feel good
about where they are, we feel good about where they're going, and being able to support the
HBM opportunity that we have ahead. Yes.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna `
But I guess, I was asking specifically for any kind of qualitative color comparing front and the
backend, not overall yield.
A - `Manish Bhatia, Executive Vice President, Global Operations `
Yes, I think that we -- I'm not going to sort of comment specifically about our peers, but I think we
have very good yields, right, and I think I feel good about where they are for both the front end
and the backend. And that -- you're kind of asking about backend, I'll say across our backend
product lines, across the board, I feel like we have very, very good manufacturing capability, both
from assembly, but also test capability. A lot of the yield capability that we have is -- comes from
our customized development of our own tester equipment and tester hardware, which allows us
to be able to have lower cost test equipment as well as equipment solutions and testing
solutions that are specifically tuned to our products.
In many ways, we design our tester hardware in line with our product design so that we're able to
test more efficiently and with better fidelity such that we can improve yields while we're
improving outgoing quality as well. So I feel like we have very, very strong capabilities in both
frontend yields as well as backend yields, and on backend, both in assembly as well as in test.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of `Brian Chin, Stifel from Stifel. Your question,
please.
Q - `Brian Chin, Stifel `Hi there, good afternoon, and congratulations on the results and execution. Maybe related to
something that was just discussed a moment ago. We had -- yes, this is our modeling. We'd
modeled the February quarter revenue kind of sideways relative to November for some of the
reasons that were stated around seasonality and kind of this some inventories maybe that have
built up in consumer. Maybe just to deconstruct that a little bit, when you think about seasonality,
Mark, can you define what that looks like in a February quarter from a bit shipment standpoint?
And then in terms of the portfolio mix, which kind of, works in the company's favor in the
November quarter, driving some of that sequential growth, why would it not be -- why would that
mix effect not be similar in the February quarter relative to November?
A - `Mark Murphy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, let me start and then maybe Sumit can add on this. Brian, we're not going to guide to the
second quarter, and I understand the interest in learning about our view on that quarter, but right
now, just the contours of the year, we see strong data center demand through this first half of the
year -- fiscal year. And then through the year, that AI-related server demand continuing to be
strong, and then it broadening out, we're seeing traditional server volumes increase now, and
then other markets see that broadening out.
And as I mentioned earlier, the -- our volumes we see being heavier-weighted in the second half
of the fiscal year. And there will be some favorable, as you say, because some of these high-
performance markets here that are strong, yes, there is continued favorable mix growth through
the year. On -- as we ramp HBM, we've given enough markers on that profile, but also high-
capacity DIMMs, LP, and data center SSD, we see continuing to grow. So I think, Sumit, anything to
add.
A - `Sumit Sadana, Executive Vice President and Chief Business Officer `
Yes, I think Mark provided the important relevant color. The only thing I'll mention is the second
quarter, like Mark said, we're not providing any guidance, but just in terms of how you think about
it, definitely the ramp of our higher-margin data center products will continue throughout the year.
So the second quarter will get benefit from that, but it is also, as Mark said, a quarter where there
is seasonality of C Q1 that is part of our F Q2. And also we mentioned this point in our prepared
remarks about the PC OEMs and, to a lesser extent, smartphone OEMs working to get their
inventory to a healthier place by spring of 2025, which, again, encapsulates the F Q2 timeframe.
So those are some of the things to keep in mind which is what leads us to that second half of
fiscal year '25, second half of calendar '25 should be strong broadening of demand drivers, AI,
PCI, smartphone mix improvements helping on top of the full year fiscal and calendar '25 data
center robust demand continuing.
Q - `Brian Chin, Stifel `
Okay. Great. That's actually super helpful. Maybe just a very quick follow-up. But from a timing
standpoint, when roughly does your 12 high 3E product need to be qualified by in order to be on
track with your HBM production and shipment schedule that you've communicated?
A - `Sumit Sadana, Executive Vice President and Chief Business Officer `
Yes, so our HBM 8-high continues to ship in volume and we are working very closely with our
customers to figure out what their plans for switching to 12-high are based on, of course, the
qualifications, but more importantly, the readiness of their products to leverage 12-high and the
readiness of the ecosystem to ramp 12-high, because 12-high obviously more complex product
than 8-high, so it'll go through its own yield ramp. And our expectation is that we are going to bein -- we are going to be selling this product in volume starting in early part of calendar '25, and
then throughout 2025, every quarter the mix of 12-high will keep increasing and the second half
of calendar '25, you'll have a very large mix of 12-high.
And in order to support that, obviously, we provide samples to customers ahead of time. We go
through a call process and we have mentioned that production ready 12-high samples have been
provided to our customers and we provided you some of the expectations we have of our
industry leadership of that 12-high product with a 20% lower power consumption versus others 8-
high product. So we feel really good about our 12-high and it should constitute the majority of our
sales in the second half of calendar '25 assuming our customers make the transitions on the
timelines that they're currently expecting.
Q - `Brian Chin, Stifel `
Great. Thank you very much.
A - `Manish Bhatia, Executive Vice President, Global Operations `
And I'll just add, we feel good about where we are with the 12-high, Sumit mentioned. We started
sampling with customers who were getting feedback and learning to be able to prepare for that
ramp that Sumit mentioned that'll start in early calendar year '25.
Q - `Brian Chin, Stifel `
Thanks.
Operator
Thank you. This does conclude the question-and-answer session as well as today's program.
Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your participation. You may now disconnect. Good day.