Q4 2025 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Thank you for standing by, and welcome to Micron Technology's Fiscal Fourth Quarter 2025
Financial Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speaker
presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions)
I would now like to hand the call over to `Satya Kumar, Corporate Vice President, Investor Relations and Treasury, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
`Satya Kumar, Corporate Vice President, Investor Relations and Treasury `
Thank you, and welcome to Micron Technology's fiscal fourth quarter 2025 financial conference
call. On the call with me today are `Sanjay Mehrotra, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, our Chairman and President and CEO; and
`Mark Murphy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, our CFO. Today's call is being webcast from our Investor Relations site at
investors.micron.com, including audio and slides. In addition, the press release detailing our
quarterly results has been posted on the website, along with prepared remarks for this call.
Today's discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and
uncertainties. These forward-looking statements include statements regarding our future financial
and operating performance, including our guidance as well as trends and expectations in our
business, market, industry, and regulatory and other matters. These statements are based on our
current assumptions, and we assume no obligation to update these statements.
Please refer to our most recent financial report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC
for more information on the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ
materially from expectations. Today's discussion of financial results is presented on a non-GAAP
financial basis, unless otherwise specified. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial
measures can be found on our website.
I'll now turn the call over to Sanjay.
`Sanjay Mehrotra, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Satya. Good afternoon, everyone.
Micron had an outstanding finish to fiscal 2025, delivering fiscal Q4 revenue, gross margin, anddriven by pricing execution and strong performance across end markets.
In our March 2024 earnings call, we said that we expect Micron to be one of the biggest
beneficiaries of AI in the semiconductor industry, and that we expect to deliver record revenue
and significantly improved profitability in fiscal 2025. I'm pleased to report that in fiscal 2025,
Micron's revenue grew nearly 50% to a record $37.4 billion and gross margins expanded by 17
percentage points to 41%. This performance was supported by the ramp of our high-value data
center products and our broad-based DRAM pricing strength across end markets.
The combined revenue from HBM, high-capacity DIMMs, and LP server DRAM reached $10 billion,
more than a five-fold increase compared to the prior fiscal year. Our data center SSD business
reached record revenue and market share in fiscal 2025. I want to thank our global Micron team
for their focus and execution, which made these results possible.
As we enter fiscal 2026, Micron is positioned better than ever. Our leadership in advanced
technologies, including HBM, 1-gamma DRAM, and G9 NAND, enables a differentiated product
portfolio that drives strong ROI. AI-driven demand is accelerating, and industry DRAM supply is
tight. Our HBM performance has been strong, and robust demand, tight DRAM supply, and
disciplined execution has significantly strengthened profitability of the rest of our DRAM portfolio.
In NAND, our higher mix to data center and improving industry conditions are contributing to
profitability. Our fiscal Q1 guidance reflects new records for revenue and EPS. In addition to being
a demand driver, AI is also a powerful productivity driver for Micron, contributing to our strong
competitive position and financial performance. We are using AI throughout the company across
product design, technology development, manufacturing, and other functional groups. We have
seen strong adoption and as much as a 30% to 40% productivity uplift in select GenAI use cases,
such as code generation. In design simulation, AI is accelerating our silicon-to-systems design
cycle through advanced modeling and reduced iterations.
In manufacturing, we have driven a 5x increase in wafer images analyzed in the past year and
doubled the amount of useful data and telemetry collected and analyzed from our fab tools, all
of which improve our yield performance. These AI capabilities enable us to achieve superior
product specifications, quality, and time to market at scale.
Turning to technology and operations. We are proud to announce that our 1-gamma DRAM node
reached mature yields in record time, 50% faster than in the prior generation. We are the first in
the industry to ship 1-gamma DRAM and will leverage 1-gamma across our entire DRAM portfolio
to maximize the benefits of this leadership technology. We achieved first revenue from a major
hyperscale customer on our 1-gamma products for server DRAM in the quarter.
Our G9 NAND production ramp has been progressing well while scaling at a pace aligned with
market demand. We have ramped our G9 NAND node for both TLC and QLC NAND and have
qualified our G9 QLC NAND for enterprise storage.
In fiscal Q4, we received a CHIPS grant disbursement following the completion of a key
construction milestone for our new high-volume manufacturing fab in Idaho, with the first wafer
output expected to begin in the second half of calendar 2027. We began design work for our
second Idaho manufacturing fab, which will provide additional capacity beyond 2028.
In New York, we have completed initial phases of our environmental impact study and continue to
work with state and federal authorities towards starting ground preparation.In fiscal Q4, we installed the first EUV tool for our Japan fab to enable 1-gamma capability, which
will complement our existing 1-gamma supply from our fabs in Taiwan. The time from receiving
this tool to completing installation was a record for all EUV tools globally, demonstrating Micron's
expertise with this equipment. We plan to continue to invest in our Japan production capability to
meet requirements of the advanced memory technologies of the future.
Our continued HBM assembly and test investments position us well to meet growing HBM
capacity requirements in calendar 2026. We are making good progress on our Singapore HBM
assembly and test facility construction, which is on track to contribute to our HBM supply capability
beginning in calendar 2027.
Turning to our end markets. In data center, we now expect calendar 2025 total server units to
grow approximately 10%, up from our prior expectations of mid-single-digits percentage growth.
The calendar 2025 traditional server growth outlook has strengthened significantly from flat to
growth in the mid-single-digit range. We believe this change in outlook is in part related to the
growth of AI agents and the traditional server workloads agents initiate as they execute tasks on
behalf of users.
Continued growth in traditional server applications in enterprises is also contributing to additional
demand growth. In addition to traditional servers, AI server growth continues to be very robust.
This growth in both traditional and AI servers is driving strong demand for our DRAM products.
Data centers require some of our industry's most complex and high-value products and meeting
this demand has presented several opportunities to enhance our product mix and profitability. In
fiscal 2025, Micron's data center business reached a record 56% of total company revenue with
gross margins of 52%.
Our HBM business has posted many quarters of strong growth. In fiscal Q4, our HBM revenue
grew to nearly $2 billion, implying an annualized run rate of nearly $8 billion, driven by the ramp of
our industry-leading HBM3E products. We are pleased to note that our HBM share is on track to
grow again and be in line with our overall DRAM share in this calendar Q3, delivering on our
target that we have discussed for several quarters now.
Micron's HBM4 12-high remains on track to support customer platform ramps, even as the
performance requirements for HBM4 bandwidth and pin speeds have increased. We have
recently shipped customer samples of our HBM4 with industry-leading bandwidth exceeding 2.8
terabytes per second and pin speeds over 11 gigabits per second. We believe Micron's HBM4
outperforms all competing HBM4 products, delivering industry-leading performance as well as
best-in-class power efficiency.
Our proven 1-beta DRAM, innovative and power-efficient HBM4 design, in-house advanced
CMOS base die, and advanced packaging innovations are key differentiators enabling this best-
in-class product. For HBM4E, Micron will offer standard products as well as the option for
customization of the base logic die.
We are partnering with TSMC for manufacturing the HBM4E base logic die for both standard and
customized products. Customization requires close collaboration with customers, and we expect
HBM4E with customized base logic dies to deliver higher gross margins than standard HBM4E.
Our HBM customer base has expanded and now includes six customers. We have pricing
agreements with almost all customers for a vast majority of our HBM3E supply in calendar 2026.
We are in active discussions with customers on the specifications and volumes for HBM4, and weexpect to conclude agreements to sell out the remainder of our total HBM calendar 2026 supply
in the coming months.
Micron's LPDDR5 for servers had over 50% sequential growth in the quarter and reached record
revenue. In close collaboration with NVIDIA, Micron has pioneered the adoption of LPDRAM for
servers, and since NVIDIA's launch of LPDRAM in their GB-product family, Micron has been the
sole supplier of LPDRAM in the data center.
In addition to our leadership in HBM and LP5, Micron is also well positioned with our GDDR7
products, which are designed to deliver ultra-fast performance with pin speeds exceeding 40
gigabits per second, along with best-in-class power efficiency to address needs of certain future
AI systems.
In data center NAND, AI inference use cases such as KV cache tiering and vector database search
and indexing is driving demand for performance storage, while AI server growth is driving
demand for high-capacity SSDs for capacity storage. Micron is gaining share in these markets with
our customer focus, technology leadership, vertical integration, and execution.
We strengthened our portfolio with the industry's first G9 NAND data center products, including
first-to-market PCIe Gen6 SSDs. Near term, we see continued growth in the data center storage
market with HDD supply shortages expected to improve NAND demand and drive a healthier
supply-demand environment.
Turning to PCs, end-of-life of Windows 10 and greater adoption of AI-enabled PCs are driving an
improved PC demand outlook. We now expect PC unit shipments to grow at a mid-single-digit
percentage level in calendar 2025 versus our low single-digit percentage growth expectations
previously. During the quarter, we achieved our first OEM customer qualification of our 16-gigabit,
1-gamma-based D5 and commenced volume shipments.
In NAND, we successfully qualified our first G9 NAND SSDs in both performance and mainstream
categories with OEM customers. Our strong SSD portfolio enabled us to achieve record client
SSD revenue in the quarter and in fiscal year 2025.
Smartphone unit shipment expectations remain unchanged at low single-digit percentage range
in calendar 2025. An increasing mix of AI-ready smartphones continue to be a key catalyst for
DRAM content growth in mobile devices. Notably, one-third of the flagship smartphones shipped
in calendar Q2 contained 12 gigabytes or more. And given recent product launches from Apple,
Samsung, and other smartphone OEMs, we expect this mix to increase over the coming quarters.
In fiscal Q4, Micron seized future mobile managed NAND product development in order to focus
our resources and investments on higher ROI opportunities in our portfolio.
We will continue to support existing mobile-managed NAND products. Micron remains committed
to serving the mobile DRAM market with our industry-leading portfolio. In fiscal Q4, we achieved
OEM qualification of our first 10.7 gigabit per second 1-beta second-generation LP5X products at
16 gigabyte and 24 gigabyte capacities.
Turning to auto, industrial and embedded. In automotive, trends such as ADAS and AI-enhanced
in-cabin experiences require significantly higher memory and storage content, making it a higher
growth part of the industry. In embedded, we expect physical AI such as drones, advanced
robots, and AR/VR to become a more important driver of demand over time.
Automotive and industrial demand strengthened throughout the quarter, exceeding our initial
forecast. We are seeing improved profitability in this business with stronger pricing and anincreased mix of advanced technology nodes with greater adoption of D5 and LP5 products.
We continue to see supply constraints in D4 and LP4. In June, Micron announced investments in
our Virginia facility in an effort to support our long lifecycle customers' demand for D4 and LP4.
Now turning to our market outlook. Customer inventory levels are healthy overall across end
markets. We expect calendar 2025 industry DRAM bit demand growth to be in the high-teens
percentage range, somewhat higher than our previous outlook.
We expect calendar 2025 industry NAND bit demand growth to also be higher than our previous
outlook, now in the low to mid-teens percentage range. We expect Micron's calendar 2025 bit
supply growth to be below industry bit demand growth for non-HBM DRAM and for NAND.
Robust data center demand, including the uptick in server unit growth, has contributed to a tight
industry DRAM environment and strengthened NAND market conditions. Additionally, broadening
of demand across end markets has also constrained DRAM supply. On the supply side, we
expect low supplier inventories, constrained node migration as industry supports extended D4
and LP4 end-of-life, longer lead times and higher costs globally for new wafer capacity, all to limit
the pace of supply growth for DRAM in 2026.
In calendar 2026, we anticipate further DRAM supply tightness in the industry and continued
strengthening in NAND market conditions. Over the medium term, we anticipate industry bit
demand growth of mid-teens CAGR for both DRAM and NAND.
Micron invested $13.8 billion in CapEx in fiscal 2025. As we continue to make 1-gamma DRAM and
HBM-related investments, we expect fiscal 2026 CapEx to be higher than fiscal 2025 levels.
DRAM front-end equipment and fab construction will drive higher capital spending in fiscal 2026.
Our continued technology node migration to 1-gamma will provide the majority of our supply
growth for DRAM in calendar 2026. As we transition more products to 1-gamma, our 1-beta
capacity will support HBM growth in 2026.
I'll now hand over the call to Mark to provide more color on our fiscal fourth quarter and fiscal
2025 financials.
`Mark Murphy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Sanjay, and good afternoon, everyone.
Micron delivered strong results to close out the fiscal year, with Q4 revenue, gross margin, and
EPS all exceeding our updated guidance. For the full year, we achieved record revenue of $37.4
billion, up 49% year-over-year. Gross margins expanded to 41%, a 17-percentage point
improvement from fiscal 2024. EPS reached $8.29, reflecting a 538% increase compared to the
prior year.
Total fiscal Q4 revenue was $11.3 billion, up 22% sequentially and up 46% year-over-year, and a
quarterly record for Micron. Higher sequential revenue was driven by growth across our end
markets, including record data center revenues and strong sequential growth in consumer-
oriented markets.
Fiscal Q4 DRAM revenue was a record $9 billion, up 69% year-over-year and represented 79% of
total revenue. Sequentially, DRAM revenue increased 27%. Bit shipments increased in the low-
teens percent, driven by strong demand across all end markets. Prices increased in the low
double-digit percentage range, driven by tight industry DRAM supply, pricing execution, andfavorable mix. Fiscal 2025 DRAM revenues were a record $28.6 billion, up 62% year-over-year.
Fiscal 2025 DRAM all-in costs, inclusive of HBM, were down by low single-digit percentage points.
Fiscal Q4 NAND revenue was $2.3 billion, down 5% year-over-year and represented 20% of
Micron's total revenue. Sequentially, NAND revenue increased 5%. NAND bit shipments declined
in the mid-single-digit percentage range and prices increased in the high-single-digit percentage
range due to favorable mix. Fiscal 2025 NAND revenues were a record $8.5 billion, up 18% year-
over-year. Fiscal 2025 NAND all-in cost reductions were around low-teens percentage.
Now turning to quarterly financial performance by business unit. Our new segment disclosures for
our business units, which you see starting in today's press release and will see in future filings,
highlight the improvements in our profitability and changing business mix.
The Cloud Memory Business Unit and Core Data Center Business Unit combined represent the
totality of our data center business. Cloud Memory Business Unit revenue was $4.5 billion and
represented 40% of total company revenue. CMBU revenues were up 34% sequentially, driven
by robust bit shipment growth. HBM revenues reached a new quarterly record. CMBU gross
margins were 59%, higher by 120 basis points sequentially, supported by cost reductions.
Core Data Center Business Unit revenue was $1.6 billion and represented 14% of total company
revenue. CDBU revenues were up 3% sequentially. CDBU gross margins were 41%, up 400 basis
points sequentially, driven by higher pricing and favorable mix.
Mobile Client Business Unit revenue was $3.8 billion and represented 33% of total company
revenue. MCBU revenues were up 16% sequentially, driven by higher DRAM shipments and
improved pricing. MCBU gross margins were 36%, up 12 percentage points sequentially, driven by
higher pricing and favorable mix.
Automotive and Embedded Business Unit revenue was $1.4 billion and represented 13% of total
company revenue. AEBU revenues were up 27% sequentially, driven by higher bit shipments.
AEBU gross margins were 31%, up 540 basis points sequentially, driven by higher pricing. The
consolidated gross margin for fiscal Q4 was 45.7%, up 670 basis points sequentially.
Sequential gross margin improvement was driven by favorable product mix, better DRAM pricing,
and strong execution on cost reductions.
Operating expenses in fiscal Q4 were $1.2 billion, up $81 million quarter-over-quarter, and in line
with our guidance range. The sequential increase was driven primarily by higher R&D. We
generated operating income of $4 billion in fiscal Q4, resulting in an operating margin of 35%, up
820 basis points sequentially and 12 percentage points year-over-year. Fiscal Q4 taxes were $471
million on an effective tax rate of 12%, lower than our guidance due to favorability in certain
discrete items.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share in fiscal Q4 was $3.03, with 59% sequential growth and
157% versus the year-ago quarter.
Turning to cash flows and capital expenditures. In fiscal Q4, our operating cash flows were $5.7
billion and our capital expenditures were $4.9 billion, resulting in free cash flows of $803 million.
The increase in capital expenditures was driven by planned investments for DRAM. For the full
year fiscal 2025, we generated $3.7 billion in free cash flow, representing 10% of revenue.
Ending inventory for fiscal Q4 was $8.4 billion or 124 days. Inventory was down $372 million
sequentially and inventory days down 15 days, driven by strong sequential bit shipment growth inDRAM.
DRAM inventory days are below target levels and NAND inventory days improved sequentially.
On the balance sheet, we held $11.9 billion of cash and investments at quarter-end and
maintained $15.4 billion of liquidity when including our untapped credit facility.
During fiscal Q4, we reduced debt $900 million through paydown of $700 million term loans and
repurchased approximately $200 million of our senior notes. We closed the quarter with $14.6
billion of debt, maintaining low net leverage and a weighted average debt maturity of 2033.
Now turning to the outlook for the first fiscal quarter. We expect price, cost, and mix to all
contribute to strengthening gross margins in Q1. Operating expenses for fiscal Q1 are projected
to be approximately $1.34 billion, with a sequential increase driven by R&D related to data center
product innovation and development.
Micron's fiscal 2026 will be a 53-week fiscal year compared to fiscal 2025, which was a 52-week
fiscal year. As a result, fiscal Q4 2026 OpEx will reflect the effect of an additional work week in
the quarter. We expect a fiscal Q1 and fiscal year 2026 tax rate of around 16.5%. We expect our
fiscal Q1 capital spending to be approximately $4.5 billion.
While quarterly spend may fluctuate, this level serves as a reasonable quarterly baseline for the
planned capital spend in fiscal 2026. We will continue to exercise supply discipline as we pursue
our growth opportunities. We expect free cash flow to strengthen in fiscal Q1, and we project
significantly higher annual free cash flow year-over-year in fiscal 2026. Any impacts that may occur
due to potential new tariffs are not included in our guidance.
With all these factors in mind, our non-GAAP guidance for fiscal Q1 is as follows: we expect
revenue to be a record $12.5 billion, plus or minus $300 million; gross margin to be in the range
of 51.5%, plus or minus 100 basis points; and operating expenses to be approximately $1.34
billion, plus or minus $20 million. Based on a share count of approximately 1.15 billion shares, we
expect EPS to be a record $3.75 per share, plus or minus $0.15.
I'll now turn it over to Sanjay to close.
`Sanjay Mehrotra, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mark.
Fiscal 2025 was a year of many records for Micron, as we have highlighted today. We have strong
momentum entering fiscal 2026 with a robust fiscal Q1 demand outlook led by data center, and
the most competitive position in our history. Over the coming years, we expect trillions of dollars
to be invested in AI, and a significant portion will be spent on memory. As the only U.S.-based
manufacturer of memory, Micron is uniquely positioned to benefit from the AI opportunity ahead.
Thank you for joining us today. We will now open for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of `Timothy Arcuri, UBS of
UBS. Please go ahead, Timothy.Q - `Timothy Arcuri, UBS `
Thanks a lot. Mark, I was wondering if you can help on the guidance a little bit. I know you don't
want to get into too much detail, but of the, let's say, 1. -- or, sorry, of the $2.2 billion sequential
that you're -- or, sorry, the $1.2 billion sequential revenue, can you help us how that splits out
between DRAM and NAND? And I guess any gross margin puts and takes you might have as well
would be helpful.
A - `Mark Murphy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Tim, you were breaking up a bit at the end, but I believe I've got it. So in the first quarter,
we'll be heavier DRAM mix than NAND in that growth. As you mentioned, we're not going to
break out bits and ASP, but we are guiding up 580 basis points sequentially. It is split across mix,
pricing, and strong execution on our cost reductions. We're in a very constructive pricing
environment. Supply is tight for DRAM and improving substantially in NAND. We've got essentially
strong demand and supply factors at work, as you heard in the script today.
On the demand side, data center spend remains robust, projected to grow. Traditional server
spend is improving and expected to grow, refresh and inference workload demand drivers, and
then PC, smartphone, auto all have increased content growth, and that's becoming clear. And
then on the supply side, we'll get into that more in the Q&A here, but that is tight as well due to a
number of factors that are structural. So we're focused on our execution, and again, sequentially
here, expect price, mix and strong execution to drive that 580-basis-point margin expansion.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, UBS `
Thanks a lot, Mark. And then, Sanjay, I guess you had previously guided us to like a $100 billion
HBM TAM by 2028, but since you gave us that number, there's been some massive numbers
given out, some TAM numbers by NVIDIA and some of the investments that are going on at
OpenAI and whatnot. So it's obvious that the compute TAM is much bigger than what I think you
probably would have assumed at that time.
So do you have an update to that number? I would assume it's bigger than that number, and
maybe you can comment on sort of what you see next year. I know this year, you said mid-30s.
I'm wondering if you can give us any like mile post for next year and update that $100 billion in
2026.
A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Tim, your connection is poor, and you were breaking up a lot, but I think I got the gist of your
question. What we have said before regarding longer-term HBM TAM, we have said that by
2030, we expect HBM TAM to reach $100 billion, and we had also said that HBM bit CAGR will
grow faster than the DRAM CAGR. And we see that in absolutely 2026 as well in terms of bits in
HBM will outgrow the overall DRAM bits.
And of course, as we look ahead, the value proposition of HBM continues to increase. And of
course, as we talked about, HBM now -- in 2026, transitioning to HBM4, Micron, of course, well
positioned. Market is starting to require even higher performances. And we today pointed out
that Micron with our HBM4 will have the highest performance product with over 11 gigabits per
second, and of course, highest power efficiency as well.
So the specs of HBM are becoming increasingly more demanding, and which is exciting for us
because we are very well positioned with these products. So the -- and this just means the valueproposition of HBM just continues to grow. So we definitely continue to see strong long-term
growth and very excited about all these various announcements of massive data center
infrastructure spend. And we have talked about trillions of dollars of spend over the next several
years, and of course, memory is very much at the heart of this AI revolution.
This means a tremendous opportunity for memory and certainly tremendous opportunity for
HBM. So we feel very good about HBM longer-term opportunities, good about HBM opportunities
in 2026, and very good about Micron's positioning with our very strong product portfolio and
strong execution track record and the trust that we have built with our customers in our ability to
supply a quality and meet our customers' volume requirements. So exciting times ahead, and we
are, of course, continuing to work very closely with our customers.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, UBS `
Thanks a lot.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Securities of Bank of America. Please go
ahead, Vivek.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Securities `
Thank you for taking my question. I'm curious, how do you see the transition from HBM3E to 4?
When do you expect the crossover next year? And I think as part of that, you mentioned that the
pricing for 3E is settled for '26. And I'm curious, what is the direction of that pricing versus what
you're getting now? Is it higher or lower? And do you expect your 3E share to stay the same or
change next year?
A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So with respect to HBM4, this is -- of course, we will be at the forefront of this production ramp,
very much aligned with customers' timing. And again, as we have mentioned, that we have the
best product in the industry with highest performance over 11 gigabit per second, and we have
sampled that product as well as low power.
So industry-leading product performance. And so we will be ramping it up in line with customer
demands, of course. First production shipments in C Q2 of '26 time frame and production will
ramp during the course of 2026, second half of 2026, again, in line with customer demand. And
overall, in 2026 versus 2025, we see our share growing, product well positioned. We are not
commenting on the pricing of HBM3E.
We have told you that HBM3E, we have pricing agreements completed with almost all customers
for vast majority of our HBM3E supply in 2026, and we are in discussions regarding HBM4 with our
customers. What I will tell you is that supply is tight. We expect healthy demand-supply
environment in 2026 for overall DRAM, and that bodes well for profitability of DRAM, profitability
of HBM, and of course, profitability of non-HBM as well, which is experiencing tight supply.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Securities `
Got it. And for my follow-up, maybe, Mark, on the gross margin side. So what is this conceptually,
how do you think about the puts and takes of gross margins as you go through the rest of the
year, this 51.5%? Is this kind of the baseline, and as long as sales grow, can you expand off of this
level? And then related to that, when I look at your Cloud Data Center Business gross margin,59% operating margin, 48%, how much more room is there to expand from those very strong
levels right now? Thank you.
A - `Mark Murphy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, Vivek. So we're not providing out quarter guidance, but what we will say is that we believe or
we expect gross margin to improve sequentially first to second quarter, and it's on this tight
DRAM supply and the associated pricing along with NAND business continuing to improve, and
then just mix effects as we continue to steer bits towards high-value markets, and then our cost
performance continues to be good.
As mentioned in the prepared remarks, these supply-demand factors are -- they're -- we believe
they're durable on the demand side. Data center spend continues to increase. I talked earlier
about traditional server spend and then the edge and auto having increased content. And then
on the supply side, customer inventory levels are healthy. Our supply is lean. Our DRAM
inventories are below target, NAND continues to improve.
We are working at being as efficient as we can in providing a supply response. Our -- we're doing
node transitions, but as the industry extends support for D4, that's constrained those node
transitions. And then finally, it just takes a long time and is expensive to add new clean room
space. And we all know the silicon intensity of HBM creating the urgency for that capacity
requirement.
So it's a good setup as we go into '26 and we delivered this strong guide on the first quarter
gross margin, and we expect to see gross margins up in Q2. I also want to reiterate something
Sanjay mentioned that we expect margins to be healthy in both HBM and non-HBM in '26. So I'd
leave it at that on the out quarter guidance.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Securities `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `C.J. Muse, Cantor Fitzgerald of Cantor Fitzgerald. Your line is
open, C.J.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Yes. Good afternoon. Thank you for taking the question. I guess first question, it certainly feels
like in the last month or two, there's been an inflection in DRAM demand led by inference
hyperscalers. So curious if you could kind of speak to what you have seen the breadth of demand
and particularly the sustainability of that. And would love your thoughts, you've talked about
tightness expected into fiscal '26, your thoughts into this what is typically seasonally slower
February quarter. Should we see kind of normal seasonality or are the supply trends so limited
that things can hold up much better than kind of normal seasonality?
A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So of course, we are not providing you F Q2 guidance at this point, but certainly the AI trends are
strong, and as you noted, not just in training but inference as well. And as the AI applications
broaden, innovations increase, greater different architectures, all of this is only continuing to
broaden the demand vector for AI in the data center as well as on edge devices such as
smartphones.In the data center, of course, AI servers have driven strong demand, as we have all known,
particularly with just the increasing demand and increasing demand for all DRAM, not just HBM,
but LPDRAM, high-density DRAM modules.
But we're also seeing traditional server demand, as we noted in our remarks, increase as well. So
this is really driving a strong growth trend for -- overall for the industry. And then the demand
vectors are broadening. As I noted, smartphones in particular, you have seen some recent
launches of -- and shipments already starting of AI-enabled smartphones, which have higher
content of DRAM in them versus the prior generation phones. And of course, PCs is another
tailwind, AI PCs and end-of-life for Windows 10. So the AI PCs are a tailwind for DRAM content as
well.
So overall, AI trends are strong, and this is across data centers, across AI-enabled smartphones
and AI-enabled PCs. And this is what leads to strong demand in 2026 -- across 2026, and we
have talked about tight supply as well. Mark just laid out the factors for tight supply, which we also
discussed in our prepared remarks. So overall, we look forward to healthy demand-supply
environment in calendar year '26 for us.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Very helpful. And I guess customer --
A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And customer inventories as well as supplier inventories are in good place. I mean, supplier
inventories are actually running lean. Micron DRAM supply is very tight.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Thank you for that. As a quick follow-up on CapEx, Mark, it appears net CapEx implied $18 billion
versus $13.8 billion last year. I think you talked about front-end equipment versus clean room
space in DRAM. Is there a way to kind of partition how much on equipment versus clean room?
And then can you share with us what the implied gross CapEx is for fiscal '26? Thanks so much.
A - `Mark Murphy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. We've not laid out in detail. It's just that our spend in '26 will be majority -- vast majority will
be for DRAM, and we've got construction and facilities related to that, some tools for node
transitions and beginning to install for new greenfield. As it relates to, you're right, that we guided
a framework to be at around $18 billion.
We will generally talk about CapEx in the context of net, which is gross CapEx offset by proceeds
from government incentives. We're not going to talk about the gross and net for '26, but you can
see the components.
You can get back into the components here on what you've seen in the filings for the gross
spend in '25, and then the government incentives. And so we ended up at $13.8 billion net and
we were at $15.8 billion gross with $2 billion of government incentives in '25. You'll see that going
forward, and the government incentives in '25 are largely the U.S., Singapore, and Japan, and we
can talk more about those in the future.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Thank you.Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Harlan Sur, J.P. Morgan of JPMorgan. Please go ahead,
Harlan.
Q - `Harlan Sur, J.P. Morgan `
Yes. Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my question. Days of inventory are now at your target
levels as you had expected previously, and within that, DRAM is actually below your targets, right?
So given the strong 3E 12-high ramp, continued strong demand pull for non-AI DRAM, how are
you guys thinking about your total and DRAM inventories exiting this quarter? Will days of
inventory continue to come down? And then just given the overall supply tightness, are your lead
times extending and customers placing orders further in advance, and is this better visibility?
What gives the team confidence on continued tightness into calendar '26?
A - `Mark Murphy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Harlan, I'll cover that. We do expect inventories to remain at or better on DIO than we've
seen in the fourth quarter. DRAM will remain very tight, as we talked about, through the year, so
we would expect to be below target. And then NAND, we're being very disciplined around NAND,
and that market continues to improve. So we would expect NAND DIO to decrease as well.
Q - `Harlan Sur, J.P. Morgan `
Got it.
A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And of course, we work closely with our customers, and customers are fully understanding that
the demand environment is strong and the supply is very tight, and the DRAM and supply outlook
is tight. So we work closely with the customers. And just want to point out that as we look ahead
at our supply, we are looking at 1-gamma ramp to support our demand in non-HBM products.
HBM products, we will support them with our 1-beta. And of course, continuing maintaining focus
on maximum production efficiencies and leveraging the clean room space that is available to
implement the technology transitions as well as drive maximum production efficiency.
Q - `Harlan Sur, J.P. Morgan `
No, I appreciate that. Thank you for the insights there. And Sanjay, as your customers continue to
differentiate their GPU and XPU platforms, memory continues to be sort of that key focus area of
differentiation. As you mentioned, some of your HBM4 customers are looking for as much as 25%
more bandwidth versus the plain vanilla JEDEC standard. Looks like the Micron team delivered a
solution that's 40% more performant than the JEDEC spec, right? And well exceeding your
customers' requirements.
Did the team have to redesign the base logic die to achieve these impressive results? Just
wondering if the higher performance HBM4 SKU maybe pushed out customer calls or have the
call schedules remained on track relative to your original plan? But more importantly, even with
the higher speeds, is your power consumption still superior to your competitive solutions?
A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Very good question, Harlan, and thank you for asking those questions. Very proud of our team'sis used in that DRAM die, as well as our base die, which has advanced CMOS as well.
Combination of all of this, our innovative design, our memory architecture, our advanced CMOS
in the DRAM as well as advanced CMOS in the base die, and of course, that advanced CMOS
base die is manufactured here by Micron, giving us a competitive advantage, all of this actually
has enabled us to achieve customers' increasingly higher requirements, bandwidth at 2.8
gigabytes per second and speeds at 11 -- more than 11 gigabits per second as well. And this has
really positioned us well, getting ready for a production ramp of our HBM4 product with these
kind of specs. And as I said, with these kind of specs, we'll be at the forefront of HBM shipment
ramp, keeping it in line with customer demand.
Q - `Harlan Sur, J.P. Morgan `
Thank you.
A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And I just want to be clear, I think I said for bandwidth, 2.8 terabytes per second. I hope that came
across clearly. 2.8 terabytes per second, speed 11 gigabits per second.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Krish Sankar, TD Cowen of TD Cowen. Please go
ahead, Krish.
Q - `Krish Sankar, TD Cowen `
Yes. Hi. Thanks for taking my question. I had two of them. Sanjay, you mentioned about getting
sold out in HBM, hopefully, in the next few months. Is there a way to quantify the supply
opportunity in calendar '26, assuming you're fully sold out? And also, if the HBM demand is better
than expected, can you increase supply in calendar '26, if you're sold out in the next few months?
And then I had a quick follow-up.
A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, we are not breaking down the supply volumes, et cetera. But yes, HBM3E, as we mentioned,
pricing agreements are done with the vast majority of our HBM3E -- for our vast majority of our
HBM3E supply, and volume is also fixed for HBM3E with most customers. And as our customers
are looking at their -- finalizing their plans with HBM4, particularly plans with increased
specifications and their own deployment of that in their next generation platforms, we expect to
be concluding our agreements on HBM4 supply as well as all of 2026 HBM supply here in 2026 --
I mean, in the next few months. And really, very pleased with our industry-leading HBM4 product
specifications, absolutely outperforming the rest.
So we are well positioned with this. And really, with respect to your question, we will, of course,
manage the mix in our -- now that we have reached our HBM share in C Q3, to be in line with our
industry DRAM share, we will manage -- and non-HBM being healthy margins as well, we will now
manage the mix of our portfolio, keeping in mind, of course, ROI on our portfolio as well as
staying disciplined with our total investments.
We -- as you can well understand, we have, of course, flexibility to opportunistically manage share
here for HBM because at the front end, it uses the same 1-beta wafers as rest -- some of the rest
of our products as well.So that gives us fungibility at the front end in terms of supply management. And assembly and
test, we have, of course, with the investments that we have made over the course of the last
several quarters, we are well positioned with capacity in assembly and test as well. So our
investments and our team's strong execution in ramping up capacity and giving us the total
confidence gives us now the flexibility to manage the mix of the full portfolio between HBM and
non-HBM, keeping ROI in mind, and of course, staying disciplined here with our investments as
well.
Q - `Krish Sankar, TD Cowen `
Got it. Thanks, Sanjay. Another quick question on HBM4. It was nice to see the 11 gigabits per
second pin speed. You also said that you have the offering of both your in-house base die and
also the customized TSM logic die. Is there a way to figure out what you expect that mix to be?
Do you expect more customers to go with the in-house die or the TSM die? And how easy is it for
you from the Micron standpoint of switching between the two based on customer demand?
A - `Sanjay Mehrotra, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So HBM4 is the product that is with our internal base die and HBM4E is where we said in our
remarks that we will be offering standard products as well as customized products. And HBM4E is
where we are partnering with TSMC. HBM4E is not in the industry. It's not a 2026 product. That will
be 2027 kind of product, and we'll share more details with you. And we will have both standard
and customized products in HBM4E.
HBM4, using our own base die, and in the industry, HBM4 is what will be the product that will be
ramping in production. And as we mentioned that the value proposition of HBM continues to
increase, and with HBM4E, that value proposition increases even further.
And we would certainly expect the customization to provide higher gross margins, as I indicated
in my prepared remarks. And once again, I would like to point out that our HBM uses our own
logic die. That means Micron's own CMOS. And that gives us unique advantages, and of course,
has been a key contributor along with our DRAM design and DRAM architecture, as well as the
CMOS that is embedded inside the DRAM. All of that gives us a unique advantage in terms of
industry-leading performance.
Operator
Thank you. And as that is all the time we have for Q&A today, that does conclude the Q&A's
portion of this call and today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now
disconnect.