Q4 2019 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to Monolithic Power Systems
Fourth Quarter 2019 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants lines are in a listen-only
mode. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator
Instructions) Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Monolithic's CFO, Bernie
Blegen. Please go ahead sir.
`Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you very much. Good afternoon, and welcome to the fourth quarter of 2019 Monolithic
Power Systems conference call. I'm joined today by Michael Hsing, Monolithic's CEO and Founder.
In the course of today's conference call, we will make forward-looking statements and projections
that involve risk and uncertainty, which could cause results to differ materially from management's
current views and expectations. Please refer to the safe harbor statement contained in the
earnings release published today.
Risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ are identified in the
safe harbor statements contained in the Q4 earnings release and in our SEC filings, including our
Form 10-K filed on March 1, 2019 and Form 10-Q filed on November 1, 2019, both of which are
accessible through our website, www.monolithicpower.com. MPS assumes no obligation to
update the information provided on today's call.
We will be discussing gross margin, operating expense, R&D and SG&A expense, operating
income, interest and other income, net income and earnings on both a GAAP and a non-GAAP
basis. These non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP, and should
not be considered as a substitute for or superior to measures of financial performance prepared
in accordance with GAAP.
A table that outlines the reconciliation between the non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP
financial measures is included in our earnings release, which we have filed with the SEC. I wouldrefer investors to the Q4 2018, Q3 2019 and Q4 2019 earnings releases, as well as to the
reconciling tables that are posted on our website.
I'd also like to remind you that today's conference call is being webcast live over the internet and
will be available for replay on our website for one year, along with the earnings release filed with
the SEC earlier today. For the full year 2019, MPS achieved record revenue of $627.9 million,
growing 7.8% from the prior year, while our industry segment experienced a significant downturn.
As always, we executed our strategies consistently. In recent years, especially in 2019, more and
more first tier companies recognized MPS's superior technologies as well as our product quality
and our excellent customer support. We see a lot more high quality growth opportunities ahead
of us. Our objective is to successfully manage our expenses to support our growth, which will in
turn benefit our shareholders in both the long and short term.
Here are few highlights which we achieved in 2019. Introduced leading-edge system solutions
using QSMod technologies for GPU based artificial intelligence and machine learning applications.
Introduced 48 volt QSMod technology for both cloud-based and automotive applications.
Coupled with our design wins in QSMod and AI applications, MPS is at the early stage of this
important revenue ramp.
Won a major contract to support a Tier 1 automotive supplier, which will begin generating revenue
in the next two to three years. Successfully co-developed cutting-edge solutions for smart driving
systems and lighting applications. Began volume shipments of high-current programmable power
modules for communication applications such as 5G networks. Entered the high-performance
analog market with the formation of a high-precision data acquisition business group.
With input from our customers, we have completed the detailed product specifications. We
expect to release these products in 2020. The initial revenue ramp is expected to begin in 2021.
The roll-out of these advanced products will mark MPS's introduction into the highly profitable
high speed precision data acquisition market segments. We understand the road to success may
not be smooth. However, we believe our commitment will pay off in the long term and our
shareholders will be pleased with the results of these efforts in the coming years.
Let's go through low lights. We really don't have any, except there is one item worth pointing out.
We deliberately reduced our inventory in Q3 and Q4 2019, which in hindsight was not necessary.
As a result, our current inventory level is too low for MPS to maximize our growth in the next few
months.
Although we can still keep up our growth rate as in the past, we unfortunately may not be able to
take full advantage of all the potential upsides. In order to fulfill customers' demand in the second
half of 2020, we now have to commit tremendous effort in order to accelerate our schedule to
bring up a second 12-inch fab. This has created an unnecessary hardship for our team.
Turning back to our full year 2019 revenue by market segment, compared with 2018,
communications revenue up 20.1%, computing and storage up 18.9%, automotive up 12.8% and
industrial up 12.3%. Consumer revenue was down 10.8%. Full year 2019 computing and storage
revenue grew $30.1 million over the prior year to $189.2 million. This 18.9% increase primarily
resulted from strong sales growth for cloud computing and high-end notebooks. Computing and
storage revenue represented 30.1% of MPS's total revenue in 2019 compared with 27.3% in 2018.
Communications revenue grew $14.2 million to $84.8 million. This improvement was primarily due
to initial ramping of 5G infrastructure sale. Communications revenue represented 13.5% of our
2019 revenue compared with 12.1% in 2018.Automotive revenue grew $10.2 million to $90.3 million in 2019. This growth primarily represented
increased sales of infotainment, safety and connectivity application products. Automotive
revenue represented 14.4% of MPS's full year 2019 revenue compared with 13.8% in 2018.
Industrial revenue grew $10.9 million to $99.4 million in 2019. This growth reflected sales for
applications in power sources, security and industrial meters. Industrial revenue represented
15.8% of MPS's full year 2019 revenue compared with 15.2% in 2018. Consumer revenue fell $19.9
million to $164.2 million. With the exception of home appliances and wearables, all major
consumer markets decreased between years. Consumer revenue represented 26.2% of MPS's
full year 2019 revenue compared with 31.6% in 2018.
Switching to Q4, MPS had a record fourth quarter with revenue of $166.7 million, 1.2% lower than
revenue generated in the third quarter of 2019, but 8.6% higher than the comparable quarter of
2018. Our market segment revenue from computing and storage grew 27.8% year-over-year,
automotive grew 8.6% and communications grew 8.5%. Industrial was essentially even with Q4,
2018, while consumer revenue fell 5.7% from the prior year.
Fourth quarter 2019 GAAP gross margin was 55.1%, 10 basis points lower than the third quarter of
2019, but even with margin reported in the fourth quarter of 2018. Our GAAP operating income
was $30.7 million compared to $30.0 million reported in third quarter of 2019 and $33.1 million
reported in the fourth quarter of 2018. Fourth quarter 2019 non-GAAP gross margin was 55.5%,
10 basis points lower than both the third quarter of 2019 and the fourth quarter of 2018. Our non-
GAAP operating income was $50.8 million compared to $51.4 million reported in the prior quarter
and $46.6 million reported in the fourth quarter of 2018.
Let's review our operating expenses. Our GAAP operating expenses were $61.2 million in the
fourth quarter compared with $63.1 million in the third quarter of 2019 and $51.5 million in the
fourth quarter of 2018. Our non-GAAP fourth quarter 2019 operating expenses were $41.8 million,
down from the $42.5 million we spent in the third quarter of 2019, but up from the $38.7 million
reported in the fourth quarter of 2018.
On both a GAAP and a non-GAAP basis, fourth quarter 2019 litigation expenses were $991,000
compared with a $692,000 expense in Q3, 2019 and a $409,000 expense in Q4, 2018. The
differences between GAAP and non-GAAP operating expenses for the quarters discussed here
are stock compensation and income or loss from an unfunded deferred comp plan. Fourth
quarter 2019 stock compensation expense including $574,000 charged to cost of goods sold
was $18.7 million compared with $21.3 million recorded in the third quarter of 2019.
Switching to the bottom line. Fourth quarter 2019 GAAP net income was $32.4 million or $0.70 per
fully diluted share compared with $0.64 per share in the third quarter of 2019 and $0.61 per share
in the fourth quarter of 2018. Q4, 2019 non-GAAP net income was $48.4 million or $1.04 per fully
diluted share compared with $1.08 per share in the third quarter of 2019 and $0.99 per share in
the fourth quarter of 2018. Fully diluted share is outstanding at the end of Q4, 2019 were 46.5
million.
Now, let's look at the balance sheet. As of December 31, 2019, cash, cash equivalents and
investments totaled $458.5 million compared to $422.0 million at the end of the third quarter of
2019. For the quarter, MPS generated operating cash flow of about $61.0 million, compared with
Q3, 2019 operating cash flow of $72.4 million. Fourth quarter 2019 capital spending totaled $8.7
million.
Accounts receivable ended the fourth quarter of 2019 at $52.7 million or 29 days of sales
outstanding compared with the $58.3 million or 31 days reported at the end of the third quarterof 2019 and the $55.2 million or 33 days reported in the fourth quarter of 2018.
Our internal inventories at the end of the fourth quarter of 2019 were $127.5 million, down from
the $135.6 million at the end of the third quarter of 2019. Days of inventory fell to 155 days at the
end of Q4, 2019 from the 163 days at the end of the third quarter of 2019.
Before turning to our outlook for Q1, 2020, I would like to remind everybody of our long-term
non-GAAP financial model, which has been largely unchanged for the past five years. First, we
target to grow revenue at a rate that is 10 to 15 percentage points greater than our peers. In a
year where the market is expected to grow between 5 to 8 percentage points, we believe that
MPS should be able to grow annual revenue from 15% to 20%.
Second, we target quarterly gross margin to grow by 10 to 20 basis points sequentially. Third, to
ensure continued growth, we target increases in our R&D and SG&A investment at 50% to 60%
of the annual revenue growth rate. Finally, we expect to return 30% to 40% of the company's
annual free cash flow to shareholders. This long-term financial model is an important tool in
setting expectations for accelerated revenue growth and providing operating leverage while
allowing for a proper level of business reinvestment.
I would now like to turn to our Q1, 2020 outlook. We are forecasting Q1, 2020 revenue in the
range of $161 million to $167 million. We also expect the following. GAAP gross margin in the range
of 55.1% to 55.7%. Non-GAAP gross margin in range the of 55.4% to 56.0%. Total stock-based
compensation expense of $18 million to $20 million including approximately $600,000 that would
be charged to cost of goods sold. GAAP R&D and SG&A expenses between $58.4 million and
$62.4 million. Non-GAAP R&D and SG&A expenses to be in the range of $41.0 million to $43.0
million. This estimate excludes stock compensation and litigation expenses. Litigation expenses
to be in the range of $1.5 million to $2.5 million as MPS prepares for an upcoming trial, which is set
to begin at the end of March.
Interest income is expected to range from $1.5 million to $1.7 million before foreign exchange
gains or losses. Fully diluted shares to be in the range of 46.2 million to 47.2 million shares. Finally,
we are pleased to announce a 25% increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.50 per share from
$0.40 per share, for shareholders of record as of March 31, 2020.
In conclusion, we will continue executing on our strategy and winning market share.
I will now open the phone lines for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from `Jeremy Kwan, Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Inc. with Stifel
Nicolaus, your line is open.
Q - `Jeremy Kwan, Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Inc. `
Yes. Good afternoon and congrats on the strong results and outlook, especially in a challenging
environment. I guess my first question regarding, you mentioned about not having sufficient
inventory in hand to meet all the immediate demand you're seeing. Is there a way you can kind of
quantify what's kind of being left on the table and is there a chance to capture this maybe later
on in the coming quarters?A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
All these products, which design are linked, and our customers have upside, many of them, they
told us. So we believe okay these socket are difficult to change you can't change month-by-
month. And those volumes still will be with us.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, We're not trying to identify a risk factor with regard to our ability to execute against
expectations. We're just saying that it would be imprudent for us to allow our investors to believe
that there is even more upside beyond that, because we may have some constraint with regard
to inventory.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, our inventories, they involve a few thousand products, and very difficult to predict, which
ones will ramp first. And so, that causes a lot of problems for our planning and also for our
shipments. We're now doing partial shipment.
Q - `Jeremy Kwan, Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Inc. `
Great. Thank you very much. That's helpful clarity. And I guess my follow-up would be -- Bernie,
you mentioned entering the high-performance analog market with the high precision data
acquisition group. Can you give us more details about this maybe you or Michael maybe what
initial applications it's going to go after first, and how you plan to compete in this market, and
maybe your sales strategy, do you need more distribution partners, or is this something that you
can leverage your e-commerce platform? Thank you.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Initial one is in -- these initial market segment they're in the communications and as well as
medical applications. And we don't have a long-term strategy I think through our internet --
through our e-commerce, and we try to push everything through e-commerce market.
Q - `Jeremy Kwan, Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Inc. `
Great. Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from `Alessandra Vecchi, William Blair with William Blair. Your line is
open
Q - `Alessandra Vecchi, William Blair `
Great. Thanks. Congratulations on a wonderful quarter. Just on 48 volt, you talked about the new
product introductions in 2019 and I believe you guys said on the last earnings call that you'd be
seeing some revenue in Q1. Can you just update us on that? And how we should think about the
total revenue opportunity there as we look into 2020 and 2021?
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I don't think that we guided per se on giving an exact revenue outlook for Q1 with beginning
of 48 volt, but we said that it would be in 2020. And right now everything is tracking pretty muchalong our expectations. So what's really exciting is that I think that it validates our strategy to have
gone into 48 volt, and to enjoy and participate in many of the opportunities that it brings us.
Q - `Alessandra Vecchi, William Blair `
Okay, that's helpful. And then I apologize if I missed it. But Bernie, did you give us a little bit of
clarity in terms of by segment in Q1 what segments maybe you thought would be the strongest
sequentially?
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah again, I think the broader question there is , what is the revenue drivers looking like, and at
this point, I think it's a continuation of more of what we've been seeing recently. So for example,
the compute and storage market is very well positioned for growth in the early part of the year
likewise communication, we believe that there's also a significant opportunity for growth
particularly in Q1.
When you look at oh I should make one asterisk on computing notebooks, which we report in
computing are seasonal and coming out of Q4 they tend to have a seasonal decline which we are
anticipating as well. But when you look at storage or cloud computing, I think that we are very well
positioned.
And then after that, if you look at consumer, again that still has not hit a steady state or showed
any signs of being healthy, and again consumer is also very seasonal and it's normal to expect a
decline from Q4 to Q1. And then when you look at industrial, a lot of that was revenue
performance particularly in the second half of the year, reflected inventory builds on the part of
certain of our customers who are anticipating trade restrictions. And so that area may fall off in Q1
and automotive that tends to go either on a plateau or when it gets designed in a new revenue
opportunity there's a spike.
Q - `Alessandra Vecchi, William Blair `
Okay, just on automotive, some other semiconductor companies have alluded to sort of a
bottoming out, and improvement there. So are you seeing a similar situation? I know it depends
on what model you are designed into and what whatnot but do you feel like the worst is behind
you?
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I think we are too small to call the industry, we're growing to all these greenfield markets and that
the least thing that we have said that this is the end of the world or this is the beginning of the
world, it's the beginning of the world for MPS.
Q - `Alessandra Vecchi, William Blair `
Understood. That's it for me. Thank you so much.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Alex.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Michelle Waller, Needham & Company. with Needham. Your line is open.Q - `Michelle Waller, Needham & Company. `
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking the question, and congrats on the results. So I guess the first one for
me is in terms of the next generation gaming consoles launching in 2020. Could you guys walk us
through what the ramp is expected to look like for MPS? Is it only a backhalf driver or do you think
you'll see some meaningful up-tick in 2Q? And from a gross margin perspective. How should we
think about the impact to corporate gross margins during that ramp?
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Are you talking about gaming particularly.
Q - `Michelle Waller, Needham & Company. `
Yes. And Specifically, yes.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Gaming is not a major part of our business, and that is all linked into one product, is in the
consumer segment, and it is in a share that's similar CPU Core Power. So the business is very
lumpy, but we treat this very opportunistically, and our customers really like our solutions, and we
will support them again when the demand come.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
And we would probably expect to see a similar ramp as we did in 2017.
Q - `Michelle Waller, Needham & Company. `
Okay. That's helpful. And then for my follow-up. you guys mentioned previously that your dollar
content opportunity with the whitley server platform increased to $70 from $50 in the purley
platform. I'm just trying to figure out, I know this is a bit further off, but with the equal stream
platform that's expected to launch in 2021. How do you guys see your dollar content opportunity
changing generation over generation? Or just any color you can give there would be helpful?
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
On the dollar content, we haven't seen an opportunity to expand beyond what we currently are
getting on the V14. But then again, the specs are not entirely finalized. So if it turns out that the
space or the power requirements are materially different from what V14 is. There might be an
opportunity for pricing leverage.
Q - `Michelle Waller, Needham & Company. `
Okay. Thank you. That's all for me. Thanks guys.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from Matt Ramsay with Cowen. Your line is open.
Q - `Joshua Buchalter, Cowen & Company `Hey guys, this is Josh, Buchalter on behalf of Matt. Thanks for taking my questions, and congrats
on the results in a tough environment. I guess the first question was if we think about your
inventory commentary from last quarter, are there any couple of items in particular that you could
point to, that drove the change in your thought process from 3Q to 4Q. And then also, is there
any margin impact from bringing on the new 12-inch Fab and your sort of what sounds like
capacity constraints?
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, in talking about margins and a new 12 inch Fabs, okay? every time we're bringing up a fab
we will have a very immediate impact for the margin improvement these products that are from
new fab is always a year or two years down the road. In terms of which segments where our
inventory is tight and again, it's actually across the board.
Q - `Joshua Buchalter, Cowen & Company `
Got it. Thank you. And I guess in the beginning of the call, you mentioned several Tier-1
companies launching with your design wins. Were there any, I guess if you'd rank order one or
two that you're most excited about heading into 2020. Thank you and congrats again.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
This we said that Bernie said at the beginning of the call, and okay, There's a few things that we
achieved in 2019. And all of these will generate a significant revenue in 2020.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, and it's not restricted to any one end-market segments. It's actually very broad-based the
level of customer engagement that we're receiving from Tier 1.
Q - `Joshua Buchalter, Cowen & Company `
Thanks guys.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from `Rick Schafer, Oppenheimer & Co. with Oppenheimer. Your line is open.
Q - `Rick Schafer, Oppenheimer & Co. `
Yes. Hi guys. I'll echo everyone else's congratulations on another monolithic quarter, another
great quarter, so good job. I just had a -- maybe a question on coronavirus, since it's the topic du
jour. You guys have three of your four production foundries in China, so I'm just curious, Michael or
Bernie, if you're seeing any signs of supply disruption or do you expect to see any signs, once
guys just start coming back to work next week.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
All the fab as far as we know they are all open, they are all operating and they are in really tight
conditions, okay? and all the assemblies, same thing I came and so far and really hasn't disrupted
our supply.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `And again Rick It's a very early stage to really fully appreciate or understand how any of our
businesses will be impacted.
Q - `Rick Schafer, Oppenheimer & Co. `
Sure. I understand. So maybe a follow-up if I could just on your auto biz, I know you guys secured
one of the -- I think the number one Tier 1 auto supplier a few months ago. I'm just curious where
we stand on securing the number two Tier 1 auto supplier, and as part of your answer, I'm curious.
I mean from after you signed number one, have you seen -- is it too soon to have seen any
noticeable uptick in design activity, and maybe also just a comment on China in general. I'd be
interested, I know that it was kind of a slow year for China auto, basically canceled the design
year, I think last year, or the model year. I'm curious, kind of what your expectations are for China
this year, or what you're seeing? Thanks.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, okay. Overall everybody told us that china auto will not be a good year from an MPS side we
are looking pretty good in fall of 2020. And all these number one, number two, number three,
arcing all those and we are deeply engaged and that we see all the activities that we -- they are
more than we can handle and now we have to pick and choose.
Q - `Rick Schafer, Oppenheimer & Co. `
Got it. Thanks, Michael.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from Ross Seymore with Deutsche Bank. Your line is
open.
Q - `Melissa Lim, Deutsche Bank `
Hi guys, this is Melissa on behalf of Ross. Congratulations on the really solid quarter. I know you
guys don't guide out more than one quarter, but I guess from a high level perspective. Now that
we're coming out of this industry downturn. What are your expectations for returning to either
seasonal or even above seasonal growth? Is this moderated by your inventory constraints? And
how are you thinking about the slope of the recovery from here?
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, -- you call it industrial out of the downturn we came. And as we said, as Bernie said earlier,
we will grow above the industrial market. Again, plus we will see an upturn about 10%, 15% to
20%. So we are committed on that.
Q - `Melissa Lim, Deutsche Bank `
Okay, great. And then does the inventory constraints? Is that kind of restricting that growth
prospect or do you think you can still kind of hit that target?
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
We try to and as we said earlier, we cannot maximize it. Because our customers are pulling the
requirements, okay? And so, we have to keep the line up, and we handle partial shipment, and
that's our inventory is in a very low stage.Q - `Melissa Lim, Deutsche Bank `
Got it. And then the last one for me is your computing and storage segment has been driving
really strong growth, and I was just curious when you look into 2020. How are you thinking about
the shape of that business? And in particular are you worried about any risk of inventory digestion
of lumpy buying or do you think that it's really strong secular growth that's driving the strength.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, when you look at 2019, I think the first half of the year was an anomaly where the hyper
scales were trying to digest excess capacity. And so I would see, with the V 14 having been just
recently rolled out a return to a more normalized adoption process.
Q - `Melissa Lim, Deutsche Bank `
Okay, great. Thank you, guys.
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) And our next question comes from `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. with Stifel.
Your line is open.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. `
Yes, thank you and congratulations again, very nice results. First question on inventory being tight,
I mean you're at 156 days. So how tight is it? I mean, I know you want to run a little bit higher than
that, but it doesn't seem alarmingly low either. So maybe could just elaborate a little bit on that.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
I think we're a 155 days right now. And if you were to look at sort of the Industry standards, we're
probably in about the mid point range of what people might expect. There's two things though
that differentiate us. The first is the diversity of the number of products that we maintain. And
then the second is that we build inventories ahead of when we sell them.
And as a result because we're growing at a rate that is 10 to 15 percentage points faster than the
industry that puts more pressure on us to have more inventory available in an earlier stage. So it's
as much a risk management decision with the level we carry, and I think that we've said previously
that we're more comfortable with inventory levels between about a 160 and 180 days.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, stagnant companies inventory. Yes is very predictable for the growth company and a we
have a particular for MPS. We have if not thousands, we have a hundred project and that they are
taking off, the some of those faster other ones are slower, how do we pick on those, very difficult
to call?
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. `
Well, it's a good problem to have. Second question, and I always ask you this Michael. If you could
give us an update on your e-commerce business we notice that the website keeps changing. So
if you could update on those that would be great. Thanks.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `The e-commerce site, okay. Other than the MPS website e-commerce we're still learning from
that one okay, but our product we sell to the third party's e-commerce sites doing really well. And
so as a result of our learning and we are changing it you see that on our website. And so that so
far we can't give you the significant number yet, okay? but feel end of the 2020. I think that,that
will move some needles.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. `
Great. So at least you are now seeing that the traffic really moving in the right direction sounds
like.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. The key is the traffic But yes, the key is the traffic so we can again give you an analogy. We
Believe again a year ago, we believe there's a lot of fish in the Pacific Ocean. So we dropped the
fish in the middle of Pacific Ocean, we didn't target anything. And our learning fishing what kind of
fish where are they? we are a lot more targeted. So we have gone through that phase, okay, we
are a lot more targeted now.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. `
Very good, make sure you have enough bait. Last Question on the e-motion business, if you
could also update us there including obviously, your system level motor products.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, so the model is that the intent is just not selling a motor and intend to provide a convenience
for our customers for the initial ramp. So okay, we -- those business at the very beginnings and I
go through we see quite a few orders from our internet and then typically those customers are
going very slow.
And I mean, their project takes a year and the year and a half and to ramp. It's not like they're
selling a silicon piece, okay? and usually a model for the guys it takes about three or four years.
And in terms of e-motions, we have I don't know what --bernie maybe Bernie you can say. That
okay $20 some million, this year more than $20 million -- last year $20 some million. This year we
are going to keep up a similar growth rate, and so we will be assuming we would be a $30 million
or $40 million. Okay?
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
And I think that we're comfortable in saying that it can be a $30 million or $40 million business
here in the next few years. I think though that Michael makes a very good point as far as the
length of time between adoption and when you actually generate revenue many of those
applications almost have have characteristics similar to automotive.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. `
Very good. Congratulations again.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
OperatorThank you, and I'm showing no further questions at this time. I'd like to turn the call back to Bernie
Blegen, for any closing remarks.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you. I'd like to thank you all for joining us for this conference call. And look forward to
talking to you again during our first quarter 2020 conference call, which will likely be in April. Thank
you and have a nice day.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You
may now disconnect, everyone have a great day.