Q4 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Genevieve Cunningham, Supervisor-Marketing Communications
Welcome everyone to the MPS Fourth Quarter 2020 Earnings Webinar. Please note that this
webinar is being recorded and will be archived for one year on our Investor Relations page at
www.monolithicpower.com. My name is `Genevieve Cunningham, Supervisor-Marketing Communications and I will be the moderator for
this webinar. Joining me today are `Michael Hsing, Chief Executive Officer, CEO and Founder of MPS; and `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer,
VP and CFO.
In the course of today's conference call, we will make forward-looking statements and projections
that involve risk and uncertainty, which could cause results to differ materially from management's
current views and expectations. Please refer to the safe harbor statement contained in the
earnings release published today. Risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual
results to differ are identified in the safe harbor statements contained in the Q4 earnings release
and in our SEC filings, including our Form 10-K filed on February 28, 2020 and Form 10-Q filed on
November 6, 2020. Both of which are accessible through our website. MPS assumes no
obligation to update the information provided on today's call.
We will be discussing gross margin, operating expense, R&D and SG&A expense, operating
income, interest and other income, net income and earnings on both a GAAP and a non-GAAP
basis. These non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and should
not be considered as a substitute for or superior to measures of financial performance prepared
in accordance with GAAP. A table that outlines the reconciliation between the non-GAAP financial
measures to GAAP financial measures is included in our earnings release, which we have filed
with the SEC. I would refer investors to the Q4 2019, Q3 2020, and Q4 2020 earnings releases,
as well as to the reconciling tables that are posted on our website. I'd also like to remind you that
today's conference call is being webcast live over the Internet and will be available for replay on
our website for one year, along with the earnings release filed with the SEC earlier today.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
`Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `Thanks, Gen. For the full year 2020, MPS achieved record revenue $844.5 billion growing 34.5%
from the prior year. This performance represented consistent execution against our strategies
and being recognized by more first-tier companies for our superior technologies, product quality,
and excellent customer support.
As we see more high-quality growth opportunities ahead of us, we continue to successfully invest
in our infrastructure and capabilities that support that growth. Here are few highlights which we
achieved in 2020. Brought online a new 12-inch fab, one year ahead of schedule, allowing for
qualified parts we shipped in Q4 of this year, we will continue to invest in the capacity and
diversity of our supply chain with plans to bring up a new 8-inch fab in 2021. Began volume
shipments of 48-volt QSMOD technology for AI applications, proving the commercial viability of
our leading-edge system solutions in this critically important market.
Designed an integrated power management solution for autonomous driving vehicles, shipments
began to ramp in Q3 of 2020. Launched our ESG website aggregating all of our environmental,
social and governance values, policies and practices into one easily accessed location.
Customers, employees, shareholders are now able to fully appreciate MPS's commitment to
sustainability, transparency of our business practices and our ongoing social responsibility.
While 2020 was very successful in terms of our financial performance, product development in
new customer acquisition, supply chain capacity constraints for much of the year limited our ability
to fulfill all of our customers' demand. This is a result of demand increases during the year and
industry-wide capacity constraints. We can take some solence [ph] in having recognized this issue
in 2019, which propelled us to bring up our second 12-inch fab. Maintaining our ability to meet
strong demand while delivering high-quality products to our customers has represented an
extraordinary challenge that continues into 2021. Despite these challenges, we will continue to
execute on our strategic plan.
Turning back to full-year 2020 revenue by market segment compared with 2019, communications
revenue up 67.9%, consumer revenue up 34.2%, computing and storage up 33.8%, automotive
up 20.7% and industrial up 20.3% demonstrating just how broad-based our revenue improvement
was. Communications revenue grew $57.5 million to $142.3 million. This improvement was
primarily due to an infrastructure sales ramp. Communications revenue represented 16.9% of our
2020 revenue compared with 13.5% in 2019. Consumer revenue grew $56.2 million to $220.4
million, reversing two consecutive years of sales declines. This growth reflected higher game
console sales along with increased sales of wearables and home appliances. Consumer revenue
represented 26.1% of MPS's full-year 2020 revenue compared with 26.2% in 2019.
Full-year 2020 computing and storage revenue grew $64.0 million over the prior year to $253.2
million. This 33.8% increase primarily resulted from strong sales growth for cloud computing and
storage applications. Computing and storage revenue represented 30.0% of MPS's total revenue
in 2020 compared with 30.1% in 2019. Automotive revenue grew $18.7 million to $109.0 million in
2020. This growth primarily represented increased sales of infotainment, safety and connectivity
application products. Automotive revenue represented 12.9% of MPS's full-year 2020 revenue
compared with 14.4% in 2019. Industrial revenue grew $20.2 million to $119.6 million in 2020. This
growth primarily reflected higher sales for applications in power sources. Industrial revenue
represented 14.2% of MPS's full-year 2020 revenue compared with 15.8% in 2019.
Switching to Q4. MPS had a record fourth quarter with revenue of $233.0 million, 10.2% lower than
revenue generated in the third quarter of 2020, but 39.8% higher than the comparable quarter of
2019. The market segment revenue for a consumer grew 69.7% year-over-year, automotive grew
63.1%, industrial grew 38.8%, communications grew 35.6% and computing and storage grew 11.1%.Fourth-quarter 2020 GAAP gross margin was 55.3%, 20 basis points higher than both third
quarter 2020 and the fourth quarter of 2019. Our GAAP operating income was $40.0 million
compared to $60.0 million reported in the third quarter of 2020 and $30.7 million reported in the
fourth quarter of 2019. Fourth-quarter 2020 non-GAAP gross margin was 55.7%, 20 basis points
higher than both the third quarter of 2020 and the fourth quarter of 2019. Our non-GAAP
operating income was $66.3 million compared to $84.9 million reported in the prior quarter and
$50.8 million reported in the fourth quarter 2019.
Let's review our operating expenses. Our GAAP operating expenses were $88.9 million in the
fourth quarter compared with $83.1 million in the third quarter of 2020 and $61.2 million in the
fourth quarter of 2019. Our non-GAAP fourth quarter 2020 operating expenses were $63.6
million, up from the $59.1 million we spent in the third quarter of 2020 and up from the $41.8
million reported in the fourth quarter of 2019. On both a GAAP and a non-GAAP basis, fourth
quarter 2020 litigation expenses were $1.5 million compared with a $1.8 million expense in Q3
2020 and a $991,000 expense in Q4 2019.
The differences between GAAP and non-GAAP operating expenses for the quarters discussed
here are stock compensation and income or loss from an unfunded deferred compensation plan.
Fourth quarter 2020 stock compensation expense including $686,000 charged to cost of goods
sold was $23.0 million compared with $23.0 million recorded in the third quarter of 2020.
Switching to the bottom line. Fourth quarter 2020 GAAP net income was $42.9 million or $0.90
per fully diluted share, compared with $1.18 per share in the third quarter of 2020 and $0.70 per
share in the fourth quarter of 2019. Q4 2020 non-GAAP net income was $62.5 million or $1.31 per
fully diluted share, compared with $1.69 per share in the third quarter of 2020 and $1.04 per share
in the fourth quarter of 2019. Fully diluted shares outstanding at the end of Q4 2020 were $47.6
million.
Now let's look at the balance sheet. As of December 31, 2020, cash, cash equivalents and
investments totaled $598.0 million compared with $554.5 million at the end of the third quarter
of 2020. For the quarter, MPS generated operating cash flow of about $79.6 million compared
with Q3 2020 operating cash flow of $77.4 million. Fourth quarter 2020 capital spending totaled
$11.5 million. Accounts receivable ended the fourth quarter of 2020 at $66.8 million or 26 days of
sales outstanding compared with the $93.5 million or 33 days reported at the end of the third
quarter of 2020 and the $52.7 million or 29 days reported in the fourth quarter of 2019.
Our internal inventories at the end of the fourth quarter of 2020 were $157.1 million, up from
$148.1 million at the end of the third quarter of 2020. Calculated on a basis consistent with our
past practice, and as you can see from the webinar video, days of inventory rose to 137 days at
the end of Q4 2020 from the 116 days at the end of the third quarter of 2020. Historically, we
have calculated days of inventory on hand as a function of the current quarter revenue. We
believe comparing current inventory levels with the following quarter's revenue provides a better
economic match. On this basis, again, you can see days of inventory increased to 132 days at the
end of the fourth quarter of 2020 from 129 days at the end of the third quarter of 2020.
I would like to turn to our Q1 2021 outlook. We are forecasting Q1 2021 revenue in the range of
$236 million to $248 million. We also expect to follow GAAP gross margin in the range of 55.1% to
55.7%, non-GAAP gross margin in the range of 55.4% to 56.0%. Total stock-based compensation
expense of $27.0 million to $29.0 million, including approximately $800,000 that would be
charged to cost of goods sold. GAAP R&D and SG&A expenses between $89.0 million and $93.0
million. Non-GAAP R&D and SG&A expenses to be in the range of $62.8 million to $64.8 million.
This estimate excludes stock compensation and litigation expenses.Litigation expenses to be in the range of $2.3 million to $2.7 million. Interest income is expected
to range from $1.4 million to $1.8 million before foreign exchange gains or losses. Fully diluted
shares to be in the range of 47.3 million to 48.3 million shares. Finally, we are pleased to
announce a 20% increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.60 per share from $0.50 per share for
shareholders of record as of March 31, 2021. In conclusion, our performance in 2020 validated our
strategy to grow through diversification and sustainability. We will continue to execute this
strategy and invest in our future.
I will now open the phone lines for questions.
Questions And Answers
A - `Genevieve Cunningham, Supervisor-Marketing Communications
Thank you, Bernie. Analysts, I would now like to begin our Q&A session. (Operator Instructions)
Our first question is from Matt Ramsay from Cowen. Matt, your line is now open.
Q - `Matthew D. Ramsay, Analyst, Cowen `
Thank you very much. Good afternoon and good evening, everybody. Hey, Michael, hey Bernie.
Hope you're well. My first question is around the supply that you guys are bringing online. You
talked about a couple of different efforts and you have done over the last few quarters to add
supply and I guess Michael, I wonder if you might characterize it as anyway, one, how much supply
can you bring online and say the immediate term versus over the next couple of years to support
what revenue levels? And two, do you feel like there is now a situation where your own supply is
expanding to support your share gains where the rest of the industry might be tightening a bit?
And how does that -- how do you see that play into your thoughts about revenue growth?
Thanks. And then I have a follow-up.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, we said that in a couple of quarters ago, we are building a capacity to about $2 billion
capability. And so that's our long-term strategy. We will do that anyway, just recent -- from last
year, so we're pulling a little faster, okay. We can anticipate this goes up and down, again [ph] as
we're playing for our long-term futures and -- but in recent years, obviously, we have to pull it in
and increase capacities. As we started in the early last year and we're a little bit ahead of the
game -- ahead of the market demands and from looking at a newer future, so we continue to do
so and we're still facing delinquent.
Q - `Matthew D. Ramsay, Analyst, Cowen `
Got it. Now that makes sense in the long-term. I guess for my follow-up question, is it more near-
term oriented one? Bernie, if you might give some color as how you're expecting, I mean, the
guidance was well above consensus for the March quarter, maybe you could talk about it by
segment, what you're expecting the trends to be as you move from December into March?
Thanks, guys.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. I think that we saw in 2020 that revenue in both automotive and industrial were probably
most heavily impacted because of the COVID pandemic. So what we saw in the second half of
the year is that both of those two markets showed marked improvement and have significant
momentum as we go into 2021 but really we're broad-based. So a lot of the trends that we sawthat we benefited from in 2020 will continue on. Possibly, the only exception is communications,
which had a strong three quarters that will be difficult to compare against.
A - `Genevieve Cunningham, Supervisor-Marketing Communications
Our next question is from `Tore Svanberg, Analyst, Stifel from Stifel. Tore, your line is now open.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Analyst, Stifel `
Yes, thank you. Congratulations on the execution. So far, I think you're the only company that I've
seen actually increasing your inventory days. So, congratulations on that too. Last quarter you
talked about the size of the delinquencies you had in '19, could you give us a ballpark for where
they stand right now?
A - `Michael Hsing, Chief Executive Officer `
I think it's -- last quarter, we talked about it in the last couple of quarters, we have continued
facing delinquencies, and this quarter and the last quarter we're relatively similar and two
quarters ago, we were facing quite a bit more.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. And I think that's a reflection of continued strong demand in the face of industry-wide
capacity constraints. So we've actually had to manage at this level now for about the last three to
four quarters. And I'd say that we're getting good at it. But we're certainly -- believe we have it as
well under control as possible, good handle on it. So that we're escalating shipments only based
on the needs of the end-user as opposed to anyone building inventory needed [ph] the channel
or on customer shelves [ph].
A - `Michael Hsing, Chief Executive Officer `
And the reason we can meet most of our customers' demand is due to we added capacity at the
beginning of last year and now we can fulfill most of it.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Analyst, Stifel `
Very good. And as my follow-up on capacity, you talked about the second 12-inch, also new 8-
inch, I know you typically don't name your foundries on these calls, but could you at least talk
about sort of the geographical aspect to where your foundry partners are at this point?
A - `Michael Hsing, Chief Executive Officer `
No, we try to diversify it outside China as we're speaking, these fabs, okay, or [ph] could be -- we
are still exploring an -- at the beginning of an engagement with both -- with a fab within China and
outside of China.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Analyst, Stifel `
Great. Thank you very much. Congrats again.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Tore.
OperatorOur next question is from `Ross Seymore, Analyst, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank. Ross, your line is now open.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Hi, guys. Can you hear me?
A - `Michael Hsing, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Loud and clear.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Hi, Ross.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Hi there. So, congratulations on the growth especially impressive not only relative to the analog
group with the diversity of it. As you looked at 2020 as a whole other than the year-over-year
incomes, which I know is difficult, you talked a little bit about you expect it to be diverse -- but if
you just said, what some of the idiosyncratic drivers, company-specific things in 2020 would be
just kind of by end markets and obviously, not customer-specific?
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. I think that in the computing, we had seen in 2018 and 2019, a run-up in notebooks and
really in 2020, it was increased demand in the data center, both in terms of powering servers as
well as storage. In the consumer market, we benefited from the once every three-year refresh of
the gaming council, and also, we saw a nice uptick both in home appliances as well as wearables
or mobility. And then when we look at Industrial and Automotive, as I said earlier, both of those
seem to be handicapped at the beginning of the year where we have design wins, but we can't
guarantee what the market circumstances are going to be. So, the unit sales on some of the new
products we are introducing were a little limited but certainly showed a lot of strength in the
second half of the year.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
And then actually Bernie, forgive me if I misspoke. I was actually talking more about 2021, what
those drive -- similar sort of story, but '21, more looking forward than back?
A - `Michael Hsing, Chief Executive Officer `
I think it's a repeat of same thing because (Multiple Speakers) '20 to '21.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
I'd say, the only thing in the first half that gives us a little pause aside from the communications
comparable is that there is probably going to be some softness in the first half of the year
related to computing on the data center, but outside of that, Michael is exactly right.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Well, maybe that's a good...
A - `Michael Hsing, Chief Executive Officer `But the softness, it's not going down, okay, but still going as not as strong, but the demand is still
slightly more than we expected.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Yeah. Got it. And then I guess it's my might real follow-up. A lot of companies are questioning the
sustainability of this demand and I know crystal balls are always foggy. But you guys would grow, if
I just annualize your first-quarter guidance 15%, I know seasonality might not be the best
framework But there seems to be an active debate amongst investors on -- it's, I think just to
heart and there's got to be a stumble because there's excess ordering, inventory is going to
build, et cetera, et cetera. How are you guys viewing that kind of supply versus demand balance
and the trust in the quality of the orders?
A - `Michael Hsing, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, if you look at it in the past three or four years, we grow some things like from 17% to 25% in
the levels. In 2019, we grow only 8%, but our designing, all these opportunities still there, and we
just shifted to -- from '19 to '20 and so again, the Automotive, industrial and the first half of the
year wasn't there, it's nothing [ph] but a catch-up in the second half of the year and in computing,
communication and what else I'm missing...
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Consumer.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Consumers. And okay, in the beginning, is stronger than -- a little bit stronger than normal.
And I would say that it's probably even out from 2019 and this year, we can't see the -- we never
forecast a macroeconomic condition, but we do see this product and we're facing shortages on
Amazon and on this Best Buy and we believe these all are real.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Great. Thank you and congrats.
A - `Genevieve Cunningham, Supervisor-Marketing Communications
Our next question is from `Rick Schafer, Analyst, Oppenheimer from Oppenheimer. Rick, your line is now open.
Q - `Rick Schafer, Analyst, Oppenheimer `
Thanks, and let me add my congratulations on the execution, guys. I'm sure it wasn't easy out
there, this quarter especially. Couple of questions, just, I guess, I'd like to ask about a couple of
your bigger growth pillars maybe start with auto. I think it grew about 50% last year and was
soared down about 15%, so just optically it looks like you guys could do something around 50%
growth this year. I mean, maybe you could talk about what leads that growth. I mean is it ADAS,
body control? Does DMS kick in at all and kind of add -- give a little more win to the sales this
year?
And I guess, the second part of that question. Just curious, are you worried at all about indirect
supply constraints potentially limiting eliminating your upside here.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chief Executive Officer `All right. Let me talk about your second part first. Growth overall for MPS is limiting by our
capacities and utilization of total capacity, as you know, we have a few thousand -- 4,000 parts
and it's inconceivable, we can utilize entire capacities. For the auto growth, yes, okay, as Bernie
said earlier, so now we have ADAS start to ramp last quarter or so. And we have more customers
start to ramp. These are the very high-end product and we are very pleased with other products
in autos, and we talked about it in the past from lighting to lift-gauge [ph] to what is -- all the
other pulse -- power modules in auto. And now we see start to ramp -- we just -- just at the
beginning, we've seen all these products start to ramp, but these are still at the beginning.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
And Rick, just one more point is that I think we've read that the auto industry is suffering from its
own capacity issues or being able to have a stable supply chain. As I look at our Q1 numbers, that
is not directly impacting our demand or our ability to ship.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, we are so small in a market presence in auto industry but all these initial ramps change [ph]
the needles in the revenue stream.
Q - `Rick Schafer, Analyst, Oppenheimer `
Well, thanks. And that's kind of what I was asking about. I'm just worried if those secondary supply
constraints could end up hurt [ph] somebody else can't ship. Maybe my second question,
Michael, just on the cloud server, if you could talk about how that data center ramp looks like for
QSMODthis year? I mean is Ice Lake still a needle mover or is it really more Sapphire Rapids later
this year where we're kind of maybe potentially see a step function in revenues as that starts to
pick up?
A - `Michael Hsing, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I can relate those -- these are names with -- I know the 13.5 -- VR 13.5 is -- mostly is ramping
now, okay, as we see the revenue growth, the VR 14, I think that will be our next year story.
Q - `Rick Schafer, Analyst, Oppenheimer `
Got it. Thanks.
A - `Genevieve Cunningham, Supervisor-Marketing Communications
Our next question is from `Alex Vecchi, Analyst, William Blair from William Blair. Alex, your line is now open.
Q - `Alex Vecchi, Analyst, William Blair `
Hi, guys. Congratulations on the impressive quarter from me as well. Maybe Bernie just on a more
housekeeping question, your guidance for gross margin at the midpoint is looking flat quarter-
over-quarter, is that a -- is that due to end-market mix or are you seeing any increasing
manufacturing cost weighing on margins? And then how should we think about sort of that
redemption back to the 10 to 20 basis points going forward?
A - `Michael Hsing, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Okay [ph] -- obviously now, you see the consumer segment's gross too and we have some
(inaudible) slightly or even with a lower gross margin. On the other hand, yes, manufacturing costis going up.
Q - `Alex Vecchi, Analyst, William Blair `
Okay. That's helpful.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah.
Q - `Alex Vecchi, Analyst, William Blair `
And then just on your inventory days, you guys have talked in the past about the 180 to 200-day
target, you've made some improvements this quarter, how do we think about getting back to an
ideal inventory level in terms of timing?
A - `Michael Hsing, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, it's the demand keep coming as (inaudible) announced [ph], it would be difficult. We think by
the end of the year, we hope that we can go back to 180 to 200 days inventory.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I think if you look at whether it's the inventory that we hold on our books or particularly in
the channel, it's very lean right now. And then we've already discussed delinquencies. So we have
a lot of catch up to do before we really can get the model to the 180 to 200 day goal.
Q - `Alex Vecchi, Analyst, William Blair `
Understood. That's it for me. I'll pass it along to the next.
A - `Genevieve Cunningham, Supervisor-Marketing Communications
Our next question is from `Quinn Bolton, Analyst, Needham and Company from Needham. Quinn, your line is now open.
Q - `Quinn Bolton, Analyst, Needham and Company `
Hey, guys. I'll offer my congratulations as well. I just wanted to follow-up on Alex's question on the
delinquencies and your ability to catch up with some of those delinquencies. I mean, how much of
the ability to meet those delinquencies is going to come from the new 12-inch fab that you
brought online in the fourth quarter of last year?
Are you able to qualify more parts and other high-volume runners on that fab? Or just kind of
curious, your ability to actually get to secure more wafer capacity from your five foundry partners
in this very tight environment, I guess a lot of companies are saying that they think supply
constraints, this [ph] supply is going to remain constrained all year, which makes it sound like
being able to get back to 180 to 200 days (inaudible) delinquencies is a pretty tall order in
calendar '21.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, it's a great question and thanks for allowing us the opportunity to give a little more context
here. With the new fab, I mean we were very pleased to report is one of our highlights that we
were able to qualify parts and be able to inventory and ship them but that process of qualifying
more parts, so that it can be meaningful as far as both deliveries and addressing ourdelinquencies is ongoing and it's going to require an investment, both in the 12-inch capability as
well as this new fab that we're bringing up in 2021. So just because we've qualified a few parts
and we've got the process started, it still takes about nine to 12 months before you have the full
capability up.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, in 2020, we increased our capacity by 25%, it's pointing (inaudible) here [ph] Mike, My
rough calculations is about 20% to 25% increase last year.
Q - `Quinn Bolton, Analyst, Needham and Company `
I guess my follow-up question was just on the comp space, obviously, you had three very strong
quarters in 2020. And then one of your large customers was -- you were no longer able to ship, I
believe, you may now have a license to resume shipments to that customer. I'm just wondering if
that's the case, do you have now, perhaps, a better outlook than you might have 90 days ago for
the comms business in 2021?
A - `Michael Hsing, Chief Executive Officer `
Absolutely. We have it [ph] more clear, customer start to placing order now.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. And I think there is two forms, you identified one customer in particular and I think we might
see that begin to ramp in the second half of this year, but I think more broadly, other
opportunities are starting to come on, not just with the top tier, but some of the second tier
customers in the 5G and infrastructure area.
Q - `Quinn Bolton, Analyst, Needham and Company `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Genevieve Cunningham, Supervisor-Marketing Communications
Our next question is from `William Stein, Analyst, Truist Securities from Truist. William, your line is now open.
Q - `William Stein, Analyst, Truist Securities `
Great. Thanks for taking my question. Michael, I'm wondering if you can update us on the longer-
term transition to selling more modules. I know that's something that is, from a long-term
perspective, potentially very accretive to growth in margins. I think we're still pretty early in that
process, but any movement in the quarter that you'd like to highlight?
A - `Michael Hsing, Chief Executive Officer `
I think the result is very good in the middle of this high demand and actually, Bernie can tell you
what is the ramp, what is the increase.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, we had revenue doubled in 2020 and we exited the year where it continue to increase
sequentially to quarter and it did seem because we thought that it would have more narrow
applications particularly in industrial, but in fact, it's proven to be very broad-based and also is
sustainable. What I mean by that last point is that we thought that if people went to unit volumes,they might be more likely to go to components and just buy silicon and in fact, we're seeing a lot
of people that are going into volume shipments with the modules as well.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, it's all across our product line. So I don't have a total number for the modules that are in
roughly, like $30 million $40 million, now compared to a year ago, as Bernie said, it's half of that.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah.
Q - `William Stein, Analyst, Truist Securities `
Great. And then one other thing I'd like to ask about is your MPS now service, did you see any
change in that in the quarter? I know that's something that seem to come online sort of just in
time for the work-from-home COVID situation that I think was very helpful for you. Any change in
that, and any anticipated change if we hopefully, or able to return to offices in the next quarter or
two?
A - `Michael Hsing, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. This is a -- It's a great help. We set a lap [ph] okay, just above -- at the beginning of our --
just right before pandemic, all of these software videos, everything with, I mean, also the bench,
okay, -- the working bench. We just set a lap. We turned [ph] along with the pandemic happens
and it received enormous praise from our customers. And in terms of how many new customers,
that [ph] are really really careful about, we increased a few thousand percent from the videos or
from the virtual bench.
Q - `William Stein, Analyst, Truist Securities `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Genevieve Cunningham, Supervisor-Marketing Communications
Our next question is from `Kevin Garrigan, Analyst, Rosenblatt Securities from Rosenblatt. Kevin, your line is now open.
Q - `Kevin Garrigan, Analyst, Rosenblatt Securities `
Hi, guys. Congrats on the quarter and thanks for taking my question. Just a quick one from me,
You alluded a little to this earlier, but in your automotive segment, you've expanded into several
other features of the automobile, besides kind of entertainment, but can you give us a -- or can
you talk a little bit about some of your design wins there? Are you kind of seeing more design
wins? And ones you already have, how are kind of those progressing?
A - `Michael Hsing, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I think I should answer `Rick Schafer, Analyst, Oppenheimer's question more precisely. The battery, BMS is not -- we
don't have a clear design wins in the auto side, but to answer your question, we have pretty much
across the Board from the body controls to ADAS and to lightings and to lidars and all in -- and
also to other sensors. And we have pretty much across the board, but our content that we
expanded from $150, $140 and essentially doubled it, but everything's at the beginning. While the
MPS's revenue is so small, we just -- but you see the net change.A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, on the dollar content. I just want to go back to that because it's an important part is, this is
not just unit sales, but some of the new applications that we're bringing on, we go from having
$10 of available content to upwards of $40 or $50 for a complete system. So we're getting both
the unit as well as the ASP expansion.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. When I'm talking about our revenue is small is to compare the market opportunity. As we
said, we address the $6 billion market segments. Now, all MPS's product is a total -- that's a total
stand [ph] and we only have ove $100 some-million again revenues.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
$110 million.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, $110 million, most of the new products' ramping started from last year, -- second half of the
year.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah.
Q - `Kevin Garrigan, Analyst, Rosenblatt Securities `
Okay. Got it. Thank you.
A - `Genevieve Cunningham, Supervisor-Marketing Communications
Our next question is from `Ross Seymore, Analyst, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank. Ross, your line is now open.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Hi guys. Thanks for letting me ask a couple of quick follow-ups. Just two quick ones. First, you
mentioned in answering a prior question about your ability to ship to the formerly banned product
or banned customer. Is that just in the comms space or is that banned some of why you're
computing and storage segment also went down sequentially in the fourth quarter?
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
So again, we don't generally talk about individual customers that since this one has gotten so
much visibility, we actually have three primary lines of business with them. One is in the consumer,
one is in the data center and the other is in infrastructure.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Infrastructure meaning comms, right?
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes.Q - `Ross Seymore, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Got you. Okay. And is there any difference in what you're able to ship going forward out of those
three things? Are you able to ship all of them or is it just not the 5G stuff, but the other two?
A - `Michael Hsing, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, our products there, again it's the building blocks, particularly these are from the comms
business and also, (inaudible)...
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Data center.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chief Executive Officer `
The data centers. Okay. And they share the same product and we don't know exactly what they --
how they divide it. But consumer device more in the chargers and that we know, that It's a pretty
much it continues.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Got you. And then the last question, a little bit more housekeeping wise. Bernie, what are you
thinking about the tax rate for 2021?
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, so on a non-GAAP basis, we've historically used 7.5% and now we've moved to 10%, which
represents that there is certain stock comp that is not as deductible as it was in prior years. And
then looking ahead we are not going to try to out-guess what the Biden administration is going to
do, but I think that we need to be sensitive to the fact that there may be increases both in the
domestic rate as well as higher tax rate on any international profits.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. We don't know at this point.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Got it. Thanks, guys.
A - `Genevieve Cunningham, Supervisor-Marketing Communications
If there are any follow-up questions, please click the Raise Hand button. As there are no further
questions, I'd like to turn the webinar back over to Bernie.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Great. Thank you, everybody. Appreciate your joining us for this conference call and look forward
to talking to you again in the first quarter of 2021, which would likely be in the April timeframe.
Thanks again and have a nice day.