Q4 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Welcome everyone to the MPS Fourth Quarter 2021 Earnings Webinar. Please note that this
webinar is being recorded, and will be archived for one year on our Investor Relations page at
www.monolithicpower.com. My name is Genevieve Cunningham, and I will be the moderator for
this webinar. Joining me today are Michael Hsing, CEO and Founder of MPS; and `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer,
VP and CFO. In the course of today's conference call, we will make forward-looking statements
and projections that involve risk and uncertainty, which could cause results to differ materially from
management's current views and expectations.
Please refer to the safe harbor statement contained in the earnings release published today.
Risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ are identified in the
safe harbor statements contained in the Q4 earnings release and in our SEC filings, including our
Form 10-K filed on March 1, 2021, and Form 10-Q filed on November 8, 2021, both of which are
accessible through our website. MPS assumes no obligation to update the information provided
on today's call.
We will be discussing gross margin, operating expense, R&D and SG&A expense, operating
income, other income, income before income taxes, net income, and earnings on both a GAAP
and a non-GAAP basis. These non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with
GAAP, and should not be considered as a substitute for or superior to measures of financial
performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. A table that outlines the reconciliation between
the non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures is included in our Q4 and full-year
2021 earnings release, which we have filed with the SEC and is currently available on our website.
I'd also like to remind you that today's conference call is being webcast live over the internet, and
will be available for replay on our website for one year, along with the earnings release filed with
the SEC earlier today.
Now, I'd like to turn the call over to `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
`Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `Thanks, Jen. In 2021, MPS surpassed the $1 billion revenue milestone by achieving a record full
year revenue of $1.2 billion, 43.0% higher than the prior year. This performance represented
consistent execution against our strategies and being recognized by more first-tier companies
for our superior technologies, product quality, and excellent customer support. As we see, more
highly qualified -- high-quality growth opportunities ahead of us, we continue to invest in our
infrastructure and operational capabilities.
In 2021, MPS grew capacity by 40%, and we are on track to expand capacity in 2022 well beyond
$2 billion, allowing the company to successfully ramp new product revenue and achieve strategic
market share gains. Here are a few highlights, which we achieved in 2021. Brought online a new 8-
inch fab and continue to qualify parts in the 12-inch fab we brought online in 2020. We will
continue to invest in growing fab and assembly capacities.
We design processor cores and MCU technology into products requiring more sophisticated
power solutions, such as USB power delivery, smart motor drives, and high-power electrification.
Our first prototype of a high-precision analog-digital converter product for medical applications
achieved outstanding silicon performance in lab evaluations. We have started customer sampling
in Q1 '22. Validation of this technology is a strong first step in developing a new business
segment, supporting both industrial and infrastructure end market applications.
We believe new product revenue from a large number of previously released designs will ramp in
2022. A representative sample includes product supporting applications in VR14, 5G, BMS, ADAS,
AI, USB PD, DDR, and many more. Turning to our full year 2021 revenue by market segment.
Compared to 2020, automotive revenue was up 87.5%, computing and storage revenue up
47.0%, industrial revenue up 54.5%, consumer revenue up 28.1%, and communications revenue
up 15.3%, demonstrating just how broad-based our full year 2021 revenue improvement was.
Automotive revenue grew $95.4 million to $204.3 million in 2021. This 87.5% year-over-year gain
primarily represented increased sales of our highly integrated applications supporting the digital
cockpit, automotive -- automated driver assistance systems and connectivity. Automotive revenue
represented 16.9% of MPS' full year 2021 revenue, compared with 12.9% in 2020. Full year 2021
computing and storage revenue grew $119.1 million over the prior year to $372.3 million. This
47.0% increase primarily resulted from strong sales growth for enterprise notebooks, cloud
computing, and storage applications.
Computing and storage revenue represented 30.8% of MPS' total revenue in 2021, compared
with 30.0% in 2020. Industrial revenue grew $65.2 million to $184.8 million in 2021. This 54.5%
year-over-year increase was broad-based, with each of our primary product lines enjoying better
than double-digit revenue growth. Industrial revenue represented 15.3% of MPS' full year 2021
revenue, compared with 14.2% in 2020. Consumer revenue grew $61.9 million to $282.3 million,
reflecting increased product sales for home appliances and smart TVs. Consumer revenue
represented 23.4% of MPS' full year 2021 revenue, compared with 26.1% in 2020.
Communications revenue grew $21.8 million to $164.1 million. This 15.3% improvement reflected
higher sales of products for both infrastructure and wireless routers and gateway applications.
Communications revenue represented 13.6% of our 2021 revenue, compared with 16.9% in 2020.
Switching to Q4. MPS had a record fourth quarter with revenue of $336.5 million, 4.0% higher than
the revenue generated in the third quarter of 2021 and 44.4% higher than the comparable
quarter in 2020.
By market segment, revenue for computing and storage grew 91.6% year-over-year,
communication grew 54.7%, automotive grew 43.2%, industrial grew 33.3%, and consumer grew1.9%. Fourth quarter 2021 GAAP gross margin was 57.6%, same as third quarter 2021 and 230
basis points higher than the fourth quarter of 2020. Our GAAP operating income was $78.6
million, compared to $77.1 million reported in the third quarter of 2021, and $40.0 million reported
in the fourth quarter of 2020.
Fourth quarter 2021 non-GAAP gross margin was 57.9%, 10 basis points higher than the third
quarter of 2021, and 220 basis points higher than the fourth quarter of 2020. The year-over-year
expansion in fourth quarter non-GAAP gross margin is largely due to a shift in sales mix favoring
high-value greenfield products and operational efficiency gains, which more than offset higher
product input costs. MPS achieved noteworthy market share gains in 2021 due in large measure
to product availability and discipline sales price management. Our non-GAAP operating income
was $112.0 million, compared to $108.4 million reported in the prior quarter, and $66.3 million
reported in the fourth quarter of 2020.
Let's review our operating expenses. Our GAAP operating expenses were $115.3 million in the
fourth quarter, compared with $109.2 million in the third quarter of 2021, and $88.9 million in the
fourth quarter of 2020. Our non-GAAP fourth quarter 2021 operating expenses were $83.0
million, up from the $78.7 million we spent in the third quarter of 2021, and up from the $63.6
million reported in the fourth quarter of 2020. On both a GAAP and a non-GAAP basis, fourth
quarter 2021 litigation expense was a credit balance of $420,000, compared with $3.4 million
expense in Q3 2021, and a $1.5 million expense in Q4 2020.
The credit balance in fourth quarter 2021 litigation expense reflected an IP settlement, refund of
a legal retainer and lower than anticipated fees. The differences between GAAP and non-GAAP
operating expenses for the quarters discussed here are stock compensation expense, and
income or loss from an unfunded deferred compensation plan. Fourth quarter 2021 stock
compensation expense, including $921,000 charged to cost of goods sold was $31.2 million,
compared with $31.6 million recorded in the third quarter of 2021.
Switching to the bottom line. Fourth quarter 2021 GAAP net income was $77. -- $72.7 million or $1.51
per fully diluted share, compared with $1.44 per share in the third quarter of 2021, and $0.90 per
share in the fourth quarter of 2021. Q4 2021 non-GAAP net income was $102.1 million or $2.12 per
fully diluted share, compared with $2.06 per share in the third quarter of 2021 and $1.31 per share
in the fourth quarter of 2020. Fully diluted shares outstanding at the end of Q4 2021 were 48.2
million.
Now let's look at the balance sheet. As of December 31, 2021, cash, cash equivalents and
investments totaled $727.5 million, compared to $744.5 million at the end of the third quarter of
2021. For the fourth quarter of 2021, MPS generated an operating cash flow of about $28.2 million,
compared with Q3 2021 operating cash flow of $117.8 million. The between quarter drop in
operating cash flow, primarily reflected a $51.3 million increase in inventory and higher accounts
receivable. Fourth quarter of 2021 capital spending totaled $17.6 million.
Accounts receivable end of fourth quarter of 2021 at $104.8 million or 28 days of sales
outstanding, compared with the $79.9 million or 22 days of sales outstanding reported at the end
of the third quarter of 2021, and a $66.8 million or 26 days reported at the end of the fourth
quarter of 2020. Our internal inventories at the end of the fourth quarter of 2021 were $259.4
million, up from $208.1 million at the end of the third quarter of 2021. Calculated on a basis
consistent with our past practice, and as you can see from the webinar video, days in inventory
rose to 166 days at the end of Q4 2021 from the 134 days at the end of the third quarter of 2021.Historically, we've calculated days of inventory on-hand as a function of the current quarter
revenue. We believe comparing current inventory levels with the following quarter's revenue
provides a better economic match. On this basis, again, you can see days of inventory increased
to 152 days at the end of the fourth quarter of 2021 from 133 days at the end of the third quarter
of 2021. I would now like to turn to our Q1 2022 outlook.
We are forecasting Q1 2022 revenue in the range of $354 million to $366 million. We also expect
the following: GAAP gross margin in the range of 57.4% to 58.0%. Non-GAAP gross margin in the
range of 57.7% to 58.3%. Total stock-based compensation expense of $36.9 million to $38.9
million, including approximately $1.1 million that would be charged to cost of goods sold. GAAP,
R&D and SG&A expenses between $119.2 million and $123.2 million. Non-GAAP, R&D and SG&A
expenses to be in the range of $83.4 million, $85.4 million. This estimate excludes stock
compensation, and litigation expenses.
Litigation expenses to be in the range of $2.3 million to $2.7 million. Interest income is expected
to range from $1.0 million to $1.4 million before foreign exchange gains or losses. Fully diluted
shares to be in the range of 47.8 million to 48.8 million shares. Finally, I'm pleased to announce a
25% increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.75 per share from $0.60 per share for stockholders
of record as of March 31, 2022.
In conclusion, MPS' strong financial performance in 2021 was largely due to a 40% increase in fab
and assembly capacity, which supported our high-value greenfield product revenue ramp.
Looking ahead, MPS is on track to expand capacity in 2022 well beyond $2 billion, allowing the
company to successfully ramp new product revenue and achieve strategic market share gains in
2023, 2024, and beyond.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you, Bernie. Analysts, I would now like to begin our Q&A session. (Operator Instructions)
Our first question is from `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. of Stifel Nicolaus.
Tore, your line is now open.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. `
Yes. Thank you, and congratulations on the very, very strong results. So, I'm going to ask this
question differently. Usually people ask you how come you carry so much inventory? This time I'm
going to ask you, how were you able to actually get your inventory days that high? How are you
both finding their capacity and again being able to build the inventory in spite of this very, very
tight environment we're seeing in the industry?
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, as you know the -- in the -- in this business okay building inventories and qualify fabs, okay.
These are not one day, two day things, they're not short-term. These all we planted a few years
ago. And now we -- just the opportunity presents it, and we just catch it. And nothing was a short-
term, okay. We couldn't -- we don't have a crystal ball for the futures. And we just react, we just
plan ahead and react as a fast as we can.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `And I think to add to that, that shows that we have a lot of inventory on hand that presents the
capacity to allow us for sales in the next two quarters. So, what we've done is made conscious
investments in inventory in the supply chain and what we're trying to do is manage such that we
hold the inventory. We're still keeping channel in the -- channel inventory lean, and we're trying to
make sure the best of our abilities that we're in touch with the inventories that our customers are
keeping, so they're likewise.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I also want to add, okay? As you remember and a few years ago and I talked about MPS is
going for well beyond million or couple of million dollars. And I wasn't joking, and we plan ahead
for our business. That's what we saw a few years ago. And now you grow this much is -- of
course, we didn't expect that and -- but we do have capacities and that gave me and we do have
to do some creative ways in the scrambling to get to a 45% in -- so, that's all that is. It wasn't --
we don't have a magic tricks in the last six months or so.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
And it's good as you -- as Michael noted, we crossed the $1 billion revenue threshold, and our
revenue growth rate is accelerated from storage precedent.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. `
Yeah. No. Well done. As my follow-up question, could you just add a little bit more color on the $2
billion worth of capacity? You've talked about now ramping in an 8-inch. You're also qualifying
products on 12-inch. Will there actually be 12-inch product sales this year?
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. We're qualified as you know, so MPS don't build a fact and we don't have a lot of capital
spending -- but we do have increase all these capacity qualify fabs -- that costs money. And so, to
answer your questions, we do transitions, and okay, now -- nowadays, okay, we get all this
capacity, whether it's 12 inch or 8 inch as much as we can.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
And just to add to that, that was our second 12-inch fab that we brought online in 2020.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. `
Right. Very good. I'll go back in line. Thank you and congrats again.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from `William Stein, Truist of Truist. William, your line is now open.
Q - `William Stein, Truist `Great. Thanks for taking my question. Congrats on the eye-popping results and outlook. I want to
ask about the module business that you've spoken about in the past, this thing that might even
accelerate growth further over time. I'm wondering, what percentage of revenue modules
contributes today and how we should think about the trajectory of that business. And if you could
also comment on comment on any potential tuck in acquisitions that were either executed or
contemplated for -- in the future to fulfill your strategy in that area. Thank you.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Okay. I'm glad you asked the question, the module business, I think the side of a 10% in the
fall this year?
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
It's actually a mid-single digits.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Yeah. And so, you can quantify much more accurately, okay. I don't know -- members in
detail. All I know we grow -- 100% every years and in the last couple years. And now, you using
the word accelerating this years and the next couple years, that's what I see it now.
And the other things, okay, the second part of your question is about the acquisitions for the tuck
in technology or to enhance our future growth on the using our MPS technology for those
companies. Yeah, we are engaged with a handful of company like a more than five or six
companies. And we're -- so far, we're quite engaging with it and nothing -- nothing materialize,
we should announce it now.
Q - `William Stein, Truist `
Thank you.
Operator
Our next question is from Alex Vecchi of William Blair. Alex, your line is now open.
Q - `Alessandra Vecchi, William Blair `
Thanks for taking my question. And I echo the congratulations on the outstanding results. Just
maybe to expand on Tore's question with regards to the capacity expansion, from 2 billion on.
Can you quantify how much more capacity you think you'll be adding in the next year or two or
three year the right way to think about it? I think in the past, you've alluded to the fact that the
current product portfolio can support upwards of three to four billion in revenue. So, is that sort of
the right way to think about the long-term trajectory?
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. That's a absolutely, correct. And for the semiconductors and then, yes, we have to have a
fab capacities and for that kind of revenues, but even going to futures, okay, because we're
selling more high-dollar, modules in the solutions and the which utilizes silicons even less. So, we
have -- we should have a -- we shouldn't -- wafer capacity even should -- less factors.
Q - `Alessandra Vecchi, William Blair `That's actually really helpful. And then similarly with the comments on in terms of the segment
breakdown, the storage and compute segment was very strong order and I think you've talked a
little bit about enterprise notebooks. It seems like that's one of the areas notebooks in general,
where there's a little investor trepidation going forward. Can you maybe talk about what the
opportunity there is and/or maybe with the SAM is for your notebook outlook over the next few
years?
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. I think it's important to qualify that the growth that we've experienced in particular over the
last 2-3 years has really been at the enterprise level. What we're selling into units that would retail
for above $1200, and we've been very successful as far as capturing a large part of market share
that really is not necessarily driven by consumer trends. So, they're not as prone to the downward
unit numbers that are being projected for notebooks.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Overall, we want to achieve a balanced growth. We don't want to be known as the
notebook company, and that's -- as MPS's strategy is diversify the growth.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
And just to pick up on Michael's point, we saw a very strong uptick in our cloud and server
business, particularly in Q4, which we expect to continue to ramp into 2022.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Overall, the notebook revenue is a very, very -- single digit.
Q - `Alessandra Vecchi, William Blair `
Thank you. With that, I'll hop back into queue.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay.
Operator
Our next question is from `Quinn Bolton, Needham & Company of Needham. Quinn, your line is now open.
Q - `Quinn Bolton, Needham & Company `
Hey, guys. I'll offer my congratulations as well. And Bernie and Michael, I'm surprised you haven't
gotten the question yet, but I follow the company for a long time. I think this is the biggest gross
margin beat you guys may have ever put up. If I got my numbers right, you beat gross margin by
130 basis points in this quarter. Looking back to the third quarter, I think you had a $4 million
litigation revenue in the number that drove strength and gross margin, but that was clearly a one-
time issue. So, can you talk first about what drove the strength in gross margins and you're
guiding them effectively flat, up 10 basis points technically in the first quarter. So, it looks like that
margin strength continues to be; just talk about gross margin.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `Sure. We tried to reflect on that a little bit in the prepared comments, where I indicated that
we're benefiting right now by a more favorable shift in our product mix, which is higher margins
on the new Greenfield business, but also operational efficiencies as far as we indicated earlier,
the percentage of silicon that's coming from 12-inch, but also is a reflection of our improved our
improved quality standards. So, I think that as we reflected on what the sustainable margin going
forward that we've offered sort of a new floor, which we look to grow again 10 to 20 basis points
sequentially. Although obviously, we'll keep our eyes open, if there is an opportunity to have
another step up.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
If -- there's another side, a few years ago, we talked about a greenfield product, and then you
actually, I remember, asked -- there's no headwind in, is it a -- any headwind in the gross margins.
So, the answer was all these new product greenfield product law and at the high-end products
and higher values. And so, the gross margin should be better. So, this times, and we didn't
increase the price that much, where we pretty much passed the cost to our customers of -- not
even passed to our customers by as Bernie said of shifted to 12 inch and also the internal
efficiency improvement and with a higher gross margin product that is the majority of the gross
margin improvement.
Q - `Quinn Bolton, Needham & Company `
Got it. And as a follow on, you know for two quarters now, you've seen a pretty nice increase in
your internal inventory levels. Wondering if you could just comment as you're building that internal
inventory. How much of that is for new greenfield products versus say the run rate business?
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
We -- it clearly shifted away from a consumer side. And so that will allocated a lot of product for --
these are high-end targeted -- MPS targeted market segment. So, we grow the inventories in the
-- for those segments.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
I think something to add there is that we do have some high volume business and we're treating
that as run rate. So, we're -- it's probably the area that has the tightest capacity, but where we
have these new products, the greenfield opportunities, and we have new customers and new
markets as an insurance policy to make sure that they're perceived very positively and that we
can cover upside potential we have been building inventory to support that and I think that's
being reflected very well as far as the customer acceptance of the new products as well as
market share gains afforded by the appropriate inventory levels.
Q - `Quinn Bolton, Needham & Company `
Got it. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question is from `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank of Deutsche Bank. Ross, your line is now open.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank `
Thanks for letting me ask the question. I'll echo the congrats. I wanted to follow-up on the
second-half of your answer to Quinn's question there, Bernie. In the past, you guys have alwaysgained market share and very consistently. So, this year was -- well, this past year was no
different. But you also had significantly greater availability than your competition.
So, I just wanted to see what the client or the customer relationship, how that's been enhanced
because of the availability. Do you believe that the wins you've gotten from availability will lead to
sticky relationships going forward? You mentioned moving up into kind of first tier customer base.
I'm just trying to figure out the sustainability of the revenue growth because of that availability
dynamic?
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
That's a very good question. How does the hell we grow like a 45% of the over -- close to $1
billion base? Well, you think about it, okay, all these product that were released in greenfield
products and these two are first tier customers. And usually these are large customers that they
ramping a new supply very carefully. So, they don't allocate a large percentage. They always have
a second source and now have a shortage everywhere. MPS has a -- have capacities, so
everything shifted to MPS; that's one factors. And the second factor, there's a -- we talk about
MPS products are more programmable and the our customers find out. Before they care less and
now they find out and okay, our product, single product can do a multiple purpose, and that
contributes another factors. And so, we can replace and okay, we can -- shortly, we designed our
customers redesigned another source -- to adopt the MPS solutions. So, by these two points -- is
very sticky, especially the second point, and our MPS of products are more programmable, and
they enjoy that. And they solve their problems and they realize the values. And so, I would say the
very sticky.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank `
Okay, and I guess as my follow-up question. I thought you've talked about another greenfield
opportunity, which is a huge part of the analog market, which is getting into the converter side of
things. Can you just talk a little bit about your aspirations there some of the applications you're
going after? And what sort of opportunity you see unfolding in that?
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. We just -- we did -- we do have a silicon -- and the performance is outstanding. And these
are the new market segments and these are purely in a single site, in which we would never have
it. And we -- this internally developed. We have a group of a people and they have a lot of
experience and that's a new market segment for us. So, the focus will be the communications
and also medical applications, but imaging X-rays and ultrasounds and the those type of things.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
And just to add as far as the characteristics of this technology, there are not a lot of companies
that have been successful with this, and the ones that have carved out pretty exclusive markets.
And as a result of that, they command very high gross margins. So, we look to be a new market
entrant, but also with a very big competitive advantage.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So, it's a -- yes, it is a milestone fall for MPS. So called high performance in a lot company,
they try to -- tried it and they achieve a mediocre result and now see what we can do. And we do
have a product and so for the next couple of years and see what we can do, okay.Q - `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you.
Operator
Our next question is from `Chris Caso, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. from Raymond James. Chris, your line is now open.
Q - `Chris Caso, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
Yes. Thank you. For my first question, which I'll talk a little bit about seasonality, and obviously, the
Q1 results are better than what we normally expect in the seasonal Q1, right? I suspect that's
because of some of the capacity additions that you're bringing on. Can you talk about these
capacity additions as we go through the year? Are they brought in the road to the $2 billion
revenue level, capacity level, is that going to come on fairly evenly during the year? Is there a
step up at some point? And then when that happens, do you think that you will be fully able to
meet your customer requirements presumably this year?
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Chris, I think you get credit for three questions there. Hopefully, I'll be able to keep the thread
going.
The first issue had to do with seasonality and generally speaking from Q4 to Q1, we observe a
modest dip. In fact, because we have such a imbalance, an unprecedented demand supply and
balance that in fact seasonality is not as much a function today as opposed to your second
question, which has to do with product availability. And that's sort of the gating item for how fast
the company can grow.
And as Michael pointed out earlier is that is part of our company, we've always built capacity
alongside the development of our new products, so we, in fact, got out in front of this upsurge in
the market and have been able to participate, and in fact accelerate our capacity build out. And
that's really a reflection of how we're looking at 2022, but I think that one thing that we've always
done is we've had to make intelligent decisions many years ahead of when the capacity has been
needed. So, in fact, we're in discussions, in order to be able to get capacity for '23, '24, and
beyond. And we feel very secure in what we're capable of doing in '22.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
To answer your questions honestly say, if it give us another 50% growth -- for this year, we'll be in
trouble.
Q - `Chris Caso, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
Okay. I think that would be welcome trouble if that were the case.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah.
Q - `Chris Caso, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
I'll take liberty to ask one more that you were nice enough to answer my three, which is with
regard to pricing and pricing and Bernie made a comment on the call. You spoke about disciplinesales price management is, I think, how you turned it. Could you explain what that means? And
the extent to which pricing has been a contributor to year-on-year growth and whether that's
something that's in the rearview mirror or you'd expect to continue to increase?
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
I think that most people have recognized within the semiconductors and even specific to analog
that created a opportunity for many companies to affect price increases with their customers.
And a lot of them implemented that as early as Q1 of this year. We chose -- we made a conscious
decision not to increase our prices on a broad-base, they were selected market opportunities,
but broadly we did not, and we did that along with having the product availability as a means of
being able to secure higher level of market share. And so, now as we look at 2022, we are going
to implement selective, but more broad-based price increases, but they'll be in a more modest
level than some of our peer companies have implemented.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
We -- when we look at it, we invest in our customers for the future growth and for the future
opportunities. And -- but we do have a modest growth margin expansions, as we -- as our
models in. Okay, we keep saying it and where we have a steady state growth on every segment.
Q - `Chris Caso, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
Very helpful. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question is from `Rick Schafer, Oppenheimer & Co. of Oppenheimer. Rick, your line is now open.
Q - `Rick Schafer, Oppenheimer & Co. `
Thanks and let me add my congratulations, guys, on a nice quarter -- another nice quarter.
Maybe if I could just a quick question on 5G, I mean, you guys have talked in the past about 5G as
a pretty significant opportunity for MPS. I think -- Michael, I think you said potentially hundreds of
dollars of potential content there sort of similar to server or data center cloud for you guys. So, I
don't know if you could give us any update on design momentum sense of when the revenue
contribution might sort of start to inflect if that's still kind of a second half of this year. And I'm
curious as part of that question, I mean, are you going to see QS Mod sort of the part of that
initial ramp this year or is it going to be more sort of, pointed -- sort of how you began your
journey and its server; if you could give any color, that'd be great.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So, to answer your first part of question first, I mean the 5G -- actually 5G -- lot of products
and especially the high current site and look at all related to QS Mod. And similar technology base
is a product -- we follow up the 5Gs in all areas and from a single size and I can to all the way to a
transmitters and we do -- we don't see a very high rate of ramping. And so, they're still study
state and the other question is QS Mod like in the fall for the data centers. We are this year's and
we'll -- we have to say to -- we occupied as a still less than a single digit of total percentage of
the total 10 of the market. But the significance is from always, almost nothing and two high end of
a single-digit. And earlier said, if we don't occupy the 30% of the market should not be in that
business. So, we still have a lot of room to grow.A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
And it's likely with the release of VR14 that we're at a very good inflection point on the -- in the
cloud in the data center.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah.
Q - `Rick Schafer, Oppenheimer & Co. `
And Mike -- just follow that, but it took I think you about three or four years to sort of get -- you
share to today, which I think is about 30%. So, I think you need me saying that sort of a good
proxy for QS Mod could be in the next -- in the next couple of years.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, okay. Yes, it'll take actually longer than that, more than three or four years, okay. And I was
wondered, why the so long. So, I'm -- within in the early days. I'll say that we could grow very
quickly. Okay. I didn't know what -- what I was talking about. And for the next -- as Bernie
mentioned, the VR14s and VR13.5 is like I saw sort of the MPS accepted as a player. And VR14s are
things that we have a pretty good shares to start, to ramp, but is not happening now and
sometimes this year, right?
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, VR13 has been delayed again. It's more likely to be Q3.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
But you are right -- served in Q4 and uplift as a result of 13.5.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, okay.
Q - `Rick Schafer, Oppenheimer & Co. `
Thanks. And if I could ask the follow-up to Bernie probably, I just -- I wanted to ask -- long time,
balance sheet looks great. Obviously, I was just curious if you could give us an update on use of
cash going forward? I mean, obviously, you've done a really good job of investing in future growth
in R&D, but I'm just curious how much you need to run the business here and feed R&D, et cetera.
Thanks.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. It's a great question, because you want to look at it sort of three levels for our particular
story. One is we have to keep a certain amount of cash available in order to fund our growth,
particularly, as it relates to receivables and inventory, but also we're expanding operating
expenses worldwide at an accelerated rate and all of those demand a level of liquidity. The next
thing that we've talked about is building infrastructure and capacity and even though we'reoutsourced as far as our fabs and assembly we do a lot of our own testing. In fact with the quality
requirements of some of the new markets we're going in, we can't outsource that. We do all of
our own testing that requires an additional investment and then you have buildings, which as you
know, we're one of the few companies that we purchase our own footprint to house or growing
employee -- growing staff headcount. So, we're going to continue to leverage the balance sheet
in order to help accelerate our growth while at the same time as we announced in the impaired
comments we're increasing the dividend by 25%. So, we're also mindful that we need to return
some of the cash back to shareholders.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, what -- Bernie said that -- he said accelerated an expansive growth, no, we're not
accelerating. No, absolutely not. Let's make that clear. And so, we are pretty little bit above our
model, okay? Growth, the MPS growth the -- expanses the growth. And for the return of cash to
our investors, and we have overwhelming case supporter for -- from our investors in dividend and
not buyback. So, we are following a buybacks, since okay, we still are, let's delay it, okay, and
because the we get a feedback, they want to deal with it. I don't know what does it relate to a tax
issue or not related to. So, I think in a -- from -- in the past, we said our models are consistently in
increase the dividends.
And the other side of the using our cash is that we want to acquire a company, not for revenue
growth. It's cheaper to grow MPS revenue by its own, but we can do this. We can MPS as a lot of
variety of a different product in the -- enhance couple of other areas to the end product and we
want to acquire those small tugging product very unique in a sustainable growth -- sustainable
and you based on MPS technology, we can grow those companies. And that's the company we're
really interested in the -- so the, said earlier, I said it away engage with a few companies.
Q - `Rick Schafer, Oppenheimer & Co. `
Thanks for all the color, guys. Congrats.
Operator
Our next question is from `Matt Ramsay, Cowen and Co. of Cowen. Matt, your line is now open.
Q - `Matt Ramsay, Cowen and Co. `
Thank you very much. Good afternoon, everyone.
Michael, I've been asking you about this for, I don't know, 3-4 years, but in the last, I guess, three
or four months, you guys talked a bit more about opportunities for MPS in the electric vehicle
market, some in drive train, some in regenerative braking. I wonder, if you might talk a little bit
more about the revenue opportunity per car with your lead customer, the timing of that? And
how wide is the pipeline in terms of the number of engagements that you might have in the EV
market? Thanks.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
EV market, we're in the ADAS area, we are in the ADAS 2.5 or 3.0. We almost engage with
everybody. And so I can give you a numbers. For pure electrical car, MPS has about somewhere
$80 to $100 shipping today, and we're starting this year, we are starting not this year, starting
actually last year. If you involve with a regenerative braking, and in a drive train, those will add
another over $1,000. And those are we don't have those revenue yet. Where, by the way, we doQ - `Matt Ramsay, Cowen and Co. `
Any those larger ASP products, any thoughts on timing?
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
We are -- there's a there's several -- there's many product that we are talking -- will release a
couple of them already or more than couple of them already. And the key is that we want to offer
the total solutions in a customer's pretty much it can -- using MPS reference design.
Q - `Matt Ramsay, Cowen and Co. `
Got it. As my follow-up question, it's a different topic and one of the things that I've been having
investor conversations about is the broad base industry adding -- investing a ton of CapEx and
adding a ton of capacity and to steer that the industry is adding it at a peak, right? You see a
couple of new fabs coming online from Texas Instruments in the next number of quarters in
Infineon is up in CapEx, pretty much everyone is. And so, you guys have been in a unique position
to have a ton of capacity come online when others have struggled to do it. And it sounds like
that's going to continue for you. I just wonder, any concerns as the industry catches up with
capacity, Michael? And maybe you could contrast the type of capacity, the process know that
you're on the nature of the capacity that you're bringing online for some that the rest of the
industry may be adding? Thank you.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. That's a good question. So, okay. First thing, I should answer that. MPS don't build anything.
We don't build anything, we don't have fab, but we do have all the technologies. And usually how
we're getting a fab capacity those fab are empty. And we go in there, we want it, we said, okay,
we can fill you up. So, it's a long-term partnership. And so, and then like this year -- the last year,
so I came in the you want to add a capacity, forget it, okay? I mean those guys are busy shipment,
okay? And there's no fab -- and so we engage with them in the downturns. And we implement
our technology. Remember, we don't -- it's not like a building of fab. We don't build a fab. The
cost is minimum, and -- but we do have some commitment and we do have engaged some
consignment of some equipment, okay? But these costs to compare building a fab is a much,
much less.
Q - `Matt Ramsay, Cowen and Co. `
Okay. Thanks very much, guys, I appreciate it.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Okay.
Operator
Our next question is from `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. of Stifel Nicolaus.
Tore, your line is now open.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. `
Just, thank you. I just two quick follow-ups. I know it's early in the year, but you have -- so you have
four horses that are running really fast. You have one horse that's kind of just running slowly. If welook at this year, which of the horses you think will grow a bit faster. I know there's a lot of talk
about auto and server. But yes, which horses should we bet on this year?
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
We don't want to be -- MPS is auto company. Definitely not a noble company, I think it's a -- we're
shifting clearly this year, we're shifting from a consumers to well at least the last couple quarters.
So, we shift from a consumer to automotives and in a server and server from a cloud computing
site. And again, and so these are for this year, probably remained a similar. So like a that's all we
see it.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. And I think that when you say that we've got five strong horses, that's a more accurate
reflection, because it say that in the current year, we were surprised by the strength of industrial.
So -- and I think that's going to continue on into the next year. And as we talked about earlier
communications market, well, may not be coming on as fast as we had originally hoped for or
expected, still looks very promising the second half of this year. So, I think really the thesis
remains being broad-based growth.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. But the -- in let's say all these other market segments slowdowns and as a consumer
business in every half years that we can shift it and we can shift quick okay, that -- currently is not
a favor, some, okay, but we can shift quickly. And by end of the year, maybe we grow consumer
business.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. `
Sounds good and coming back to the data converter, topic, new segment for you. What are
some of the things that we should track for your success there, you know, we all know it's very
difficult to crack into that market and are you going into that market really, really at the high end
of the other computer technology and will that be the way for us to track your success?
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So far, yes is a very, very high -- high-end a product, and -- but that's, a new market segments. So,
like a earlier, I said, okay. Well, we said, we're going to ramp wrapping the data center very
quickly, turn out to be that wasn't a case. So, I don't want to predict that in the, but I know the
technology is good and that the test data showed, we can be -- we're far better than on the
other existing market product.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. `
Great. Yeah, if you can even get to $100 million there, I'll be very impressed.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Oh, yes. Okay. It's a matter of time.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. `
Sounds good.A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I'm confident of that. And along the way, probably we'll learn a few things, yeah.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
All right. Okay.
Operator
(Operator Instructions). As there are no further questions, I would now like to turn the webinar
back over to Bernie.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Well, once again, I'd like to thank you all for joining us this conference call. Look forward to talking
to you again about our first quarter, which we'll likely hold in April. So, thanks again and have a
nice day.