Q4 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Genevieve S. Cunningham, Senior Manager, Marketing Communications
Welcome, everyone, to the MPS Fourth Quarter 2023 Earnings Webinar. My name is Genevieve
Cunningham, and I will be the moderator for this webinar. Joining me today are `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer,
CEO and Founder of MPS; and `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, EVP and CFO.
In the course of today's webinar, we will make forward-looking statements and projections that
involve risk and uncertainty, which could cause results to differ materially from management's
current views and expectations. Risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual
results to differ are identified in the Safe Harbor statements contained in the Q4 earnings release
and in our latest SEC filings, including our Form 10-K and our Form 10-Q, which are accessible
through our website. MPS assumes no obligation to update the information provided on today's
call.
We will be discussing gross margin, operating expense, operating income, other income, income
before income taxes, net income, and earnings on both a GAAP and a non-GAAP basis. These
non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and should not be
considered as a substitute for or superior to measures of financial performance prepared in
accordance with GAAP. Tables that outline the reconciliation between the non-GAAP financial
measures to GAAP financial measures are included in our Q4 2023 earnings release.
I'd also like to remind you that today's conference call is being webcast live over the internet and
will be available for replay on our website for one year, along with the earnings release, which
was furnished to the SEC earlier today and is available on our website as well.
Now, I'd like to turn the call over to `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
`Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Gen. For the full year 2023, MPS achieved record revenue of $1.82 billion. This is our 12th
consecutive year of revenue growth, driven by consistent execution, continued innovation, and
strong customer focus.As announced today, MPS is expanding into a new $1 billion market with the acquisition of our
partner Axign B.V. Axign is a Netherlands-based startup with early revenue specializing in
programmable multi-core digital signal processors. Axign's competitive difference is its ability to
deliver signals with near-zero distortion and reduce power consumption for automotive and
consumer audio systems. The combination of Axign and MPS' IP, which has been accepted by
several high-end audio customers, will change people's experience in their cars, homes, concert
venues, and stadiums.
Let me turn to a few highlights from this past year. Our integrated power management solutions
for artificial intelligence enabled our customers to unlock previously untapped opportunities for
innovation and growth. We created new Automotive content, powering the ramp of autonomous
driving, the digital cockpit, and lighting systems for both conventional and electric vehicles.
We continued to diversify our global R&D footprint with the further expansion of our engineering
centers of excellence in Europe and Taiwan. And finally, we continue to expand and diversify our
operating footprint with the qualification of multiple new fab and packaging partners in Taiwan,
Singapore, and Malaysia.
Turning to our full year 2023 revenue by market segment, Automotive revenue grew $94.6
million year-over-year to $394.7 million in 2023. This 31.5% gain was primarily driven by increased
sales of our highly integrated applications supporting advanced driver assistance systems, the
digital cockpit, and lighting applications. Automotive revenue represented 21.7% of MPS' full year
2023 revenue, compared with 16.7% in 2022.
Full year 2023 Enterprise Data revenue grew $71.6 million over the prior year to $323 million. This
28.5% increase was primarily due to higher sales of our power management solutions for AI
applications. Enterprise Data revenue represented 17.7% of MPS' total revenue in 2023,
compared with 14.8% in 2022.
Storage and Computing revenue for 2023 grew $38.5 million over the prior year to $491.1 million
This 8.5% increase was primarily driven by increased sales of products for notebooks. Storage
and Computing revenue represented 27.0% of MPS' total revenue in 2023, compared with 25.3%
in 2022.
Communications revenue fell by $46.5 million to $204.9 million. This 18.5% reduction was a result
of lower 4G and 5G infrastructure sales. Communications revenue represented 11.3% of our 2023
revenue, compared with 14.8% in 2022.
Industrial revenue fell by $46.5 million to $172.7 million in 2023. This 21.2% decrease primarily
reflected lower sales in applications for industrial automation, security, and power sources.
Industrial revenue represented 9.4% of MPS' full year 2023 revenue, compared with 12.2% in
2022.
Consumer revenue decreased $84.8 million to $234.7 million in 2023. This 26.6% year-over-year
decrease was a result of broad market weakness across all segments. Consumer revenue
represented 12.9% of MPS' full year 2023 revenue compared with 17.8% in 2022.
Let me take a moment to talk about the general business conditions. Throughout 2023, we
highlighted that customer ordering patterns were oscillating, reflecting general economic
uncertainty. While we saw a nominal improvement in Q4 ordering patterns, we remain cautious as
visibility beyond the current quarter is limited.Despite this ongoing uncertainty, we continue to execute against our long-term strategy by
bringing innovative new products to market and expanding design wins across our broad base of
customers. We believe these ongoing investments position us well for future growth when the
macro environment stabilizes.
Switching to Q4 results, MPS had fourth quarter revenue of $454.0 million, down 4.4% from the
third quarter of 2023 and down 1.3% from the fourth quarter of 2022. Comparing year-over-year
results, fourth quarter 2023 revenue for Enterprise Data grew by 88.4%. Storage and Computing
fell 2.9%, Automotive was down 7.8%, Consumer decreased 17.5%, Communications decreased
36.3%, and Industrial fell 40.5%.
Fourth quarter 2023 GAAP gross margin was 55.3%, down 20 basis points from the third quarter
of 2023, and 290 basis points below the fourth quarter of 2022. Fourth quarter 2023 non-GAAP
gross margin was 55.7%, flat with the third quarter of 2023, but 280 basis points lower than the
fourth quarter of 2022. This year-over-year reduction in Q4 non-GAAP gross margin is largely due
to sales mix.
Turning to operating expenses. Our GAAP operating expenses were $141.6 million in the fourth
quarter compared with $128 million in the third quarter of 2023 and $130.9 million in the fourth
quarter of 2022. Our non-GAAP fourth quarter 2023 operating expenses were $96.7 million,
roughly flat with the third quarter of 2023 and up from the $94.8 million reported in the fourth
quarter of 2022.
The differences between GAAP and non-GAAP operating expenses for the quarters discussed
here are primarily stock compensation expense and income or loss from an unfunded deferred
compensation plan.
Fourth quarter 2023 stock compensation expense, including $1.2 million charged to cost of goods
sold, was $41.1 million compared with $33.6 million recorded in the third quarter of 2023.
Switching to the bottom line, fourth quarter 2023 GAAP net income was $96.9 million or $1.98 per
fully diluted share compared with $2.48 per share in the third quarter of 2023 and $2.45 per share
in the fourth quarter of 2022. Q4 2023 non-GAAP net income was $140.9 million or $2.88 per fully
diluted share compared with $3.08 per share in the third quarter of 2023 and $3.17 per share in
the fourth quarter of 2022. Fully diluted shares outstanding at the end of Q4 2023 were 48.9
million.
As for our balance sheet, as of December 31, 2023, cash, cash equivalents and investments
totaled $1.11 billion compared to $1.04 billion at the end of the third quarter of 2023.
For the fourth quarter of 2023, MPS generated operating cash flow of about $153.3 million
compared with $175.9 million in Q3 2023. Fourth quarter 2023 capital spending totaled $13.8
million. Accounts receivable ended the fourth quarter of 2023 at $179.9 million compared with the
$185.8 million reported at the end of the third quarter of 2023 and $182.7 million at the end of the
fourth quarter of 2022. There were 36 days of sales outstanding across these comparable
periods.
Our internal inventories at the end of the fourth quarter of 2023 were $383.7 million, down from
the $397.3 million at the end of the third quarter of 2023. Days of inventory rose to 172 days at
the end of Q4 2023 from 171 days at the end of third quarter of 2023. We have carefully
managed our internal inventories throughout the year, given the uncertainty in the market. Using
next quarter revenue as a basis, inventory was 175 days at the end of the fourth quarter of 2023,
down from 178 days at the end of the third quarter of 2023.I would now like to turn to our Q1 2024 outlook. We are forecasting Q1 2024 revenue in the range
of $437.0 million to $457.0 million. GAAP gross margin in the range of 55.1% to 55.7%. Non-GAAP
gross margin in the range of 55.4% to 56.0%.
Total stock-based compensation expense, including associated employer taxes of $46.2 million
to $48.2 million, including approximately $1.4 million that would be charged to cost of goods sold.
GAAP operating expenses between $147.2 million and $151.2 million. Non-GAAP operating
expenses to be in the range of $101.8 million to $103.8 million. This estimate excludes stock-
based compensation expense and amortization of recently purchased intangible assets, but
includes litigation expense and the expense from our recent Axign acquisition.
Other income before foreign exchange gains or losses expected to range from $5.3 million to
$5.7 million. Fully diluted shares to be in the range of 48.8 million to 49.2 million dollars -- shares.
We continue to execute the share buyback program that was announced in our Q3 '23 earnings
call.
Finally, I am pleased to announce a 25% increase in our quarterly dividend to $1.25 per share from
$1.00 per share for stockholders of record as of March 29, 2024. In conclusion, while we continue
to be cautious about the near-term business conditions, we believe our long-term growth
strategy remains intact and we can swiftly adapt to market changes as they occur.
I will now open the webinar up for questions.
Questions And Answers
A - `Genevieve S. Cunningham, Senior Manager, Marketing Communications
(Question And Answer)
Thank you, Bernie. Analysts, I would now like to begin our Q&A session. (Operator Instructions)
Our first question is from `Quinn Bolton, Needham & Company of Needham. Quinn, your line is now open.
Q - `Quinn Bolton, Needham & Company `
Hear me? Hey, Michael, Bernie, can you hear me?
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, we can speak up.
Q - `Quinn Bolton, Needham & Company `
Hey, congratulations on the very stable outlook in a pretty choppy environment. It looks like the
enterprise data segment was up $30 million quarter-on-quarter really driving a lot of the growth
in the near term. As you look into 2024, can you just talk about your expectations for enterprise
data, specifically your opportunity to perhaps expand the customer set with some of the other
leading GPU and AI accelerator companies? And then I've got a follow on question. Thank you.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `Sure, I'll take that Quinn. As far as the initial ramp that we've been experiencing over about the
last four quarters, we've really seen or benefited from the acceleration of demand for these
applications and solutions.
As we look ahead, we see a broadening of the number of market participants, our customers
that will be participating in that. But, at the same time, we also believe that competition within the
supply chain will continue. So for a majority of the period, to date, we've enjoyed a pretty high
percentage of market share, but expect that to decrease as we introduce second and third
suppliers.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, but the overall -- I want to add it, overall, the market segment is grow and grow very
rapidly. And we're expanding our production lines, and we will meet in the second half of the
demand.
Q - `Quinn Bolton, Needham & Company `
Got it. Maybe just looking at sort of the roadmap for some of these accelerators and in 2024, I
think you guys have some new ramps with probably higher content, but I think you also have
perhaps lower cost cards coming out where you guys may see a step-down in your dollar
content.
Can you just kind of walk through the puts and takes? I wish you'd be thinking about your average
dollar content per win? Do you still see that trending higher as power consumption goes up? Or
is the increase in competition and perhaps, efforts to design cost down cards starting to perhaps
limit that dollar content opportunity?
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
The dollar content is a -- well, it's a -- as a market that accelerating, and, again, we'll have a more
our competitor joining our team. And especially this rate of a ramp. And also, we see other
players, other AI players will enter the market, that we are -- so far we are behind pretty much
the sole source of power solutions. And as you see the second half or sometimes in the next
years, okay, you will see a lot of other players to be qualified or they solve their -- whatever the
technical problem is, okay, or the odd.
So that's what we expect, the cost side, okay, we're always lowering our cost, and at these times
we want to solve all the problems, and we believe we resolve all these issues, and during these
fast ramp. And also the cost at this time is not really the issue. It's all about the throughput and to
meet the customer demand.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
And one final comment on content is that, with each following generation of new products that
are being introduced for AI, the power requirements are increasing. And at this point, we have a
belief that the dollar content will go up per server, but at this point, it's very hard to gauge that.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
For AI system.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `For AI system, yeah.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And the next version of it is the power is even higher, is much higher as Bernie said. And we
started to do these product developments back in a couple of years ago. And we're about to
release it, okay, to our customers in this quarter, next couple of quarters.
Q - `Quinn Bolton, Needham & Company `
Perfect. Thank you for all that color.
A - `Genevieve S. Cunningham, Senior Manager, Marketing Communications
Our next question is from `Rick Schafer, Oppenheimer & Co. of Oppenheimer. Rick, your line is now open.
Q - `Rick Schafer, Oppenheimer & Co. `
Yeah, thanks. And I'll add my congratulations as well. A couple of questions, if I could. I guess,
Michael, I'm curious if you could kind of elaborate a little bit. I'm curious what surprised you the
most the last 90 days or so. I'm thinking particularly of auto, obviously, enterprise data was
stronger than expected, but auto seems like it's kind of materially gotten softer for most in the
last 90 days.
So I was curious if you could comment on what you're seeing there. And of course you guys had, I
think, a couple of delayed model year launches, last year in the second half. And I was just getting
us trying to get a sense of when those might ramp. And if you consider that an offset, maybe to a
slower, slower auto market at large.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
We -- good questions, good observations. And they -- and, towards the end of the last year, it
kind of auto slows, slow it down, but, overall, we, as Bernie said earlier, we still grow some, high
20%, 30% somewhere in the, overall, in the auto segment. These are mostly primary, mostly due
to, the ADAS and the infotainment or whatever the head units call it, or the digital cockpit.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. And going for next year -- we believe we see all the activities and customers nowadays are
consuming all these inventories that we shipped in May or June period times, and then now they
start to have a higher volume ramp, and especially in the EV side. So for this year's, first part of
this year's.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
So I think that there has been some softness that has occurred in Q3 of last -- Q3 and Q4 of last
year that was observable, both for IC and EVs. And as we said in our earlier comments, and it
applies to automotive, we don't have great visibility beyond just the next quarter. So it's hard for
us to predict what the second half of '24, the ramp might look like for automotive.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `Right, the ramp is in the early adoption in an EV is very lumpy, and the different automakers and
the ramp in the different schedules. Okay, but overall, the trend is they will pull out more EV with
more of our products.
Q - `Rick Schafer, Oppenheimer & Co. `
Oh, thanks, Michael. And if I could follow up, I know Quinn was asking about some of the 48 volt
stuff. I was curious, I mean, you guys are so dominant on this in second stage 48 volt, and I know
you've got a Stage 1 product now as well. So I didn't know if you could give us a sense of what
your expectations are for share or revenue contribution, however you'd like to discuss it.
But I'm curious sort of what Stage 1 power will do to your content, will do for that enterprise data
segment. And I also was curious, only because you mentioned it a couple of times, new
competition coming in 48 volt. And I was just curious to get your thoughts on if it gets harder or
could the competition going forward as guys like NVIDIA move from a two-year cadence on new
processor development to an annual cadence? Thanks.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
All right, yeah. This game is always the best performance, okay? So far our competition, so I don't
want to speak our competition, okay?
So far, what we have, okay, and our customers are very receptive to our solution, so far we pretty
much have a majority of the volumes, okay. And they keep requesting it, and keep requesting we
solve all these issues related to their system issues, ours, and issues from our side. And, so when
the volume gets even bigger, it's good to have another source, okay, otherwise, okay, you don't
want NPS to become all of them, that's not what we intend to do.
And also the competition partitions and it's exactly like a server side and we were the newcomer
in a server market back in a couple years ago and that's how we won the market. And we had a
product long before that, and we also need -- we had to dumb it down to meet the common
footprints because the power density is not high enough. And when this AI come out on the
market, the common footprint is not a requirement.
So we start to win a lot of market, a lot of shares and the same as in the servers and have a very
similar trend trained. And that's how we win the market. And we always want to do, as we said in
the in the past, we want to push in the technology, we want to make sure we're the best.
And, Michael, any sense of Stage 2, or sorry, Stage 1 contribution this year for you guys? Thanks.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, okay. We had some issues and other stage ones and that came in. And we had some design
wins and a very small volumes in different systems actually. And now we don't have -- all these
issues are resolved. That will significantly gain that the content and in each AR systems.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
And Stage 1, for us at least, is represented about 20%, 25% of the dollar content of Stage 2. And
we expect to see the incremental ramp from these products in Q1 and Q2.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `Yeah, we had shipping these products for some of the 48 volt systems. And also, we supply it as
a supplier for chip and for the silicon, not for the modules. And now we step up to our modules.
Q - `Rick Schafer, Oppenheimer & Co. `
Great, thanks, you guys.
A - `Genevieve S. Cunningham, Senior Manager, Marketing Communications
Our next question is from `Matt Ramsay, Cowen and Co. of Cowen. Matt, your line is now open.
Q - `Matt Ramsay, Cowen and Co. `
Thank you very much. Congrats, guys. Good afternoon. I'm going to ask both of my questions
here together because we got two or three calls going on tonight and I don't want to end up on
two lines at once. I don't know that we want to go interweaving earnings calls, but my two
questions are the first one, Michael, since you helped found the company, you guys have not
been active in M&A traditionally.
So I'd be interested to hear a little bit more about the company you're acquiring, the markets that
you're going to go after, how that whole deal came together and what the prospects for that
new technologies that you may, and people that you may roll into the company, just any
background there. And then.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
That's a great question. So like, otherwise we're taking to the all AI court.
Q - `Matt Ramsay, Cowen and Co. `
Okay. Just really quickly on my second one.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So I'll go back on mute.
Q - `Matt Ramsay, Cowen and Co. `
Oh, you go back to AI? If you could just help us out. You could just help us out with the guidance
for March by segment, that would be helpful to make sure we're all modeling from the same
footing. Thanks.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
All right, let me answer your first question, okay. And you said it's inactive in M&A, market
segment. That's not true, okay. And we follow our -- well, it's not really a policy. We follow what
we do for the best for our shareholders. We don't acquire revenue. The reason is it's cheap to
grow revenue for NPS. But we do acquire technology. And so this is the, in the past, actually, we
acquired a few.
And, financially, it's immaterial with our shareholders and at this time, and it's big enough, we
made these disclosures. And to talking about this Axign's, is the company that we work with have
been for three years already. And it's proven that their technology and with our power stage, and
that'll be a huge benefit in audio signals to audio amplifications fields. And we have proven in a
very, very, very high-end customers. And make these products as a very unique.And never achieved in the histories like a no zero distortions signals. And I can send to a speakers
and the cost is very low, the way we achieve that. And also, we achieve a lot of programmable,
it's also software adaptive. And that, I see it, when I listen to those sounds, it's really, you bring an
audio file, as we're putting in a press release, put your audio file quality to everybody's home, to
lower down, really lower down the cost. And that will revolutionize how we listen.
Yeah, you want second?
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, may I -- I'll take the second question then on the guidance as far as what we're looking at
for Q1 here. The growth driver still remains the enterprise data. The positive there is that in
addition to AI, we're also seeing incremental positive demand for our traditional CPU data center
solutions.
When you look at the other groups, you basically, we see a flattening in comms, but then we see
declines that sort of range between the high-single digits and low double digits in the sequential
growth between Q4 and Q1 for the other groups.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Does that answer your question, Matt?
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Gen, I think we can move to the next one.
A - `Genevieve S. Cunningham, Senior Manager, Marketing Communications
Our next question is from `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. of Stifel. Tore, your line is now open.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. `
Yes, thank you, Michael, Bernie. And congratulations on 12th consecutive year of growth,
especially in this environment. That's stunning. My first question for you, Michael, is 2024. So
you've already talked about AI and Bernie just sort of gave us directionally things for Q1, but you
always seem to surprise us a little bit with something, throughout the year.
So I'm just wondering, is there anything that you could share with us that could happen either in
industrial or communications? I'm not thinking about cyclical stuff. I'm thinking about more sort of
new secular stuff that you're working on that could surprise us on the upside this year.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, you said last year, the growth is not very spectacular. It's like, what is that, single-digit?
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
1.5%.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
1.5%, okay. It's a, yeah, okay. But this year's, I think it's a, who knows? In the last year, we didn't
know until ChatGPT happened, okay, I mean, then the AI business took off.And was out of our expectations, okay, I mean, we didn't know, but to answer your questions, to
comment your questions, 11, what is it, 12 years, 11 years in a consecutive year-by-year growth.
And it's, we follow our principles, and, okay, we want to, first things, okay, we want to make sure
it's all the product, what we deliver to our customers is the best product, best performance. And
we want to beat all our competition. That's number one.
Number two is we react. We react fast, we're nimble. And we fulfill our customer demand. And
that's the pretty simple strategies that we followed. And we kind of disregarded what the market
segment does. Okay, I mean, and we don't chase those market segments. This year, who knows,
okay, whether one of the segments will grow.
But I don't expect it will grow as big as A.I., okay? But maybe a couple of small segments
happening, and I do see that. And we do see that in the recent quarters, in the last quarter or so,
and we see all these orders come in. And as we expected, those products are truly better than
our competitors.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. `
Yeah, that makes sense. And as I follow up, I think most people when they think about NPS,
always they think about power management and how much share you've gained there. But when
I look at the Axign acquisition, I think about your penetration into the data converter space, you're
doing much more stuff on the signal processing side.
I mean, you're clearly building out, I think, a pretty impressive portfolio in what I would call more
the mixed signal part of the market. So will you be able to maybe share that with us over time? I
don't know, percentage or revenue collectively, how much these subsegments can represent for
the overall business?
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Okay. I think in the next couple of years, and you will see some significant growth from a
different area, from a signal processing and for data converters and for, of course we talk about it
today, and the audio process, okay, and which we already designed it in some consumer, high
volume consumer market segments. And later we're going to get into automotive and
automotive business.
And other ones, we have a lot of small things, okay, a lot of other things like silicon carbides and
silicon carbide projects for green energies and for solar inverters. Well, these are still kind of
power management, but a lot of ones, okay, where other problems, and these are for
communications. Communications between the solar side, okay, so from the inverter side and
even the automotive side, like back to automotive side. And there's a lot of other communication
within the car, and we're developing those type of products. And you see NPS in the next few
years will migrate out to those segments.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. `
Excellent, thank you and congrats again.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Genevieve S. Cunningham, Senior Manager, Marketing CommunicationsOur next question is from `William Stein, Truist of Truist. William, your line is now open.
Q - `William Stein, Truist `
Hey, thanks. I'll add my congrats to the remarkably stable outlook and along those lines, the
company has had a longer term revenue growth and margin model that you have talked about in
the past. I think the way you say it is either 15 plus semi-growth or around 20 top line, and then 10
to 20 bps per quarter on gross margin.
We've been sort of really outside of that model as things have been really volatile since really
since COVID started, I guess. But I wonder if we're potentially honing back into that model? Or
should we sort of throw that away and not think about that anymore? And how would you
encourage us to think about revenue growth and margins longer-term?
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, those kind of models, it's a model is a model. Okay. But I think it's a given times and we'll
be back in the models. And it's the model can be, it's like a weather forecasting, right? I can't
answer it. Okay.
So we build our models, and we didn't predict these thunderstorms, and for like the last couple
years, our models is not correct, and either we have too much or we have too little, and so given
those kind of economic weather, the environment, and that model is not quite right, and also our
model is not very scientific either, it's based on our empirical historical reasons, but we should not
deviate from what we see now.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
And just to give people a refresh of what the model is that Will is referring to, is generally
speaking, we outperformed the market by 10 to 15 percentage points and in a stable market
conditions where it's growing between about 5% and 8% it's easy to assume that we'd be
between 15% and 20% growth.
On the gross margin or range that we targeted about a non-GAAP basis is between 55% and
60% and then when the environment is more predictable we look to be able to grow gross
margin 10 to 15 percentage point or basis points on quarterly successive quarters.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I might as well add it. Okay, we emphasize the product development and also the
customers' design win. And I do see a lot of wins and on many different segments I said earlier
and probably I forgot even half of it.
Okay, in my mind and there's so many things going on. And so, going in the futures, when a
normalized, as Bernie said, as a more normalized economic conditions, and there's no reason we
will not grow, we grow 1.5%, okay? At least say it that way, okay.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
But the market contracted 10%,
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, okay.Q - `William Stein, Truist `
We certainly are outgrowing long-term, no doubt. The other thing I'd like to ask about is
inventories. I think on your own balance sheet, you're running below your long-term target now.
Maybe my view of the targeted stale. I'm not sure, maybe you can just update us on inventory
relative to your target, and also in the channel, what you think is going on there, please? Thanks
so much.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure, I can take that one. So, as a reminder, the model is days on our days on our balance sheet
between 180 to 200 days, we came in at about the low 170s this quarter, which was really a
reflection of how we have been managing our inventory in this uncertain environment.
Having said that, we've started a lot of wafer starts ahead of what we believe will be a potential
upside, certainly in the next few quarters. As far as the channel, that's been a difficult aspect of
this market for everybody, and we've had our share of putting inventory in the channel, but I'm
very happy to report that over the last three quarters it's been coming down appreciably, and
we're right now just a little bit above our model.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
We will start to build inventory.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah.
Q - `William Stein, Truist `
Great, thanks so much guys.
A - `Genevieve S. Cunningham, Senior Manager, Marketing Communications
Our next question is from `Travis Poulin, Wells Fargo of Wells Fargo. Travis, your line is now open.
Q - `Travis Poulin, Wells Fargo
Hi guys, this is Travis on for Gary. Thanks for taking my question and congratulations on the
results. I was wondering if you could provide color on how your customer base has evolved
through 2023. Historically, MPS has been diverse from this perspective, but did any customer
approach 10%? And along those lines, how do you expect this mix to evolve as we move into
2024?
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, but I see these data is that we grow our small customer base in by a few thousand in that
last year. And that's kind of exciting. Again it doesn't mean we have a lot of revenues. And in the
longer term as well, I'm not getting in -- the bigger the base, the better it is, the more stable NPS
will be.
And also, you don't know, okay, and what's the next hardest things, okay? And our customer will
decide that, okay? Or the market will decide it. Our customer will take opportunity. If it's not thisone, that one will, okay? I mean, we just play the percentage, and we just have our products goes
out of doors, okay? And goes to design in those to those customers.
And in terms of which segments, I have to say it's everywhere, this is, okay? I can't remember any
numbers more than, as I grow older, than more than five or six things. And -- but that's the
beauty, you won't grow a thousand. I mean, that would take a few years, and it will turn into
bigger revenues.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
And, Travis, it's an excellent question because I think to align with Michael's points there is that
the strength of MPS as far as resilience in different market conditions is the breadth of the
customer base. And not have high levels of concentration.
Now, obviously with this environment where it has been generally weak except for AI, we're in
sort of an unusual profile, but we don't expect that to last, over the next couple of three years.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah.
Q - `Travis Poulin, Wells Fargo
Got it. Thank you for the color. That's all from me.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Okay.
A - `Genevieve S. Cunningham, Senior Manager, Marketing Communications
Our next question is from `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. of Stifel. Tore, the line is now open.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. `
Yes, thank you. I just had two quick follow-ups. First of all is on first of all is on revenue capacity. So
I know in the past, Michael, you talked about sort of getting to $2 billion in capacity. Obviously,
you're there now. But then, also any updates on getting to $3 billion and even $4 billion of
revenue capacity?
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
We are building for $4 billion revenues, okay, in capacities. And we actually, we never changed.
And especially out of China, okay, and we, and that actually fits our plan. And we'll continue to do
that.
And these kind of capacity issues, so you look at NPS business, and we see, we believe these are
business world growth, okay, we grow our capacity accordingly. It's really a disregard of what's
the current environment. We address for long-term issues.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. `Very good. And then the other follow-up, any updates on the e-commerce business? We haven't
heard about that in a while. So, I just want to make sure we check in with you and get an update
there.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Our module business, okay, is our pure e-commerce, okay. I said it, okay. We didn't know what we
are talking about. And it wasn't that exciting. But the combination of it and with our web service
and in the e-commerce and also some interactions that I can help from our website that
generates 150 million units now, last year, and I can't call it, what was that, like seven, eight years
ago, seven, eight years ago, these e-commerce business customer can log in our website, they
can change their partner, they can input their parameters and program our parts, we ship the
product within a week or so.
That didn't happen that much, but yeah, it's happening, but I still believe, in the long term, that
will be the business, because we're lowering the power management, we're lowering all these
product designing barriers, and why not? People can program it apart and especially younger
generations and they have -- they rather program a product rather than use a solid line putting up
in our arms.
And again -- and I go to a lab as I came to make it happen, and I think it's a little longer younger
generations would do that and that it would be different from the older generations in fact my
generation's not getting me and that business I believe in the long term will still picking up before
now was wasn't that bad okay let's say that way.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. `
Great, thank you again.
A - `Genevieve S. Cunningham, Senior Manager, Marketing Communications
Our next question is from `Melissa Fairbanks, Raymond James of Raymond James. Melissa your line is now open.
Q - `Melissa Fairbanks, Raymond James `
Hey, guys. Thanks very much. I was wondering if maybe I could squeeze one in about storage and
computing business. I know it's not quite as exciting, maybe, as what's going on in enterprise
data.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
That's not good.
Q - `Melissa Fairbanks, Raymond James `
I know that, you did pick up some business on the notebook side last year. That was kind of
opportunistic. We've got some seasonal factors coming in March. We've kind of heard that
channel inventories, at least on the PC notebook side, have normalized somewhat. But
wondering if you could just give us a little bit of color on the storage, portion of that business
that, we don't seem to talk about very much.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
The answer already. And I said, overall, it's not good. Overall, it's a bit, yeah, the notebook, so weA - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So I think the way to look at it is that that we anticipated softness in the storage market.
And so as a result, we became more competitive on notebooks and accepted lower margin
business.
And -- but it was offsetting declines, particularly in SSD, where we've seen a decline. We
increased share with a lot of the major customers in the SSD market, but their business was in
decline for much of 2023. And then the other positive in the group is that we've saw the initial
ramp of DDR5 during the year and also graphic cards expanded pretty nicely during the year.
So this is a group that has different characteristics and, net, did pretty okay in a pretty difficult
market.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I think at DDR5, we expect to ramp in last year, right?
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I mean, it didn't happen that fast.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I mean, so the key is, again, okay, we make sure our products are designing. And when these
products will ramp, okay, it's not up to us. And we actually care less. Okay, but we only care is we
have a product to ship,? Okay.
Q - `Melissa Fairbanks, Raymond James `
All right. Thanks very much, Michael. I'm sorry to bring up a sore point.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
No, it's not a sore point. It's a reality like everybody else's.
Q - `Melissa Fairbanks, Raymond James `
Sure. All right, thanks, guys.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
All right, thank you.
A - `Genevieve S. Cunningham, Senior Manager, Marketing Communications
Our next question is from `Quinn Bolton, Needham & Company of Needham. Quinn, your line is now open.Q - `Quinn Bolton, Needham & Company `
Hey, guys, just wanted to follow up. Bernie, I think you had mentioned that in addition to the GPU
and AI, you guys are starting to see better traction on just the core CPU server market. I know in
the past you've talked about your goal to try to get your share in that segment to 25%.
So wondering if you might just give us an update, where do you think your share is in CPU core
power today? And how are you feeling about that 25% market share target over, say, the next
couple of years? Thanks.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. What really generates interest for their customers is when they see the new product
launches at both Intel and AMD ramping, and we do the power management for both of those.
And I think that as we observed in the last year or even 18 months, that the most recent versions
of their products have been delayed.
And so we've experienced a slower ramp as far as being able to increase share or content on
those platforms. But at least initially, as I was observing for Q1, as well as for the balance of '24,
we see that both of those ramps starting to improve, and that we'll participate with them.
At this point, we don't have any reason to doubt our earlier projections as far as overall share
opportunity between 20% and 30%. But right at this particular moment, it's hard to say what we
have.
A - `Michael Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, let me talk about this. In VR 13, we didn't have any. In VR 13.5, because that was about two-
and-a-half years ago, we have a lot of design wing. We have a design wing, a few, but by defaults
and the other customers, their customers, they couldn't ship. And we are turning to be the bigger
players. We are four teams, and back in a few years ago, we designing many different project.
And we expect to be a bigger players.
So that's, we still believe the same story. And when the CPU market picks up, and our revenue will
start to resume to growth. And so what is the last years? And I don't even remember what's the
last years. And it wasn't spectacular numbers anyway. And I think sooner or later, we'll turn around.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. `
Yeah. Thank you.
A - `Genevieve S. Cunningham, Senior Manager, Marketing Communications
Is there any if there are any follow-up questions, please click the Raise Hand button.
As there are no further questions, I would now like to turn the webinar back over to Bernie.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Great. Thank you very much, everybody. I'd like to thank you for joining us on this conference call,
and look forward to talking to you again in our first quarter, which will be in late April.
And, just to add to that, at that time, we'll be introducing a new format for this call. We will
provide you content and context on how the end markets have performed in a written manner,So we believe that that will be a more efficient use of your time and ours, and also more
complete communication.
So with that, I will thank you, and, again, I look forward to seeing you again in April.