Q4 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Genevieve Cunningham, Senior Manager, Marketing Communications
Welcome everyone to the MPS Fourth Quarter 2024 Earnings Webinar. My name is Genevieve
Cunningham, and I will be the moderator for this webinar. Joining me today are Michael Hsing,
CEO and Founder of MPS; `Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, EVP and CFO; and `Tony Balow, Vice President of Finance, Vice President of
Finance. Earlier today, along with our earnings announcement, MPS released a written
commentary on the results of our operations. Both documents can be found on our website.
Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone that in the course of today's presentation, we
may make forward-looking statements and projections within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. That involves risk and uncertainty. Risks, uncertainties,
and other factors that could cause actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements
are identified in the safe harbor statements contained in the Q4 2024 earnings release and in our
SEC filings, including our Form 10-K, which can be found on our website. Our statements are
made as of today and we assume no obligation to update this information.
Now, I'd like to turn the call over to `Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
`Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Gen. Good afternoon, and welcome to our Q4 2024 earnings call. In 2024, MPS posted
its thirteenth consecutive year of growth with full year revenue of $2.2 billion, up 21% from 2023.
For Q4 2024, we had record quarterly revenue of $621.7 million, above Q3 2024, and 37% higher
than the fourth quarter of 2023. This performance reflected the strength of our diversified
market strategy, consistent execution, continued innovation, and strong customer focus.
Let me call out a few highlights from 2024. We introduced a silicon carbide inverter for highcarbide-based applications are expected to be introduced in multiple geographies during both
2025 and 2026. We developed a family of high-quality, cost-effective automotive audio products
utilizing DSP technology from our 2024 Axign acquisition powered by MPS Solutions. For
enterprise notebooks, we launched a battery management solution and are sampling a new mini-
phase power stage. These products enable faster charge time and significantly improve
notebook battery life.
Building on our first analog to digital converter design win in 2024, we are developing new high-
accuracy 24-bit converters which are expected to ramp in the second half of 2025. MPS continues
to focus on innovation, solving our customers' most challenging problems, and maintaining the
highest level of quality. We continue to invest in new technology, expand into new markets, and to
diversify our end-market applications and global supply chain. This will allow us to capture future
growth opportunities, maintain supply chain stability, and swiftly adapt to market changes as they
occur.
Finally, I'm pleased to announce our quarterly dividend will increase 25% to $1.56 per share. And
during Q4 2024, we completed share repurchases under a 2023 $640 million authorization. This
week, our Board of Directors authorized a new $500 million three-year share repurchase
program. For the three years ending December 2024, MPS has returned 86% of its free cash flow
to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends paid. Our proven, long-term growth
strategy remains intact as we continue our transformation from being a chip-only, semiconductor
supplier to a full-service silicon-based solutions provider.
I'll now open the webinar up for questions.
Questions And Answers
A - `Genevieve Cunningham, Senior Manager, Marketing Communications
(Question And Answer)
Thank you, Bernie. Analysts, I would now like to begin our Q&A session. As a reminder, if you
would like to ask a question, please click on the Participants icon on the menu bar, and then click
the Raise Hand button. Our first question is from `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. of Stifel. Tore, your line is now
open.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. `
Yes, thank you, and congratulations on the solid results. Either Michael or Bernie, could you talk a
little bit about the dynamics here in the March quarter, especially by segment? Obviously we
know so many markets are still soft, yet others are actually quite healthy. So any more color on
how you see the various segments in the March quarter would be really helpful.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. As far as our Q1 outlook, I think we need to take the perspective that relative to the size of
the market, we're a fairly small player. But we have a lot of greenfield design wins, which have
been previously delayed, that are now starting to ramp as we enter 2025. So when we look at
two of the areas that are going to drive most of the growth in the quarter, automotive is
continuing to grow, and communications, where we launched some new products in Q3, are
bouncing back from Q4 and will continue strong.
Memories demand profile is also very good, and notebooks look to be having a Q1 uplift. Wemarket. On industrial consumer, we have a lot of new product ramps, but those are likely to start
to contribute at the end of 2025. And on the enterprise data, we'll be down.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. `
Very good. And as my follow-up on enterprise data, how should we think about that business
model throughout calendar '25? Again, obviously a lot of different dynamics, different players, the
growth trajectory for that business throughout calendar '25. Any color you can share with us
there?
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. We don't talk about it in the near terms in specific customers as we always do. So, again, I
mean, the near term is that we can't control our customers' buying pattern, their allocations. And
this year -- but overall, this is a multibillion dollars market segment. We are getting ready for
these next few years in the growth. And it's clearly -- it's a multibillion-dollar opportunities. But for
us, in near terms, this year could be even or maybe slightly up, okay, this is our best guess.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, just to add a little bit of color to how we see the year rolling out, we believe that we will be
off to a slower start in the first half of the year. But as the year develops, the customer base is
expected to broaden as hyperscalers launch their new products. So we have multiple product
ramps with both existing customers as well as with these new hyperscalers. So as Michael just
said, we believe it's likely to be a flattish year, but we believe that from a quality and supply
availability perspective, we're in very good shape.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Could be up too, we don't know.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Yes, exactly.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. `
That's fair. Congrats again on the results.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Genevieve Cunningham, Senior Manager, Marketing Communications
Our next question is from `Rick Schafer, Oppenheimer & Co. of Oppenheimer. Rick, your line is now open.
Q - `Rick Schafer, Oppenheimer & Co. `
Yes. Thanks, guys. I'll add my congratulations. And if I could maybe tack on to the back of Tore's
question, I was wondering if you could update us maybe just to give us a sense of the number of
accelerated projects that you expect to ramp this year and into 2026, just to kind of get a sense. I
heard you loud and clear, Michael, that this is a billion-dollar plus TAM. I'm just trying to get a
sense of how many?A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
It's a multiple billion dollar.
Q - `Rick Schafer, Oppenheimer & Co. `
Multiple billion.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Don't be shy about that.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
We're not shy on that. We don't want to lose that, okay?
A - `Tony Balow, Vice President of Finance `
Hey, Rick, this is Tony. I'll jump in. I think what we want to say is we're engaged across all the
hyperscalers. But what you heard Michael say was that the exact timing of the ramp is very difficult
for us to call. So I don't think we want to put a specific number of customers in our exact ramp
times out there, other than saying that we're engaged broadly across them. As Bernie said, we
believe that's going to scale through the second half.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I can give you examples. And we foresee that these projects are going to ramp. In 2022 to 2023,
you look at the automotive side. We said that we have a lot of design wins. And we said all these
are going to ramp up, but we have a lot of inventories. And 2023 is kind of a flattish year. Our
customer delayed their launch, so the '23 affected us. But I keep saying we don't really care. As
long as we have a product and designing, and designing their new product, especially and we're
turning to a revenue plus, minus 12 months, 18 months.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
And if I could just add to Michael's comments there, when you look at automotive, it was delayed
not just in 23, but also in the first half of '24 against what we had built inventory and against our
expectations. But now, as you can see, it's very solidly on track with two consecutive quarters of
growth. And likewise, you could apply that same formula to what we're seeing in the
communications with the release of the fiber optics in the data center. So we have the
technology, but where it intersects and ramps in the market, a lot of that's a little bit out of our
control.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, even the directly AI powers, and again, we have so many projects working with multiple
hyperscale companies. And so we cannot tell which one is well ramping first. And okay, I know
what the magnitude of ramping. Just we are get the supply chain ready, get our quality testing
facility ready to get these -- to receive these revenues, okay, turn it into these revenues. And so
the timing, we care less.
Q - `Rick Schafer, Oppenheimer & Co. `Thanks for all that color, Michael. It's funny you're talking about auto because that's my second
question, if I could. The EV conversion to 48-volt power and to 800-volt batteries is sort of set to
ramp this year, I believe. And I know you mentioned in the prepared remarks, Bernie, that you're
going to be shipping power isolation content second half, I think I heard you say. And I believe EV
is about three quarters of your auto business. So I just wondered if you could talk us through sort
of what your potential content, given all those changes, right? All these additional drivers, what
your content looked like last year or potential content per vehicle versus what it looks like in 2025
with all these new jump balls. Thanks.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
That's very good questions. And we mentioned about 48-volt system many, many years ago,
okay? And particularly for auto, now it became a hot topics. And we have all these product ready
with designing those new vehicles. And these have a base on 48 volts systems. We can capture a
lot. And in an -- once their products -- once their vehicles are ramping up on the market, and
initially will be another dominant players.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
And I think that this is -- the rollout in automotive starts with EV, which is quicker to adapt new
technologies onto their platform. But we expect it to continue for a multiyear period.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Again, NPS, again, we provide a 48-volt integrated solutions. And all of these high-power
modules are based on the NPS silicon solutions. And those were significantly changed. All these
are discrete way of doing it, accrues together the 48-volt solutions. So that definitely sets NPS
apart from the rest of a competitor.
A - `Tony Balow, Vice President of Finance `
And Rick, beyond just pure 48-volt, remember what you saw beginning Q3 was designs outside
of ADAS start to hit the market. And we saw more broad-based growth in the auto segment. And
we'd expect that to continue as additional sockets come to market. So I think that's the other
dynamic that's happening as well.
Q - `Rick Schafer, Oppenheimer & Co. `
Great. Thanks, you guys.
A - `Genevieve Cunningham, Senior Manager, Marketing Communications
Our next question is from `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank of Deutsche Bank. Ross, your line is now open.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank `
Can you hear me now?
A - `Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Hi, Ross.Q - `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank `
Perfect. Hi, there. Just want to revisit the enterprise data side of things. And not to overplay that,
but the market share gains and dynamics in the server CPU side of things, has that changed at
all? I think everybody knows what's going on with one key customer and the diversification market
share shifts and those sorts of things. But you guys have other things that are happening as we
speak as well. So I really wanted to focus on the dynamics outside of those, not just with the ASIC
providers and other GPU providers, but also with the CPU market share and servers. So any
update on that would be helpful.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Ross, let me say something else first. Our inventory low and the channel inventory is low. We're
going to ramping up. Okay. And the rest of us, Bernie, you want to?
Q - `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank `
I don't know, if I had a follow up on that.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
It's a very good question. And let me just give you a little bit of what we're seeing. It's a fast
changing landscape. And what I mean by that, it's difficult to offer commentary on enterprise data
in these different components. The lines between CPU and GPU are becoming blurry. And in
support of both lines of business, we have a lot of standard products. So while we've historically
had better visibility in the separation and could track them a little more easily, it's hard for us to
make more than just a generalized comment about what direction either market segment is
going in.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, let me add. Okay, we have -- we're getting significant shares about on the server side. And
once you see the server markets start ramping up, well, the MPS revenue will ramp with it.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank `
Great. I guess as my non-inventory follow-up, on the communication side, you guys did well on
that in the second half of the year. It's a little bit choppy still, but can you just give us an idea of
the profile of that business? How much is kind of the old comms versus the new comms? And
give us a little bit more color on what the growth driver is that gives you the confidence for the
year. And I assume it's on the optical side of things, but just a little more details on that would be
helpful.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
We're all laughing. And would you say the beginning of the question, okay?
A - `Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
It was comms, right, Ross?
Q - `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank `Yes, and the communication side. It's just, you guys have been talking about that growing for
many, many years, and it finally did last year. But I know there's some legacy pieces and some
new pieces. And so I just wanted to try to get some color on the difference between them.
A - `Tony Balow, Vice President of Finance `
Yes, Ross, I think you kind of hit it when you were asking the question, right? If you could com us
going forward, the area of strength that we've really been calling out is an optical, and we'd
expect that to continue as part of the overall data center opportunity that you heard Michael talk
about. So I think that's probably the biggest inflection point that you've seen over the past couple
of quarters versus a legacy business.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank `
Got it. Thank you.
A - `Genevieve Cunningham, Senior Manager, Marketing Communications
Our next question is from `Gary Mobley, Loop Capital of Loop Capital. Gary, your line is now open.
Q - `Gary Mobley, Loop Capital `
Hey, guys. Let me extend my congratulations as well. I wanted to start out with a housekeeping
question. Were there any greater than 10% customers in fiscal year '24, and if you can't name the
customer, can you at least give us a sense of how big that customer was in the year?
A - `Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Certainly. For the three quarters, Q1, Q2, Q3, in our 10-Q, we said that we had two direct
customers, which are distributors that were greater than 10%, and one indirect customer that was
greater than 10%. And that carries through for the full year as well.
Q - `Gary Mobley, Loop Capital `
Okay. But you can't give us a number that we'll publish in the 10-K in terms of the percentage of
revenue from that direct customer?
A - `Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Not at this time.
Q - `Gary Mobley, Loop Capital `
Okay. I tried. All right. I wanted to ask about revenue diversification outside of your traditional
power management market. And if I count correctly, there's maybe four shots on goal, and you
highlighted some of those in your press release. And that would be data converters, silicon
carbide, DSP audio, and battery management systems. So my question is how big in revenue
terms can that be in the fiscal year '26 timeframe? Or said differently, how much of a growth
catalyst can be on top of what you're producing in traditional power management?
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Traditional power management, they're talking about -- these are low-voltage things, if it's what
you mean. The silicon carbide is, of course, to me is also in the power management. And -- but
these are much higher powers, very high power management. And we don't want to put on thenumbers, but these are, again, it's a couple billion dollar opportunity for all of them, for NPS. I
don't want to put a timeline on it, okay?
A - `Tony Balow, Vice President of Finance `
And the only thing is -- we picked a couple for the script, but we only could put a few in for time,
but I think our strategy continues to be plant a lot of seeds in a lot of different areas that can turn
into revenue as the market decides what to prioritize.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
That's a good point. We -- on March 20th, so we have Analyst Day, and this time you come over,
you will see a lot of showcase on NPS new technologies, and these all will contribute in the next
few years of growth, okay? And if you want to pin down what is the numbers, I would say that,
okay, if you look at the past for NPS, what the model is, we will -- I don't see anything, any reason
we should change, okay, should we go faster or slower.
Q - `Gary Mobley, Loop Capital `
Thanks, guys.
A - `Genevieve Cunningham, Senior Manager, Marketing Communications
Our next question is from `Quinn Bolton, Needham & Company of Needham. Quinn. Your line is now open.
Q - `Quinn Bolton, Needham & Company `
Hey, guys. I'll offer my congratulations as well. I guess, Bernie, Michael, obviously, a very strong
start to the year in the March quarter. Your comments about enterprise data certainly sound like
that business might be more second half weighted. And so I guess I'm just trying to think what
sort of revenue pattern would you expect through 2025? Is the first half slower, the second half
materially stronger? Do you think that you have some puts and takes, and so it's a kind of more
linear ramp through the year? Just any sort of thoughts on the shape of revenue through '25
would be helpful.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So the comment that we made as far as the outlook for the year really looks at the design
wins we've secured and an expectation of what is going to be ramping. Keep in mind, though,
that particularly in the AI side of enterprise data, that has tended to be very volatile and that we
have relatively short lead times as far as when we get hard information or POs for actual delivery.
So I think that within the context of what we believe is most likely to happen, we're very secure by
saying a flattish year that's weighted to the back half, but how that curve actually plays out over
the quarters is to be determined.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, let me add, okay. Bernie said volatile means that this industry, this applications, if you will, and
very -- is at the initial ramp. And so you're only involved with -- we have a few customers. Now, we
talked about it before, so we have multiple customers. And they start to ramp. So it's very good
for MPS, very -- we focus on the diversifications and even within a single segment.
Q - `Quinn Bolton, Needham & Company `I guess that was going to be my sort of second question, just thinking about the enterprise data
segment. Can you just give us a sense what you're seeing in terms of, one, like-for-like pricing
pressure? And then, two, I think some of the newer designs really move away from a silicon-only
solution to much more of a module solution. And I assume that those carry, much higher dollar
content for you. And so do you see, as you mix the customer, you ramp some of the new
hyperscaler designs? Do you think the blended ASP trends in that business, even if you see some
like-for-like pricing, can that go higher through the year as these new platforms ramp?
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, MPS are going to stick with our models and margin models -- gross margin model. We
provide performance, and if it doesn't fit the MPS business model, we don't take those
businesses. And so far, we're the leading suppliers in silicon as well as power modules. And so
this is the reason we, in a very short times in the last 12, 24 months, we have engaged with all
these hyperscales, we have all these projects designed away -- designed in it. And also, we have
future products, we have many future products in the development.
Q - `Quinn Bolton, Needham & Company `
Got it. Thank you, Michael.
A - `Genevieve Cunningham, Senior Manager, Marketing Communications
Our next question is from `Chris Caso, Wolfe Research of Wolfe. Chris, your line is now open.
Q - `Chris Caso, Wolfe Research `
Yes, thanks. I guess just to start, I just want to make sure I understood correctly some of the
comments. So when you talk about the enterprise data flatters for the year weighted to the back
half, and I'm assuming that's the entirety of the enterprise data segment, not just that associated
with AI. And maybe you could talk about how -- you talked about some of the hyperscalers, some
of the custom ramps happen in the second half of the year. Is that what's driving that strength in
the back half of the year? What's kind of driving that back half weighting?
A - `Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Chris, that's an accurate observation. It's as we look at the ramps for both the SOCs and some of
the tensor processor products that are expected to come out, we've been prototyping those,
but the revenue ramps are really weighted to the second half. And in addition, some of our
existing customers in the AI business in particular have multiple new products that they're
ramping, and those will have different demand profiles as well. And then that's just within the
enterprise data. I think another important ingredient is what we've referred to as the trickle-down
effect. As we see the other applications that are allied to enterprise data or AI specifically in
memory, optical, and networking, and all three of those are areas for growth as well during 2025.
Q - `Chris Caso, Wolfe Research `
Right. And I guess, as you look at the full year, obviously, from what you guys are seeing, and the
better than the seasonal Q1, I'd -- safe to say you're starting out a little better than some of the
others in this space. What's your thought as you go through the year? I mean is there any
lumpiness with regard to some of the opportunities that are ramping early in the year that we
should consider as we go through the year? Or is -- excluding the enterprise data business, do
you see revenue kind of on a fairly stable upslope trajectory as you go through the year?A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I can tell you something. It's very difficult to say. Surely, you go by year-by-year, we don't go
by year-by-year, but although we have to report it year-by-year. And I'll give you examples. Our
large customers start to push out some product, pulling a lot of other ones. So we can't really tell.
And like, I mean, other customers, other hyperscales start to ramp, okay, start -- they telling us
we're going to keep on ramp. Whether the ramp have an effective and remove our revenue
needles in the Q4 of this year or Q1 of the next year, we can't tell.
A - `Tony Balow, Vice President of Finance `
Yes, maybe the only thing I'd add on Michael and it just comes back to the focus on what you can
control, right? And you have the organization looking at providing the best products with the best
quality and that's what we can do right now and as the market then plays through, that will turn
into revenue. So I don't think we're trying to get into a quarter-by-quarter debate here, Chris. I
think that's how we've more landed kind of in a first half, second half dynamic at this point.
Q - `Chris Caso, Wolfe Research `
Thank you.
A - `Genevieve Cunningham, Senior Manager, Marketing Communications
Our next question is from `Joshua Buchalter, Cowen and Co. of Cowen. Joshua, your line is now open.
Q - `Joshua Buchalter, Cowen and Co. `
Yes, thank you for taking my question. A couple of times you've talked about the hyperscale
program sort of driving growth more so in the back half of the year. I guess if we compare these
sockets to what you've already done in AI and the accelerator side, there's a lot of companies in
the analog space that are saying that they have power engagements with ASIC vendors as well.
Would you expect the majority of these merchant -- the ASIC programs to be dual sourced? And I
know you're not going to necessarily quantify share but I'd just be curious to hear how you're
seeing the competitive environment in these sockets. Thank you.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. Let me take the first opportunity there. If you look at our most recent track record in the
new, and I say new, relatively new AI business, the reason we were able to secure a lead position
initially is because of our ability to innovate and -- our time to market along with our overall
performance characteristics. So to the extent that, that is valued in these product launches, those
are the qualities that give us an opportunity to have a first mover advantage. But as we've said a
couple of times on this call that when we look at our customers, we don't necessarily control what
their decision process is or why. And so, again, we lead with our strengths and believe that we're
well-positioned and then we'll see how the numbers turn out towards the end of the year here.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. You mentioned the second half, you pinned it down as on the second half of the ramp. What
we mean is in the very near futures.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes.A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
It could be Q1 of next year's or could be Q3 of this year or even overlaps in Q2? And a lot of
things, as I said earlier, and our large customers, some of them push out, other ones are pulling, I
mean very urgently. So we cannot tell.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
I guess to put a punctuation statement, we remain cautiously optimistic, but our momentum is
certainly in the right direction.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
That's the professional way to say it.
Q - `Joshua Buchalter, Cowen and Co. `
We always get the more professional answers from Bernie. Okay, no, thank you both for the color
there. As my follow-up, I guess, you're kind enough to give sort of a rough outlook for enterprise
data growth for 2025. Any more clues you can give us on how you're expecting either at the
company level 2025 growth to shake out and any sort of which segments you would expect to be
the biggest contributors to growth? Thank you.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Biggest ones? We're thinking multiple of them. Yes, and whether multiple of them will ramp in a
different -- many different segments. And we -- sometimes we pick the numbers and okay, it was
wrong, okay? And the other ones are coming up and we focus on the diversified growth. That is
the key strategy. So we've been playing the same principles for the last 25 years. And if this thing
doesn't work and then other things will work, because okay, that's always our strengths. And as
long as we bring up the best performance, highest performance product in the market, we will, if
this segment slows down for whatever the reasons, other segments will pick up.
Q - `Joshua Buchalter, Cowen and Co. `
Thank you both and congrats on the results.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Genevieve Cunningham, Senior Manager, Marketing Communications
Our next question is from Will Stein of Truist. Will, your line is now open.
Q - `William Stein, Truist Financial `
Great. Thanks for taking my question. Let me start with what everyone has been asking about is
enterprise data. I think you highlighted, Bernie, that it's going to be down sequentially. Can you
give us a little help on the modeling, because down could be down like 3% or like 30%. Maybe
just dimensionalize it a little bit to give us some context, please?
A - `Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `Yes. I think that it'd be really hard. Again, what Michael just said is that the strength of our model is
the diversification. And I would probably point to the outlook that we've given in total for Q1 as
being a risk profile that we believe we can deliver comfortably against based on what we can see
in our backlog and the continuing -- the ongoing ordering patterns. But again, trying to actually
stratify with a level of precision on the end market at this point might be difficult.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, you may looking for positions, and the reality is in the business we go for long terms and we
go for long term. It doesn't mean near term will not have uplifting, okay, in our revenues.
Q - `William Stein, Truist Financial `
Yes, clearly my ability to model the near term is problematic. A follow-up if I can. Maybe let me
switch gears a little bit. Michael, I think in the past, you talked about having some capability in
microcontrollers. Historically, I know that it's not like a focus or it's not a meaningful part of your
revenue as well as I understand. Should we expect that to change there's so many new products,
you talk about silicon carbide power and converters now and DSPs even, should we expect
microcontrollers or another, any other digital sort of logic technology to become a bigger part of
your revenue over time?
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Very good questions. And we don't list them out a microcontroller as a standalone standard
product that we sell. As a matter of fact, okay, we -- as we have a many -- we sell many
microcontrollers now, okay? And as I recall in my mind can come up 12, 13 microcontroller projects
is ongoing, some of the stuff is shipping.
But what we sell microcontroller is on the system level. And as Bernie earlier said, in a last field
conference, so this MPS is evolving to a silicon-based solution company. Microcontrollers plays a
key role. And all these powers, all these other lighting, all these other audios and including power
supply, including AIs, they all have microcontrollers in it. And we don't list separate other items
and the standard microcontroller part, but a lot of -- and clearly -- or also a lot of a microcontroller
were integrated and that's the reason we don't list it apart. This is a separate, okay?
Q - `William Stein, Truist Financial `
Thank you.
A - `Genevieve Cunningham, Senior Manager, Marketing Communications
Our next question is from `William Kerwin, Morningstar of Morningstar. William, your line is now open.
Q - `William Kerwin, Morningstar `
Hey, everyone. Thanks for letting us get a question in here. A lot of good questions so far, so I'll
try not to beat any dead horses. But maybe it sounds like at least in the March quarter,
automotive, communications seem to be driving some of the growth. So I'm wondering if you
could just give a broader view into the demand for those markets for 2025 and your
opportunities for share gains in those two.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `Sure. Well, good to hear you in the Q&A, by the way. When you look at the end markets, most of
the ones that we have are long-design cycles. And automotive probably lends itself to being the
most predictive because we secure a design win two to three years for an EV in advance of when
it gets launched, or as many as four to five years for a traditional internal combustion engine.
Now, having said that, the timing of those ramps, when the design win comes to market, still
remains a question mark. But within the context of six to nine months, we can be reasonably
predictive.
So in automotive, we see a continuation of what's been driving our last two quarters of growth as
far as EVs in China. And those will be supplemented in the second half of the year, more likely by
a European OEM that is going to be bringing up an autonomous driving ADAS solution, as well as
additional content opportunities in the North American EV companies. And then when you look at
the communication side, I think that is we're very early stages of being able to ramp the revenue
opportunities, particularly in fiber optics. We started out with two primary customers, but that --
we expect that customer base to diversify over the year.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
As always the pattern.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes.
Q - `William Kerwin, Morningstar `
That's excellent. And then maybe one just on some of the new products that were introduced at
the start of the call, really just which one of these maybe excite you the most? And what are the
new markets that you might be able to enter with these that are the most attractive, do you think,
from a growth perspective? Thanks.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
The most exciting product we haven't announced it yet. Come to our Analyst Day.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
March 20th.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
March 20th. And these are equal babies, okay. They all grow, should be very same, same rate.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. We picked four, but there's many more behind that. So it's hard to pick just one. Actually, we
wanted to have a teaser to make sure we had the best turnout for the Investor Day.
Q - `William Kerwin, Morningstar `
Okay, excellent. Well, we'll wait for more detail in March. Thanks, guys.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
All right. Okay.A - `Genevieve Cunningham, Senior Manager, Marketing Communications
Our next question is from Hans Mosesman of Rosenblatt. Hans, your line is now open.
Q - `Hans Mosesmann, Rosenblatt Securities `
Thanks, congrats, guys. I'll be quick. What is the split for your enterprise data between AI and
non-AI, if that's possible? And I have a follow-up.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, again, I think we already answered that question by saying that those lines are getting blurry.
So we really don't have a meaningful way to make that divide.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And our customers -- and we're not appreciated where we disclose those numbers. And our
customers made it very clear.
Q - `Hans Mosesmann, Rosenblatt Securities `
Is non-AI considered memory and optical, historically? Just out of curiosity.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Those are in different market segments.
A - `Tony Balow, Vice President of Finance `
Opticals and communication, memories and storage.
Q - `Hans Mosesmann, Rosenblatt Securities `
Fine. Okay, at the risk of upsetting your customers if you answer, what is the share between your
historical AI customer for this year versus accelerator customers? What's the split? Is it 10/90 or
50/50?
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
For this year, and at the end of the year, we probably will have a more -- in the near term, we
have more clear pictures, but now, we don't. Frankly, it's not clear where as Bernie said, we're not
in a position to answer that game. And also, either by product, they share the same product. And
also, our customers doesn't want us to release these informations.
Q - `Hans Mosesmann, Rosenblatt Securities `
Okay. Thank you very much.
A - `Genevieve Cunningham, Senior Manager, Marketing Communications
Our last question is from `Joe Quatrochi, Wells Fargo from Wells Fargo. Joe, your line is now open.
Q - `Joe Quatrochi, Wells Fargo `
Yes, thanks for taking the questions. Just curious on the notebook strength that you guys arestarting to see pull-through for AI PCs or is that channel refill? Just trying to understand some of
those dynamics.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
That's a great question. In fact, we believe that a lot of the design wins that we've had in
notebooks more recently are tied into new AI product demand. But as I said, it's a little bit of an
atypical ramp for Q1. So we really don't have a definitive answer on the why behind it.
Q - `Joe Quatrochi, Wells Fargo `
Got it. And then just trying to think about the new projects that are ramping in the second half for
enterprise data, any help that you can provide and just try to think about like the architectures of
those solutions that you're shipping to your customers. Are you still largely seeing those as being
lateral power opportunities or are they starting to move to more vertical solutions?
A - `Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I think you heard us talk a couple of times that we're not going to talk specifically to any
customer or their particular architectural solution. I think for us, what you see us getting folks in is
providing a portfolio of products with the best quality, the best performance, and then the
customers can choose what works for them. And going back to Michael's earlier comment as far
as basically the value proposition of the principles we operate under, what we're most interested
in doing and continuing to do is winning sockets.
A - `Michael R. Hsing, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Our customers have picked particularly, does it not want us to reveal the lateral power or
vertical power.
Q - `Joe Quatrochi, Wells Fargo `
Got it, that's helpful. Thank you.
A - `Genevieve Cunningham, Senior Manager, Marketing Communications
This concludes our Q&A session. I would now like to turn the webinar back over to Bernie.
A - `Bernie Blegen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
I'd like to thank you all for joining us for this conference call. As a quick reminder, we'll be hosting
our Investor Day on March 20th, 2025. Michael and other MPS executives will showcase our vision
for innovation and outline key elements of the company's long-term growth strategy. The event
will be held at our San Jose offices and will include live presentations, a Q&A session, and demos
of our latest solutions for a number of applications and a number of other markets.
If you haven't done so already, please email your RSVP to
MPSInvestor.Relations@monolithicpower.com. You can also access a live stream of the event on
our Investor Relations website. Separately, I look forward to talking to you again during our first
quarter 2025 conference call, which will likely be held in May. Thank you and have a nice day.