Q4 2017 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the General Motors Company
Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2017 Earnings Conference Call. During the opening remarks, all
participants will be in a listen-only mode. After the opening remarks, we will conduct a question-
and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference is being recorded,
Tuesday, February 6, 2018. I would now like to turn the conference over to `Dhivya Suryadevara, Vice President of Corporate Finance,
Vice President of Corporate Finance. Please go ahead, ma'am.
`Dhivya Suryadevara, Vice President of Corporate Finance `
Thanks, operator. Good morning, and thank you for joining us as we review GM's Financial Results
for the fourth quarter of 2017. Our press release was issued this morning and the conference call
materials are available on the GM Investor Relations website. We are also broadcasting this call
via webcast. Included in the chart set material published this morning, we have the key takeaways
from each chart in the notes pages in order to provide color on the results.
This morning, `Mary Barra, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, GM's Chairman and CEO, will provide some brief opening remarks
followed by Chuck Stevens, GM's Executive VP and CFO. We will then open the line for questions
from the analyst community. Before we begin, I would like to direct your attention to the forward-
looking statements on the first page of the chart set. The content of our call will be governed by
this language. In the room today, we also have Tom Timko, Vice President, Global Business
Solutions, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer; and Rick Westenberg, Vice President and
Treasurer, to assist in answering your questions. I will now turn the call over to `Mary Barra, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
`Mary Barra, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Dhivya. Good morning, everybody and thanks for joining. 2017 was a transformative yearcore business and then extend our track record of meeting our commitments. Let's look at the
full year result. Our EBIT-adjusted of 12.8 billion repeats 2016's record performance. We had a
record EBIT-adjusted margin of 8.8% and record EPS diluted adjusted of $6.62. We've returned
6.7 billion in cash to shareholders, and our return on invested capital adjusted was 28% on a
trailing four quarter basis.
GM began this year as a stronger, more resilient company because of the decisive actions we
have taken in the past few years to first re-shape our business; second, to focus on higher return
opportunities; and third, invest in technologies that enable our vision of a future with zero
crashes, zero emissions and zero congestion.
We plan to continue our momentum in 2018 and position the company to accelerate further in
2019. This year, we expect continued strength in North America where in 2017, we achieved a
record EBIT adjusted margin. We expect improved results in GM International where we saw
strong equity income in China and return to profitability in South America.
We expect momentum from a full-year sales of new crossovers, and later, our all new full-size
pickups. And we expect improved performance by adjacent businesses including GM Financials,
and of course we'll maintain a very strong cost efficiency focus across the entire business. Chuck
will share additional details in a few minutes. In the core business, where a strong mix of winning
vehicles help drive another outstanding year in 2017 in the U.S. specifically, GM was the pickup
truck sales leader for the fourth year in a row. Chevrolet grew retail shares for the third
consecutive year, and we became the fastest growing crossover company in the industry with
retail share up 1.6 percentage points.
Building on the success of our refreshed crossovers will be the 2019 Chevrolet Silverado and the
GMC Sierra full-sized pickups, which go on sale later this year, and also the global launch of the
Cadillac XT 4 luxury compact crossover.
With GM international, GM China delivered a year of record sales, led by Buick and Baojun, and
our luxury brand Cadillac, which grew 51%. To continue this momentum, GM China will introduce
15 new or refresh models including seven SUVs and crossovers this year. Finally in South America,
Chevrolet continued its market leadership, where sales rose 13.8% last year.
In addition to great products, we are strengthening our performance through cost efficiencies
that offset incremental investments in the business. We are on track for our commitment to
achieve 6.5 billion in efficiencies by the end of this year and a 2014 baseline, and we'll continue
that focus on costs beyond 2018. In addition, we are making remarkable progress in advancing
our vision for the future of personal mobility. This year, we expect to increase our investment in
transportation-as-a-service initiatives by $1 billion -- to $1 billion, excuse me.
Last month, we filed a safety report that is available on GM.com and a safety petition with the U.S.
Department of Transportation to allow us to safely deploy our fourth generation self-driving
Cruise AV is the first production-ready vehicle built to operate safely with no driver, no steering
wheel, no pedals or manual controls. The Cruise AV is another milestone on our path to
deploying self-driving vehicles in a ride-sharing environment in 2019. To advance our vision of a
zero emission world, we also announced that General Motors will introduce at least 20 new all-
electric models by 2023. As we continue to make meaningful progress and lowering battery
costs, we are confident that our next generation EV architecture will be desirable, attainable and
profitable with a range that our customers want. We will begin unveiling these vehicles in 2021.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Chuck to share additional details.`Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Marry. I'd like to give us some perspective on the quarter and provide additional insights
into our 2018 outlook. Our strong fourth quarter results kept another record year of earnings as
we met our commitments for the fourth year in a row. EBIT adjusted for the year of more than
$12.8 billion repeats 2016 record performance, and we delivered a record margin of 8.8% despite
significant volume and commodity headwinds. We also achieved a record $6.62 and EPS diluted-
adjusted. Net revenue was 145.6 billion, down 2.4% from 2016 as we right-sized dealer
inventories in the United States.
Our strong results for the year were driven by a record North American margin of 10.7%. This was
achieved even with wholesales being down more than 10% versus 2016 and flat versus 2015. In
addition to the record margin in North America, GM Financial generated record earnings before
taxes. And within GM international, China sustained its strong equity income and we've returned
to profitability in South America. Turning to the fourth quarter. We generated 37.7 billion in net
revenue, a record 3.1 billion in EBIT-adjusted and delivered a $1.65 in EPS diluted-adjusted.
In the fourth quarter, North America generated $2.9 billion of EBIT-adjusted, a Q4 record and an
increase of 200 million year-over-year. We generated the strong earnings of 28.8 billion of
revenue resulting in another quarter of 10 plus percent margins for North America and leading to
our third straight year of 10% or higher margins. Volume continue to be a headwind in the fourth
quarter with wholesales down a 135,000 units on a year-over-year basis as we reduced our U.S.
dealer inventory as planned.
We ended the year with 63 days' supply and 753,000 units of dealer inventory, down 8 days and
92,000 units from the end of 2017, both far surpassing the targets we committed to early last
year. We generated the record results in North America despite the decline in volume and an
increase in raw material costs of about $200 million in the fourth quarter through improved mix,
pricing and cost performance.
Both our fourth quarter and full year performance demonstrate the resiliency of our North
American business. For the calendar year, the North America team delivered EBIT-adjusted of 11.9
billion with a record 10.7% margin even with a 447,000 unit decline in wholesales and $600 million
of commodity headwinds, and pricing remains strong. Our U.S. average transaction prices
continue to grow despite increased industry-wide incentive spend and a slightly weaker industry
volume.
Our fourth quarter ATP is of about $37,000, were 1,500 higher than the fourth quarter of 2016.
The underlying strength of our business continues to improve as actions we've taken to reduce
our fleet sales, improve residual values and drive cost performance are playing out favorably in
our results.
Moving to GM International. This is the first quarter for our new reporting segment, which
combines the former GMIO region with the former GM South America region. Overall, EBIT
adjusted for this segment improved 200 million year-over-year driven by cost and price
improvements. South America continued to improve. The fourth quarter was the second straight
profitable quarter resulting in breakeven for the year and we anticipate continued improvement
in 2018. China continues to deliver solid results with equity income of $2 billion for the full year
about equal to 2016. A few comments on GM Financial in our Corp segment. As we continue to
progress towards full captive, GM Financial posted record revenue of 3.3 billion and record
earnings before tax adjusted of 300 million in the fourth quarter. Earnings assets grew 25% toabout 86 billion, supporting expected future earnings growth. And we anticipate continued
earnings growth in 2018.
In the Corporate segment, costs were about 500 million for the fourth quarter and about 1.5
billion for the full year. This was in line with our expected costs for the year. As discussed at the
Deutsche Bank Conference, spend on transportation-as-a-service is expected to increase about
400 million in 2018 versus 2017, as we prepare to deploy self-driving vehicles in a rideshare
environment in 2019.
As a result, we expect the Corporate sector quarterly cost to run in the $500 million to $600
million range for 2018. Turning to cash flow and capital allocation, Q4 adjusted automotive free
cash flow improved by 1.7 billion year-over-year, primarily due to favorable working capital as a
result of normalization of production from the third quarter of 2017, partially offset by the impact
of reduced dealer inventory. Adjusted automotive free cash flow for the full year of 2017 was 5.2
billion, down 3 billion year-over-year, primarily due to lower automotive EBIT-adjusted of 400
million and movements in dealer inventory levels and the resulting impact on sales incentives of
$2.2 billion.
As Mary mentioned, we returned 6.7 billion to our shareholders through 2.2 billion in dividends
and $4.5 billion in stock repurchases through 2017. And as a result of our strategic sale of Opel
Vauxhall, we are able to reduce our cash target by $2 billion. This is reflected in our year-end cash
balance which is 2 billion lower than the 2016 year-end cash balance. Now, I want to share more
details on our 2018 outlook. As we outlined last month, we expect to deliver full year 2018 EPS
diluted adjusted in the mid $6 range. We expect core EBIT adjusted and core automotive
adjusted free cash flow to be largely in line with core business performance in 2017.
Core results consist of all operations, excluding our autonomous vehicle operations, including
Cruise Automation, Maven and our investment, Lyft. Core automotive free cash flow will likely
remain flat in 2018 as GM North American production levels in ending dealer inventory are
expected to be relatively flat. Capital spending, as I said last month, will be about 8.5 billion for
2018, and we expect our annual run rate to decline as we get passed our next generation truck
launch. Looking at 2018 cadence, we expect Q1 and Q4 to be the weakest quarters driven by
typical seasonality as well as our retooling downtime related to our new full-size pickup trucks.
We expect Q2 and Q3 to be the strongest. North America will be impacted in Q1 by an
approximately 60,000 unit volume decline, primarily due to truck downtime. As a reminder, Q1 is
typically our weakest cash flow quarter due to working capital seasonality. Given the anticipated
lower production I just mentioned, as well as CapEx spend to support the truck launch, Q1 cash
flow is expected to be meaningfully below our historical averages.
Our pace of buybacks for 2018 will be dependent on our free cash flow generation. Our quarterly
dividend which will remain at $0.38 in any additional calls on cash throughout the year. In North
America, we expect to sustain an EBIT adjusted margin of 10% plus, primarily due to continued
strength of the U.S. industry, favorable mix due to a full year of new crossovers, the launch of our
all-new full-sized trucks and a continued focus on overall cost savings. In GM International, we see
improvement in 2018, driven primarily by the continued strengthening of our business in South
America.
In China, we see a similar dynamic as in 2017 in the past few years. Continued pricing pressure
offset by a richer mix of crossovers and anchored by strong sales from Buick and growing sales
from Baojun and Cadillac resulting in another year of strong equity income. In Korea, we've had
recent discussions with key stakeholders regarding the need to improve Korea's financial andoperational performance. As we strategically assess our performance, additional restructuring
and rationalization actions may be required. More to come on this topic as we move through the
year. We see a significant opportunity for growth in adjacencies in 2018, specifically GM Financial
where we expect to once again improve earnings. Globally, while we expect a continued increase
in raw material prices, we currently expect to largely mitigate through other cost performance.
So to sum it up, a record fourth quarter, another record year of profit, margins and EPS diluted-
adjusted in 2017 in the face of significant volume declines in commodity headwinds. And our
organization is focused on meeting our commitments again in 2018 as we've done for the last
four years.
That concludes our opening comments. We'll now move to the question and answer portion of
the call.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) First question comes from the line of `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets with RBC Capital
Markets.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Thanks for taking the question. I guess just to start -- just to level set everyone, you referred
(Technical Difficulty) EBIT and core [ph] free cash flow, which you're saying, flat in 2018, those
metrics are about 13.5 billion and just a shade under 6 billion on free cash flow?
A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `
That would be the math when you look at what we delivered in 2017 and adjust for the
investment and AV.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Okay. Thanks. And the $300 million increase in AV and mobility that you point into in '18, is that
the level that you think gets you ready to launch at scale in the first quarter of 19 or should we
expect a step-up in the quarter you actually go live?
A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `
I would say it's 400 million roughly from 600 million to 1 billion on AV itself, 700 million to 1.1
overall in the Tahoe segment when you factor in Maven and some of the other activities that's
specific to AV at 600 million to 1 billion, Joe. And that's the run rate for 2018. That's what we think
we need to spend in order to continue on that path and we'll have more to say about 2019 as we
exit through 2018.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Okay. And then -- and then last one. And just because you mentioned some of the adjacency
growth in GM Financial and clearly there is -- I know there is a lot of economic factors that go into
the forecast, but there's been a more recent focus on rates. Do you feel confident with that on a
reasonable range of radar comes for 2018?
A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `Well, clearly our expectations for -- or maybe not so, but I'll make it clear now. Our expectations
for 2018 were based on a set of assumptions from a macro perspective. Here specific in the U.S.,
it was an environment where they're going to be moderate increases in interest, 75 basis points
moderate inflation, moderate wage growth, continued GDP growth and an industry that was
going to be in the low 17 millions. Under that construct, we would expect the growth in GM
Financial as indicated as well as another strong year in North America with 10 plus percent
margins. That's our baseline assumption and that's what we're executing to it at this point.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Emmanuel Roser with Guggenheim.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Guggenheim `
Hi, good morning, everybody.
A - `Mary Barra, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Good morning.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Guggenheim `
Just wanted -- could you give a little more color on the puts and takes for your GM North America
EBIT in 2018. So I guess, if we refer to the typical bucket that you're reporting it in the slide, how
should we think about those puts and takes for this year?
A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `
So you're looking for an EBIT bridge, Emmanuel. So I'll give you kind of a high-level view, because
we're probably kind of paying at the macro backdrop. So the way I think about it, and going back
to the Deutsche Bank Conference and look at from a tailwinds and a headwinds perspective,
clearly, as we think about 2018 headwinds and it's global, but obviously a big component in North
America, commodity prices are going to increase. Pricing is going to continue to be challenging in
the carryover space, and we expect a lower industry. And then we've got the added specific
issue in North America as we talked about of the incremental truck downtime, roughly 60,000
units. To generate 10% margins in North America and offset some of those tailwinds or
headwinds, we have the full year impact of our crossover launches, specifically, the mid
crossovers to diverse Enclave and Equinox and we think that's going to be your pretty significant
tailwind from a pricing perspective.
We expect volume to be relatively flat year-over-year, but mix will be a headwind because of the
lower truck production, and we expect cost performance to be favorable as we've demonstrated
over the last couple years with commercial and technical savings and GPSC and further SG&A
efficiencies, more than offsetting the incremental impact of commodities and launch-related
costs. So that's kind of the broad buckets. Obviously, as we've done over the last number of
years, that's the baseline plan. And as we go through the year, we will make adjustments and
course correct in order to continue to execute towards that objective. Again, contextually, within
the macro environment that I described earlier.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Guggenheim `
And that's helpful. And I guess specifically within GM new pricing, do you see any risk of just
increased competitive conditions on the truck side? I mean I understand on the crossover side,you have new product, but, I guess on the pickup truck side, it seems like conditions are getting
extremely competitive. Any -- I guess what is the directional assumption in your guidance for that?
A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I would say broadly speaking, we'll have favorable pricing on new major, primarily driven by
the full year of the crossovers and then the launch of the new truck later in the year, and there will
be a headwind as we've seen over the last few years on carryover pricing as incentive spend
continues to amp up. But I would say in that, in that context, we still think truck pricing is going to
be reasonably constructive. And just one data point, if you look at truck pricing, transaction prices
like Q4 versus Q3 in 2017 from a segment perspective, they are up another $1,000 a unit from a
transaction pricing perspective. We were down slightly given the age of our truck and we've built
that into our plan as we go through 2018.
So on balance side, we feel reasonably good about truck pricing. Certainly, we're looking forward
to the next generation truck which we think is going to be a significant tailwind for us.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citi of Citi.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citi `
Great, thanks. Good morning, everyone and congratulations. Maybe a question on the strength of
the pickup truck franchise, but asking in a different way. Chuck, if I look at your guidance of kind of
mid-6 EPS and I remove the $1 billion up Cruise AV investments, would it be fair to say that kind of
all else equal, GM could still earn $6 plus in a call it high 15 million light vehicle SAAR? How kind of
you think about the sensitivity now through the SAAR given we've seen in terms of the pickup
truck variable profits for yourselves and the industry?
A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `
Good question, Itay. So the basic math would be, if we are in a 16 million industry versus 17 million,
our wholesales are going to come down roughly 200,000 units, right? So 200,000 units at our
average variable profit. The math would suggest that we would be north of $6 EPS in that
environment for sure. I mean it's a reasonably easy math exercise. I think the key is how that
develops, right? And how that 17 million to 16 million industry develops, because there is other
factors that would come in play, what's the pricing environment as you're going down in
aggregate, what's the mix. But I would say that, that's how we're trying to position this business.
I've always talked about North American EBIT margins of 10% in building a business model that
would sustain that in a mid-to-high, mid 15 to low 16 million range and that's what we've been
progressing to and I would say the resilience of the business model last year, which suggests
that. Now we are kind of wholesaling or producing at a SAAR level that was less than 17.6 when
you look at our year-over-year volume decline.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citi `
Okay, that's very helpful. Then just my follow-up on -- on the 1.5 billion of adjacent profit growth, I
think, through 2021, can you just share the cadence around that, how much might you'd be seeing
this year and how much might that be contributing to your expectation of earnings improvement
in 2019?
A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `Yeah, I would say that without providing specifics over that kind of direction where we're going to
see and what we said set back in January was significant improvement in 2018 primarily GM
Financials we continue on the captive, and then we'll leg in [ph] the benefits and after-sales in
OnStar as we go through kind of the '19 to '21 time frame. The after-sales will be driven by
continued growth in the car park after we bottomed out kind of in 2016, troughed out and then
continued to increase our service loyalty. And OnStar is just continuing the growth of 4G LTE and
some of the other related opportunities for revenue growth from that perspective. So long
answer, simple answer is most of that improvement is going to come in GMF in '18 and then
between the three of them kind of leg that in '19 to '21.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Colin Langan, Analyst, UBS Securities with UBS.
Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, UBS Securities `
Great, thanks for taking my questions and congrats on a good quarter. Any color -- you've talked
in the past about small cars losing money. Any update there in terms of maybe turning those
around that could be the only area that is underperforming, I guess, and is it still losing money?
A - `Mary Barra, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Last year we had a focus and we took several actions to improve the overall performance across
our car portfolio. Although if you saw the shifts in the market, significant pressure on cars
especially in the U.S.. So we continue to look for opportunities. We are well positioned though
when you look at the fact that it was in the 15 time frame when we invested in and launched the
compact and the mid-size with the Chevrolet Cruze and Malibu. So we're well positioned with
those being very robust architectures to continue to respond to the marketplace with very little
capital investment as we move forward. And I also say if you look broader globally from a car
perspective, when we start to launch GEM in the '19 time frame, I think that -- it sets us up very
well especially in emerging markets, Mexico, China and South America to have a very strong car
platform and really reach into the marketplace, where the -- where customers are focused.
Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, UBS Securities `
Got it. And any color on the size of the raw material headwinds that is based in your guidance in
terms of number?
A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I mean just to put it in perspective, last year, when we look at an aggregate on a year-over-
year basis, it was in the $700 million zip code -- I think our baseline planning assumption is
something a little bit less than that in 2018. So roughly speaking, call it $400 million to $500
million. But I think the important point is, as we see that develop we were -- obviously we were
able to offset that impact last year to a really strong performance across all other cost drivers and
we will react as we see how this develops during the year. But again for baseline planning
assumptions, call it in a zip code of 0.5 billion or so.
Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, UBS Securities `
Got it. And just one last question. How should we think about the use of free cash flow this year? I
think you indicated in your comments that would be about flat year-over-year. Do you think the
majority of the excess cash will be used for repurchases or should we model it in that way or doA - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `
Well, I think, our capital allocation framework is relatively transparent, we've been executing it too
with discipline over the last number of years. So, our guidance is flat free cash flow year-over-year
on a core business. So call it roughly ex-TAS 6 billion, with TAS roughly 5 billion and we pay
dividends. So that will be 2.2 billion that will leave 2.8 billion for other actions, other actions being
M&A, not that I'm suggesting there was anything on the radar, but that's what that's for and/or
restructuring and/or share buybacks. And I would say, as we go through the year, you would start
with a $2.8 billion kind of opportunity for share buybacks. So we'll see what develops, but to the
extent that we have free cash flow available, that's what we're going to do, we're going to
buyback shares.
Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, UBS Securities `
Got it. All right, thank you very much for taking my question.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America with Bank of America.
Q - Analyst
Good morning, guys. If you could -- beat a dead horse here to just kind of stay on North America
for a second, but when we look at it, the performance in the second half of the year has been
pretty remarkable with volumes down and margins are incredibly strong and actually in the fourth
quarter up. I am just curious, as you look at the market, I mean there -- the two levers that you've
been able to pull is product launches and strong mix and the second one is cost cutting. So I'm
just thinking as you look at sort of your product cadence going forward, do you think there's an
opportunity to upsell consumers into products that are better for them at higher prices and
higher variable margins you think you can kind of clip off another five-point move towards
crossover? Just kind of how you're thinking about that upselling opportunity? And then also how
much further you have to go on cost-cutting in North America to potentially set off -- offset any
weakness or create just absolute upside to earnings going forward?
A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. And let me focus on trucks, John, because we spent a fair amount of time talking about
that at the Deutsche Bank Conference. While we've done very well with the current truck
franchise, we think there's significant upside with the next generation because we released a
number of constraints that we've had that will allow us to drive richer mix. The Silverado, we will
have eight very distinct models that will cover the breadth of the portfolio, including up level
where the current truck has really underperformed. We've also eliminated the constraint on crew
cab mix that we've had. We underperformed versus the market on crew cab mix. I think we talked
about in general, a $2 billion opportunity for revenue growth, just by releasing those constraints.
So that's an example of something that we're executing, we're executing with the next-
generation truck. I'd also say that as we think about the overall truck, not only are we releasing
some of these constraints and have a broader product offering. There is going to be a significant
differentiation between the Silverado and the very premium Sierra, and we're going to continue
to focus on that and we think that's going to provide upside as well as the Denali mix that has
been very favorable to us. And I think you'll continue to see that focus on differentiation when we
launched the heavy duties as well as the SUV. So very, very purposefully as we did the full-size
truck pickup, we're trying to address some of the challenges we've had over the number of yearsto really drive the best possible mix and profitability, and we think -- I think we've solved that with
this truck that we're going start launching later in 2018.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
So, Chuck, just to clarify, the $2 billion revenue opportunity, that does not include the HDs or does
that include the HDs as well?
A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `
That was on LDs just looking at crew cab mix. So --
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay.
A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `
A high-level number, John, right? But if you just look at our penetration or our average transaction
prices versus kind of the segment leader in that opportunity and we think that we can close 75%
of that just by releasing the constraint on crew cab mix.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
And I got to imagine that's got pretty high variable margins.
A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `
It does.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
Yeah, yeah. Then a second question, Mary. I mean, I think a lot of us here in New York and even
investment community are looking at the potential launch of a test fleet of Cruise vehicles here in
York City this year. I'm just curious where that stands as far as the launch and what we should be
looking forward to hopefully for an event -- an investor event around it?
A - `Mary Barra, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
You know what, we are on track and proceeding to be able to launch in a geofenced ridesharing
environment of autonomous vehicles in the 2019 time frame. Clearly, the focus continues to be
on the development we're doing in San Francisco because of the complexity of that environment
and the learnings that we get and the speed of learnings that we get from San Francisco. We are
in the process of mapping New York and I don't have anything specific to share when we'll
actually have a fleet deployed, but we are on that path as we announced last year and we'll
continue. But I'd say the primary focus is on San Francisco.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay. And then just lastly real quick. Chuck, when we look at the GMF dividend, it looks like it went
reverse from the parentco to GMF, 600 million in the fourth quarter. What's going on there and
when could we expect to see sort of the more traditional dividend up from the finco to parentco
develop, and I mean when will that occur and should we be looking at a $1 billion size out in '19 or
'20 when GMF matures?A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, the dividend came from GMF to the parent in 2017 was not included in our free cash flow
numbers. It was related to the transaction of divesting our finco in Europe, and as you looked at
the proceeds and leverage ratios and everything else, they have the capacity to dividend, about
half of the proceeds to us which we did. Again, that's not captured in the free cash flow number
for 2017 obviously in liquidity. Relative to long-term, I think good question, John, and I think I would
think about in the context of our view on long-term cash generation capabilities of the company.
Clearly where we sit right now, pretty heavy CapEx load with the next-generation truck,
incremental investment in AV, we were in the zip code of $5 billion to $6 billion of free cash flow.
As you think beyond the next couple years in this kind of environment, we think our cash
generation capability increases significantly; a couple of drivers to that, one will be cycling past
our high capital spend and as we've indicated, we expect capital spend to come down. And two,
we're going to, at some point in time, start to get the benefit of dividends from GM Financial.
And I would say stay tuned on that, we'll have more to say as we get closer to that, but that is
certainly part of our go forward kind of plan relative to cash and cash flow and enhancing the
overall cash generation of the business.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
Great. Thank you very much.
A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
All right, thanks. I have just two questions. First, you've made some really bold moves, your team
on rationalizing and exiting businesses where the chances of generating a positive return on
capital are really, really, remote, obviously Europe's being the biggest and the most significant of
that. So as you assess the portfolio today, are there still some either product areas or regions?
And I guess I'm thinking Korea, although I won't say Korea that areas were really you maybe
couldn't justify being in long term?
A - `Mary Barra, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, if you look at it, I mean I think we have a track record of demonstrating that we're going to
look at, to your point, both segment and regions and/or countries and look at our ability to
generate the right returns over a long period of time. Clearly, Korea is a challenge for us. We
have a strong presence there, we've grown market share, the brand has -- Chevrolet brand has
done well, but the current cost structure has become challenging and we're going to have to take
actions going forward to have a viable business. We've already begun conversations with the key
stakeholders in GM Korea, including our minority owners and the union and being very clear that
we need to improve the financial on operating performance. So we're right in the middle of
having those conversations. We know and within Korea and there's a few other countries where
we have to look at that, we're going to take the steps necessary to have the right franchise going
forward that may result in some rationalization actions or restructuring that potentially could havea material impact on our results. But it's too soon to tell right now, we're right in the middle of the
conversations to make sure everybody, all the stakeholders understand the steps we need to
take.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thanks, Mary. And you mentioned a few other countries. Any of these countries outside of Asia or
could you be more specific?
A - `Mary Barra, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
I'd say primarily in our GMI Operations, but I would say Korea is the one that we're most focused -
-
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Okay.
A - `Mary Barra, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And the others I think would be less significant.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Fine. All right. And then my second -- final question on the robot taxi fleet. Can you -- and a bit of
a -- round numbers are helpful here. How many Level 4 or Level 5 vehicles does GM have on the
road in their testing fleet right now, how many would you expect by year end and maybe in order
of magnitude for 2019? I ask that question because it's important for us to kind of put to your
guidance sort of transparency on the gain out of money you are putting towards it to try to think
of it on a unit basis to kind of understanding of the size of your footprint. So if you could help us
with it that would be appreciated.
A - `Mary Barra, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, right now we have about 100 vehicles that are driving primarily Gen2, Gen3. And so that's
where our focus, that will be growing through the course of this year. Remember where we
talked about when we were together in the fall, getting to a point where we're collecting a million
miles per month. And so, we're on that path to get there throughout this year. Beyond that, we
haven't sized it and that is something that we'll share more as we get through this year and into
the 2019 time frame.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thanks, Mary.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, J.P. Morgan with JPMorgan.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Hi, good morning. Congrats on the quarter.
A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `Thanks.
A - `Mary Barra, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
You mentioned in the slides that you've now achieved by the end of 2017, 5.5 billion of the 6.5
billion in cumulative cost saves targeted through 2018. These savings, I think they started in 2015.
So I guess like 75% of the savings, curatives relapsed and you've now realized 85% of the
targeted saving. So is the takeaway that the cost savings continue, but it celebrated pace or
maybe that, and if if history is any guide, since you've increased the number a couple of times,
there could be some upside in 2018 to that 6.5 billion number. Do you think if there is some
incremental pressure is in 2018 like higher than anticipated commodity prices that you might be
able to push a little bit further on cost to try to offset that?
A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `
Well, I'd say, first when we first rolled out this objective. It was at 5.5 billion, and as we
overachieved it last year, early last year is when we raised it to 6.5 billion dollars, and importantly
just to level set that, this is primarily a commercial savings, SG&A and manufacturing, which we've
said would more than offset the incremental investment in marketing, engineering and D&A. And
I -- what we like to do is achieve the commitments that we make and then move from there. So
clearly, we are very focused on achieving the $6.5 billion that we committed to back in 2015.
Clearly, we believe there's opportunities above and beyond that, that we're going to continue to
pursue. And once we hit the 6.5 billion, we will set the next objective for ourselves, because I do
believe there is and so dose Mary, further opportunities beyond that. And I'd also say, Ryan, that
if you look at last year and look at the EBIT bridges that we sent, you'll see pretty significant
across the board cost performance outside of these buckets as well. So we had significant
improvement and warranty, driven by improved quality, reduced recalls, all the things that we
talked about back in 2014. And we, are really focused on that. So more to come, but first, we're
going to get the 6.5 billion commitment in the bag and then I'm quite sure that we'll have more
to say on above and and beyond that.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Okay, that's helpful. Thanks. And then, Chuck, I think I heard you say that there would be a
60,000 unit headwind in truck volume in the first quarter due to the changeover to the new
pickups, which I think it was a little surprising because the launch doesn't I think take place until
3Q, but all along, you've been approaching this launch a little bit differently than in the past, even
taking some down time in 2017, for example, to prepare for a 2018 launch. So maybe can you just
talk about some of the efforts that you've already taken and then are going to take in 1Q to kind
of help to prepare for this smoother than typical launch in the back half of the year? I think it might
be helpful because consensus is below your forecast currently. And I think the primary reason for
that is that the Street is maybe not fully understanding why your profits can maintain at such a
strong level while launching a new truck, because typically in the past, both GM and Ford have
seen at least temporarily lower profits in the year that they launch a new truck?
A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Specific to this truck -- and again start at a high level, Ryan, this is an all new architecture.
Our last three generations of truck were fundamentally of the same architecture with changes insheet metal. So this is an absolute evolving [ph] architecture, which requires all new body shops.
So when we take downtime at certain facilities, it's because we're either converting or
constructing new body shops to facilitate this launch, and we've been opportunistic around doing
that around holiday periods, so that you can get extra time to make these transitions without a
full impact on downtime. So again, taking advantage of Christmas time and moving into Q1, we've
taken that opportunity with this transition. As I said back in January, we expect the unmitigated
impact of launch and volume for the next generation truck in 2018 to be about 130,000 units.
We've tried to leg that in over the 2017, 2018 timeframe by taking again opportunistic downtime
to do the work that we needed to do at the facilities. In addition, we will be launching this year
and we're in the process right now of building what we call the Oshawa shuttle, where we're
taking bodies from Fort Wayne through the old body shop shipping those to Canada and painting
and assembling trucks there which will fill about half of that gap. So that's a mitigating action to
take a pretty significant headwind of 130,000 units and in essence mitigate half of it and we're
quite confident that, that's going to turn out to be a benefit for us in 2018. Again this is a massive
level of change in our four facilities with an all-new architecture and we're going to have to
manage this and execute this flawlessly over the next couple of years, and so far so good.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Very helpful. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs.
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Great, thanks for taking my questions here. Want to talk a little bit about solid results this year
with free cash flow coming down obviously from '17 to '18, you're going to have that to be flat
year-over-year again here again, but as we head into '19, is there any reason to think that we
can't get back up to that pro forma $8 billion that you've laid out for 2016.
A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `
I think 19 might be a little bit premature for that, David. Again, this is early days, right? But going
back to what I talked about earlier, what's going to drive kind of moving off the run rate that we're
at right now into what we talked about before, it's going to be as we cycle through our heavy
CapEx cycle, we're launching and starting to launch of the light duties in the T1 this year or next
year, we still have HDs and then the full-size SUVs and we're launching GEM as well in '19. So I
would say that we need to cycle through '18, '19 capital spending and then we'll start to see a
meaningful decrease in that beyond the '19 timeframe. And I think that would be kind of the
trigger point to see that inflection. I mean, again, very early days and all premised on kind of the
environment we're operating in right now.
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Yeah, that's fair. I mean just kind of picking through the results and thinking about some of the
positives from an adjusted EBIT perspective, things like warranty expense. I mean just trying to
understand what's going to drop through that could maybe give you better free cash flow than
kind of what you're guiding to for '18 and then on sort of picking up with the '19 (Multiple
Speakers)
A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `Yeah, and let's talk about warranty for just a second. Clearly a good tailwind in 2017 from a P&L
perspective. The drivers of that, half of that was kind of an absence of reserve adjustments that
we took in 2016 and half of it was what we were seeing come through in base warranty,
extended warranty experience which resulted in an adjustment to our reserves, but then on a go-
forward accrual. I think the cash impact of that bleeds in over time because as your adjusting
reserves and the repairs, obviously warranties extend for 3 to 5 years. So that would be another
area that we would expect to see an improvement and the cash associated with that, but
probably beyond 2018.
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Got it. And then just following up on a line of questioning earlier, I think, Mary you were saying --
generating about 1 million miles per month with the test fleet that you have. How much you are
getting that real world mileage with simulated miles. And does that grow over time and how
much incremental expenses that really weigh on the P&L and CapEx for the autonomous
development?
A - `Mary Barra, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
So, just to be clear, we have about 100 vehicles, we'll be growing that fleet of the Gen2, Gen3
getting to a million miles a month, that's not there, I just wanted to be clear on that. But we are
absolutely supplementing and doing quite a bit of simulation both here and in San Francisco using
-- using the experiences that we have or the miles that we're capturing and the work that we've
done in that space. So I can't give you the specific number of simulated miles that we've done,
but I will tell you it's very significant.
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Okay. Is there any any rule of thumb or ratio we should be thinking about. I know -- I'd say one of
your larger competitors, it's a very scale number, but they were doing maybe 3 million miles
overnight with some of their compute power. So, any color you can kind of give us there from a
ratio of what you would think you need one simulated miles versus reward miles could be useful?
A - `Mary Barra, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
I don't have -- I don't have the specifics on that. We can look into that, I don't know if we've come
out instead exactly how much we're doing from a simulations perspective. I would say I think
when you look at the real performance that's happening, look at the rate of improvement and
there was just a study that came out, where the substantial rate of improvement we had from
disengagements and also the number of miles we traveled I think is pretty significant. So I think all
of that comes together with the real measures of what we're seeing, and again in a very complex
urban environment, we saw a 63% reduction in disengagements from '16 to '17. And also the
average monthly miles per disengagement improved over -- or 2500%. So very significant when
you look at what we're doing with the miles we collect or we're experiencing and learning from in
San Francisco added with the simulation. So I think it all comes together in those numbers, which I
think is probably a better thing to look at.
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Understood. Thank you.
OperatorQ - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Good morning, everybody.
A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `
Hi, Rod.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
I had a couple questions remaining. One is just could you clarify what the Korea losses are running
at right now within GMI?
A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `
We don't report country level profitability, Rod. So, sorry.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Okay. And maybe just switching gears to North America, obviously pretty impressive pricing and
ATPs. And I'm wondering if you can clarify, you've given us some of the components, but when
you think about the net outlook for 2018, you said components were crossovers positive,
obviously some weakness in the carryover and it sounded like you're assuming higher subvention
for a higher rate environment. The unusual thing this year is that you've got petty tight inventories
on the trucks, which I presume could help mitigate some of the normal incentives that you have
on the run out. Any thoughts on how we should be thinking about your positioning for net price.
A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `
I think overall, net price will be positive in '18 versus '17. The benefit -- the tailwinds will be
crossover pricing, a full year of that. And really cycling off a pretty low, transaction prices pretty
low pretty, pretty tough pricing environment for us given the age of those products into the new
products. So that will be a tailwind and the new truck will be a tailwind. I think February 6, but
those combined will be greater than carryover headwinds. And you bring up a good point, clearly,
we ended the year very lean from a truck inventory perspective and our production is going to be
lower this year versus last year, so we expect to continue to run pretty lean inventories on a go-
forward basis,and that -- that will help mitigate some of the truck challenges as we kind of run
through that. But net-net, overall positive with new being greater than carryover headwind.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
And presumably you've incorporated some rate subvention associated with that 75 basis points
you plotted, is that correct?
A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `
Well, we've certainly built that into our baseline set of assumptions, a 75 basis point increase in
rates as well as a continuation of kind of what we've seen over the last number of years as
incentive spend as a percentage of transaction price. We've seen 60 to a 100 bps on a year-
over-year basis increase in that, so that's kind of the environment we're assuming is going to
continue a tough pricing environment in the US.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `Great. And just lastly, you've given in the past a really helpful analysis that basically help us bridge
to breakeven at like an 11 million SAAR. Just could you remind us what some of the cost elements
are in your downside scenario, what are the levers that you can pull from a fixed cost perspective,
mid-Tier 2, ad budget, things like that?
A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, sure. again this is -- the proof is this will be a very, very detailed assessment that we would
have to go through. But if you look at our workforce today in the U.S. specifically much more
variable than it was in the past, we've got roughly 25% Tier 2 and a few percentage points of
temporary, so call it 30% overall. Through 2019, we have no caps, we expected that to grow
closer to 40% to 50%. So in theory, at a system level, if there was a 10% or 15% reduction in
volume, we should be able to take 10% to 15% of the labor-related costs out over a relatively
short period of time. So that's one fundamental driver, our manufacturing costs for modeling
purposes would come out at the same pace as volume.
Number 2, we would obviously reduce marketing expense -- market expense over a baseline
level is highly variable, right? And if you just tag that to 1% of net sales, if there is a 20% reduction
in volume, you could reduce marketing expense by at least 20%. And clearly another significant
component would be our compensation structure, which is largely variable and therefore, making
less money, we're paying less variable compensation. Those three items in combination and
obviously there'd be opportunities and the margin not insignificant, but opportunities on the
margin. Those three will drive $3 to $4 billion roughly of fixed cost opportunity or cost opportunity
in a typical downturn and that's what's built into our U.S. breakeven or North American breakeven
at a U.S. industry level of kind of 11 million units.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Great. Thanks. That's real helpful.
Operator
Thank you. Our last question comes from the line of `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays with Barclays.
Q - `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays `
Couple of questions, one managerial and one more around housekeeping on accounting. The
managerial ones is, with the cost reduction efforts, both for material and employee related, you
haven't made a big deal of -- unlike some other firms that are reducing costs of big high level
programs that smell at consultants and program offices. But could you give us a sense of how the
material cost saves, and how the employee cost saves show up in terms of managerial action
step (Technical Difficulty), are there ongoing targets, what are the key areas, how do you kind of
balance getting the cost out without kind of going back to the old bean-counting reputation of
GM?
A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, sure. And this all started back in 2013, 2014 and I think we laid that out at the Deutsche
Bank Conference, the journey we've been on, when we looked at the business and look at the
opportunities for the business and where it should be. And we did a lot of benchmarking, we did
benchmarking around out material cost and the GM penalty we were carrying, we did
benchmarking around harbor manufacturing cost, benchmarking around world-class levels of
SG&A and we established benchmarks for all of the leads in those areas and we havefundamentally been executing to those benchmark areas since 2014. Beyond that, we enabled
the achievement of some of these benchmarks through a couple of important initiatives that
we've launched operational excellence in Global Business Solutions. Between the two of those,
one with GBS, it has taken in a significant amount of work globally in the SG&A space that was
very fragmented and not optimal and efficient and brought it under one roof common processes,
common systems, end-to-end and drove significant savings in the more transnational side of the
business.
Operational excellence is a way we do business now. When you look at a cost challenge or a
business challenge and at the market challenge, we use operational excellence tools Six Sigma
Lean, the whole tool box to really at an enterprise level drive from a where we are today to a
target. And I think we do this in a very, very disciplined way, it gets a lot of visibility. The 6.5 billion
by key driver, we review it with the management team and Mary on a regular basis, we review it
with the Board of Directors.
So it -- and I think that as opposed to consulting/being counting exercise, you're seeing it show
up in the bottom line results as we continue to generate strong performance in an environment
that is tougher than what we expected over the last couple years. So -- and we're going to
continue to do that.
A - `Mary Barra, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I would just add to that, it's really driving a culture of everyone understanding that we need
to continuously improve processes, and also when we see challenges, we've got to figure out
ways to overcome, and so that's the mindset that Chuck's talking about when there is a challenge
or a target, we need to make sure we have a plan to address it, and every employee has the
tools to -- outside the structure tools like Six Sigma to go after those.
Q - `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays `
So, that's more of an ongoing culture than one-time consultant exercise.
A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `
Absolutely. I mean -- and the 6.5 billion that we set up a few years ago and talked about.
Purposefully, Mary and I talked about that externally to put the stake in the ground, so that we
would hold ourselves accountable to it and be transparent around that commitment. And I would
expect that, as I said earlier, once we cycle through that, there will be a next round that you -- that
we want to be held accountable to and that people should be able to track to the -- we wanted
cost savings that would roll through to the P&L, and again, we're seeing that.
Q - `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays `
Okay. Couple of accounting questions, one, any impact of the FASB accounting rule change
around that periodic pension costs in terms of North America EBIT where you're generating
pension income? And second, around the 9 billion write-down of deferred tax assets, you still
have about 24 billion less. Can you give us a sense of when you, given your business plan, would
likely flip to becoming a U.S. taxpayer, cash taxpayer?
A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. The first question. No impact on North American EBIT, it's just geography, all -- both above
the EBIT line, so no impact. And I don't know where the 9 billion came from, but it was like $7deferred tax assets. We have up 23 billion left after that adjustment, and I would expect that we
would remain a very low cash tax-paying in a position to the
-- for the foreseeable future, 2022, '23 timeframe.
Q - `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays `
Okay. So any impact of tax reform on cash taxes would be while after that, in the mean time, you
are not a significant U.S. cash taxpayer.
A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, the way, the way I would think about it is, absent that beyond, '22, '23, we would start to
move up into closer to a 35% range or 28% range and now we're not going to -- it's a longer-
term benefit for us from a cash tax paying standpoint.
Q - `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays `
Despite the GAAP adjustments.
A - `Charles Stevens, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah.
Operator
Thank you. I'd now like to turn the call over to `Mary Barra, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for her closing comments.
A - `Mary Barra, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
I'd like to thank everybody for participating today. I hope you see that GM is a stronger, more
focused company than we were just a few years ago and we have much more work to do. In fact
just last week, we had our senior leadership team together to have. So everybody is perfectly
aligned on what we need to accomplish in 2018 and beyond. We've recognized that our industry
is changing rapidly. And with that, there are opportunities and they're also challenges. But as you
look at the strategy that we've been executing, we believe that we will continue to capitalize on
those opportunities, minimize the challenges and drive long-term shareholder value, that's what
we come to work for every day. So, thank you all for participating.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. We thank you for your
participation and ask that you please disconnect your line.