Q4 2018 Earnings Call

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the General Motors Co. Fourth
Quarter 2018 Earnings Conference Call. During the opening remarks, all participants will be in a
listen-only mode. After the opening remarks, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. As a
reminder, this conference call is being recorded Wednesday, February 6, 2019.
I would now like to turn the conference over to `Rocky Gupta, Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations, Treasurer and Vice President of
Investor Relations.
`Rocky Gupta, Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Dorothy. Good morning and thank you for joining us as we review GM's financial results
for the fourth quarter and calendar year 2018. Our press release was issued this morning. And
the conference call materials are available on the GM Investor Relations website. We're also
broadcasting this call via webcast.
I'm joined today by Mary Barra, GM's Chairman and CEO; `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, GM's Executive
Vice President and CFO; and a number of other executives.
Before we begin, I would like to direct your attention to the forward-looking statements on the
first page of the chart set. The content of our call will be governed by this language.
I will now turn the call over to Mary Barra.
`Mary Teresa Barra, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Rocky, and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining. We delivered very strong results
in 2018, despite significant macro headwinds and in a year in which we transitioned to our lightduty pickup trucks. Our North American performance was very strong, as we launched all new
pickup trucks and crossovers. China results were strong, despite the market environment. And
GMF delivered record results.
Let's get the full year 2018 numbers. Net revenue was $147 billion, EBIT-adjusted was $11.8 billion,
EBIT-adjusted margin was 8%, our EPS diluted adjusted was $6.54, our automotive adjusted free
cash flow was $4.4 billion, and this excludes the $600 million in pension pre-funding payments,
and ROIC adjusted was 24.9% on a trailing four-quarter basis.
As we shared in January, we expect to improve 2019 earnings and cash flow as we move into the
next phase of our transformation, leaner, more agile, and better positioned to win. Our favorable
outlook is based on a continued robust mix of new products around the globe, continued cost-
efficiencies, and our business transformation initiatives. We believe there will continue to be
macro uncertainties. But we expect to manage through them based on current market conditions.
Let's look at our performance in North America, where we achieved a strong year, including
record fourth quarter earnings. In the U.S., we led the industry in pickup sales for the fifth straight
year and delivered more than 1 million crossovers. We will benefit from a full year of sales of our
all-new, light-duty pickups. And the cadence will continue with all-new, heavy-duty models.
We revealed the Chevrolet Silverado heavy duty yesterday in Flint. And it will go on sale later this
year, along with the GMC Sierra heavy duty. We are encouraged by the early success of the
newly-launched Cadillac XT4 SUV, which already leads in its segment. And we'll also see a full
year of sales of the new Chevrolet Blazer.
I'd like to take a minute to update you on the business transformation actions we announced in
November. We said we would align our product portfolio and capacity in North America with
changing consumer preferences and transform the workforce to position the company for long
term success.
To date, nearly 950 U.S. hourly employees have been placed in U.S. plants with products in key
growth segments. At GM Canada, we are supporting affected employees by working with local
colleges on retraining as well as with dealers and more than 20 local employers who have
expressed interest in hiring these experienced employees. And we will also provide
outplacement services to the impacted salaried employees.
Because of the strong business results we delivered last year, eligible hourly employees will
share in this success through profit sharing payments later this month.
Moving to our International operations, the actions we announced earlier last year have placed
GM Korea on a path to enterprise level profitability. However, despite improved share in Brazil,
the South America business remains a concern because of continued macroeconomic pressures.
We are having productive discussions with key stakeholders to generate acceptable returns in the
market.
In China, we earned $2 billion in equity income last year in an increasingly challenging business
environment. While we expect macro issues and flat industry performance will impact our results
this year, we remain confident in the long term position in China. We expect China industry sales
to be roughly in line with 2018 levels, based on expected GDP growth and our current
assessment of market conditions.
Last week, the government announced actions to stimulate the economy and the industry. And
we look forward to learning more about the details of these incentives. However, generally, suchsupport has had a positive impact on the Auto sector.
Our aggressive product cadence continues this year in China with more than 20 new and
refreshed models from our Buick, Chevrolet, Cadillac, Arjun, and Wuling brands. This includes
seven SUVs and the first of our all-new global family of vehicles.
I also want to mention the momentum at Cadillac. Last month we announced that it will be GM's
lead electric brand when we introduce our next generation EV technology. Through technology
innovation and beautiful design, we are fully committed to restoring Cadillac to the luxury leader
it should be.
Last year Cadillac posted another record year of global sales. And we expect continued growth,
as we introduce a new model roughly every six months through 2021, including the XT6 SUV we
unveiled last month.
Turning to our future mobility initiatives. We made real progress last year toward expanding our
leadership in both autonomous and electric vehicles since first announcing our vision of a world
with zero crashes, zero emissions, and zero congestion nearly 18 months ago. GM Cruise is
deeply resourced to succeed with more than 1,100 employees and $5 billion raised in external
capital from SoftBank and Honda in 2018.
We have demonstrated our willingness to work with partners with common values and where a
partnership can improve efficiency, capital spend, and speed up development. For example, our
AV collaboration with Honda built on our existing EV battery and fuel cell work.
On the EV front, to encourage greater consumer acceptance of battery electric vehicles, last
month we announced a collaboration with three partners to establish the largest collective EV
charging network in the United States. In addition, Cruise continues to focus on the entirety of the
autonomous vehicle ecosystem, signing a partnership with DoorDash last month.
So to recap, we had another year of strong earnings in a volatile environment. We offset macro
headwinds with fresh products in the right segments by staying intensely focused on cost and by
making the right business decisions throughout the year.
So now I'll turn the call over to Dhivya.
`Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Mary, and good morning, everybody. We exceeded our expected 2018 results from both
an EPS and adjusted automotive free cash flow perspective. Our performance was driven by
strong execution across all of our operating segments, including record fourth quarter results in
North America and GM Financial. We were also able to accelerate the execution of our
transformational cost savings and started to see early benefits of these actions in the fourth
quarter. With that, let's review the results in more detail.
As Mary mentioned, we generated calendar year results of $147 billion in net revenue, $11.8 billion
in EBIT-adjusted, 8% margins, $6.54 in EPS diluted adjusted, and $4.4 billion in adjusted
automotive free cash flow, excluding the impact of pension contributions.
In the fourth quarter, we generated $38.4 billion in net revenue, $2.8 billion in EBIT-adjusted, 7.4%
EBIT-adjusted margins, $1.43 in EPS diluted adjusted, and $4.2 billion in adjusted automotive free
cash flow.Let's turn to North America. In the calendar year, North America generated 9.5% EBIT-adjusted
margins, despite over $1 billion of commodity headwinds and downtime taken for full-size truck
changeover. In Q4, North America delivered record EBIT-adjusted results of $3.0 billion and 10.2%
margins, up 20 basis points year over year.
Performance of our all new light duty pickups and strong material cost performance in the quarter
more than offset commodity headwinds and the volume impact from downtime. The full-size
pickup truck launch has been very strong. We have experienced a smooth ramp up of the new
models, as well as sell down of the old models. We produced over 75,000 all new trucks in Q4,
consisting primarily of highly profitable crew cabs. This contributed favorably to volume, mix, and
price during the quarter.
Let's move to GM International. Full year EBIT-adjusted at GMI was down $900 million year over
year, primarily driven by FX headwinds in South America. For the fourth quarter, EBIT-adjusted at
GMI was down $500 million year over year due to South American headwinds as well as lower
equity income in China. We still delivered strong full year equity income of $2 billion in China,
driven by our market position, cost performance, and a richer mix of Cadillac.
Equity income for the quarter was $300 million, down year over year as a result of the industry
slowdown, continued pricing pressure, and partially offset by cost efficiencies and Cadillac
growth. Important to note that there were some factors specific to Q4, including lower
production levels and elevated launch costs that impacted the results for the quarter by $100
million.
A few comments on GM Financial, Cruise, and our Corp segment. GM Financial posted all-time
record revenue of $14 billion for the year and all-time record EBT-adjusted of $1.9 billion. In the
fourth quarter, GM Financial generated revenue of $3.6 billion and EBT-adjusted of $400 million,
both records for the fourth quarter.
In October, GM Financial paid a dividend of $375 million. As I mentioned last month, continued
dividends from GM Financial provides an opportunity to strengthen our long term cash generation
capability and narrow the gap between earnings and free cash flow.
Cruise costs were $700 million for the year and $200 million for Q4. We expect to spend
approximately $1 billion in the GM Cruise segment in 2019.
Corp segment costs for the full year were $600 million, including approximately $250 million
combined favorable impact from PSA warrants and revaluation of our Lyft investment. We expect
to spend in the Corp segment to be about $1 billion in 2019.
In the fourth quarter, Corp sector costs were impacted by unfavorable performance in PSA
warrants and were $400 million negative for the quarter.
Before I close, I wanted to reiterate our outlook for the calendar year. As I mentioned last month,
we expect strong EPS diluted adjusted in the range of $6.50 to $7 and adjusted automotive free
cash flow in the range of $4.5 billion to $6 billion.
Touching on the headwinds. We will take downtime to the tune of 25,000 units, as we prepare
for the launch of our all-new full-size SUVs. We expect China equity income to be down
moderately year over year. We expect to see headwinds year over year from commodities and
tariffs to the tune of $1 billion.Finally, headwinds from depreciation and pension income are expected to be approximately $1
billion. And as a reminder, since these are noncash items, they will compress the gap between
earnings and free cash flow.
Offsetting these are a number of tailwinds specific to GM. The full year benefit of our truck launch
will provide tailwinds in volume, mix, and price in 2019. We expect a meaningful benefit from a full
year of XT4 and Blazer, the launch of Cadillac XT6, Mary mentioned, and the rollout of our global
family of vehicles.
We also expect year-over-year growth in high-margin adjacencies like after sales and OnStar.
When you layer on top of that the transformational cost savings of $2 billion to $2.5 billion through
2019, we expect these tailwinds to more than offset the headwinds, assuming a similar macro
environment.
It is also important to understand this year's quarterly cadence. We expect the first quarter to be
the weakest since most of our SUV downtime will be taken in the first quarter. In addition, we will
have lower volumes in China, given continued industry pressure, while staying disciplined by
reducing our inventory levels. As we progress through the year, we expect to see improvements
in China equity income following these inventory actions and with a strong product launch
cadence later in the year.
As a reminder, Q1 is typically our weakest cash flow quarter due to working capital seasonality. In
addition, this year, given the SUV downtime that I just mentioned, Q1 cash flow is expected to be
meaningfully below our historical averages. For the full year, however, we expect cash flow to
improve after Q1. And our full year free cash flow, as I mentioned earlier, will be in the range of
$4.5 billion to $6 billion.
In summary, we had a solid finish to 2018. And we will continue to stay focused on execution in
2019. And as I mentioned in January, we have three key financial priorities, including improving our
free cash flow and cash conversion, a best-in-class cost structure, and efficient capital
deployment.
That concludes our opening comments. And we'll now move to the Q&A portion of the call.
Q&A
Operator
Our first question comes from the line of `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch with Bank of America.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Good morning, everybody. Just a sort of a follow-up question to sort of your finish there, Dhivya. I
was just curious if you could go through sort of the cadence of the truck launches? I mean, it
sounds like you got 75,000 of the light duties in the fourth quarter. But obviously that's much
lower than the run rate that you'd expect on the new truck. When the HDs will actually start really
contributing post their ramp and their launch? And then when the SUVs will layer in? So if we could
just kind of think about when those – the SOP is for those? And when the real full-throated benefit
comes for each of the three sort of tranches of trucks.
A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure, John. So if you look at Fort Wayne, we're already up and running in full volume. And that
transition is over.So if you switch over to Silao, which is where we had taken our downtime in fourth quarter, we are
now up to full line rate production for our light-duty pickup. So after January, we're up to our full
level of production. So light duties, I would say we're pretty much done with our transition.
If you switch over to heavy duty, most of the changeover, we have been working on it in 2018.
And through to the second quarter of 2019, we will see a transition. And after that, starting in Q3
of 2019 is when you'll see the full production ramping up for heavy duties.
For SUVs, we're going to take the 25,000 downtime for the year. That will be mostly in Q1 of
2019. And the SORP for that will be in 2020. And we'll have more to talk about that later.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. That's helpful. Then just a second question. If you could sort of update us on what's going
on with Cruise. I mean, obviously there was some talk about getting launched with a fleet, a
commercial fleet this year. It sounds like that might be a little bit delayed.
And also maybe, Mary, if you can talk about sort of what's going on with the DOT petition on the
four-gen Cruise? And if there's any word on that whatsoever?
A - `Mary Teresa Barra, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
So there is really no word on the petition for our Level 4, our track 4 vehicle. But we also are very
capable of launching with a track 3 model. So I think we're in good position there.
As we've been consistently communicating, safety is going to be the gating metric for Cruise. We
have hired – we're at 1,100 people, so we've got the right team and the right focus. Dan obviously
moving out there has been I think – just shows our commitment to what we're doing there and
being able to work on the whole ecosystem as well as the technology.
We continue to make rapid progress with the technology. I think that's as evidenced by the video
we released just last month that shows that our vehicle can handle maneuvers that others are
struggling with.
So I think we're in a very strong position, if not a leading position. So we're continuing to make the
rapid progress. We're going to make sure we meet all the appropriate safety thresholds that
we've defined for ourselves as well as the regulatory requirements. And this is going to be a
really important and critical year. And we're going to continue to update you as we progress. But I
would say everything is moving forward in a very positive fashion.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
And then just lastly, just one sort of housekeeping. When we think about the GMF dividends, I
think it was $434 million in 2018. Sort of what is the progression as the balance sheet and the
earnings grow at GMF? And how should we think about sort of the addition of cash flow in 2019
and 2020 and beyond?
A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
So, John, you're absolutely right. The dividend in GMF is now at a level which is lower than what
would be our steady state potential. If you look at our long term earnings before tax expectation
for GMF, that's in the range of about $2 billion. And we expect that once we reach full captive, and
that's going to be likely in the early 2020s, we would be able to dividend the entire earnings
before as well after taxes, net income I would say, to the parent.The curve between there and now would be determined by our leverage ratio along the way.
And we have our managerial target of 10 times leverage ratio for GMF. And if we see potential
for dividends, we will take that. But we will ultimately be governed by maintaining an appropriate
level leverage ratio. And our communications to the rating agencies and how much dividends we
take out of the central.
What we have assumed in our outlook for 2019 is at a level that's comparable to 2018 from a
dividend perspective. And if we see anything above that, that would be upside. But we'll post you
guys on that as we move forward with how the leverage ratio develops.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
But simply, it's fair to say $1.5 billion potential upside run rate to free cash flow, as GMF normalizes
into its size that you want to get it to, accurate statement?
A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
That's correct.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thank you very much, guys.
A - `Mary Teresa Barra, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, John.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research with Wolfe Research.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Thanks. Good morning, everybody. I guess a couple questions. One is the fourth quarter margin
in North America obviously was really strong. It was up year over year, despite the higher D&A,
the commodity inflation, all those headwinds. And obviously, you're still kind of early days in the
truck launch.
I was hoping you may be able to just address one aspect of how we should be thinking about the
truck positive from where we are right now into 2019. At one point, you talked about, I think it was
a $2 billion revenue opportunity for you as you converge your average transaction prices between
where you were on the old trucks and where you expect to be. What's your updated view on
that? Are you tracking towards that? And is that something we should see in 2019?
A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. Rod, before we even get into the numbers, I would say from a truck launch perspective,
we're really excited about the new generation of trucks. And we have been in a leadership
position in that for many years. And we expect to continue that with this brand new launches that
we have.
And within that, Rod, if you remember, we had talked about releasing a number of constraints
that we've historically had with our previous truck platforms, including crew cab capacity, which we
have fixed that, I would say, with the current generation versus the prior generation. And also aparticipating in the middle of the curve. And now we've sort of expanded that to the edges as
well.
So put all that together, Q4 you're starting to see – you're already starting to see the impact of
pricing as well as mix in our new trucks. And what you're going to see in 2019 is you could easily
run rate that off of Q4. And we're also not going to have the volume of headwind that we saw in
2018 for light duties, as we were transitioning them. So light duties, I would say, volume up, mix
favorable, and pricing continues to be supportive as well.
Heavy duties, you're going to see the similar dynamic in second half of the year. So you'll see a
half-year benefit of that. And SUVs, it continues to be a transition year. So a simple way of looking
at it for you would be to take the Q4 results for light duties and run rate that into 2019.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Okay. Great. I was also hoping that you can address the non-China part of GMI. Looks like it was
about a $1.6 billion drag last year. What are your high-level expectations for this going forward?
Obviously, there's some Korea improvement. And is the rest of it contingent on macro in South
America? Or are there some other things that you would expect to be big drivers?
A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, if you look at our South American business, over the last several years, we've taken a
number of actions to right-size the cost structure and set the business up for future profitability.
And in fact in Q4 of 2017, the business did break even and turn a profit.
What happened in 2018 was, as you well know, the FX story there with the Brazilian real and the
Argentine peso. What we have done since then is to start working with a number of our
stakeholders, as you know, in South America. And we'll have more to say as we make more
progress there.
But it's important to know a couple of factors specific to 2019. One is we are going to have a full
year impact of pricing in South America, because price tends to lag FX there. So last year as we
were experiencing headwinds in FX, we were pricing for them but on a lagged basis. So you're
going to see a full year impact of that in 2019.
And the second aspect is towards the end of the year, we're going to start to see the impact of
our global family of vehicles. And this is the portfolio that we shared more in detail about on last
month at our Capital Markets day. That portfolio is a new architecture that replaces a number of
legacy architectures. So the cost profile and the margin profile of the portfolio is different, as well
as the footprint for the portfolio where we are more hedged from an FX perspective. So you're
going to start to see the impact of that.
So year over year in 2019, based on everything in South America and the actions we've taken in
Korea as well, we expect to see improvement from a profitability perspective in GMI.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Great. Thank you. And just one last question. You talked about $4.5 billion to $6 billion of free cash
flow. But $6 billion to $6.5 billion excluding the timing differences, which were I think largely
related to supplier payment days. If we were to think about the underlying free cash flow of the
business in 2019 to kind of use as – for bridging purposes to understand where your – the free
cash flow generative power is of the company, is it really closer to the $6.5 billion just on a go-A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I think timing you have it right, Rod. It was basically related to supplier payments, as well as
production timing and our changeover.
And as we look at – look beyond 2019, excluding the impact of timing, you're going to see the
remaining cost savings flow through. We said $4.5 billion in total. 2019 will get about a half of it.
And the 2020 results will have the remaining benefits of the cost savings as well.
And couple that with our CapEx savings, we talked about how our $8.5 billion run rate will get to a
– $8.5 billion current level will get to a $7 billion run rate by 2020. You're going to see the impact
of that in 2020 as well.
But obviously, all of that is in the context of this current macro environment. And what I'm giving
you is puts and takes, assuming nothing else changes, but you have these tailwinds working for
us in 2020.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of from `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. from Citi.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Great. Thank you. Good morning, everybody.
A - `Mary Teresa Barra, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Morning.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Just the first question on China. Given the recent challenges in the last few quarters, how are you
now thinking about kind of normalized China margins for GM, say over the next couple of years?
A - `Mary Teresa Barra, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I think if you look at, there's kind of puts and takes there from a Cadillac perspective and
launching more crossovers, we think there's an opportunity to continue to grow and improve the
margin.
Clearly, as we transition to more electrified vehicles, as we gain scale, that'll be lower and then
move higher. So we're still focused on having strong margins in China. We'll go through a bit of a
transition with the EVs. But we think that especially the growth of Cadillac and some of our larger
SUVs will help offset that.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
That's very helpful. And then I think you mentioned $1 billion still assumed for commodities and
tariffs. Love to get your thoughts on the tariff component in terms of what you're assuming? And
just some – what are some of the scenarios that we should be thinking about with Section 232
and some of the other items that are still outstanding out there?A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, Itay, it's a pretty volatile environment, so I don't want to put specific numbers on individual
components here. You've seen some pullback in steel and aluminum. Palladium has gone up, and
it changes day to day.
So I wouldn't really break that down into individual components. We do have the [Section] 301
tariffs factored into our outlook for the year. That's embedded in our $1 billion number. And as we
said last year, the amount – since our sourcing for steel and aluminum is largely local, we don't
anticipate any tariff component there. That's more with where the spot prices are moving. And
that tends to be lagged by a couple of months.
So take that as a broader $1 billion number. And we've shown during 2018 that we're going to
work to offset that with material cost efficiencies and other efficiencies that we can find. And
that's no different in 2019.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Great. That's very helpful. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC with RBC Capital Markets.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Thanks. Good morning, everyone.
A - `Mary Teresa Barra, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Morning.
A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Morning.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Just one quick question, and I think Rod alluded to this. The higher D&A in North America, it looks
like – I think some of that was accelerated depreciation related to some of the actions you took in
North America. Was that actually backed out then, the accelerated part, from the adjusted
results?
A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
That's right. The accelerated depreciation is a part of the overall charge for transformation, which
is treated as special for EBIT-adjusted. The one that Rod was talking about in the form of
additional D&A, that is our normal cadence of our D&A normalizing to our capital levels. And we
saw a portion of that flow through in the fixed component of our EBIT walk. For the fourth quarter
as well as the calendar year, it impacted results.
And as I said in 2019, that'll continue to impact results as well. So that's the normal D&A, Joe. The
accelerated one is not counted in that.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `Okay. So of the $1.5 billion roughly in North America, that includes the accelerated portion. So it
was – so on an apples-to-apples basis was up a couple hundred million dollars year over year?
A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Are you talking about the accelerated portion or the normalized portion?
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
No, just like – just on an adjusted basis, like how much higher was D&A year over year?
A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
I'd say from a transformation perspective, we took a charge of about $1.3 billion for the year. That
included D&A of about $300 million or so within the $1.3 billion charge.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Okay.
A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
So that's the transformation portion. And on a normalized basis, if you look at our calendar year
EBIT walk, the fixed component had a year-over-year increase. A vast majority of that, if not all of
it, I would say would be attributed to D&A.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Okay. And then so the real I guess point in going down this path is, as we think – you show the
free cash flow walks on slide 13. As we think about that CapEx less depreciation for 2019, does
that gap further narrow relative to your $8 billion to $9 billion CapEx guidance for the year?
A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, the way I would think about that bridge is in 2019, you're going to have $1 billion of
additional depreciation and pension income, which are noncash. So you'll see the compression in
the first two bars coming from that.
And in 2020, you're going to see additional depreciation and pension and a decline in $1 billion of
capital. So that should be on top of the pension depreciation number that I would think about.
And as John asked earlier about GMF, that's the other component of when that dividend starts to
come in, that will be on top of those first two components.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Okay. Thank you very much.
A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Colin Langan, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC with UBS.Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Oh, great. Thanks for taking my question. There's obviously a lot of pushback on the plans to
close some plants. I mean how much of that $4.5 billion is at risk if the unions don't allow those,
the concessions you're closing? And do you see that as a risk?
A - `Mary Teresa Barra, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
I think obviously, it's important. We announced that the plants are unallocated. And as part of our
UAW negotiations this year, we need to finalize the status.
But I think when you look at the fact that of the 2,800 workers that are impacted, 1,200 of them
are retirement eligible. And we have about 2,700 jobs available. As I mentioned already, 950
people have been placed.
I think as we work through and address the concerns from a workforce perspective, that will go a
long way to allowing us to make this transition.
And so I'm – obviously, we have work to do. But when we look at what we need to do from a
market perspective, we can't run at a 70% utilization. We had to improve that. And that's what
we'll work to accomplish.
So that's the way I look at it. And I don't see risks from – especially with the ability that we have to
move the people to places where we're hiring. I mean we just announced yesterday that we have
1,000 jobs available in Flint. So I think it's a transition we have to go through. It's work we have to
do and problem solve with the UAW.
Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Got it. And when we look at your 2019 guidance, I mean what is the assumption on pickup? I
mean do you expect to – I mean is it more about the new product taking pricing? Some of the
recent data shows some market share shift. Obviously, it's volatile month to month. But I mean
are you optimistic that you're going to gain share with new truck? Or is it more about pricing?
A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
I would say it's volume, mix, price, all of the above. We expect the truck penetration to hover
around the ranges that it has in the recent past, which is in the low 20s. We expect that to
continue going forward.
The crew-cab mix is an important component of all of this. As I mentioned earlier, in the second
half of the year when we released the constraint on crew-cabs with Fort Wayne, we saw the
tailwind associated with that. And we're going to see in the full year calendar year a full impact of
both Fort Wayne and Silao running at full crew-cab capacity.
Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Got it. So the recent market share changes that are showing up, they're not concerning to you I
guess is the short answer?
A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I wouldn't extrapolate from one data point, Colin.Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Got it. And just lastly, any color on where your inventory in China is? There's a lot of concern that
there's still high inventories I guess across the industry.
A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I would say we've taken actions in Q4 to right-size our overall production levels. We took
out about 250,000 units of production in China in Q4. If you look at the overall inventory picture,
we target to be typically around 40 to 45 days of inventory. SGM, which operates more in the Tier
1 to 2 cities, is a touch above that. And we're working on that further in Q1 of 2019.
SGMW, is at a level that is higher than we would like. And again, that's action that we have to
continue to take in Q1 as well. So when I talk about cadence in my remarks, and I alluded to Q1
being the seasonal low in China as well, it factors the inventory rightsizing actions within that.
Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Got it. All right. Thank you very much for taking my questions.
A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure.
A - `Mary Teresa Barra, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Sure.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC with Goldman Sachs.
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Great. Let's stay in China for the moment. China, reading the tea leaves on your comments, does
it sound like your JV income should take a step down from the $300 million run rate in the fourth
quarter and the first quarter, as you take some of these inventory actions and shut down
production in wholesales? But then you're expecting it to improve sequentially throughout the
year? And outside, getting to normalized wholesale shipments, I'm just wondering, what's the
main driver there?
A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, firstly, I would not assume that it would take a step down from Q4. I would say similar to
Q4, we're taking inventory actions. We took them in Q4 from a production perspective. And
we're going to continue to take them in Q1 as well.
And I think it's important to note, the 20 new launches that we talked about earlier, they are in
Q2, Q3, and Q4. So actions that are specific to us I would say really start to take effect in the
latter half of the year.
So from a cadence perspective in China, I would say Q1, expect similar-ish levels to Q4. And then
a pickup after that. But obviously with an eye overall on the macro environment as well as the
sales picture over there.Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Got it. That's helpful, Dhivya. And then from a Cruise perspective, the spend, well below your $1
billion target for the year. Is there anything to read into that? Are you signaling anything here? I
kind of want to understand if there was a tone shift. Earlier, another analyst asked a question, it
wasn't necessarily answered or not, if we should expect a later deployment than 2019. It seemed
a little bit more squishy, if I can use that term.
But on the back of that one tone shift question too, should that spend in 2019 ramp towards that
$1 billion that you were looking for? And then what type of increased spend are you really
contemplating at deployment for your operations as well as customer acquisition costs with
getting people into a AV ride-hailing network?
A - `Mary Teresa Barra, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Well, David, we're not squishy at all on our plan for AV for Cruise. I would say one of the reasons
the spend is lower, turned out to be lower in 2018, is Kyle Vogt is an excellent leader and
manager. And he spends every dollar like it's his own. So there's incredibly good cost controls in
Cruise – in GM Cruise, so that's – and you saw what we expect to spend this year. So I think that's
just good cost discipline.
As I said that this is one of the biggest technical challenges of our time. But I think we're really
well positioned. We're committed. We have every resource we need. And if they come forward
and say they need additional resources, we stand ready to provide those. So I think it's in a strong
position from funding. I think it's in a strong position as we continue to do the development.
And so we're going to keep you posted throughout the year, but we're on track from the
performance that we've talked about. And I think again, reference the video, that what the
vehicle is now able to do. We're going to continue to work on the regulatory front as well. And we
will hold ourselves to the safety standards that we've set. But we're committed. And we're
moving at a very aggressive pace.
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Okay. And just within that, maybe I'm missing it. You did about $700 million of spend this year.
Your target was $1 billion for 2018. You came in $300 million below that. I understand some cost
saves. Are you expecting a similar level, $700 million, in your 2019 guidance or (40:10)?
A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Our guidance for 2019 for GM Cruise is approximately $1 billion.
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
All right. Thank you, Dhivya.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Jonas with Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Adam Michael Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Thanks, everybody. Two quick questions. First, when do you think GM can sell EVs for positive EBIT
margin, roughly?A - `Mary Teresa Barra, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
So, Adam, we've talked about the fact that with our next generation of development that we
want to make sure we have obtainable, profitable, desirable, and with the appropriate range.
And so that is the work that we're doing.
We benefit from the fact that we have a strong position in China. And as you know, the regulatory
situation will drive there. Also I think, important to note that we have the partnership with Honda
to leverage the technology as well.
So I think we're in a good position, driving our sale cost down, also from a quality perspective.
And that is our stated goal when we launch that next family of vehicles.
Q - `Adam Michael Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Okay. So I'm interpreting that as kind of post 2020, maybe 2021. Correct me if I'm wrong.
Second question for either Mary, you, or for Mark [Reuss], if he's on. What do you think of an all-
electric pickup truck? And when will GM sell an e-Silverado?
A - `Mary Teresa Barra, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
So I think just – you said correct you if you're wrong. I would say early next decade, but I wouldn't
put any more specificity on EV profitability than that.
And all I'll say on your second question is we believe in an all-EV future. So you'll have to stay
tuned.
Q - `Adam Michael Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
We will. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC with JPMorgan.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Hi. Congrats on the quarter. Thanks for taking my question. I thought to ask on GM International
restructuring progress, outside of China, that is. So could you provide us with an update on the
Korea restructuring announced on the 1Q call last year? And how you would rate your progress
there since that time?
Also I think there were two international plants included in the restructuring announcement back in
November. These were unnamed but slated to close some time in 2019. Presumably they're
outside Korea, perhaps South America. Any update you can provide on how investors should
think about the cadence of those savings as 2019 progresses?
A - `Mary Teresa Barra, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
I mean I would step back and look more broadly at GMI, not including China. And Dhivya has
already addressed South America. I would say the Korea restructuring is on track. And we're also
seeing a pickup in our share there. Obviously, that was a difficult period of time. So we continue
to implement all of the actions that we announced last year.I would say there's still work that we're doing around that region to right size the business, have a
solid plan to profitability. And that work is underway. So I don't have anything more specific to add.
But what we announced with the two plants is definitely on track.
And I don't know, Dhivya, if you have any additional color you want to add there.
A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
I would just say that the cost savings that we have outlined for 2019 contemplate the right
cadence for these plants as well. So it's all baked in.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Great. Thanks. And then lastly but sticking with GMI. It looks like currency continues to be a fairly
large headwind, $300 million in the quarter. Seemingly the Argentine peso and the real, biggest
drivers there. Based on the prevailing spot prices, any hedges that you might have?
And then your localization plans with regard to the GEM platform? How should we think about this
trend as 2019 progresses?
A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I would say that there's been some stabilization post the elections in Brazil from a Brazilian
real perspective. But obviously, remains elevated relative to historical averages.
I think the way to think about Brazil and Argentina is we're able to price in line with inflation in
Brazil. And we typically pass through the FX headwinds in Argentina. There might be a lag, Ryan,
but I wouldn't think of Argentina as anything other than you take last few months of FX headwinds
and kind of factor that into your future pricing ability.
So I wouldn't think of it as hedges. And we don't use forwards necessarily in these areas. I would
look at pricing and localization as the two primary levers we have from an FX-management
perspective.
And on localization, the next generation of vehicles that I mentioned earlier will be more localized.
But with all the actions we're taking, it is our objective to be able to breakeven and turn a profit at
even more extreme levels of FX. So we're continuing to work on it.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Thanks a lot.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Johnson with Barclays.
Q - `Brian A. Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Yes. Want to ask a few questions around GM Financial. First, if I look at full year 2018 over 2017,
ROA seemed to expand from 140 bps to 195 bps. Could you maybe dimension how much of that
was due to lease residual performance versus credit performance versus other factors like net
interest margin or cost saves?
A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `Yeah, I would say if you look at overall year-over-year GMF EBT bridge, if you will, half of it from
increase in volumes, as they continue to grow to full captive levels. So just their penetration
getting higher and their overall volumes getting higher. And the other half coming from the fact
that residual values were flat in 2018 versus 2017. So take the delta, Brian, and divide that by 2.
Q - `Brian A. Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Okay. So the main factor of the ROA increase would have been the residuals.
Which gets to the second question. You've talked about a mature run rate of about $2 billion EBIT.
Full year 2019 was $1.9 billion. And fourth quarter would kind of be right in line with that. Are you
implying that it's sort of going to be flattish, as perhaps your residual gains come down, given
your used-car pricing forecast? Or even down next year?
A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
I'd say 2019 flat to 2018. We're expecting a 4%-to-6% decline in residual values, which we expect
will be offset by the growth in volume that I mentioned and our continued penetration. And the
other aspect longer term as well, Brian, is, as the business matures, you're able to spread the
OpEx over a larger asset base. So we should see OpEx efficiencies as well as we move forward.
Q - `Brian A. Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Okay. And the need to grow the asset base is why you're not committing to upping the payout
ratio to the full 100% just yet?
A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
That's correct. So our current asset base is around north of $95 billion. We would see in the next
several years that that would tail off probably in the $120 billion range. So the amount of equity
that we're holding in the FinCo now is to support that remaining growth.
Q - `Brian A. Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
And final question is really around your GM Financial JV in China. At least the 3Q is up to 44%
retail penetration, which seems impressive. A few just more strategic questions.
To what extent is there further room to use that to offset some of the headwinds in the Chinese
market? And then, second, as you kind of think about the mix, vehicle mix in China, are you better
able to penetrate the upper Cadillac/Buick end of the market with that support versus the lower
end, given the credit profile of the buyers?
A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
I'd say to your first question, there's certainly room from a growth perspective for SAIC, GMAC
joint venture. We are still in the early stages of, I would say, penetration over there on financing
and also the leasing portfolio, which is in its infancy. So more growth to be had longer term.
And across the board I would say in China, adjacencies are at its early stages of development
across the board, whether it's after sales, GMF, and others. So we'll continue growing those. And
from a vehicle-mix perspective, perhaps more tilted towards the Tier 1 to 2 markets than the Tier
3 to 4 market. But I wouldn't specifically draw trends on Cadillac versus other brands.
Q - `Brian A. Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. with Deutsche Bank.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Hi. Good morning, everybody.
A - `Mary Teresa Barra, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Morning.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
I wanted to ask you about the expected cadence of some of the benefits from your restructuring
actions. I assume that as part of your comments around the cadence for the earnings this year,
some of it is also when some of these benefits hit, and maybe beyond the first quarter.
So can you maybe talk to us about that $2 billion to $2.5 billion benefit expected for this year?
How should we think about it in terms of progression throughout the year?
A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I'd say we're off to a pretty good start. As I mention in my comments, Q4 we already
started to see early signs of these savings starting to flow through. And if you look at calendar
year 2019, the savings will be tilted more towards the earlier part of the year. So we'll be off to a
pretty good start here after Q1. So I'd say Q1 is when we implement it. Q2 onwards, you'll start to
see the benefits.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Okay. Understood. And I guess a second question, did – I don't think there was a big focus on the
capital markets today. But I was curious about your thoughts around the opportunity to do some –
or the priority around doing some buybacks this year. It feels like if you achieve your $4.5 billion to
$6 billion guidance, even after financing, restructuring and the common dividend, it feels like
there could be some room, depending on where you shake out, for some buyback. Is that a
priority? Or is 2019 viewed as more of a transition year? And then it would come in future years?
A - `Mary Teresa Barra, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. We're going to stay very committed to our capital allocation framework of looking at
opportunities to continue to invest in the business to generate a greater than 20% return, as well
as maintaining an investment grade balance sheet. And then if, as we get to that point, there's
opportunity, that will be returned to shareholders. So don't have anything specific to say, other
than we're going to follow our process.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Okay. And then I guess finally, just curious what you're seeing in terms of latest data and trends in
China. Obviously, you're assuming a fairly flat market for the year, which I think when the guidance
was given may have been perhaps seen as optimistic. Now the most recent data point
throughout January seemed to suggest maybe a little bit of stabilization. Are you seeing any ofA - `Mary Teresa Barra, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
No. I think we're seeing improvements from Q4. I mean it's early days, but we're optimistic, not
only from what we've seen in the month of January, but also what the government has
announced, because we've seen that have a positive impact.
And then again, the team there is very focused on cost and improving mix, et cetera. So with the
new launches, we see a lot of – we see opportunity from an industry perspective with the signs
we saw in January. And we also have a lot of, I'll say, GM-specific opportunity.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
And so – and just very finally, I guess still on China. So how should we think about your guidance
for a modest decline in equity income? I mean it seems like you're speaking about Q1 not
necessarily any worse than Q4. Then I would assume beyond that you sort of have the benefit
from some of the new product. And then potentially some stabilization in the market. So is it
really just mathematically you're lapping some very strong quarters last year? Or is there anything
else that's sort of like a headwind to expect throughout the year?
A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
I wouldn't say there is headwinds to expect beyond what we shared at Capital Markets Day. I
think it's important to note that when we say moderately lower equity income, we're factoring all
these in.
And it's our intent, there will be puts and takes in different regions and between North America,
China, and so on. It's still our intent to post a strong calendar year results from a company
perspective.
So I wouldn't over train on one versus the other. We do expect that, as Mary mentioned, there's
company-specific factors that's going to help us. It is a volatile market at the end of the day. I
wouldn't get any more specific on that.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Our last question comes from the line of `Chris McNally, Fundamental Research Analyst, Evercore ISI with Evercore.
Q - `Chris McNally, Fundamental Research Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Hi, team. First-time caller, as they say, so appreciate getting on the call. Maybe I can attack this
cadence on the North American EBIT just in a slightly different way.
I think you guys have been clear that Q1 is the low. We have production shutdown, the cadence of
the cost saves across the year. I think some of the questions investors may have are around in the
second half. Is there any extraordinary cost that we should think about, given the launch of the
heavy duty and the SUVs? Because if not, you would think that sort of cadence leads to sort of
Q4 as another peak. So is there any sort of offsets to the benefits that you've laid out that should
get better across the year?
A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `Yeah, I don't think there's any specific launch-related costs or anything we haven't already talked
about that's going to weigh on North American results. We had talked about depreciation and
pension income going down and commodity headwinds. That does impact North America. But
that should be even through the whole year, depending on how commodities behave in the next
several quarters here.
But I'd just say beyond what you talked about on Q1 with the downtime and all the factors that I
mentioned that should positively impact the second half of the year, there's nothing that we
haven't already discussed.
Q - `Chris McNally, Fundamental Research Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Great. And just one follow up on actually the timing of commodities and tariffs. I mean obviously,
the $1 billion, we're still annualizing some of the costs from last year. So it would make sense that
those hits are greatest in the first half.
It sort of surprised me a little bit when you talked about some of the spot prices of the quarter of
it being a lag of quarters. I know sometimes with hedges, it could be anywhere from four to six
quarters. Is it possible that if we see these spot levels continue over the first six months that
there actually could be some benefit by, let's call it, the end of the year, as obviously you've had
to project out for the full year?
A - `Dhivya Suryadevara, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, the lag that I talked about is in our indexed commodities. We typically experience a three-
month lag in when the actual impact shows up on our income statement versus when the spot
prices go up or down.
And I would say it's really difficult to call the specific cadence of it. As you well know, this moves
up and down every quarter. I'd say evenly distributed through the entire year. We're obviously
watching the [Section] 301 tariffs very closely, because that will have an impact.
And within the current market environment, I'd say you also need to look at the mix of which
commodities are going up and down as well. So it's difficult to provide any more specificity on a
topic that is inherently pretty volatile.
Q - `Chris McNally, Fundamental Research Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Okay. Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. I'd now like to turn the call over to Mary Barra for her closing comments.
A - `Mary Teresa Barra, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Well, thanks, everybody, for participating today. As we begin the next phase of our
transformation, I want you to know that we are committed to continuing to strengthen the core
business, as well as continue to accelerate our work to lead in the future of personal mobility.
We are really repositioning this company from one that was trying to be all things to all people in
all markets to a very strategic, agile, and profitable company. And we believe we are in a very
differentiated position than many of the competitors in this industry. We are intent on reinventingpersonal transportation, capitalizing on a $1 trillion opportunity, while making the world safer,
better, and more sustainable.
In 2019 we'll continue to deliver on our commitments that we've made to you, our owners, by
capitalizing on our strong global vehicle portfolio, our adjacent businesses. And we will stay
focused on driving profitable growth across the business to create value in the short term and
long term for our shareholders.
This transformation will be very dynamic. But you have our commitment that we'll continue to act
with speed, with discipline, and with integrity to drive the business performance that we need to
win, not only today but in the future. So thanks again for your time.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes the conference call for today. We thank you for your
participation and ask that you please disconnect your line.