Q4 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good afternoon and welcome to General Motors Company's Fourth Quarter 2022 Earnings
Conference Call. During the opening remarks, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. After
the opening remarks, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. We are asking analysts to
please limit yourself to one question and a brief follow-up. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder,
this conference call is being recorded, Tuesday, February 1, 2022. I would now like to turn the
conference over to `Rocky Gupta, Treasurer & VP of Investor Relations, Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
`Rocky Gupta, Treasurer & VP of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Jordan. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us as we review GM's financial results
for the fourth quarter and calendar year 2021. Our conference call materials were issued earlier
this afternoon and are available on the GM Investor Relations website. We're also broadcasting
this call via webcast.
I'm joined today by GM's Chair and CEO, Mary Barra; GM's CFO, `Paul Jacobson, Chief Financial Officer; GM's Financial
CEO, Dan Berce; and Cruise Co-founder, `Kyle Vogt, Chief Technology Officer. Kyle will be available to speak about Cruise's
exciting progress in the Q&A portion of the call.
Before we begin, I would like to direct your attention to the forward-looking statements on the
first page of the chart set. The content of our call will be governed by this language. I will now turn
the call over to Mary.
`Mary T. Barra, Chief Executive Officer `
Hey. Thanks, Rocky, and good afternoon everyone. Thanks for joining us. Before we get into our
2021 results and 2022 outlook, I want to start with some exciting news from Cruise, which is one
of our most significant growth opportunities. Kyle, Dan Kan, Gil West and the entire Cruise teamare doing great work and they just delivered a key milestone and the drive to commercialization
to commercialize Cruise rideshare service. As Kyle has shared, Cruise team members have been
taking fully driverless rides in San Francisco since November to demonstrate and refine the
software and hardware ecosystem we have created together.
In fact, they have logged over 20,000 miles and completed more than 600 trips. I rode in a
driverless Cruise a couple of weeks ago and I can tell you it was the highlight of my career as an
engineer and as the leader of General Motors. The ride is smooth and confident. It's like having
an experienced and an attentive driver behind the wheel.
Now, as Cruise announced this morning, it is inviting members of the public to sign up for their
own driverless rides through a wait list on the Cruise website. This is the first truly driverless ride-
hail service offered to members of the public in a dense urban environment. To maximize its
learnings, Cruise will prioritize use cases that are natural fits for autonomous ride sharing. This
major milestone brings Cruise even closer to offering its first paid rides and generating $50 billion
in annual revenue by the end of the decade. It also means that the SoftBank Vision Fund will
invest as planned another $1.35 billion in Cruise. This is another strong vote of confidence in the
Cruise team, its technology, and the services it's creating.
Additionally, Cruise continues to advance the strong relationship it has established with Walmart,
where the team is making progress on driverless delivery of groceries to customers every day.
With this incremental investment and the investments from General Motors and companies like
Honda, Microsoft, and Walmart, Cruise is very well capitalized to scale its business when the
origin production comes online at Factory ZERO late this year. So Kyle, congrats.
Now, I want to turn to the significant investments we are making to expand both our battery cell
and EV assembly capacity. We believe our strategy to scale a common ultium cell component set
and platform will create significant long-term value for all GM stakeholders. We also recognize
that we need to launch more EVs faster, so that's exactly what we are going to do.
As you know, the GMC Hummer EV is already in the market. Cadillac Lyriq deliveries began in less
than 60 days, an additional BrightDrop EV600 production begins at CAMI late this year where
we'll launch with an annual capacity of 30,000 units and the ability to nearly double production by
mid decade. The Chevrolet Silverado EV launches next spring and the Chevrolet Equinox and
Blazer EVs will also reach the market in 2023. We have the teams working to accelerate the
volume curves for all of these launches and to resume both EV and EUV production as soon as
possible. And we have set a target to deliver 400,000 EVs in North America over the course of
2022 in 2023.
As you know, we have also announced additional battery cell and assembly capacity investments
in Michigan that will give us more than 1 million units of EV capacity in North America by the end of
2025, and this includes 600,000 full-size trucks. This is an addition to more than 1 million units of
EV capacity in China over the same time frame. And I can tell you right now,1 million units in North
America won't be enough to meet the steep inflection in demand that we expect starting mid-
decade for our EVs. That's why we will continue to convert ICE capacity to EVs and plan to invest
in a third EV truck plant. We are formulating plans for the truck plant right now and we will share
more as we work through the details. Importantly, battery cells will not be a constraint to our long-
term EV growth.
Our Ultium Cell JVs in Ohio and Tennessee come online in 2022 and 2023 respectively and we
will add capacity as demand grows. Our Ohio plant will launch with seven-day operations adding
10% capacity and 200 jobs. Cell production in Michigan is scheduled to begin in late 2024 and I'msharing today that we will announce the location of our fourth US cell plant in the first half of this
year. Together, these plants will support GM's EV volume growth and supply our customers in the
rail, trucking, aerospace, and marine industries.
Equally important for our EV strategy for North America is that it is backed by a strong more
sustainable North American focused supply chain that includes lithium, rare earth material,
permanent magnets, cathode active material, silicon carbide, motor stators and more. To deliver
this acceleration, we are pulling ahead significant investment into the 2022 to 2025 timeframe
and we will share more details as we further refine our plans.
Growing customer demand for the first wave of Ultium products strongly supports these
investments. We already have more than 59,000 reservations for the GMC Hummer EV pickup
and SUV. Not surprisingly, some of the first owners are very prominent figures in the sports and
entertainment industries and their initial feedback has been just incredible. They expected a
super truck and they got one.
Our next electric pickup will be the Chevrolet Silverado EV. More than 110,000 Silverado EVs our
reserved so far including reservations for more than 240 fleet operators and the numbers keep
growing every day. Some of the world's largest fleet customers including FedEx, Verizon,
Merchants fleet and Walmart are adopting BrightDrop vehicles and their technology. All told, we
have more than 25,000 production reservations for BrightDrop cargo vans, and customer
interest in the Cadillac Lyriq is growing so quickly that will forego a new round of reservation and
began taking customer order soon after (inaudible) DPU edition launches in March.
One of our most highly anticipated reveals this year will be the Chevrolet Equinox EV, which we
previewed in January. The verge named it the best electric car of CES saying there is a
perception that electric vehicles are luxury items. So when General Motors said the Equinox would
come with a $30,000 sticker price, it's something worth noting. The efficiencies created by the
Ultium platform are a key reason why we will be able to deliver truly affordable EVs like the
Equinox. Affordable EVs are part of the market that startups aren't targeting, but they are key to
driving mass adoption of EVs which is a national and a global priority. That's why we plan to follow
the Equinox with an even more affordable EV.
Now, let's shift and talk a little bit about our other GM growth platforms. Throughout the year, you
will see the expansion of advanced vehicle technologies, new shopping tools and continued
progress at our new business startups. This spring, we will launch redesigns of the Chevrolet
Silverado and the GMC Sierra 1500 pickups and offer them with Super Cruise with expanded
capabilities that include lane change on demand and hands-free trailering. These are first for the
segment. At the same time frame, GM and our dealers will begin marketing CarBravo, our new
used vehicle shopping service. This is truly a win-win. Our dealers will grow their business by
offering customers online access to far more inventory than other services. In turn, we expect to
drive incremental GM and GM Financial revenue by selling products like OnStar insurance, OnStar
connected services, accessories, and Financial Services. It will also help support strong residual
values for off-lease vehicles. Then next year, we'll roll out Ultifi, a new end-to-end software
platform for EVs, AVs and ICE vehicles that will have even more sweeping over the air capabilities
than we have today.
This includes the ability to back features to the Cadillac LYRIQ. Ultifi will be the foundation for new
GM developed and approved third-party apps in car subscriptions and other connected services
that enhance the customer experience and expand our revenue through the life of each vehicle.
We can and we will keep up our aggressive pace backed by strong results. We expect to followour record EBIT adjusted earnings in 2021 with another year of record or near record results in
2022, while investing significantly more year-over-year to accelerate our growth.
Paul will share more details on our results and guidance in his remarks. But before I turn the call
over to him, I would like to discuss our capital allocation strategy. The prospect of continued
strong earnings and free cash flow, even as we invest for growth, naturally raises questions about
resuming a common stock dividend. As we move forward, we will consider all opportunities to
return excess capital to shareholders, but we will not reinstate a dividend at this time.
Our clear priority is to accelerate our EV plan and drive growth, and we want to maintain
maximum flexibility to invest as opportunities arise across our growth platforms including many of
the accelerated plans I've outlined today, I think we've consistently demonstrated that we're a
team that delivers on our commitments. That's more important now than ever with the incredible
opportunities in front of us.
So now, I'm going to turn the call over to Paul, who will walk us through the quarter and our
outlook. Then Paul, Dan Berce, `Kyle Vogt, Chief Technology Officer and I will take your questions.
`Paul Jacobson, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Mary, and good afternoon everyone. We sincerely appreciate you taking the time to
join us.
As Mary mentioned, the strong results last year including record full-year EBIT adjusted and EBIT
adjusted margins are a reflection of the hard work and execution from our team and the
underlying strength of our business. We're seeing strong demand for our products, especially our
trucks and SUVs, and we are striving again this year to produce as many of them as we can. I want
to thank the entire GM team once more for the execution during this past year.
The cash that we generate today is funding the transformation of GM in pursuit of the growth
strategy we shared last year in our Investor Day. We see a path to doubling revenue by 2030
while expanding margins with significant opportunities in software, services, and new businesses
in electric and autonomous vehicles.
Now, let's get into the results. While we faced the well publicized global semiconductor
challenges and continued pressure from COVID protocols throughout the world, the GM team
once again delivered tremendous results in 2021 through our production prioritization and work
across our value chain. For the full year, we generated $127 billion in revenue, $14.3 billion in EBIT
adjusted, 11.3% EBIT adjusted margin, $7.07 in EPS diluted adjusted, and $2.6 billion in adjusted
automotive free cash flow.
In the fourth quarter, we generated $34 billion in revenue, $2.8 billion in EBIT adjusted, 8.5% EBIT
adjusted margin, $1.35 in EPS diluted adjusted, and $6.4 billion in adjusted automotive free cash
flow. Free cash flow in the quarter was largely driven by working capital rewind as we were able to
complete and wholesale over 80,000 vehicles that had previously been built without certain
components as well as dividends from GM Financial.
We saw improved semiconductor availability in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter,
which enabled us to increase our wholesale sequentially while substantially reducing our inventory
of vehicles built without certain components, and we expect ongoing semiconductor availability
improvements throughout 2022. We also realized strong price and mix performance in North
America through our production prioritization actions and our go-to-market strategy. Additionally,used vehicle prices and strong credit performance continued to drive record results at GM
Financial.
Let's take a closer look at North America. In Q4, GM North America delivered EBIT adjusted of
$2.2 billion as we continue to see robust customer demand for our products and tight dealer
inventory driving strong transaction prices. These results were somewhat better than our
December updated guidance expectations as we saw continued volume and cost improvement.
On a year-over-year basis in the fourth quarter, we saw volume decreases and increased
investments in growth, partially offset by pricing and mix. US dealer inventories ended the year at
around 200,000 units, of which only approximately 25% is grounded stock, resulting in continued
high sales turns of around 10 days.
Moving to GM International. In the fourth quarter, GMI EBIT adjusted was approximately $0.3
billion, relatively flat year-over-year. China equity income was $0.2 billion in the quarter with
continued strong mix, stabilization in pricing, and material cost performance offset by
semiconductor and commodity impact. As we referenced last quarter, our international business
outside of China has made substantial progress on our path to sustainable profitability. GMI EBIT
adjusted excluding China equity income achieved profitability in the fourth quarter despite
continued semiconductor pressure and the Chevrolet brand has regained its retail market share
leadership in South America.
A few comments on GM Financial in the Corp segment. GM Financial concluded another
extremely strong year with Q4 EBT adjusted of $1.2 billion with record full year EBT adjusted of $5
billion. GM Financial paid an additional $1.7 billion dividend in Q4. That brings the total GM Financial
dividends to $3.5 billion in 2021, equivalent to how much we paid for the company. Going forward,
we expect GM Financial dividends to moderate as earnings normalize and we continue to grow
the asset base. Corp EBIT adjusted in Q4 was down year-over-year by about $0.5 billion, driven
by the non-recurrence of mark-to-market gains recognized in Q4 2020.
Now turning to our outlook for 2022. Today, we see a stabilizing semiconductor environment and
envision wholesales getting to a normalized run rate towards the beginning of the third quarter
with a target of around 800,000 units in North America on a quarterly basis. We expect total
company volume to increased 25% to 30% year-over-year with the majority of the increase
occurring in the second half of the year, primarily due to the production constraints in the second
half of 2021. Sequentially, we expect the positive trend to continue with Q1 wholesale volumes up
20% to 25% versus Q4 2021.
In 2022, we anticipate light industry sales of approximately 16 million units, dealer stock to remain
tight and the dynamic where production is the gating factor for sales volumes continuing into
2022. As you think about the mix of this incremental volume, remember that in 2021 we largely
protected our high demand truck production. As a result, the incremental volume in 2022 will be
mostly weighted towards small and mid-size SUV and sedan.
Now, let's turn to our expectations for growth investments and margin. We're at a very important
stage in the growth and development of some of our key businesses and we are taking the very
intentional step of investing heavily into them to accelerate our expansion. Cruise expenses are
expected to increase as they rapidly approach commercialization and hire around 500 additional
employees, increasing their workforce by around 20% to advanced technology as well as
accelerate the operational infrastructure to grow and expand. We also expect to see some wage
rate pressures. We continue to attract top talent to the company. Corporate expenses are
expected to increase by approximately $0.5 billion as we expand the BrightDrop business
including product development and manufacturing spend to prepare the CAMI facility for eLCVproduction later in the year and expanding customer pilots for the EP1 electric cart, which we
expect will drive software and services recurring revenue opportunities.
We're to continue to roll out OnStar insurance across the country. We're in 46 states today and
expect to be in all 50 by the second quarter. But to develop new products at GM Defense and
continue to incubate new ideas to drive incremental growth and value in the future. We're also
expecting to invest another $1.5 billion in expenses to expand software development and further
accelerate our EV portfolio which includes close to $1 billion of incremental engineering and
software-related developments. These investments are building the foundation to grow and
accelerate our AV, EV and software businesses as we aggressively launch approximately 20 EV
products in North America and more than 30 EV products globally through 2025, and introduce
Ultifi. These investments will also drive meaningful revenue growth starting in 2023, initially from
EVs, BrightDrop and Cruise, but expanding the software and services if we launch Ultifi and grow
other new business opportunities such as OnStar insurance and GM Defense in the next few
years.
We now also expecting commodities and logistics cost pressure of $2.5 billion year-over-year,
primarily weighted to the front half of 2022. From a non-operating perspective, we expect a
combined $1 billion year-over-year headwind from the non-recurrence of mark-to-market gains
we achieved in 2021 and a reduction in net pension income as we further de-risk the plan asset
profile. I want to reiterate that despite all of this, we expect to generate 10% North America EBIT
adjusted margins in 2022 inclusive of the increased expenditures related to our growth
investments and highlighting our ability to fund these initiatives through internally generated cash
flow.
In China, we expect equity income from our joint ventures to exceed $1 billion and remain
relatively flat year-over-year. We anticipate a modest increase in volume, which will be offset by a
more normalized mix, competitive pricing environment and increased investments as we prepare
to bring more EV products to market.
We expect GM Financial performance to be in the $3.5 billion to $4 billion range as we do not
expect a repeat of some of the 2021 allowance releases and we anticipate that credit
performance and used vehicle prices will begin to moderate. Assuming continued steady
demand for new vehicles, no significant new economic or supply chain challenges in 2022, we
expect EBIT adjusted in the $13 billion to $15 billion range. EPS diluted adjusted in the $6.25 to
$7.25 range and adjusted automotive free cash flow in the $7 billion to $9 billion range. Adjusted
automotive free cash flow will be driven by strong earnings and working capital rewind as
volumes increase. We expect capital spend to be in the $9 billion to $10 billion range in 2022
including investments in our Ultium battery cell JVs and expect similar levels of spending over the
next several years.
In summary, we had a strong finish to the year and our results are a reflection of the team's focus
and execution in the face of a continued challenging environment. In 2022, we expect strong
commercial performance and we are aggressively reinvesting some of our short-term EBIT
improvement to accelerate our EV/AV journey while still driving similar results to our record
performance in 2021.
This demonstrates the strength of our underlying business, the strength of our truck and SUV
franchises, our industry leading customer loyalty, and world-class manufacturing and design
capabilities. We will continue to leverage these competitive advantages as we vastly expand our
battery cell and EV assembly capacity in North America to lead the industry. This concludes our
opening comments and we'll now move to the Q&A portion of the call.Questions And Answers
Operator
A reminder to analysts, we are asking to limit yourself to one question and a brief follow-up so
that they may get everyone on the call. Our first question comes from the line of `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research with
Wolfe Research. Your line is open.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Hi, everybody. Congratulations on these results and the outlook. I'll ask two questions. First, just a
financial one for Mary and Paul. You guys have almost $22 billion of cash. US pensions is now
about fully funded. You've got $40 billion of liquidity and you've shown a lot of resiliency in
different financial conditions and operating conditions and are talking about $7 billion $9 billion of
free cash next year. So, that's going to lead to some speculation on where these investments
could be that you're contemplating instead of cash returns. So can you maybe talk about are
there investments that you're thinking about that are large enough that would consume cash of
that magnitude?
A - `Mary T. Barra, Chief Executive Officer `
So, Rod -- Hey, thanks for the question. As we look at it, we're going to follow the capital
allocation framework that we're going to continue to invest in opportunities that allow us to
generate returns, return on invested capital of greater than 20%, maintain an investment grade
balance sheet and then return the balance to shareholders. We talked about a lot of it pull ahead
and acceleration to our EV strategy and as we work through that we will -- follow that. We'll look
for those good investments and then we'll follow the capital allocation framework. So, thinking
(inaudible) in February it's a little early to look at that, but we'll provide more guidance through
the year on that.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Okay. And I was hoping to ask a question to Kyle. Congratulations by the way on the milestones
that you've achieved. These operations look pretty impressive. Can you talk a little bit about what
the operations look like in prime time, so during the day more congested periods and 2021 it
seems like it's kind of a step between R&D and commercialization. Can you maybe give us a little
bit more of a sense of what commercial scale will look like and what kind of pace of expansion we
should be thinking about it? At one point, you were talking about, I think, a new city every six
months, something along those lines, but any update on that?
A - `Kyle Vogt, Chief Technology Officer `
Hi, Rod. Thanks for the question. Yeah, it has been a very eventful day for us and really good 2021
as we enter early commercialization. Our approach to bringing driverless cars to dense urban
environments has been a cautious and careful one. We're starting with limited hours of the day,
limited geo-fence and what we're looking to do is confirm that the performance and functionality
of our system matches expectations and also that we give the communities where we're
operating a little bit of time to acclimate, especially San Francisco, which is the first one -- first
dense urban environment that's ever experienced this.
So, we're going slowly and cautiously, but as we see things click and evidence that performance
is meeting expectations, the focus becomes exactly what you mentioned, which is how quickly
can we expand this to cover larger service area, more hours -- serve more customers in SanFrancisco. But then cities beyond that. and so we've been developing the foundational
technologies to do those expansions in the background and we've learned a lot by our operation
in other cities like Arizona -- I'm sorry in Arizona and in Michigan.
So we have a pretty good idea of what's around the corner, but we're gated by safety and we're
just the very early days, so it's hard to know our exact rate of expansion.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America from Bank of America. Your line is open.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
Good afternoon, everybody. First question is just on the core business. When we think about 25%
to 30% increase in wholesale, we imagine that's mimics production. I'm just curious as you think
about that. In the context of a $60 million units SAAR, it seems like there'll be some inventory
build. But -- not a lot. So if you wind up together with CarBravo. It does seem like you're pushing
to keep ATPs high, makes relatively high, and maybe transition some of your entry level buyers or
entry level products into the used car market, which supports which is more structurally going
forward.
It just seems like you're getting a very good circular reference, keeping a lid on inventory and
then winding up with CarBravo, I mean what is the real opportunity here on CarBravo and then
ultimately what could it mean for sort of this inventory management on the new vehicle side. Just
seems like it's a very intertwined very positive story?
A - `Kyle Vogt, Chief Technology Officer `
Yeah. Hey, John, good afternoon. Thanks for the question, What I would say that for 2022, it's
largely more of a function of what we continue to believe is large pent-up demand for new
vehicles that hasn't been met in 2021 because of some of the production challenges. Certainly
what we saw as we were able to complete those vehicles, there was a little bit more going
through the system of production and and as we talked about in the prepared remarks, those
vehicles continue to sell very, very rapidly.
So despite the production increases we saw in Q4, we are still not really building inventory that
much, and I think that's going to probably continue throughout the year with largely showing up in
transit rather than on lots. That's really on the consumer and I think that's the short-term.
What do you think about CarBravo? I would think about it in terms of the volume and the access
to inventory that we have through GM Financial through the dealer network. It really is
unprecedented level that gives customers much, much better choice and variety across the
country and we can do this in a coordinated fashion, largely because of where we are with
vehicles coming off lease the GM Financial inventory is across the board. So, we actually see this
as a really, really strong opportunity in and of itself to expand the customer relationship and the
entire sort of universe as a customer that we're working through and we talked about it Investor
Day.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `Okay. And then, just wanted to follow up on that. I mean, it seems that you're tightening up and
growing the quarter to drive more profits and to fund the future. This Cruise news today and I'll
also add my congratulations to you on that, everybody on the team, as we grow in San Francisco
and then re-populate the strategy in other markets, I mean how do we think about the fleet and
the capital required there to kind of follow up on Rod's question It could there be a huge call on
capital that could actually have very good returns and what is the earnings potential and that $50
billion? I got -- the margin is much higher than the core business at 10%, so how should we think
about those earnings in 2030. So capital requirement we own the fleet and where the earnings
go?
A - `Kyle Vogt, Chief Technology Officer `
Yeah. Keep in mind, John, that we announced last year that GM Financial has committed to a $5
billion line of credit to help finance the origins. So, I think when we look at capital for expansion as
well as for the continued development, we're not seeing any constraints in that at all. Cruise is
very well capitalized and very well prepared for the expansion phase as they continue to roll this
out and achieve their milestone.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
I'm sorry. And the profitability potential on this -- I mean it just seems like 10% of $5 billion is just
an opening bid, it's probably a tremendous amount higher than that I mean, what do you roughly
can run rate of that profitability.
A - `Mary T. Barra, Chief Executive Officer `
John, I think as we look, we see there is a huge first-mover opportunity to go and provide an
exceptional customer experience. And so, we're going to -- we do think there is tremendous
margin potential in this business, but we also think growth is really important. So you'll see us
balance that in the early days -- to really get a foothold, a solid foothold in a leadership position.
Down the road, we see tremendous profit, but we're going to really --we're going to scale fast.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
Seems like a huge opportunity. Thank you very much.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Spak with RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Thanks. Good afternoon. I appreciate the update on the Lordstown in Spring Hill. Ultium Cells
build out and when those are starting, I was wondering if you could provide a little bit more color
in terms of either from a run rate basis or maybe just an absolute basis, where you think each of
those or how long it's going to take those facilities to get up to their stated capacity and then
maybe just a quick aside like if more opening mid '22, where are you actually getting Ultium cells
for the Hummer, the BrightDrop, and the LYRIQ?
A - `Mary T. Barra, Chief Executive Officer `
Today, we're getting those from LG. But as we look, we're going to ramp up those plants as
quickly as we can with one coming online on '22, one on '23 and then one late '24 and one yet to
be announced. So we're going to accelerate those as fast as we can. As I said, in my preparedremarks, we've already found ways to add capacity from an operating perspective and
efficiencies in the plants, so we're just going to keep going full out because we see the
opportunity for substantial EV volume growth in this period of time.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay. And then I guess following up on that and I know you've mentioned in your remarks, Mary.
You're not, don't really think you're constrained by your cell supply here, but it does seem like you
have at least over the next year or so, maybe an allocation decision of what programs those
sales go to; so for instance in '23 of both the Silverado and Equinox. So how do you go about
deciding that, whether it sort of goes towards and potentially a more profitable vehicle or a
segment where you see less competition and more potential white space?
A - `Mary T. Barra, Chief Executive Officer `
I think we're working to to expand our capability to accelerate all of those models, as I said. We're
just seeing such strong demand and that's caused the team to really go back and look and say,
okay, let's double down and go faster from an acceleration perspective. Clearly, the sales will be
something that we'll look to grow as well. One of the reasons why we're announcing the battery
plant that we already did in Michigan and will shortly be announcing the fourth battery plant as
well as continuing to work with LG.
So we're focused right now not on trade-offs, but enabling as many as we can during this period
of time and you heard me say that between '22 and '23. We want to -- our plan is to have over
400,000 EVs into market in North America, and we're just going to keep working to improve that
and I have a lot of confidence in the GM team that when you give them a clear challenge they rise
to the occasion. So, we are focused right now not on tradeoffs but enabling as many as we can
during this period of time, and you heard me say that between '22 and '23, we want to -- our plan
is to have over 400,000 EVs into market in North America and we are just going to keep working
to improve that and I have a lot of confidence in the GM team that when you give them a clear
challenge, they ride the occasion.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
Thanks.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thanks everybody. I had a question about the EV models and implied volume per skew. I guess I'd
ask it like this; if you were starting an EV company from scratch, would you launch 30 different
models over a three or four-year period? I understand why -- I guess I understand why GM with
the brands and different regions and things attempted to do it, if you have the alternative where
we consider the alternative higher volume, maybe hundreds and hundreds of thousands of units
per model, but a small number of models.
A - `Mary T. Barra, Chief Executive Officer `
So Adam, we're going to go for both. From the General Motors perspective, I think when you look
at how we've approached the technology and the investments we've made in Ultium and how
we're looking at the portfolio, a full portfolio because again if you look at -- and by the way, wethink several of those models are going to be over 100,000 units or more than that as we do
that. So I really would say, Adam, we're going for both. And it's one thing when you're looking at
the market when it's 2%, 3%, 5%, we're looking by 2030 to be in the 40% to 50% adoption and
to do that you've got to meet the customer where they're at and that's why you look at the
Equinox and how significant that can be the more affordable EV that we're going to be doing that
really gets into another very important part of the market?
So you have to have the proper market coverage. Otherwise, the customer is going to have to
make trade-offs and because of GM's capability, General Motors at any one point in time, we
have almost a 100 programs in flight meaning in concept to being launched. That's the capability
of the GM team has. So we're moving with the speed of a start-up with I think industry leading
technology and a platform, but we're also then leveraging the capability that GM has to attract
and gain share and grow because of the vehicles that will have that meet their needs.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thanks, Mary. Just as a follow-up. How certain are you that the quality problems that you had with
your battery partner have been resolved? Obviously, you're implying there is some improvement,
but could you tell us or all the issues behind you or are there still some issues that you're working
through in real time. Thanks.
A - `Mary T. Barra, Chief Executive Officer `
Adam, we're already putting new battery packs into existing Bolt EV and EUV. We wouldn't be
doing that if we didn't have confidence. The LG technical team and the GM team have worked
together, we believe. As we said before that it was very rare manufacturing defects that cause
the issue. And if you look at the low number of issues that we had, yet the extraordinary action
that we took with recalling the entire population that's our commitment to safety. And so we have
found the issues, we have put a lot more robust processes into the manufacturing process and
change the way the processing is to make sure we don't have that issue.
I'd also note that that was rich learnings that we had from our LG partners that have been
incorporated into Ultium. So again, the experience that we've had of selling Bolt EVs for a while
and Bolt EUVs all of that learning is translated in it gives me great confidence in the quality of the
Ultium platform and the packs that we're putting into the Bolt EVs and EUVs right now.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thanks, Mary.
A - `Mary T. Barra, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Adam.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets with Citi. Your line is open.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets `
Great. Thank you. Good afternoon, everybody. Just had two questions and maybe first going
back to AV for Mary and Kyle. Maybe, I think in the past you referred to the opportunity in
personal consumer AV as upside potential to 2030 target. I was hoping you could update us on
the vision you have for consumers of EV at GM as well as our Cruise as role within the?long run.A - `Mary T. Barra, Chief Executive Officer `
For right now with the significant announcement that Cruise made today, we want the team-- like
99.9% focused on making sure that we seize the significant opportunity in rideshare and
rideshare delivery. And we said most recently at the end of last year that we see and at FCES that
we see the opportunity for potentially as early as mid-decade to personal autonomous vehicles,
which is really an additive thing for Cruise because it puts more nodes on the network, it opens
up another another market.
So, we're very focused on rideshare and rideshare delivery. So this is something that we see
potentially in mid-decade that we can make both businesses grow. So a huge opportunity and I
don't know, Kyle, if you want to add anything.
A - `Kyle Vogt, Chief Technology Officer `
Yeah. Thanks Mary. It's a natural fit. Like retail EVs would increase the total volume of sensors and
computer systems we're building. It's more vehicles that are on our common platforms, that
power these fleets of driverless cars that drives down the costs on a unit basis and really
reinforces and bolsters the CarBravo Taxi business. So we see it as really a win-win situation
where it improves economics of the robo taxi business, but also enables a new market and the
expansion of the positive impact from this technology.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets `
That's very, very helpful. Maybe a quick follow-up maybe for Paul. Hoping you can dimension the
the variable profit opportunity from the refreshed our full-size pickup trucks, I think, are coming in
the spring, both in terms of maybe pricing opportunities with the new content as well as any
opportunities with the up electrical architecture?
A - `Kyle Vogt, Chief Technology Officer `
Thank you. What I would say is that what we see right now or what we continue to see is a really,
really strong consumer preference especially as they're buying up on features and amenities. We
see that across the board, in the Denali brand, High Country brands, et cetera, that I think it's
going to continue to pay big dividends for us as we roll out the newly vehicles going forward. So
without getting into specifics on vehicle margins and profitability, we're very excited about what
that's going to bring, and we think that the consumer is going to be really, really positive around
them.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets `
Great. That's all very helpful. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of a `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank with Deutsche Bank. Your line is
open.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you very much. Two questions, please. The first one, could you please describe the current
supply chain environment? Any constraints on the chip availability? And in particular, I was -- I'd be
interested to hear what gives you confidence that you would have sufficient chip availability toproduce 25% to 30% more vehicle in 2022 versus 2021? Admittedly, you hit maybe a bit harder
than other players, but obviously this is a nice (inaudible).
A - `Mary T. Barra, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Emmanuel, thanks for the question. What we're sharing is what we see with the work that
we've done with all of the semiconductor manufacturers and our plans for this year. So, of course,
as Paul said, if there is significant COVID disruptions or other natural disasters that could have an
impact, but we're pretty -- we're seeing, definitely seen improvement in first quarter over fourth
quarter. We saw fourth quarter better than third quarter, and we really see with the plans we have
in place now, by the time we get to third and fourth quarters, we're going to be really starting to
see the semiconductor constraints diminish.
So that's what we're working to achieve across all of our platforms and across the globe frankly
with all of our suppliers. That's our best current outlook that we're sharing.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Great. Just a quick aside on this and then I have a second question on Cruise. But just a
clarification, the 25% to 30% you are confident you could do this in North America since I think for
China, I think, Paul said that you were looking probably a more stable volume year-over-year?
A - `Kyle Vogt, Chief Technology Officer `
Hey, Emmanuel, 25% to 30% is a global production number. So, there is some in the US and there
is some in the GM International as well.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Understood. And then second question would be on Cruise. Mary, what are your current thoughts
on optimal timing to bring this to capital markets, not just because of growing capital needs with
the commercialization, which it seems that you have got already well in place, but also as a way to
potentially unlock some additional value for shareholders?
A - `Mary T. Barra, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, Emmanuel. I have always said and the belief is held by the Cruise Board in the GM Board that
we're going to do what's in the best interest of shareholders to create long-term value and we
do not see that a capital raise event is something that we need in the near term. Cruise is well
capitalized and has strong financial support from its investors. GM is well funded and we don't
really think we need to raise additional funds at this time.
We also are committed to making sure we have competitive compensation packages at Cruise to
attract and retain the best and the brightest talent to achieve the objectives and our growth
initiatives here. So, my answer to you would be we are always going to look and do what's in the
best interest. But as we look now, we're in the first chapter and there's still so much that can be
accomplished with a frictionless environment between Cruise and GM and that's what we're
really focused is getting the technology out safely and then really growing at a pace where we
can have leadership.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Understood. Thank you.Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Dan Levy, Analyst, Credit Suisse with Credit Suisse. Your line is open.
Q - `Dan Levy, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Hi. Good evening. Thank you for taking the questions. Maybe first, a question for you, Paul, on the
parameters of the guidance, EBIT guidance. I know you haven't articulated guidance by segment.
There is some details there. But just given the comments for wholesales up 25% to 30% and your
reaffirming the 10% GM North America margin guide, even after factoring in the GMF decline in
the higher spend for SoftBank and Cruise, I guess I'm wondering how you reconcile to having that
lower half of the guidance because it seems like with that 10% North American margin guidance
alone in that 25% to 30% volume growth, it pretty easily gets you to the upper half again. So in
what scenario would you get to that lower half of the guide or is that just conservatism for the
unknown and unknowns?
A - `Paul Jacobson, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Hey, Dan. Thanks for the question. What I would say is this is very much a midpoint
convention guide as we're thinking this. Obviously we've expanded the range over prior years,
which I think is a reflection of the volatility that we've seen in the place. I'd be careful about
extrapolating too much across kind of the profitability from the incremental vehicles as we talked
about and very intentional in the prepared remarks. Lot of that incremental volume is coming in at
a lower contribution than what we've seen from the full size trucks and SUVs going forward.
That's just where the capacity is for us going forward.
So what I would say is with a really robust consumer and a strong continued environment, we
would probably trend towards the high end of that, but we have a lot of volatility. So to the extent
that we see consumer weakness, we see more supply chain pressure, we see more disruptions
in the global logistics platform that impact production, then we could be at the lower end of the
number, but we wanted to give a range that was focused around the midpoint of our expectation
as well as give some comfort and some deference to the volatility that we see.
Q - `Dan Levy, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Okay. Thank you. That's helpful. And then second, Mary, maybe just a question on -- I'd like to
revisit the platform and the benefits. So if we go to EV Silverado and I know you haven't unveiled
the full set of specs, but one question which has come up in the investor community is that on
some of the metrics relative to the other competition that's out there, it's not showing the type
of advantage over your competitors that maybe some had anticipated.
So maybe we can just zoom out and think how you're launching the Ultium vehicles. What are the
benefits that we're going to see versus your competitors? Which of these is going to be more
profitable vehicle? Is it that it's going to show up in other areas of battery efficiency? Is it that this
can help unlock more range that others can have? So what are the benefits of Ultium that we're
going to start to see within the vehicle on more of (inaudible) cost metric basis?
A - `Mary T. Barra, Chief Executive Officer `
I think when we look at what Ultium is providing, first of all, it's going to give us scale and we do
think as we get the full portfolio of Ultium launch, we're going to see that scale and it's going to
give us an advantage from an overall margin perspective, but specifically for the Silverado EV
leveraging Ultium. We have longer range. 400 plus miles; faster charging; better towingcapability. I think you have to really look at this as opposed to. I know there has been some focus
on the miles per kilowatt hour, and we haven't put all the specs down and it's going to get vary
with a lot of features that you choose.
I mean, we very carefully looked to say what are we going to provide for the customer, what
does the customer want in this segment, what's important to them and when you look at more
range, faster charging -- this is more capability in the real world, then when you look at the Ultium
platform also, it gives us the opportunity to have a (inaudible) which gives much more flexibility.
Also being able to see drive these trucks that people are going to see the benefit of a fully
integrated battery pack and body structure, which gives us a mass advantage as well as we think
superior vehicle dynamics.
And then from an LTM perspective, the other thing I would say as it relates to the truck portfolio,
it's going to give us an opportunity to have a full truck portfolio faster and as we've seen over the
last couple of years, think about when we rolled out this current generation of trucks, we went
high feature and high value and we've grown our truck share capability. So, we know that truck
customer there is some that want high value and some that want high feature.
Ultium is going to give us the opportunity to again delight the customer with what they're
specifically looking for as opposed to one or two point solutions, off of a retrofitted platform.
Q - `Dan Levy, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Great. Thank you very much.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Colin Langan, Analyst, Wells Fargo with Wells Fargo. Your line is now open.
Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Great. Thanks for taking my questions. I just wanted to, sorry -- I hope that's basic. I just wanted to
clarify on the Cruise announcement. Your people are able to sign up on the wait list [ph]. Does
that mean you're actually going to be able to do it soon or if you'd like today or is that like you're
on a wait list and in a couple of months they are able to actually start taking rides. (inaudible)
clarify that it's kind of felt like it might happen today? And then I assume that means you have that
sort of final license, I think you've talked about you needed in San Francisco.
A - `Kyle Vogt, Chief Technology Officer `
Hi, Colin. Thanks for the question. The waitlist is open then based on the early demand we saw
this morning, there's going to be a pretty long list pretty quickly, and we are starting small with a
limited number of vehicles limited hours and so I don't think we're going to be able to get to
everyone on that list in the next week or two. And so, it could be some time before people on
the wailist get to use the product, but we have already started carrying members of the public
and we're working through that waitlist now adding new people every day.
The other part of your question, I'm sorry?
Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
I think it got answered. I assume then you've got that last license that you had mentioned.
A - `Kyle Vogt, Chief Technology Officer `Yeah, on the permit, we still have five out of the six necessary permits to operated fared,
rideshare service. So as of today, all of the rides are free and we filed an application for the last
remaining permit in November last year and we continue to work with the CPU. Appointed Public
Utilities Commission and answer questions they have about that application as they pop up. So
stay tuned for monitored on that?
Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Thank you. And then just I wanted a follow-up on the 25 to 30 again. Other automakers are
announcing cuts. It's a bit surprising. I mean what kind of line of sight do you have? I mean is it just
that you have maybe bigger buffer stock now that you're maybe more able to swap out some of
these chips. Just below risky considering I think it seems have been surprised over the last year
that the supply wasn't there, and it seems like a very fragile semi pipeline, it seems any sort of
visibility there that you could provide?
A - `Mary T. Barra, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, again as I said, we have been working closely with our supply base with the Tier ones as well
as the semiconductors. We said last year that we were going to work deep into the tiered base
and understand the capabilities. We were hit pretty hard last year third quarter with Malaysia
because it just so happened that the facilities that we have a lot of GM business happened to be
hard hit by COVID and you saw the losses we suffered there. So I think that's a bit of it, but -- this
is our best estimate with the detailed work that we've been doing all last year and this year.
Now, we still get surprises and then we work to solve those issues, either with an engineering
solution or making trade-offs between vehicles. We believe we're going to continue to do that.
But what we're sharing with you is based on everything we know today, based on the
commitments of the supply base and barring some major COVID disruption or some major
national natural disasters supply chain disruption. This is what we think we're going to be able to
do.
A - `Paul Jacobson, Chief Financial Officer `
And Colin, if I can just add to that. I think, understand some of the skepticism especially based on
the volatility and where others are going forward. This is why we wanted to add the point in there
about where we see Q1. We're coming of from the lower baseline in the second half of the year,
largely because of the impact that Mary mentioned but the run rate that we've seen sequentially
from 3Q to 4Q to 1Q is giving us a heightened level of confidence that it doesn't mean that
things will pop up, but certainly what we're seeing in the very, very near term is giving us a little bit
more confidence.
And, I think the general consensus is that things will be more stable in the second half of the year
than in the first half of the year. So that's kind of how we're extrapolating our expectations.
Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan with JP Morgan. Your line is open.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan `Hi. Thanks for the color on the 2022 outlook including relative to both volume and pricing. I'm
curious for your thoughts on mix in '22. So for example, as you know chip supply continues to
hopefully normalize, does that mean you may produce more modestly priced or lower trim
model vehicles including for rental customers et cetera, (inaudible) the right way to think about
how much of the much richer mix has been supply driven with automakers including yourselves
opting to produce only higher end vehicles. And so, it could maybe unwind versus how much of
the much richer -- mix is maybe more sustainable demand driven. For example, with consumers
increasingly demand in these high-end features, what do you think?
A - `Kyle Vogt, Chief Technology Officer `
Well, thanks for the question, Ryan. I think we continue to just see and have talked all through
2021 about the strength of the consumer and the strength of the, the new models, especially in
the full size trucks and SUVs and how customers were buying up for them. So that, there's
nothing that's changed underlying in the consumer from that standpoint. The comment that we
made in the prepared remarks was largely a function of the increased volume because we were
running full out on a lot of the full size trucks and SUVs.
There is some incremental production capabilities, but really a lot of the unmet production or
underutilized production that was hit in 21 was in the crossover smaller SUV to --. So by definition,
that's where a lot of the production increases in volume increases are going to be in 2022. I don't
think that that changes mix. We're going to see it continue to watch that with the consumer going
through 2022 and it's something that we can adjust on the fly as we see that going forward, but
no reason to believe that the strength of the consumer is deteriorating, but what we saw in 2021.
A - `Mary T. Barra, Chief Executive Officer `
And the only thing I'd add Paul is that when you look at the new full-size trucks with the
enhancements that we've made and frankly even offering some further up level models, I think
that's just another huge opportunity for us. So, I think this going to be a positive year for that and,
and again we focused on those vehicles that we have no we're already running full out. So we
have no capacity to make up, which kind of puts a little more color on to what Paul said about
where the opportunity to add this year.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Very helpful, thank you both. And just lastly, maybe a related follow-up question on if there might
now be our new normal that you see in terms of US industry sales. We used to say that
normalized US demand was around $17 million and so did average around $17 million for a long
time, but there was also when vehicles cost $30,000 or $35,000 versus now they're more like
$40,000 or $45,000. So, just curious if you have any updated thoughts on any new normal in
terms of sales and pricing et-cetera.
A - `Mary T. Barra, Chief Executive Officer `
I don't know if there's anything normal right now or when you look at all of the challenges of the
industry is still facing. As Paul said, we think we've got a large pent-up demand, especially for GM
vehicles and strong full size trucks coming out. We continue to see just incredibly strong demand
for our full-size SUVs and mid-size crossovers. So, I think it's too early to declare normal when
we're still impacted by the semiconductor shortage, they're still buying behavior as an outcome
of COVID in some of the stimulus, the support that was provided.
So things going to take a little while before we declare normal.Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Okay. Very helpful. Thank you.
Operator
Our last question comes from the line of Brian Johnson with Barclays. Your line is open.
Q - Unidentified Participant
It's Stephen, on for Brian. Just two questions here from us in terms of the kind of consolidating
the semiconductor person in the three families and the core development. I guess where do we
stand on that and what's the kind of was expected timeframe when that that could add to
incremental chip supply?
A - `Mary T. Barra, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, that's a mid-term type of solution. Clearly it's full speed ahead of working with the partners
that we announced and getting to the families and so reducing complexity, which we think will us
allow us to secure supply in addition to the relationships that we're creating with these strategic
partners. but that's say a mid-term solution, not a short-term solution.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Okay. And then I guess somewhat related question in terms of the long-term margin target laid
out at the Capital Markets Day 12% to 14% margins, it looks like as we go into 2023 -- the decent
step-up in investment for some of these related businesses. I guess the move-out to 2030
should we be expecting kind of a directionally linear move towards that 12% to 14% or should we
be expecting some years to be kind of flattish or in potentially down as we shift out of I think the
buzz and bring on new businesses.
A - `Paul Jacobson, Chief Financial Officer `
Hey, Stephen. It's Paul. So what I would say is -- it's a little bit lumpy between now and then
because if you think about the trajectory, the number one priority and foundation that we're
building is getting the EV fleet out there. So you're going to see a lot of the revenue growth really
driven by EVs over the next few years and as you get into the latter half of the decade and
you've got the Ultifi platform out there and growing that foundation through electric vehicle, you
are going to start to see what we think is going to be a pretty quick ramp up in the software.
So, the revenue growth is going to be a little bit more steady, especially as we look at what
Cruise is doing going forward. The margin performance probably lags a little bit because some of
the higher margin revenue opportunities from software and the connected vehicle are going to
be are going to come after we get that foundation built in the latter part of the decade.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Okay. Understood. Thanks for taking our questions.
Operator
Thank you. I'd now like to turn the call over to Mary Barra for her closing comments.
A - `Mary T. Barra, Chief Executive Officer `Thanks, Jordan, and thanks everybody for your questions. I want to close again by thanking the
GM team broadly including the GMF team, our union partners, our dealers and our suppliers. The
work that they did together seizing opportunities, addressing challenges, is what allowed us to
have this record performance, and we take that collaboration and problem solving agility and
resiliency into 2022 and we apply that to continuing to accelerate our EV transformation, the work
in software and of course supporting our Cruise company as well.
So, I couldn't be more excited about 2022 and what the year and how it can unfold. I hope you
see and you see the clear sense of determination that we have and we will move even faster to
deliver on our commitments and achieve the growth that we know is right in front of us. So, I want
to assure you that we will keep you updated every step of the way, but '22 is going to be an
exciting year. Thank you.
Operator
That concludes the conference call for today. Thank you for joining us.