Q4 2025 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning, and welcome to the General Motors Company Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025
Conference Call. During the opening remarks, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. After
the opening remarks, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) As a
reminder, this conference call is being recorded Tuesday, January 27, 2026.
I would now like to turn the conference over to `Ashish Kohli, Vice President of Investor Relations, GM's Vice President of Investor
Relations.
`Ashish Kohli, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Amanda, and good morning, everyone. We appreciate you joining us as we review GM's
Financial Results for the Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025. Our conference call materials were
issued this morning and are available on GM's Investor Relations website. We are also
broadcasting this call via webcast.
Joining us today are Mary Barra, GM's Chair and CEO; along with `Paul Jacobson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, GM's Executive
Vice President and CFO; `Susan Sheffield, President and Chief Executive Officer - GM Financial, President and CEO of GM Financial will also be joining us
for the Q&A portion.
On today's call, management will make forward-looking statements about our expectations.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to
differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include the factors identified in our filings with the
SEC. Please review the safe harbor statement on the first page of our presentation, as the
content of this call will be governed by this language.
And with that, I'm delighted to turn the call over to Mary.`Mary T. Barra, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Ashish, and good morning, everyone. I'm incredibly proud of our global team,
including our dealers and suppliers, for delivering an exceptional 2025. Together, we grew the
business and adapted to significant changes in tax and trade policy to deliver full year EBIT
adjusted at the high-end of our guidance range. We are pleased that we delivered a total return
of 54% for our investors, and I'd like to share some of the operating highlights that underscore
our momentum.
In the United States, we achieved our highest full year market share in a decade. In fact, 2025
was our fourth consecutive year of market share growth, and we continue to deliver with low
inventory, low incentives, and strong pricing. Once again, GM led the industry in full-size pickups
and full-size SUVs, and we had our best year ever in crossovers, driven by vehicles like the
redesigned Chevrolet Equinox and Traverse. We have also been very successful with smaller
profitable crossovers like the Chevrolet Trax and Buick Envista because we provide tremendous
value with great styling, technology, and a suite of safety features at some of the lowest prices in
the market.
We're very proud that Car and Driver named Chevrolet Trax to its 10Best list for the third year in a
row, joining the Chevrolet Corvette, Cadillac CT5-V Blackwing, and our full-size SUVs. Not only
that, but the Cadillac ESCALADE IQ won MotorTrend's prestigious SUV and Technology of the
Year awards. Lastly, the vehicle and technology solutions that GM Involved delivers to our
commercial, government, and rental customers helped us lead the US fleet segment for the
second consecutive year.
We demonstrated another true core competency throughout the year, our agility and speed in
adapting to change. We proactively managed our net tariff exposure, reducing it well below our
initial expectations. Thanks to self-help initiatives and policy actions that support companies like
GM that have substantial and growing commitments to American manufacturing. We were also
quick to respond to slowing EV demand by selling our share in the Ultium Cells Lansing plant and
pivoting Orion assembly from EV to ICE production.
Our compelling vehicle and technology portfolio, a resilient US market, and the steps we have
taken to strengthen our position should help make 2026 an even better year for GM. The
charges we took in the second half of the year to reduce EV capacity will reduce our fixed costs
and resolve the majority of our commercial claims tied to lower-volume. In addition, our warranty
expense is moving in the right direction, and our EV losses will be lower. As a result, we expect
full year EBIT adjusted margins in North America will be back in the 8% to 10% margin range.
We are also operating in a US regulatory and policy environment that is increasingly aligned with
customer demand. This allows us to onshore more production to help meet strong demand for
our ICE vehicles. We continue to believe in EVs, and our portfolio brought almost 100,000 new
customers to GM last year. We know EV drivers don't often go back to ICE, so we'll continue
executing our plan to dramatically reduce costs and to be well-positioned for the future. This will
require continued investment, but at much lower levels, and I'm confident in our path to
profitability.
Our strong foundation and operating discipline are why our average annual free cash flow
generation has structurally improved from $3 billion to $10 billion over the last five years.
Consistently strong cash generation has allowed us to execute all phases of our capital allocation
program, from investing in the business and our people to maintaining a strong balance sheetand returning capital to shareholders. We believe that formula is sustainable, which is why we are
increasing our quarterly dividend rate by 20% and planning future share repurchases.
The growth of OnStar services and Super Cruise further underscores our confidence. In 2025,
OnStar had a record 12 million subscribers, including more than 620,000 Super Cruise
subscribers, achieving nearly 80% year-over-year growth. OnStar fleet subscriptions hit 2 million,
which is 2 times any other competitor. This year, we will continue to grow our Super Cruise
business in North America and expand into South Korea, the Middle East, and Europe. We expect
our deferred revenue from software and services to be approximately $7.5 billion by the end of
this year, up nearly 40% from 2025.
We are also confident in the turnaround of our China business and our growing new energy
vehicle portfolio. They are now about 50% of sales in China and profitable across all price points.
As we look further ahead, our annual production in the US is expected to rise to an industry-
leading 2 million units after we begin production of the Chevrolet Equinox in Kansas, bring the
Chevrolet Blazer to Tennessee, and add incremental capacity for the Cadillac ESCALADE and
launch our next-generation full-size pickups at Orion assembly in Michigan.
We are also launching our sixth-generation Small-Block V8, and the engineering teams are
leveraging world-class virtual tools to deliver better fuel efficiency and power for our customers
and faster development times. We reached our performance and emission goals in a third of the
time versus the prior program by conducting thousands of combustion chamber simulations while
we reduced prototyping for a 20% savings in material and tooling costs.
AI, Machine Learning, and Robotics are also driving safety, quality, and speed in our manufacturing
plants, so we can get great products and technologies into the hands of customers faster. For
example, a cross-functional team developed a predictive weld quality model that has enabled us
to deliver even more consistent welds and tighter control, directly improving cost and quality.
We are also deploying robotic systems alongside humans to make their jobs safer and easier to
perform. For example, a robot can pick up an exhaust system and position it so a single operator
can complete the installation without strain. Our robotics and AI work will converge at Orion
assembly, where plant upgrades include advanced vision systems and the installation of 2,500
robot and cobots controlled by GM design software.
Then in 2028, we expect to launch our breakthrough LMR battery chemistry. LMR will help us
reduce cell and pack costs by several thousand dollars. Also in 2028, we expect to launch our
second-generation software-defined vehicle architecture for ICE vehicles and EVs. It will unite
every major system from propulsion to infotainment and safety on a single high-speed compute
core. The performance upgrade includes 10 times more OTA capacity and 1,000 times more
bandwidth, allowing our vehicles to get better, smarter, and deliver more value to our customers
over time. It's also an enabler for our eyes-off, hands-off driving technology. This technology and
our new software architecture will both launch on the Cadillac ESCALADE IQ in 2028.
With our Super Cruise experience, the expertise we brought in-house from Cruise, and our
learnings from millions of miles of fully autonomous driving, we believe we have everything we
need to deliver a safe, reliable, and highly capable system that customers will embrace. Safety is
key to building trust in new technologies, as we've demonstrated with Super Cruise. For our eyes-
off solution, we are building in redundancy with LiDAR, radar, and cameras, and we will begin on
highways.
Finally, I want to mention that we are hosting our call today from our new global headquarters inpeople work today, while also saving us tens of millions of dollars annually. It's the latest example
of our commitment to operate as efficiently and as profitably as we can.
Thank you. And now I'll turn the call over to Paul.
`Paul Jacobson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Mary, and welcome everyone. Over the past several years, we've been on an
incredible journey. In the face of a rapidly evolving industry and significant macro challenges, the
resilience and adaptability of the GM team have been truly exceptional. These strengths have
translated into consistently strong financial performance, including $12.7 billion of EBIT adjusted
and $10.6 billion of adjusted automotive free cash flow in 2025, resulting in a year end cash
balance of $21.7 billion.
As Mary noted, our product portfolio keeps getting better, driving market share gains of 60 basis
points in 2025, while we maintain some of the lowest incentives in the entire industry. This
disciplined approach has been a key contributor to nearly $25 billion of free cash flow generation
over the past two years. This robust cash generation enables us to execute confidently across all
pillars of our capital allocation framework. Over the last two years, we've invested more than $20
billion in capital projects to support growth in our core business and advance our strategic
priorities.
Looking ahead to 2026 and 2027, we expect to invest $10 billion to $12 billion annually, including
approximately $5 billion to expand US manufacturing capacity for some of the highest demand
vehicles, and further reduce our tariff exposure. We're also proactively strengthening our balance
sheet by thoughtfully managing debt maturities. In 2025, we retired $1.8 billion of debt, further
enhancing our financial flexibility and reinforcing our long-term resilience.
Returning capital to shareholders remains a cornerstone of our capital strategy. In the fourth
quarter, we executed $2.5 billion in open market share repurchases, retiring another 33 million
shares and bringing total buybacks for the year to $6 billion. In 2025, we also distributed more
than $500 million in dividends. Since announcing our accelerated share repurchase program in
November 2023, we have returned $23 billion to shareholders through share repurchases. These
actions have reduced our outstanding share count by more than 465 million shares or nearly
35%, leaving approximately 930 million diluted outstanding shares at year end 2025.
Our strong execution and consistent capital returns have delivered substantial shareholder value,
with our stock price appreciating more than 170% since late November 2023. This performance
reinforces our conviction that repurchasing GM stock at current valuation levels, which are back to
historical norms, but remain well below our peers, represents one of the most compelling
opportunities to continue to generate long term shareholder value. Yesterday, our Board
approved a new share repurchase authorization of $6 billion and a 20% increase in our dividend
to $0.18 per share, reflecting its confidence in our ability to generate strong future cash flows and
underscoring our ongoing commitment to returning capital to shareholders.
Now let's turn to our fourth quarter results. Total company revenue was $45 billion, down
approximately 5% year-over-year, primarily due to our disciplined approach to production and
dealer inventory, including aligning EV production to demand. We also faced production
constraints on the Chevrolet Trax and a year-over-year headwind from strategic decisions to end
production of the Chevrolet Malibu and Cadillac XT4. The lower-volume was partially offset by
strong pricing across our 2026 model year lineup.EBIT adjusted was $2.8 billion, and EPS diluted adjusted was $2.51, both increasing year-over-year
despite the impact of tariffs. We incurred incremental costs for alternate chip sourcing related to
Nexperia totaling $100 million in Q4, and we anticipate another $100 million of pressure in Q1
2026. Hats off to our supply-chain team, as they did a great job finding alternatives to ensure we
had no production disruptions. Adjusted automotive free cash flow was $2.8 billion, driven by
higher EBIT adjusted performance and favorable cash timing.
I want to take a moment to address tariff costs for the quarter and for the full year, as well as the
charges we have taken related to EVs. Through the third quarter, we incurred $2.4 billion in gross
tariff costs. In the fourth quarter, we incurred another $700 million, bringing the total for the year
to $3.1 billion, which was below our predicted range of $3.5 billion to $4.5 billion.
When we provided updated guidance in October, we were tracking towards the low-end of this
range, but took a conservative approach given the dynamic trade and tariff environment. We
were able to do even better based on strong execution and favorable policy developments
during the quarter, including the benefit from a lower tariff rate for Korea. For the full year, we
were able to offset more than 40% of these gross tariff costs through a combination of go-to-
market actions, footprint adjustments, and cost-reduction initiatives.
Turning now to our EV charges. During the third and fourth quarters, we reassessed our EV
capacity and manufacturing footprint to better align with softer-than-expected consumer
demand, particularly in light of recent US government policy changes, including the termination of
certain consumer tax incentives. As a result, in the third quarter, we recorded charges totaling $1.6
billion, including $1.2 billion of non-cash impairment charges, primarily related to transitioning our
Orion assembly from EV to ICE production. The remaining $0.4 billion consisted of cash charges
associated with contractual cancellations and supplier settlements.
In the fourth quarter, we recorded an additional $6 billion of charges. This included $1.8 billion of
non-cash impairments, largely driven by our decision to discontinue production of the BrightDrop
electric van and to impair certain EV-related assets. The remaining $4.2 billion was primarily
related to contract cancellations and supplier settlements, which will impact future cash flows. The
aggregate Q3 and Q4 charges totaled $7.6 billion, of which $4.6 billion is expected to be settled
in cash. In 2025, we made approximately $400 million in cash payments and expect to pay the
majority of the remaining balance in 2026.
Moving forward, we expect material but significantly smaller cash and non-cash EV-related
charges as we continue commercial negotiations with our supply base and address proposed
regulatory changes to greenhouse gas emission standards. Any greenhouse gas-related charges
would be non-cash. It is important to note that besides BrightDrop, we have not impaired our
existing retail portfolio of EVs. We are working to improve the profitability of these vehicles
through new battery technologies, engineering improvements, and operational efficiencies, along
with a more rational EV market. As consumer adoption of EVs increases, albeit at a slower pace
than previously anticipated, we expect to achieve the necessary scale to deliver EVs profitably
over time.
Now let's move to the fourth quarter regional results. North America delivered EBIT adjusted of
$2.2 billion and margins of 6.1%. We ended the year with 48 days of dealer inventory, which is
slightly below our 50 to 60-day year end target. This positions us well for 2026, allowing us to
balance production to various demand levels. We are seeing positive trends in our warranty
performance, with monthly cash flows continuing to be stable.GM International, excluding China equity income, delivered EBIT adjusted of $200 million, driven
by strong execution in South America and the Middle East, along with China equity income of
$100 million, excluding the restructuring charge. We recorded a $600 million special item in our
auto China equity income primarily connected to prior restructuring actions. It's important to note
that these charges are not expected to require any capital from GM as the joint venture has
sufficient cash to cover these costs.
I want to commend our China team for executing a disciplined multi-year plan to rightsize
capacity, accelerate electrification, and revitalize our operations. These collective efforts have
been instrumental in achieving significant milestones, including new energy vehicle sales reaching
nearly 1 million units in 2025, representing more than half of the total sales in China.
GM Financial also had another strong year of profitability and capital returns to GM. Fourth quarter
EBT adjusted was down slightly year-over-year at $600 million. Lower lease termination gains
were partially offset by higher retail yields and lower provision expense. GM Financial's full year
EBT adjusted was $2.8 billion within their guidance of $2.5 billion to $3 billion, and they paid
dividends of $1.5 billion to GM. Last week, GM Financial received approval for their Industrial Bank
application. Once launched, this bank will enable them to accept deposits, providing another
source of stable and diversified funding. Over time, we also expect this to lower the cost of funds
and enhance their ability to offer more competitive auto loans to customers. I want to personally
thank Susan and the entire GMF team for their persistence throughout this process.
Now let's turn to our 2026 guidance, where we expect EBIT adjusted of $13 billion to $15 billion,
EPS diluted adjusted of $11 to $13 per share, and adjusted automotive free cash flow of $9 billion
to $11 billion. Starting with tariffs, we anticipate gross tariff costs in the $3 billion to $4 billion range,
slightly higher than 2025 due to an additional quarter of tariff exposure, partially offset by the
reduced Korea tariff and expanded MSRP offset program.
For Q1, we expect the gross tariff impact to be in the $750 million to $1 billion range, which is well
below the quarterly impact in Q2 and Q3 of 2025, but more than Q4. The higher quarterly run
rate in 2026 versus Q4 '25 is largely driven by the timing of tariff costs, which can be lumpy,
particularly as it relates to the supply chain. The team did a great job offsetting over 40% of our
gross tariff costs in 2025 through go-to-market strategies, footprint changes, and cost
efficiencies. As we look ahead to 2026, we expect these cost savings to be sustained and
believe there are additional actions that can help mitigate our tariff impact.
For the industry, we expect total US SAAR to be in the low 16 million unit range for the year. We
expect North America ICE wholesale volumes to be flat to up modestly. ICE volumes this year are
constrained due to portfolio shifts, including the ending of the Cadillac XT6 and some expected
downtime ahead of the new Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra launches. We anticipate a
benefit of $1 billion to $1.5 billion related to the actions we've taken to rightsize our EV capacity.
The benefits from both EV-related charges and substantially lower EV wholesale volumes will
positively impact both mix and costs.
We also expect that the temporary downtime at our Ultium Cells joint venture will result in lower
production tax credits, but this impact should be largely offset by positive inventory adjustments
from lower cell inventory levels. Lower production tax credits in 2026 should then represent a
tailwind in 2027 as we resume normalized production.
We expect North America pricing to be flat-to-up 0.5% as we realize the full year benefit of
model year 2026 price increases. While this includes a placeholder for potentially higher
incentives due to the competitive environment, we are confident in our ability to maintain pricingdiscipline. While some uncertainties remain in the regulatory environment, we are anticipating a
benefit in the range of $500 million to $750 million, primarily related to savings from no longer
having to purchase compliance credits. In addition, we are seeing positive trends in warranty
costs, which are expected to deliver a $1 billion benefit versus 2025.
We expect an increase of around $400 million of high-margin revenue generated from the
expansion of OnStar software and services, including Super Cruise. This growth is expected to
help increase deferred revenue from $5.4 billion at the end of 2025 to approximately $7.5 billion
by the end of '26, further strengthening our future margin profile and long-term growth trajectory.
We expect headwinds in the range of $1 billion to $1.5 billion associated with the onshoring of
vehicle production to the US, investments to enhance supply chain resiliency, and investments to
support our software initiatives. While these initiatives create near-term pressure, they will
increase capacity of our highly profitable full-size pickups and SUVs, as well as to help further
mitigate tariff costs beginning in 2027. We also expect incremental headwinds in the range of $1
billion to $1.5 billion, driven primarily by recent trends in aluminum, copper, and other key
commodities as well as higher DRAM costs and unfavorable foreign-exchange movements.
Turning to our regions, we expect both China and our international operations outside of China to
be profitable and deliver results largely consistent with 2025. GM Financial is once again
expected to deliver EBT adjusted in the $2.5 billion to $3 billion range, reflecting a stable credit
environment. Importantly, as Mary noted, we believe we have a clear and achievable path back to
8% to 10% North America margins in 2026. The midpoint of our EBIT adjusted guidance supports
this outcome, and we are confident in our ability to deliver this goal ahead of investor
expectations.
We are accelerating innovation and investing in advanced mobility, manufacturing technologies,
and robotics to chart the future. This includes expanding Super Cruise to bring hands-free driving
to more vehicles and scaling high-value digital services through OnStar, further strengthening our
competitive advantage in enhancing the customer experience.
In summary, we enter this year with strong momentum, a resilient balance sheet, and the
operational flexibility to deliver on our commitments. We remain focused on investing in long-
term profitable growth while retaining the agility needed to navigate a dynamic macro and
regulatory landscape, positioning GM for sustained success not only in 2026, but well beyond.
Thank you. And with that, we'll move to the Q&A portion of the call.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from the line of `Dan Levy, Analyst, Barclays with
Barclays. Your line is open.
Q - `Dan Levy, Analyst, Barclays `
Hi, good morning. Thanks for taking the questions. Wondering if you could first just address the
assumption on pricing. And specifically, I think we know that we are in an environment where
arguably it's a demand-constrained environment. There's one of your competitors that is keen on
gaining, I'm sure you're coming off of a, let's say, tougher comp on the pricing side. I think you did
just under $1.5 billion in positive pricing last year. So, can you just unpack the assumption forpricing to be flat to up? How much of that is just the benefit of ICE or some other dynamics in
there?
A - `Paul Jacobson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Hey, good morning, Dan. Thanks for the question. What I would say is going into this year, we're
not modeling any increases. This is really just the annualization of what we did in '25, coming
through primarily for model year '26. So we're obviously going to take it one day, one week, one
month at a time as we go through and watch where we are. But we're not putting projections out
there as if we've got a lot of price increases to go through. We're cognizant of what the
environment is out there, but we're also confident with our vehicles, and with the new truck
launches later this year, I feel like we can continue to drive the momentum commercially that we
have in the past with no significant change.
Q - `Dan Levy, Analyst, Barclays `
Great. Thank you. As a second question, I wanted to just ask about the dynamics of your product
portfolio. And within that, first, maybe you could just address the fixed cost base that you have.
You still have all of your EV programs intact, you still have much of the battery capacity intact. This
was set for a higher volume outlook. To what extent does this portfolio align with what's going to
likely be higher near-term ICE mix? And then maybe you could just address the potential to add
hybrids into the portfolio. Just how much more do we have to see the portfolio and the fixed-cost
base shift to adjust to this new reality that we have?
A - `Mary T. Barra, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I'll start, and then I'll turn it over to Paul for some of the financial piece of it. But we think we
have the right portfolio. We have an incredibly strong internal combustion engine portfolio, as Paul
mentioned, with the new trucks coming out. And unlike many others, we invested in having a
dedicated EV platform that gives us a foundation for the portfolio we have. As we've said, the
investments we're making now in EVs will be very much focused on cost-reduction like LMR. We
also have teams on each of our EVs to continue to take cost out beyond the battery. And then we
have announced in the past that we will have some hybrids in key segments.
So I think we're going to have the right portfolio, and we also are focused on the end game. We
know once somebody drives an EV, they rarely go back to internal combustion engine. And we
also -- a big enabler of EV adoption is going to be charging. And last year, the charger -- level 2
chargers increased by 25%. So EV adoption is going to grow over time. We think we're well-
positioned there. So we were very, I think, thoughtful about the way that we adjusted capacity in
light of a very dramatic change in the regulatory environment, as well as the -- eliminating the
consumer tax credit.
A - `Paul Jacobson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Just to add to that, Dan, I think as we went through the restructuring, we were mindful of
where is the excess capacity that we know we're not going to need for a long time because we
had built up for a very different regulatory environment, as Mary had said. But we're also
cognizant of making sure that we preserve capacity to be able to pivot and rotate where we
need to get the cost savings. So, particularly as it relates to battery capacity, we've got enough to
be able to transition to LMR and to LFP as those projects get underway over the next couple of
years. So it really was trying to look at what is the right short-term decision, but also how do we
balance that against long-term, and where we know it's going to go or we believe it's going to go
in the future.And as far as vehicle programs, remember, with the product cycle that the industry has, some of
these decisions were made years ago, and we have to do our best to be able to pivot to where
demand is going to be. And I think if you look at this management team and what it's
accomplished over the last several years in the midst of a lot of uncertainty, I think we've got what
it takes to be able to respond and meet the consumer where they are as they continue to evolve.
Q - `Dan Levy, Analyst, Barclays `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Michael Ward, Analyst, Citigroup with Citigroup. Your line is open.
Q - `Michael Ward, Analyst, Citigroup `
Thanks very much. Good morning, everyone.
A - `Mary T. Barra, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
Good morning.
Q - `Michael Ward, Analyst, Citigroup `
Two things. First on the inventory. You see the impact on the pricing. Is that inventory discipline
can -- is that going to continue? And what are the implications for cash flow? Is that one of the
ingredients that's adding up to the stronger-than-expected cash generation?
A - `Paul Jacobson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Hey, good morning, Mike. Thanks for the question. So on the inventory side, I think the
commercial team and the production team have both done a really good job of coordinating the
last few years to keep us within that targeted range of 50 to 60. We had a really strong
December month which is why we ended the year at 48 days of inventory. So I think we're going
to continue to balance that where it is. I don't think there's a big buildup contemplated. In fact,
with the transition to the new truck, we'll lose some production as well. But overall, I think it's that
discipline that has really helped us to drive much, much more consistency in our cash generation
going forward. So we're not banking on any significant inventory builds, although it is an
opportunity potentially to get back into that 50 to 60-day range.
Q - `Michael Ward, Analyst, Citigroup `
And then on the -- this announcement by the Industrial Bank, and I think FDIC approval the other
day, that seems like a bigger deal than just on the outset, as it relates to cost of capital for GM
Financial. How much can you save from just a cost point of capital on that?
A - `Paul Jacobson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I'll start, and then I'll let Susan chime in as well. But this is really a great achievement and
one that candidly probably should have been approved a few years ago, as we went through
that. But the perseverance of the team to get that through provides yet another opportunity to
drive capital in an efficient way for us. It will take some time. But Susan, I'll let you comment on
anything you want to add.A - `Susan Sheffield, President and Chief Executive Officer - GM Financial `
Yeah. Thanks, Paul, and thanks for the question. Very excited to have the conditional approval and
get the Industrial Bank up and running. And as Paul said, this is going to be complementary to our
funding platform, and it will allow us to offer depository products and another source of funding
to help us bring down the cost of funds somewhat. They are high-yield savings account and
broker deposits. So as it gets up and running, again, complementary to our footprint, it's not
going to replace how we fund the business, but will be complementary to it and allow us to bring
down the cost of funds in the basis points over time. And on our debt complex, that's a
meaningful move.
Q - `Michael Ward, Analyst, Citigroup `
Meaningful like 100 basis points, is that the type of meaningful move you're talking about?
A - `Susan Sheffield, President and Chief Executive Officer - GM Financial `
Probably not that much. It just depends on the rate environment, but it's going to help us be
more competitive.
Q - `Michael Ward, Analyst, Citigroup `
Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Joe Spak with UBS. Your line is open.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you. Good morning, everyone. First, just I guess bigger picture. Mary, I wanted to go back
to some of your comments on portfolio, and you mentioned hybrids. I mean, that's a pretty broad
term nowadays with traditional plug-ins and EREVs. So I was wondering if you could maybe shed a
little bit more light on how you're seeing that portfolio evolving? And then is that considered in
the $10 billion to $12 billion CapEx you've guided through -- guided for, for the next couple of
years?
And I guess, most importantly, yes, powertrain, I think, is going to be part of the consumer
decision, but the features in the car seem -- are seemingly becoming more important, and you're
sort of highlighting that with some of the Super Cruise and other software. So will all these
vehicles be able to use that next-gen architecture you showed that I think is supposed to launch
in '28?
A - `Mary T. Barra, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Joe, a lot packed into that question. But first of all, any products that I've talked about are
comprehended in the $10 billion to $12 billion capital. So yes, SDV, our next-generation software-
defined platform and Super Cruise will be available across both ICE and EV platforms. And from a
hybrid perspective, again, we're looking at where are the segments that there's the most
demand for hybrids that are important from our total portfolio. So I'm not going to give you any
specifics other than we're looking at a segment-by-segment for what we feel that we need to
have to make sure we compete.And I'll just reiterate that we're -- in the last four years, even as others have brought on hybrids,
we're still growing share. And that I think just indicates that we have the right product portfolio. So
-- and lastly, I just want to comment, you're absolutely right. The propulsion system of the vehicle
is one distinguisher, but people are looking for their vehicle to do more. And that's why I think we
also are going to be distinguishing ourselves as a full-line OEM that's been around for a while,
able to have a very modern electrical architecture that will then be the foundation for offering
more services of AI assistance, as well as continuing to grow Super Cruise and into our eyes-off,
hands-off that we've announced for 2028. So I feel very confident that this is going to be another
area where GM distinguishes itself from others with what we have planned and what we'll be
rolling out. And the team is excited and is on track.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, UBS `
Thanks. And then, Paul, the -- I just wondered if we could unpack the $1 billion to $1.5 billion in
onshoring and software expense. And is there any way we should think about the split between
that because -- and please correct me if I'm wrong, and think about this. But I imagine the
software expense portion of that is ongoing and may even grow over time in line with what we
just talked about. But the cost really in the start-up, the onshoring, I would think of as more as
temporary, and maybe there's some relief as we think beyond '26. Is that right?
A - `Paul Jacobson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Joe. I would probably split them about 50-50 as we're thinking about it going
forward. Obviously, the ramp-up costs of the onshoring will be offset as they go into production
into the future. So there's a little bit of an offset there. And then certainly on the software side,
we're continuing to invest in those technologists and those programmers to be able to get
where we need to go on SDV 2.0 and on autonomy and ultimately Super Cruise enhancements
going forward. So I'd split them about 50-50. It will vary over time. But that's the way we're
thinking about it.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Andrew Percoco, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.
Q - `Andrew Percoco, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thanks so much. Good morning, everyone. Thanks for taking the question. I want to start
on the tariff disclosure, the $3 billion to $4 billion gross tariff cost for 2026. It sounds like you're
assuming the lower South Korea tariff in that assumption. Can you maybe just talk to, I know, it's
obviously overnight some headlines that it might be going back to 25%. What would that mean
for you? And then maybe just remind us what you're doing in terms of tariff mitigation for 2026. I
think you talked about 35% offset for 2025. Wondering if that's a similar range for 2026 and
maybe what some of the moving pieces are to get you there?
A - `Mary T. Barra, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I'll start and then turn it over to Paul for some of the specifics. But we are encouraging and
hopeful that the countries will get the regulatory approvals or legal approvals in their country to
put into place the deal that was actually negotiated and agreed to in October. As Paul indicated in15%, that's going to be something a headwind that will work to offset. Paul, if you want to get into
some of the specifics?
A - `Paul Jacobson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So thanks for the question, Andrew. The offset, the self-help provisions, just as a reminder,
we talked about go-to-market, we talked about manufacturing footprint changes, and we talked
about fixed-cost reductions. Obviously, for Joe's question that we just went through, there's
some fixed-cost pressure that's new with the manufacturing additions that we'll take on in '26,
that will obviously lead to significant offsets in 2027 as we begin the onshore production. But in
'26, it's really a lot of the annualization of what we've done. So with the go-to-market and then
the fixed-cost reductions, we'll get an annualization benefit in '26. So we should end up at a
position where our net tariffs are actually lower in '26 than they were in 2025. So that equates to
slightly more than the 40% offset just from that annualization.
Q - `Andrew Percoco, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Got it. Okay. That's super helpful. And then maybe just coming back to Super Cruise, you
mentioned expanding that into some international markets. Can you just remind us what -- maybe
what regulatory approvals are needed to do that? And also from a functionality standpoint, can
you maybe just give us a roadmap for what improvements consumers might expect to see
going-forward, whether that be point-to-point? Just kind of wondering what the progression of
that looks like over the next few years before you get to full eyes-off, hands-off L3 with that next-
gen platform? Thank you.
A - `Mary T. Barra, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
No. Andrew, we can't get you the specific. We have a roadmap that we're working to where we
continue to expand and have more features that we haven't announced yet. So stay tuned on
that. And as to the regulatory specifics, I think I don't have them top of mind, but I know the team
is working and the rollout is planned, and I don't think there's any barriers for stopping the global
expansion that we have of Super Cruise.
Q - `Andrew Percoco, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `James Picariello, Analyst, BNP Paribas with BNP Paribas. Your line is open.
Q - `James Picariello, Analyst, BNP Paribas `
Hi, everybody. Just have a question on -- first, on the GM North America margin range of 8% to
10%. I mean that clearly embeds a pretty sizable step-up, and you have the $14 billion midpoint
guide for the total company. Just wanted to address the moving pieces there as to how we get
to that range, yet still only have total company at the $14 billion. I guess what my model is
currently saying is, if I get to 8% to 10% for GM North America, even at the low-end, it would imply
higher overall EBIT. So any clarity there would be great. Thank you.
A - `Paul Jacobson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, James. Excuse me, sorry. We're incredibly proud of the work that the North
America team is doing to continue to drive back to that 8% to 10% margins. Many of the tailwindsthat we mentioned in the prepared remarks about improved EV profitability, improved warranty
expense, regulatory costs all benefit North America. And so it's a journey that I think is ahead of
where investors were, and we worked hard to try to make sure that we can deliver that in 2026.
And I think our guidance reflects the confidence that we'll be able to do that. Obviously, a lot of
things going on in the world internationally and with the work that the China team has done, that
kind of disrupts a little bit of the balance that we've seen historically. But overall, we think it's a
good start to the year in terms of laying out these expectations, and we're set to go get them.
Q - `James Picariello, Analyst, BNP Paribas `
Yeah, understood. And then just my follow-up is on GM's memory chip supply, and just an
understanding of how much of this year's supply is already locked in, and is pricing also
predominantly locked in for the year? Thank you.
A - `Mary T. Barra, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, we shared that between commodities, DRAM, and FX, we see a headwind of $1 billion to
$1.5 billion. We're not breaking that out specifically. I would say the team is actively working from a
memory chip perspective. And as of now, we don't see any issues that are going to impact our
ability to produce. I think you've seen us over the last couple of years, even going back to the
semiconductor shortage, to see how the team works and gets ahead of these. And so that's
obviously ongoing work the team is doing. But as of now, we don't see anything that's going to
create an issue for us there.
Q - `James Picariello, Analyst, BNP Paribas `
Thanks.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, TD Cowen with TD Cowen. Your line is open.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, TD Cowen `
Great. Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Just first a question on the full-size pickup launch this
year. I'm curious kind of what's embedded into the guide at a high-level. I know, Paul, you
mentioned some downtime. I don't know if you're able to clarify that or quantify that. And should
we think about some of the volume price mix impacts more later this year or more of a 2027
impact?
A - `Paul Jacobson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Itay. Obviously, we're really excited about the new trucks that are coming online.
We'll obviously have to take some downtime as we retool for that. Some of that we'll be able to
build ahead a little to offset, but you will see that impacted in our volumes this year overall. On
the pricing, I would say it's largely going to be a 2027 tailwind, I think going forward. And the one
thing I've shared this with a number of investors that the historical norm of a giant up in price for a
model year really doesn't hold in this environment, where pricing has held up on the later years of
the model run going forward. So obviously, in the low inventory, low incentive world that we've
seen, we haven't seen the typical pricing heuristic where we see a lot of pricing erosion at the
end of a production run.
So we're not expecting to see a giant pop in prices, but this is an opportunity to deliver more
value, and we're confident that when the new trucks come out, we're going to continue to drivethe type of share momentum and pricing discipline that we've seen over the past several years.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, TD Cowen `
Perfect. That's very helpful. As a quick follow up, I was hoping you can check kind of at a high-level
what you're assuming the declines in EV volume this year, how much of that could translate to
incremental ICE demand for GM, and kind of how that affect your inventory and kind of wholesale
volume planning throughout the year?
A - `Mary T. Barra, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, it is a great question. I don't think anyone really knows what the steady-state EV demand will
be in this new environment. I think we're still seeing -- we saw a fairly substantial pull ahead
before the consumer credit went away. And so we're we -- and looking at other geographies that
had EV incentives and then took it away, it literally was six months before we really started to
understand what steady-state would be. Having said that, we're looking across all aspects of
where we can have additional volume polarity, answer the fact that we ended the year with a
lower inventory below the 50 to 60 days.
So we're going to continue to look at where the opportunities to get more with the full-size truck
downtime were pretty tight, but the team usually does a great job of pulling out more production
when it's needed. As an old manufacturing person, those are the challenges that you love to
have. So again, we're going to see where the EV market is, and then we're going to maximize as
much as we can from an internal combustion engine perspective.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, TD Cowen `
That's very helpful. Appreciate that. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comesfrom `Colin Langan, Analyst, Wells Fargo with Wells Fargo. Your line is open.
Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Oh, great. Thanks for taking my questions. If I look at the quantified puts and takes in the
guidance, they kind of net out. So what is actually driving the expected increase? There's a slight
increase in pricing. And then is the rest volume? Because I thought your commentary said ICE
volume flat to slightly up. So what is the gap to kind of drive numbers up year-over-year?
A - `Paul Jacobson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So good morning, Colin. Thanks for the question. So we tried to do a good job of laying out
sort of the key headwinds and tailwinds. But when we lay all of that out together, we actually see
some upside coming through on that. Some of it will be in our ability to lower our net tariff
exposure. Some of it will be on the regulatory side that we expect coming in as well. And then
some of it is going to be continued work on driving EV profitability improvement.
So we laid out what we see on some of the fixed-cost relief. But as you know, we struggled this
year with sort of step-down after step-down after step-down in EV costs that, at the end of the
day, result in a lot of supplier claims that we've tried to sort of all bring together in the one-time
step-down. So when you look at it across the board, all of those result in what we believe is going
to be a pretty strong year-over-year improvement as we've highlighted.Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
So, is that a cost-improvement that you're implying outside of what's listed in the slides?
A - `Paul Jacobson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
I mean, ultimately, when you look at the listings in the slide and what we've highlighted, it really
comes down to a margin improvement on the vehicles going forward because we absorb so
much cost in '25 between that warranty, all the tailwinds that we highlighted.
Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Got it. Okay. And then why -- you assumed last year the guidance pricing down 1% to 1.5%. Why
the optimism this year? It seemed like a little bit more conservative, last year ended up being a
lot better.
A - `Paul Jacobson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Well, I think last year as we were looking through the uncertainty that we saw across the board,
we didn't want to make any statements. Then obviously, as we saw the year progress, we took
that guide up. And this year, what we've assumed as per the question from Dan at the beginning
of the call was we haven't assumed any pricing increase at all. This is just we put in the model
year '26 late in 2025. This is the annualization of that. So we're assuming that that holds, but
we're not counting on any additional pricing coming through. So I wouldn't say that it is an
aggressive assumption. It just is more of a function of kind of where we see the landscape today.
Q - `Colin Langan, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Got it. All right. Thanks for taking my questions.
A - `Paul Jacobson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Absolutely. Thanks.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Wolfe Research with Wolfe Research. Your line is
open.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Oh, great. Thank you. Can you talk a little bit about how you're thinking about the mix benefits
implied or assumed in the -- in this year's outlook? I know some of it is reflected in these lower EV
losses that you quantified at 1 to 1.5 [ph]. Is there another potential mix benefit from optimizing
ICE mix in light of the emissions deregulation or from rebuilding inventories, which were at a very
lean level at the end of 2025?
A - `Paul Jacobson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Good morning, Emmanuel. The mix benefits as you've highlighted them, we certainly are
expecting EVs to probably be down for the full year given the cessation of the consumer tax
credit going forward. The volumes are somewhat hampered by the transition to the new truck
platform. So I'm not sure that there's a huge volume push that we're banking on, but obviously,
we'll take every opportunity we can.Now, without perhaps being obvious, the weather that we've seen recently has obviously
impacted production likely for everybody, given the width and the breadth of the storm going
forward. So we've got, I think, some makeup work that we've got to do going forward, but we're
confident that the team will be able to do that, and glad that everybody has stayed safe through
our plants.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
And then I was hoping to ask you about the warranty cost benefit of $1 billion for this year. Can
you just remind us the dynamics and drivers of this? Obviously, you had pretty large warranty
costs in 2025. But then I think recently, there was a reopening of the investigation into some of
these V8 engines. So how much of it has already been essentially provisioned for? And what drive
really the confidence in this year's benefit?
A - `Paul Jacobson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So all of this starts, Emmanuel, with what we see on the monthly cash and where we see
the exposure. It's obviously a very complex set of calculations and analysis going forward across
the vehicle universe. But it really begins with cash, and we've seen that flattening, which is the first
thing that needs to happen before you can ultimately come back down the curve on accruals
because of the lagging effect there. But when you look at the L87 and the V8 engines, we've
seen really good progress with the fixes that the team has put out there with the oil change and
some of the testing that we can do with dealerships.
So, we believe that will mitigate and hopefully ultimately bring that down or certainly not lead to
any more increases going-forward. So the team is hard at work across looking at every detailed
cause of the warranty accrual, it's not just the big ones, but it's the small ones. We're looking at
inflationary pressures that we've seen at the dealerships and making sure that the dealers are
charging fair prices to us for warranty, as they are for retail across the board. And it's really an all-
hands-on-deck, and we're starting to see some really early green shoots on some of that work
that's been ongoing. And that's where we think it will compound into warranty savings for us into
'26 and hopefully beyond.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, J.P. Morgan with J.P. Morgan. Your line is open.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Good morning. Thanks for taking my question, which is on the emissions regulation assumption
baked into the '26 guide. The outlook for $500 million to $750 million of savings there from no
longer needing to purchase those compliant credits, it seems a bit less than the roughly, I think, $1
billion annually that you may be been spending. Is that because some of the purchases sit outside
the US, or because some US regulatory credit purchases maybe at the state level will need to
continue in some form? Or what is the right way to think about that?
A - `Paul Jacobson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Ryan, obviously, the compliance requirements are pretty complicated. You've got both
state, federal, local, and international as well. But as we've talked about, the credits were roughlysplit between CAFE and GHG. So, CAFE, we know we don't need to purchase credits as the
administration has already zeroed out the CAFE penalties across the board. We took a charge for
that in the third quarter and expect that to result in some year-over-year savings in '26 versus '25.
And then GHG is still pending with the administration. We're assuming that ultimately that gets
resolved over time, but there's going to be a lag effect as the administration works through the
regulatory process to accomplish what their objectives are on GHG. So when we purchase
credits, we amortize them over the time the remaining life of those credits. So that's where
you're probably seeing a little bit of a disconnect versus the P&L and the cash.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Okay. Very helpful. Thanks. And then just lastly, on international operations. Obviously, a lot of
focus on the improvements in turnaround in China. Maybe just if you could talk about
consolidated IO, it looks like a lot of sequential improvement there in revenue and wholesales as
well. But just curious about -- we're reading a lot about the incremental pressure being placed on
some of these regions outside of China by Chinese automakers. Obviously, it doesn't affect you
in North America, you're not in Europe, you don't have to worry about that. But maybe if you
could talk to LatAm or some of the other markets where you operate? And what you might be
seeing there?
A - `Mary T. Barra, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I think you highlighted, we are seeing improvement from an international perspective,
specifically in South America. And when you focus on Brazil as an example, even with the stiff
competition coming from the Chinese OEMs that are heavily subsidized, we've seen improved
performance there among other countries in South America. So I think each of the different areas,
we've seen improvements, and I think it speaks to the strength of our vehicles and the strength
of our brands. So again, it was across-the-board that we're seeing that improvement.
And we are in Europe. We just export into Europe with some vehicles that we have actually the
app -- or excuse me, the LYRIQ and then the VISTIQ actually won German Car of the Year over
the last two years from an EV perspective, so -- luxury perspective. So we're there in a small way
as we look to see what's going to -- how the European market is going to sort out, and I think
that's a growth opportunity for us. And I'm proud across the international markets for the work
they've done to improve their business.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Very helpful. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We have time for one last question. Our last question comes from Tom Narayan with
RBC. Your line is open. I do apologize, he disconnected. Our last question will come from Mark
Delaney with Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
Q - `Mark Delaney, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Yes, good morning. Thank you very much for taking my question. The company is expecting
Super Cruise revenue to be $400 million in '26, up from $234 million at the end of 2025. Can you
help us better understand what's driving such a big step-up this year in Super Cruise revenue?
And then as you think about that broader OnStar digital services business momentum that youspoke about, are there other key areas you're seeing momentum beyond Super Cruise or is
Super Cruise the big driver of digital services?
A - `Paul Jacobson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Well, Mark, thanks for hanging on for the whole call. I appreciate you getting your last
question in. The Super Cruise revenue is a couple of things. So remember when we sell a vehicle
with Super Cruise, we include three years of prepaid services on that. So that balance then
amortizes over a three-year period. So what you're seeing is growth in those initial rates as we
ramp up production and sales of vehicles equipped with Super Cruise.
The second aspect of it, which we're continuing to see really good penetration and attachment
rates, is on the renewal. So at the end of three years, customers are approached with, would
they like to subscribe, and we've seen attachment rates in the low 40% range with people
stepping up and renewing that. So that's where you're seeing a lot of the growth in Super Cruise.
In OnStar, we include an OnStar basics package with the sale of vehicles that has -- that amortizes
over the life of that period. But it also -- what it does is gives us an engagement opportunity with
the consumer that is really laying the foundation for number one, enhanced OnStar services
currently, but also then second, you look at GM rewards, you look at opportunities when we get
software-defined vehicles down the road, it's really a big step-function. So that's where you're
seeing a lot of the deferred revenue growing and coming in at very attractive software-like
margins.
Q - `Mark Delaney, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thanks for that, Paul. My other question was on China. The company has obviously made a lot of
improvements there, and I think expecting pretty similar China profits in 2026. There is a view
though that the China market in general is becoming more difficult after a lot of stimulus in 2025,
and maybe demand in the broader China market could be down this year. Maybe talk about what
offsets there could be for GM specifically, perhaps as the product portfolio. But would hope to
better understand what would allow GM to be more stable year-on-year if the market does
soften. Thanks.
A - `Mary T. Barra, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I think the number of vehicles that we launched this year, the new energy vehicles, I think,
are doing very well over 50% as we indicated, with the right software, the right technology, and
virtually across-the-board, we have in China for China solutions that I think are resonating really
well in the marketplace. And I think that discipline along with the discipline in the way the business
is operating of making sure we manage inventory, which allows us to manage incentives, and it
also has allowed us to have a much better relationship with the dealers because we had a
dramatic improvement in their profitability. So I think if you want to say what's going to drive
China's business overall, it's the right product portfolio and then the discipline in which we're
managing the business. And I have to give a lot of credit to the team over there for really turning
around that business rather quickly in a sustainable way.
And then lastly, I'll just say it's also our strong brands. The Cadillac and the Buick brands have a
long history. The Buick brand, especially, but also the strength of the Cadillac franchise as well is
serving us well. So we think we can compete, obviously not to the extent we were five, six years
ago, but we think we can have meaningful -- a meaningful presence there with the right product
portfolio at a premium and luxury level.
Q - `Mark Delaney, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. I'd now like to turn the call over to Mary Barra for her closing comments.
A - `Mary T. Barra, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, thanks everybody for sticking with us through the call. I know we're running a little over, so I'll
be brief. But I just want to again -- I want to start by thanking everyone in General Motors, our
suppliers, our dealers, for all of their hard work to deliver the 2025 performance. But it really
goes beyond that because over the last several years, we've really built a foundation of product
excellence, innovation, operating discipline, and resiliency and agility. So we know we're going to
continue to see opportunities. I think we have the right team to be able to manage through those
and continue to deliver results for our shareholders.
So I want to tell you I'm extremely excited about this year and what we can do even better '26,
and getting North America back to the 8% to 10% margin is something that we're looking-forward
to executing through the year and delivering for our shareholders. So thanks everybody. And I
hope you have a great day. Stay safe.
Operator
Thank you. That concludes the conference for today. Thank you for joining. You may disconnect.