Item 2. Properties" for further information regarding the location and principal operations of our manufacturing facilities. Wafer Fabrication On March 3, 2025, we announced the closure of our Fab 2 manufacturing operations.  The Fab 2 closure was completed in May 2025 and the Fab 2 facility and equipment are currently available for sale.  With our inventory levels being high and having ample capacity in place, we announced our decision to close Fab 2, which we expect will generate annual cash savings of approximately $90 million.  All of the process technologies will be transferred from Fab 2 to Fab 4 and Fab 5 factories and many such technologies are already running in Fab 4 and Fab 5, both of which have ample clean room space for expansion. Fab 4, located in Gresham, Oregon, currently produces 8-inch wafers using predominantly 0.13 microns to 0.5 microns manufacturing processes.  While select investments are still being made, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024, we paused our multi-year $800 million expansion and capital equipment investment plan at Fab 4 through fiscal 2026.  We plan to resume our expansion efforts to increase Fab 4's capacity as the business outlook improves. Fab 5, located in Colorado Springs, Colorado, currently manufactures discrete and specialty products in addition to a lower volume of a diversified set of standard products on 6-inch wafers.  In February 2023, we announced our plan to invest $880 million over the next several years to expand our silicon carbide (SiC) and silicon production capacity, including the production of 8-inch wafers, at our Fab 5 facility.  While select investments are still being made to reorganize our manufacturing capacity, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024, we paused our expansion activity through fiscal 2026.  We plan to resume our expansion efforts as the business outlook improves. We believe the closure of Fab 2 and the combined capacity of Fab 4 and Fab 5 will allow us to respond to future demand for internally fabricated products with incremental capital expenditures.  Consistent with the macroeconomic environment during fiscal 2025, our capacity expansion activity at Fab 4 and Fab 5 remained paused and we have reduced our planned capital investments through fiscal 2026. In addition to the Fab 2 closure, which commenced in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2025, we reduced headcount at Fab 4, Fab 5 and our backend manufacturing facility in the Philippines.  We expect approximately $90 million in annual savings related to the closure of Fab 2, plus approximately $25 million in annual savings from the temporarily reduced compensation costs in Fab 4 and Fab 5. As a result of our prior acquisition activity, we acquired several smaller wafer fabrication facilities, which utilize older technologies that are appropriate for the discrete products they manufacture.  We currently plan to continue to operate these fabrication facilities with modest investment to keep them operational and accommodate areas of growing demand. We continue to transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce future manufacturing costs.  We believe that our ability to successfully transition to more advanced process technologies is important for us to remain competitive. In fiscal 2025, approximately 36% of our sales came from products produced at our own wafer fabrication facilities that are located in the U.S. There are benefits to having our own U.S. wafer fabrication facilities such as increased IP protection and security, increased supply chain resilience and the ability to manage production costs.  We augment our internal manufacturing capabilities by outsourcing a significant portion of our wafer production requirements to third-party wafer foundries, including all of our 300mm wafer requirements and some of our 200mm and 150mm specialty process technologies.  In fiscal 2025, approximately 64% of our sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries.  Diversifying our wafer production geographically can help prevent disruptions that may be caused by geopolitical tensions, tariffs or natural disasters. 8 Table of Contents Assembly and Test We perform product assembly and test at various facilities located around the world.  During fiscal 2025, we increased capabilities at our Thailand and Philippines facilities to support more technologies by making process improvements, upgrading existing equipment, and adding equipment.  During fiscal 2025, approximately 67% of both our assembly requirements and our test requirements were performed in internal facilities.  We use third-party assembly and test contractors for the balance of our assembly and test requirements.  We plan to continue to invest in assembly and test equipment to increase our internal capacity capabilities and transition certain outsourced assembly and test capacity to our internal facilities. General Matters Impacting Our Manufacturing Operations Due to the high fixed costs inherent in semiconductor manufacturing, consistently high manufacturing yields have significant positive effects on our gross profit and overall operating results.  Our continuous focus on manufacturing productivity has allowed us to maintain excellent manufacturing yields at our facilities.  Our manufacturing yields are primarily driven by a comprehensive implementation of statistical process control, extensive employee training and effective use of our manufacturing facilities and equipment.  Maintenance of manufacturing productivity and yields are important factors in the achievement of our operating results.  The manufacture of integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) memory and logic devices, such as those that we produce, are complex processes.  These processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used and the performance of our manufacturing personnel and equipment.  As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields.  Our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at or above approximately the current levels. Historically, we have relied on our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules.  In order to respond to such requirements, we have historically maintained a significant work-in-process and finished goods inventory.  Refer to Note 3 for a summary of our long-lived assets, consisting of property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets, by geography. We have many suppliers of raw materials and subcontractors that provide our various materials and service needs.  We generally seek to have multiple sources of supply for our raw materials and services, but, in some cases, we may rely on a single or limited number of suppliers. Sales and Distribution General We market and sell our products worldwide primarily through a network of direct sales personnel and distributors to approximately 109,000 unique customers. Our direct sales force focuses on a wide variety of strategic accounts in three geographical markets: the Americas, Europe and Asia.  We currently maintain sales and technical support centers in major metropolitan areas in all three geographic markets.  We believe that a strong technical service presence is essential to the continued development of the embedded control market.  Many of our CEMs, ESEs, and sales managers have technical degrees or backgrounds and have been previously employed in high technology environments.  We believe that the technical and business knowledge of our sales force is a key competitive advantage in the sale of our products.  The primary mission of our ESE team is to provide technical assistance to customers and to conduct periodic training sessions for the balance of our sales team.  ESEs also frequently conduct technical seminars and workshops in major cities around the world or through online webcasts. Our licensing division has dedicated sales, technology, design, product, test and reliability personnel that support the requirements of our licensees. For information regarding our revenue, results of operations, and total assets for each of our last three fiscal years, refer to our financial statements included in this Form 10-K. 9 Table of Contents Distribution Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product requirements of a broad base of diverse customers.  We believe that distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base.  We believe that customers recognize us for our products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel. In fiscal 2025, we derived 45% of our net sales through distributors compared to 55% of our net sales from customers serviced directly by us.  In fiscal 2024, we derived 47% of our net sales through distributors compared to 53% of our net sales from customers serviced directly by us.  With the exception of Arrow Electronics, our largest distributor, which made up 10% and 12% of our net sales, in fiscal 2025 and in fiscal 2024, respectively, no distributor or direct customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales. Generally, we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and we, or our distributors, may terminate our relationships with each other with little or no advance notice, with the exception of orders otherwise designated as non-cancellable.  The loss of, or the disruption in the operations of, one or more of our distributors could reduce our future net sales in a given quarter and could result in an increase in inventory returns. Competition The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has historically been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change.  We compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, some of which have greater market recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we have with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products.  We also compete with a number of companies that we believe have copied, cloned, pirated or reverse engineered our proprietary product lines in such countries as China and Taiwan.  We are continuing to take actions to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis. We currently compete principally on the basis of the technical innovation and performance of our embedded control products, including the following product characteristics: • performance • analog, digital and mixed-signal functionality and level of functional integration • field programmability • memory density • low power consumption • extended voltage ranges • reliability • security and functional safety • packaging alternatives • comprehensive suite of development tools We believe that other important competitive factors in the embedded control market include: • our broad product portfolio offers a Total System Solutions through a combination of hardware, software and services • ease of use • functionality of application development systems • hardware, software and tool compatibility within product families to increase migration flexibility • dependable delivery, quality and availability • technical and innovative service and support • time to market • total solution cost • reference design We believe that we compete favorably with other companies on all of these factors, but if we are unable to compete successfully in the future, our business could be harmed. 10 Table of Contents Patents, Licenses and Trademarks We maintain a portfolio of U.S. and foreign patents, expiring on various dates from 2025 through 2044.  We also have numerous additional U.S. and foreign patent applications pending.  We do not expect that the expiration of any particular patent will have a material impact on our semiconductor business.  While our intention is to continue to patent our technology and manufacturing processes, we believe that our continued success depends primarily on the technological skills and innovative capabilities of our personnel and our ability to rapidly commercialize new and enhanced products.  As with any operating company, the scope and strength of our intellectual property assets, including our pending and existing patents, trademarks, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights may be insufficient to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage.  Moreover, pursuing violations of intellectual property rights on a worldwide basis is a complex challenge involving multinational patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws.  Further, the laws of particular foreign countries often fail to protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. We have also entered into certain in-bound and outbound intellectual property licenses and cross-licenses with other companies and those licenses relate to semiconductor products and manufacturing processes.  As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we and our customers from time to time receive, and may continue to receive, demand letters from third parties asserting infringement of patent and other intellectual property rights.  We diligently investigate all such notices and respond as we believe appropriate.  In most cases we believe that we can obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, however, we cannot be certain that this would be the case, or that litigation or damages for any past infringement could be avoided.  Licensees of our technology may become unable to pay, and have in the past and are currently disputing their obligations to pay us royalties or fees.  Litigation, arbitration or other proceedings, which could result in substantial costs and require significant attention from management, has been and is expected to be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, or to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others.  The failure to obtain necessary licenses, the necessity of engaging in defensive legal proceedings, or any negative results of these proceedings could harm our business. Environmental Regulation We must comply with many different federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals and gases used in our products and manufacturing processes.  Our waste disposal programs in our facilities have been designed to comply with these regulations and we believe that our activities are conducted in material compliance with such regulations.  However, any changes in such regulations or in their enforcement could result in an increase in capital expenditures such as acquiring costly equipment or other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations.  Any failure by us to adequately control the storage, use, discharge and disposal of regulated substances could result in significant future liabilities. Increasing public attention has been focused on the environmental impact of electronic manufacturing operations.  While we have not experienced any materially adverse effects on our operations from recently adopted environmental regulations, technological changes, or weather, our business and results of operations could suffer if for any reason we fail to control the storage or use of, or to adequately restrict the discharge or disposal of, hazardous substances under present or future environmental regulations. Human Capital Resources Our Employees We invest in our highly-skilled global workforce of approximately 19,400 people in accordance with our Guiding Value: employees are our greatest strength.  We believe that our culture, values, and organizational development and training programs provide a work environment where our employees are empowered and engaged to deliver the best embedded control solutions to our customers. Culture and Core Values Before Microchip went public in 1993, Microchip created a cultural framework to unite its employees through shared workplace values, and to guide employees’ strategies, decisions, actions and job performance.  Our culture is centered on a values-based, highly-empowered, continuous-improvement oriented approach.  This corporate culture strengthens our business, and enables us to fulfill our purpose.  Our focus on communication aims to provide transparency among leadership, to promote trust among employees, and is a critical part of Microchip’s culture. 11 Table of Contents Our culture is important to our employees, and is a key reason why we have a significant number of employees with long tenure with Microchip that have grown from individual contributors in the early stages of their careers into senior leadership positions today.  This long tenure among our employee-base results in deep relationships and trust being built among colleagues, retention of our knowledge base, and continuation of our culture.  More information on our Guiding Values can be found at www.microchip.com/en-us/about/investors/investor-information/mission-statement. We promote employee adoption of our culture through a number of methods including training, mentorship, values-based performance reviews, company-wide quarterly meetings, town hall meetings with the President and Chief Executive Officer and other executive team members, and an open-door policy of communication where employees are encouraged to interact directly with management.  To assess and improve employee engagement, we conduct our annual employee engagement survey, which is administered in a manner that allows employees to respond confidentially.  The survey solicits feedback on a variety of factors, including engagement, culture, leadership, continuous improvement, collaboration, work environment, and ethics. Training and Development Microchip’s culture focuses on continuous improvement.  We provide training on our culture, management skills, communication, technical skills, and personal improvement.  Microchip also has a leadership program that provides for the growth and development of its future leaders.  This program helps us develop leaders that serve as role models of Microchip culture, and support empowerment and open communication. To support employee development, we provide opportunities to learn on-the-job through training courses, targeted development programs, mentoring and peer coaching, and ongoing feedback.  We have a library of live and on-demand learning experiences.  We create learning paths focused on our most common development needs and regularly upgrade our offerings to help ensure that our employees are exposed to current content.  We offer tuition reimbursement programs to subsidize educational programs and advanced certifications. Compensation Programs We strive to provide competitive pay and benefits, that help meet the varying needs of our employees and encourage employees to be shareholders in Microchip through our various equity incentive plans.  Our total compensation package includes base pay, broad-based stock grants and bonuses, healthcare and retirement plans, employee stock purchase plans, paid time off and family leave.  Benefit programs include 401(k) programs in the U.S., and statutory pension programs outside the U.S.  Microchip has multiple equity programs in place including restricted stock unit awards and employee stock purchase plans that align employee interests with those of our shareholders. Information About our Executive Officers The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of April 30, 2025: Name Age Position Steve Sanghi 69 Executive Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President Richard J. Simoncic 61 Chief Operating Officer J. Eric Bjornholt 54 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mathew B. Bunker 55 Senior Vice President, Operations Joseph R. Krawczyk II 65 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Client Engagement Mr. Sanghi was appointed as Executive Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President in November 2024.  He previously served as Chief Executive Officer from October 1991 to March 2021, as Chair of the Board from October 1993 to March 2021 and August 2024 to November 2024, and as Executive Chair of the Board from March 2021 to August 2024, and from November 2024 to present.  He served as President from August 1990 to February 2016 and has served as a director since August 1990.  Mr. Sanghi holds an M.S. degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Massachusetts and a B.S. degree in Electronics and Communication from Punjab University.  Mr. Sanghi served on the Board of Directors of Myomo, Inc., a publicly traded commercial stage medical robotics company that offers expanded mobility for those suffering from neurological disorders and upper-limb paralysis, from November 2016 through October 2019.  Mr. Sanghi served on the board of Mellanox Technologies Ltd., a publicly traded supplier of end-to-end Ethernet and InfiniBand intelligent interconnect solutions and services for servers, storage, and hyper-converged infrastructure, from February 2018 through April 2020.  Mr. Sanghi was elected to the Board of Directors of Impinj, Inc. in March 2021 and assumed the role of Board Chair in June 2022.  Mr. Sanghi was elected to the Board of Directors of Intel Corporation in December 2024. 12 Table of Contents Mr. Simoncic was promoted to Chief Operating Officer on April 1, 2024 and served as Executive Vice President Analog Power and Interface Business Unit from April 2023 to April 2024; as Senior Vice President, Analog Power and Interface Business Units from February 2019 to April 2023; and as Vice President, Analog Power and Interface Business Units from September 1999 to February 2019.  From October 1995 to September 1999, he served as Vice President in various roles.  Since joining Microchip in 1990, Mr. Simoncic held various roles in Design, Device/Yield Engineering and Quality Systems.  Mr. Simoncic holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering Technology from DeVry Institute of Technology.  Mr. Simoncic was elected to the Board of Directors of Applied Industrial Technologies, Inc. in August 2024. Mr. Bjornholt was promoted to Senior Vice President in 2019 and has served as Vice President of Finance since 2008 and as Chief Financial Officer since January 2009.  He has served in various financial management capacities since he joined Microchip in 1995.  Mr. Bjornholt holds a Master's degree in Taxation from Arizona State University and a B.S. degree in Accounting from the University of Arizona. Mr. Bunker was promoted to Senior Vice President in 2019 and has served as Vice President of Backend Operations and other backend manufacturing divisions since May 2007.  He has been employed by Microchip since February 1993 and has served as a Vice President in various roles since May 2007.  Mr. Bunker holds a Master's degree in Technology Management from University of Phoenix and a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from Arizona State University. Mr. Krawczyk was promoted to Senior Vice President in 2022 and has served as Vice President of WW Client Engagement since May 2021.  He served as Vice President of Asia Client Engagement from 2006 to 2020.  Since joining Microchip in September 1995, Mr. Krawczyk held various marketing and geographical sales roles.  Mr. Krawczyk holds a Master's degree in Business from St. Edward's University and a B.S. degree in Computer Technology from University of Southern Mississippi. Available Information Microchip Technology Incorporated was incorporated in Delaware in 1989.  Our executive offices are located at 2355 West Chandler Boulevard, Chandler, Arizona 85224-6199 and our telephone number is (480) 792-7200. Our Internet address is www.microchip.com.  We post the following filings on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: • our annual report on Form 10-K • our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q • our current reports on Form 8-K • our proxy statement • any amendments to the above-listed reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act All of our SEC filings on our website are available free of charge.  The information on our website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K.