Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023 filed with the SEC on May 25, 2023 which is incorporated by reference herein. Business and Macroeconomic Environment While strong customer demand for our products outpaced capacity in fiscal 2023, many of our customers felt the adverse effects of slowing economic activity, increasing business uncertainty, persistent inflation and higher interest rates in the March 2023 quarter which continued through fiscal 2024.  During this period, we continued to receive requests to push out or cancel backlog resulting from customer actions to reduce inventory levels.  However, beginning in the March 2024 quarter, we started seeing improvements in our business and customer requests to push out or cancel backlog started to decrease, bookings started to increase and the number of expedites and shipment pull in requests are growing.  At the same time we continue to prioritize our efforts to manage our high inventory levels, and during the June 2024 quarter, we reduced production levels and implemented up to two weeks of shutdown days in our global production facilities.  Consistent with the weak macroeconomic environment, most of our factory expansion activity remains paused and we have reduced our planned capital investments through fiscal 2025.  We are unable to predict the timing or impact of any such slowdown on our business. In response to industry capacity conditions improving and our product lead times reducing, we discontinued our Preferred Supply Program in February 2024 with respect to all new orders.  We had initially launched our Preferred Supply Program in February 2021 to provide our customers with prioritized capacity when product demand in the industry significantly exceeded supply.  Since the March 2022 quarter, we have been entering into LTSAs with certain of our customers for products that will be shipped in future periods.  We also entered into certain LTSAs with key suppliers. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates General Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.  We review the accounting policies we use in reporting our financial results on a regular basis.  The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent liabilities.  On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, inventories, income taxes and contingencies.  We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.  Our results may differ from these estimates due to actual outcomes being different from those on which we based our assumptions.  We review these estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis.  We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition We generate revenue primarily from sales of our semiconductor products to distributors and non-distributor customers (direct customers).  We apply the following five-step approach to determine the timing and amount of revenue recognition: (i) identify the contract with the customer, (ii) identify performance obligations in the contract, (iii) determine the transaction 46 Table of Contents price, (iv) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract, and (v) recognize revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied. Sales of semiconductor products to our customers are governed by a purchase order, an order acknowledgment, and a distributor agreement in the case of our distributor customers.  Sales to customers do not meet the definition of a contract until the customer has sent in a purchase order, we have acknowledged the order, we have deemed the collectability of the consideration to be probable, and legally enforceable rights and obligations have been created.  As is customary in the semiconductor industry, we offer price concessions and stock rotation rights to many of our distributors.  As these are forms of variable consideration, we estimate the amount of consideration to which we will be entitled using recent historical data and applying the expected value method.  Generally, the transaction price associated with contracts with direct customers is set at the standalone selling price and is not variable.  After the transaction price has been determined and allocated to the performance obligations, we recognize revenue when the performance obligations are satisfied.  Substantially all of the revenue generated from contracts with customers is recognized at, or near to, the time risk and title of the inventory transfers to the customer, which is generally upon shipment. Overall, our estimates of adjustments to contract price due to variable consideration under our contracts with distributor customers, based on our assumptions, have been materially consistent with our actual results.  However, these estimates are subject to management’s judgment and actual provisions could be different from our estimates, resulting in future adjustments to our revenue and operating results.  A 100-basis point increase in the blended price concession rate would have changed the measurement of our refund liability recorded within accrued liabilities by $10.1 million. Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value using the first-in, first-out method.  We record a charge to cost of sales to write down our inventory for estimated excess, obsolete or unmarketable inventory in an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated net realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions.  If actual market conditions are less favorable than those we projected, additional inventory write-downs may be required.  Inventory impairment charges establish a new cost basis for inventory and charges are not subsequently reversed to income even if circumstances later suggest that increased carrying amounts are recoverable.  In determining whether there is a risk of excess or obsolete inventory, we evaluate projected demand over periods that align with demand forecasts used to develop manufacturing plans and inventory build decisions and write down inventory on hand that is in excess of estimated demand.  Management reviews and adjusts the estimates as appropriate based on specific situations.  For example, demand can be adjusted up for new products for which historic sales are not representative of future demand.  Alternatively, demand can be adjusted down to the extent any existing products are being replaced or discontinued.  A 1% variance in the estimated demand for our products would have changed the estimated net realizable value of our inventory by approximately $3.2 million as of March 31, 2024. Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are required to record our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. Various taxing authorities in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business may scrutinize the tax structures employed by businesses.  Companies of our size and complexity are regularly audited by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct significant operations.  We are currently being audited by the tax authorities in the U.S. and in various foreign jurisdictions.  At this time, we do not know what the outcome of these audits will be.  We record benefits for uncertain tax positions based on an assessment of whether it is more likely than not that the tax positions will be sustained based on their technical merits under currently enacted law.  If this threshold is not met, no tax benefit of the uncertain tax position is recognized.  If the threshold is met, we recognize the largest amount of the tax benefit that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. The accounting model related to the valuation of uncertain tax positions requires us to presume that the tax position will be examined by the relevant taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information and that each tax position will be evaluated without consideration of the possibility of offset or aggregation with other positions.  The recognition requirement for the liability exists even if we believe the possibility of examination by a taxing authority or discovery of the related risk matters is remote or where we have a long history of the taxing authority not performing an exam or overlooking an issue.  We will record an adjustment to a previously recorded position if new information or facts related to the position are identified in a subsequent period.  Generally, adjustments to the positions are recorded through the income statement.  Generally, adjustments will be recorded in periods subsequent to the initial recognition in light of changing facts and 47 Table of Contents circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit, the closing of a statutory audit period or changes in applicable law.  Due to the inherent uncertainty in the estimation process, including the complexity involved to interpret and apply tax laws, and in consideration of the criteria of the accounting model, amounts recognized in the financial statements in periods subsequent to the initial recognition may significantly differ from the estimated exposure of the position under the accounting model. Contingencies In the ordinary course of our business, we are exposed to various liabilities as a result of contracts, product liability, customer claims, governmental investigations and other matters.  Additionally, we are involved in a limited number of legal actions, both as plaintiff and defendant.  Consequently, we could incur uninsured liability in any of those actions.  We also periodically receive notifications from various third parties alleging infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights, or from customers requesting reimbursement for various costs.  With respect to pending legal actions to which we are a party and other claims, although the outcomes are generally not determinable, we believe that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or results of operations.  Litigation, governmental investigations and disputes relating to the semiconductor industry are not uncommon, and we are, from time to time, subject to such litigation, governmental investigations and disputes.  As a result, no assurances can be given with respect to the extent or outcome of any such litigation, governmental investigations or disputes in the future. We accrue for claims and contingencies when losses become probable and reasonably estimable.  As of the end of each applicable reporting period, we review each of our matters and, where it is probable that a liability has been or will be incurred, we accrue for all probable and reasonably estimable losses.  Where we can reasonably estimate a range of losses we may incur regarding such a matter, we record an accrual for the amount within the range that constitutes our best estimate. If we can reasonably estimate a range but no amount within the range appears to be a better estimate than any other, we use the amount that is the low end of such range.  Contingencies of an acquired company that exist as of the date of the acquisition are measured at fair value if determinable, which generally is based on a probability weighted model.  If fair value is not determinable, contingencies of an acquired company are recognized when they become probable and reasonably estimable. Results of Operations The following table sets forth certain operational data as a percentage of net sales for fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023: Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 34.6 32.5 Gross profit 65.4 67.5 Research and development 14.4 13.3 Selling, general and administrative 9.6 9.5 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 7.9 7.8 Special (income) charges and other, net (0.2) — Operating income 33.7 % 36.9 % Net Sales We operate in two industry segments and engage primarily in the design, development, manufacture and sale of semiconductor products as well as the licensing of our SuperFlash and other technologies.  We sell our products to distributors and OEMs in a broad range of markets, perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and generally require no collateral.  In certain circumstances, a customer's financial condition may require collateral, and, in such cases, the collateral would be typically provided in the form of letters of credit. The following table summarizes our net sales for fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023 (dollars in millions): Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Change Net sales $ 7,634.4 $ 8,438.7 (9.5) % 48 Table of Contents The decrease in net sales in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 was primarily due to adverse economic conditions, including slowing economic activity, increasing business uncertainty, persistent inflation and higher interest rates which factors resulted in many customers having higher levels of inventory.  Additionally, semiconductor industry conditions have resulted in increased costs throughout our supply chain, which we have been generally passing on to our customers in the form of price increases.  Our price increases were implemented at various times and in various amounts throughout fiscal 2023 with respect to our very broad range of customers and products.  These price increases contributed to the change in net sales during fiscal 2024.  Due to the complexity of the implementation of the price increases and the changes in product, geographic and customer mix, we are not able to quantify the impact of the price increases on our net sales.  Due to the size, complexity and diversity of our customer base, we are not able to quantify any material factor contributing to the changes in net sales.  See our "Business and Macroeconomic Environment" discussion above for further information on our business outlook. Other factors that we believe contributed to changes in our reported net sales for fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 and which are drivers of long-term trends in our net sales but which factors we are not able to quantify include: • semiconductor industry conditions; • our various new product offerings that have increased our served available market; • customers’ increasing needs for the flexibility offered by our programmable solutions; and • increasing semiconductor content in our customers’ products through our TSS product portfolio. We sell a large number of products to a large and diverse customer base and there was not any single product or customer that accounted for a material portion of the change in our net sales in fiscal 2024 or fiscal 2023. Net sales by product line for fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023 were as follows (dollars in millions): Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2024 % 2023 % Mixed-signal Microcontrollers $ 4,272.4 56.0 $ 4,755.7 56.3 Analog 2,016.4 26.4 2,376.9 28.2 Other 1,345.6 17.6 1,306.1 15.5 Total net sales $ 7,634.4 100.0 $ 8,438.7 100.0 Mixed-signal Microcontrollers Our mixed-signal microcontroller product line represents the largest component of our total net sales.  Mixed-signal microcontrollers and associated application development systems accounted for approximately 56.0% and 56.3% of our net sales in fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023, respectively. Net sales of our mixed-signal microcontroller products decreased approximately 10.2% in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023.  The decrease in net sales was primarily due to adverse economic conditions, including slowing economic activity, increasing business uncertainty, persistent inflation and higher interest rates which factors resulted in many customers having higher levels of inventory. Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product.  However, the overall average selling prices of our mixed-signal microcontroller products have increased in recent periods and have remained relatively stable over time due to the proprietary nature of these products.  We have in the past been able to, and expect in the future to be able to, moderate average selling price declines in our mixed-signal microcontroller product lines by introducing new products with more features and higher prices. Analog Our analog product line includes analog, interface, mixed-signal and timing products.  Our analog product line accounted for approximately 26.4% and 28.2% of our net sales in fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023, respectively. Net sales from our analog product line decreased approximately 15.2% in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023.  The decrease in net sales was primarily due to adverse economic conditions, including slowing economic activity, increasing business uncertainty, persistent inflation and higher interest rates which factors resulted in many customers having higher levels of inventory. 49 Table of Contents We consider a majority of the products in our analog product line to be proprietary in nature, where prices are relatively stable, similar to the pricing stability experienced in our mixed-signal microcontroller products.  The non-proprietary portion of our analog product line will experience price fluctuations, driven primarily by the current supply and demand for those products. Other Our other product line includes FPGA products, royalties associated with licenses for the use of our SuperFlash and other technologies, sales of our intellectual property, fees for engineering services, memory products, timing systems, manufacturing services (wafer foundry and assembly and test subcontracting), legacy application specific integrated circuits, and certain products for aerospace applications.  Revenue from these services and products accounted for approximately 17.6% and 15.5% of our net sales in fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023, respectively. Net sales related to these products and services increased approximately 3.0% in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023.  The increase in net sales was primarily due to strength in our FPGA product line.  Net sales of our other product line can fluctuate over time based on general economic and semiconductor industry conditions as well as changes in demand for our FPGA products, licenses, engineering services, memory products, timing systems, and manufacturing services (wafer foundry and assembly and test subcontracting). Distribution Distributors accounted for approximately 47% of our net sales in each of fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023.  With the exception of Arrow Electronics, our largest distributor, which made up 12% and 11% of our net sales in fiscal 2024 and in fiscal 2023, respectively, no other distributor or direct customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales in fiscal 2024 or in fiscal 2023.  Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product requirements of a broad base of diverse customers.  We believe that distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base and that customers recognize Microchip for its products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel. Generally, we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and we, or our distributors, may terminate our relationships with each other with little or no advance notice.  The loss of, or the disruption in the operations of, one or more of our distributors could reduce our future net sales in a given quarter and could result in an increase in inventory returns. At March 31, 2024, our distributors maintained 41 days of inventory of our products compared to 24 days at March 31, 2023.  Over the past ten fiscal years, the days of inventory maintained by our distributors have fluctuated between approximately 17 days and 41 days.  Inventory holding patterns at our distributors may have a material impact on our net sales.  Due to the relatively high level of inventory days, we have accommodated efforts by our distributors to manage their inventory levels. Sales by Geography Sales by geography for fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023 were as follows (dollars in millions): Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2024 % 2023 % Americas $ 2,215.4 29.0 $ 2,169.0 25.7 Europe 1,851.7 24.3 1,774.8 21.0 Asia 3,567.3 46.7 4,494.9 53.3 Total net sales $ 7,634.4 100.0 $ 8,438.7 100.0 Americas sales include sales to customers in the U.S., Canada, Central America and South America.  Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 75% and 78% of our net sales in fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023, respectively.  The decrease in net sales in Asia in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 was primarily due to unfavorable business conditions and weakening demand in the China market.  The increase in net sales in the Americas and Europe in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 was driven by our available capacity due to the weakening demand in Asia and was offset by the adverse economic conditions in the regions.  Substantially all of our foreign sales are U.S. dollar denominated.  Our sales force in the Americas and Europe supports a significant portion of the design activity for products which are ultimately shipped to Asia. 50 Table of Contents Gross Profit Our gross profit in fiscal 2024 was $5.00 billion, or 65.4% of net sales, compared to $5.70 billion, or 67.5% of net sales, in fiscal 2023. The primary reason for the decrease in gross profit of $545.3 million in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 was an unfavorable net impact of sales volume, product mix and average gross profit per unit in fiscal 2024.  The net impact of product mix and average gross profit per unit may fluctuate over time due to the mix of sales volumes of lower or higher margin products, changes in selling prices, and fluctuations in product costs.  We are not able to separately quantify these impacts on our gross profit.  The net impact to our gross profit from inventory reserve charges was an adverse impact of $58.4 million in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023.  The gross margin impact of changes in licensing revenue, which has no associated cost of sales, was an adverse impact of $57.6 million in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023.  The impact of unabsorbed capacity charges was an adverse impact of $40.7 million in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023.  Unabsorbed capacity charges are expensed as incurred when we operate our manufacturing facilities below normal levels. Our overall inventory was $1.32 billion at March 31, 2024 and 2023.  We maintained 224 days of inventory on our balance sheet at March 31, 2024 compared to 169 days of inventory at March 31, 2023.  Our overall inventory level was flat as a result of our efforts to balance manufacturing production, customer demand and inventory levels.  However, our days of inventory increased significantly due to lower net sales.  Our inventory amounts are impacted by timing of shipment activity in the quarter, the timing of receipt of raw materials, foundry wafers, and strategic last time buy materials and completion of finished goods. We operate assembly and test facilities in Thailand, the Philippines, and other locations throughout the world.  Approximately 59% of our assembly requirements were performed in our internal assembly facilities during each of fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023.  During fiscal 2024, approximately 71% of our test requirements were performed in our internal facilities, compared to approximately 67% during fiscal 2023.  The percentage of our assembly and test operations that are performed internally fluctuates over time based on supply and demand conditions in the semiconductor industry, our internal capacity capabilities and our acquisition activities.  We believe that the assembly and test operations performed at our internal facilities provide us with significant cost savings compared to third-party contractor assembly and test costs, as well as increased control over these portions of the manufacturing process.  We plan to continue to selectively invest in assembly and test equipment to increase our internal capacity capabilities and transition certain outsourced assembly and test capacity to our internal facilities. We rely on outside wafer foundries for a significant portion of our wafer fabrication requirements.  During fiscal 2024, approximately 64% of our net sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries, compared to approximately 63% during fiscal 2023.  This percentage may vary based on supply and demand conditions in the market. We anticipate that our gross margins will fluctuate over time, driven primarily by capacity utilization levels, the overall mix of products sold during the period, as well as manufacturing yields, unabsorbed capacity charges, and competitive and economic conditions in the markets we serve.  We continue to transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce future manufacturing costs. Research and Development R&D expenses for fiscal 2024 were $1.10 billion, or 14.4% of net sales, compared to $1.12 billion, or 13.3% of net sales, for fiscal 2023.  We are committed to investing in new and enhanced products, including development systems software, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies.  We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position.  R&D costs are expensed as incurred.  Assets purchased to support our ongoing research and development activities are capitalized when related to products which have achieved technological feasibility or that have alternative future uses and are amortized over their expected useful lives.  R&D expenses include labor, depreciation, masks, prototype wafers, and expenses for the development of process technologies, new packages, and software to support new products and design environments. R&D expenses decreased $20.9 million, or 1.9%, for fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023.  The primary reason for the decrease in R&D expenses in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 was lower employee compensation costs. R&D expenses fluctuate over time, primarily due to revenue and operating expense investment levels. 51 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2024 were $734.2 million, or 9.6% of net sales, compared to $797.7 million, or 9.5% of net sales, for fiscal 2023.  Our goal is to continue to be more efficient with our selling, general and administrative expenses.  Selling, general and administrative expenses include salary expenses related to field sales, marketing and administrative personnel, advertising and promotional expenditures and legal expenses as well as costs related to our direct sales force, CEMs and ESEs who work remotely from sales offices worldwide to stimulate demand by assisting customers in the selection and use of our products. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $63.5 million, or 8.0%, for fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023.  The primary reason for the decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses was lower employee compensation costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses fluctuate over time, primarily due to revenue and operating expense investment levels. Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets Amortization of acquired intangible assets in fiscal 2024 was $605.4 million compared to $669.9 million in fiscal 2023.  The primary reason for the decrease in acquired intangible asset amortization was due to the use of accelerated amortization methods for assets placed in service in previous fiscal years. Special (Income) Charges and Other, Net During fiscal 2024, we earned special income and other, net of $12.3 million primarily due to the favorable resolution of a previously accrued unclaimed property audit matter partially offset by restructuring costs of acquired and existing wafer fabrication operations to increase operational efficiency.  During fiscal 2023, we earned special income and other, net of $4.0 million primarily related to a favorable resolution of a previously accrued legal matter partially offset by restructuring costs of acquired and existing wafer fabrication operations to increase operational efficiency.  Restructuring expenses incurred during fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023 include $6.2 million and $16.8 million, respectively, related to the restructuring of our wafer fabrication operations. Other Income (Expense) Interest income in fiscal 2024 was $7.6 million compared to $2.1 million in fiscal 2023. Interest expense in fiscal 2024 was $198.3 million compared to $203.9 million in fiscal 2023.  The primary reason for the decrease in interest expense in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 is due to the cumulative pay down of our debt offset by higher interest rates on our outstanding variable rate debt. Loss on settlement of debt in fiscal 2024 was $12.2 million compared to $8.3 million in fiscal 2023.  In fiscal 2024 and in fiscal 2023, the losses related to the settlement of a portion of our outstanding Convertible Debt. Other loss, net, in fiscal 2024 was $2.2 million compared to other income, net of $3.8 million in fiscal 2023.  The primary reason for the change in other (loss) income, net during fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 relates to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes is attributable to U.S. federal, state, and foreign income taxes.  Our effective tax rate for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2024, decreased over the same period last year as a result of changes in tax laws and changes to the valuation allowance established for certain deferred tax assets. Our effective tax rate in fiscal 2024 includes a $69.8 million tax benefit received from current year generated R&D credits, which reduced our effective tax rate by 3.0%; and a $62.9 million tax expense for the effects of foreign operations, which increased our effective tax rate by 2.7%. Our effective tax rate in fiscal 2023 includes a $63.8 million tax benefit received from R&D credits, which reduced our effective tax rate by 2.2%; an $11.4 million tax benefit for share-based compensation deductions, which reduced our effective 52 Table of Contents tax rate by 0.4%; a $50.6 million tax expense related to changes in various tax reserves, which increased our effective tax rate by 1.7%; and a $258.9 million tax expense for the effects of foreign operations, which increased our effective tax rate by 8.9%. We are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions in which we have operations.  The effective tax rates that we pay in these jurisdictions vary widely, but they are generally lower than our combined U.S. federal and state effective tax rate.  Our domestic blended statutory tax rate in each of fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023 was approximately 22%.  Our non-U.S. blended statutory tax rates in fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023 were lower than this amount.  The difference in rates applicable in foreign jurisdictions results from a number of factors, including lower statutory rates, tax holidays, financing arrangements and other factors.  Our effective tax rate has been and will continue to be impacted by the geographical dispersion of our earnings and losses. Our foreign tax rate differential benefit primarily relates to our operations in Malta taxed at a 5.0% statutory tax rate and Ireland taxed at a 12.5% statutory tax rate.  Additionally, our Thailand manufacturing operations are currently subject to numerous tax holidays granted to us based on our investment in property, plant, and equipment in Thailand.  Our tax holiday periods in Thailand expire at various times in the future; however, we actively seek to obtain new tax holidays, otherwise we will be subject to tax at the statutory tax rate of 20.0%.  We do not expect the future expiration of any of our tax holiday periods in Thailand to have a material impact on our effective tax rate. In September 2021, we received a Statutory Notice of Deficiency (2007 to 2012 Notice) from the United States Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for fiscal 2007 through fiscal 2012.  The disputed amounts largely relate to transfer pricing matters.  In December 2021, we filed a petition in the U.S. Tax Court challenging the 2007 to 2012 Notice. In September 2023, we received a Revenue Agent Report (RAR) from the IRS for fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2016.  In October 2023, we received a Statutory Notice of Deficiency (2014 to 2015 Notice) from the IRS for fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2015.  The disputed amounts for fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2016 largely relate to transfer pricing matters.  In December 2023, we filed a petition in the U.S. Tax Court challenging the 2014 to 2015 Notice. In May 2023, we received a proposed income adjustment from the Malaysian Inland Revenue Board (IRB) for fiscal 2020.  In December 2023, we received a Notice of Assessment from the IRB asserting the same proposed income adjustment.  If the adjustment is upheld by the highest court that has jurisdiction over this matter in Malaysia, it could result in income taxes and penalties up to $410.0 million.  The disputed amounts largely relate to the characterization of certain assets.  Depending on the outcome of the IRB audit, we may need to adjudicate this matter in Malaysia, and if we do, we may be required to pay the assessment and then, upon a series of favorable court rulings, request a refund of the amount.  The timing of adjudicating this matter is uncertain but could commence in the next 12 months. We firmly believe that the assessments described above are without merit and plan to pursue all available administrative and judicial remedies necessary to resolve these matters.  We intend to vigorously defend our positions and we are confident in our ability to prevail on the merits.  We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from examinations such as these to determine the adequacy of our tax reserves.  The ultimate outcome of disputes of this nature is uncertain, and if the IRS and IRB were to prevail on their assertions, the assessed tax, penalties, and deficiency interest could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Various taxing authorities in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business are increasing their scrutiny of the tax structures employed by businesses.  Companies of our size and complexity are regularly audited by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct significant operations.  For U.S. federal, and in general for U.S. state tax returns, our fiscal 2007 and later tax returns remain effectively open for examination by the taxing authorities.  We are currently being audited by the tax authorities in the U.S. and in various foreign jurisdictions.  At this time, we do not know what the outcome of these audits will be.  We record benefits for uncertain tax positions based on an assessment of whether it is more likely than not that the tax positions will be sustained based on their technical merits under currently enacted law.  If this threshold is not met, no tax benefit of the uncertain tax position is recognized.  If the threshold is met, we recognize the largest amount of the tax benefit that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. In August 2022, the U.S. government enacted the Inflation Reduction Act into law.  The Inflation Reduction Act includes a new corporate alternative minimum tax (Corporate AMT) of 15.0% on the adjusted financial statement income (AFSI) of corporations with average AFSI exceeding $1.00 billion over a three-year period, as well as a 1% excise tax on the net fair market value of stock repurchases made after December 31, 2022.  The Corporate AMT is effective beginning in fiscal 2024.  The Inflation Reduction Act did not have a material impact on our tax expense, cash taxes, or effective tax rate for the years ending March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023. 53 Table of Contents As of March 31, 2024, 27 countries have enacted various aspects of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project to ensure that multinational enterprises pay a GMT.  In 24 of those countries, the GMT is effective for tax years beginning in our fiscal 2025.  Based on currently enacted law, the impact of GMT on the fiscal 2025 results is not expected to be material. Liquidity and Capital Resources We had $319.7 million in cash and cash equivalents at March 31, 2024, an increase of $85.7 million from the March 31, 2023 balance. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $2.89 billion in fiscal 2024 primarily due to net income of $1.91 billion, adjusted for non-cash and non-operating charges of $1.06 billion and net cash outflows of $76.7 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities.  The primary drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities in fiscal 2024 include a decrease in accounts payable due to lower spending in adverse economic conditions, decreases in accrued liabilities driven by lower accruals related to employee compensation offset by higher deferred revenue and sales related reserves, increases in other assets driven by payments for manufacturing supply capacity reservation commitments offset by increases in other liabilities due to cash collected from customers under our LTSAs, and a decrease in income tax payable, offset by a decrease in trade accounts receivable driven primarily by reduced revenue and timing of shipments and collections, and a decrease in inventories related to our efforts to balance manufacturing production, customer demand and inventory levels.  The cash collected from these LTSAs is refundable when customers fulfill their purchase commitments.  In future periods, we expect cash inflows under these LTSAs to decrease, and cash outflows to increase as amounts are refunded to customers (see "Note 2. Net Sales" to our consolidated financial statements).  Net cash provided by operating activities was $3.62 billion in fiscal 2023 primarily due to net income of $2.24 billion, adjusted for non-cash and non-operating charges of $1.40 billion and net cash outflows of $16.0 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $392.1 million for fiscal 2024 compared to $599.5 million for fiscal 2023.  Fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023 investing cash flows primarily related to capital purchases and investments in other assets. Our level of capital expenditures varies from time to time as a result of actual and anticipated business conditions.  Capital expenditures were $285.1 million and $486.2 million in fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023, respectively.  Capital expenditures were primarily for the expansion of production capacity and the addition of research and development equipment.  Consistent with the slowing macroeconomic environment which began in the March 2023 quarter, we have paused most of our factory expansion actions and reduced our planned capital investments for fiscal 2025.  We currently intend to invest about $175 million in equipment and facilities during the next 12 months.  We believe that the capital expenditures anticipated to be incurred over the next 12 months will provide sufficient manufacturing capacity to support the growth of our production capabilities for our new products and technologies and to bring in-house more of the assembly and test operations that are currently outsourced.  We expect to finance our capital expenditures through our existing cash balances and cash flows from operations. In February 2023, we announced our plan to invest $880 million over the next several years to expand our SiC and silicon production capacity, including the production of 8-inch wafers, at our Fab 5 facility.  While select investments are still being made, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024, we paused most of our expansion activity.  In August 2022, the U.S. government enacted the CHIPS Act which is to provide billions of dollars of cash incentives and a new investment tax credit to increase domestic manufacturing capacity in our industry.  In December 2023, we reached a Preliminary Memorandum of Terms with the U.S. Department of Commerce for $162 million in CHIPS Act grants for two of our U.S. wafer fabrication facilities.  These preliminary terms are subject to a comprehensive due diligence process and continued negotiation and review and there can be no assurance that the grants will receive final approval.  If we do receive a CHIPS Act grant, the restrictions and operational requirements that are imposed on CHIPS Act grant recipients could add complexity to our operations and increase our costs.  We expect to receive the cash benefit associated with the investment tax credit for qualifying capital expenditures in future periods and expect to apply for other incentives provided by the legislation; however, there can be no assurance that we will receive any such other incentives, what the amount and timing of any incentive we receive will be, as to which other companies will receive incentives and whether the legislation will have a positive or negative impact on our competitive position. 54 Table of Contents Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $2.41 billion for fiscal 2024 compared to $3.10 billion for fiscal 2023.  Significant transactions affecting our net financing cash flows included: • in fiscal 2024, $537.7 million of cash used to pay down certain principal of our debt, including our 2015 Senior Convertible Debt, our 2017 Senior Convertible Debt, our 2017 Junior Convertible Debt, our 4.333% 2023 Notes, our 2.670% 2023 Notes, our 0.972% 2024 Notes, and our Revolving Credit Facility, partially funded by proceeds from borrowings on our 2025 Term Loan Facility, proceeds from the issuance of our Commercial Paper, and proceeds from the issuance of our 5.050% 2029 Notes, and • in fiscal 2023, $1.47 billion of cash used to pay down certain principal of our debt, including our 2015 Senior Convertible Debt, our 2017 Senior Convertible Debt, our 2017 Junior Convertible Debt, and our Revolving Credit Facility, and • in fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023, we paid cash dividends to our stockholders of $911.5 million and $695.3 million, respectively, and • in fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023, we repurchased shares of our common stock for $982.1 million and $945.8 million, respectively. In August 2023, our amended and restated Credit Agreement, dated as of December 16, 2021, was amended by the first incremental term loan amendment, dated as of August 31, 2023.  Pursuant to this amendment, we borrowed an aggregate principal amount of $750.0 million under the new 2025 Term Loan Facility bearing interest at the Adjusted Term SOFR Rate, plus a margin of 1.125% to 1.5%, or Alternate Base Rate, plus a margin of 0.125% to 0.5%, with a maturity date of August 31, 2025.  The interest rate margins are determined based on our credit ratings.  In September 2023, we established a Commercial Paper program under which we may issue short-term unsecured promissory notes up to a maximum principal amount outstanding at any time of $2.75 billion with a maturity of up to 397 days from the date of issue.  The Commercial Paper is sold from time to time at a discount from par or alternatively, sold at par and bears interest rates that will vary based on market conditions and the time of issuance.  The outstanding Commercial Paper balance will reduce the amounts that would otherwise be available to borrow under our Revolving Credit Facility.  As of March 31, 2024, the principal amount of our outstanding indebtedness was $6.02 billion.  At March 31, 2024, we had no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility compared to $100.0 million at March 31, 2023.  At March 31, 2024, we had $1.36 billion in outstanding principal amount of Commercial Paper. Capital Returns In November 2021, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $4.00 billion of our common stock in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions.  In fiscal 2024, we repurchased approximately 11.9 million shares of our common stock for $982.1 million under this authorization.  In fiscal 2023, we repurchased approximately 12.9 million shares of our common stock for $945.8 million under this authorization.  As of March 31, 2024, approximately $1.65 billion remained available for repurchases under the program.  As of March 31, 2024, we held approximately 41.1 million shares as treasury shares.  Our current intent is to regularly repurchase shares of our common stock over time based on our cash generation, leverage metrics, and market conditions. In October 2002, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved and instituted a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock.  To date, our cumulative dividend payments have totaled approximately $6.65 billion.  Cash dividends paid per share were $1.682 and $1.263 during fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023, respectively.  Total dividend payments amounted to $911.5 million and $695.3 million during fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023, respectively.  A quarterly dividend of $0.452 per share was declared on May 6, 2024 and will be paid on June 5, 2024 to stockholders of record as of May 22, 2024.  We expect the aggregate cash dividend for the June 2024 quarter to be approximately $243.0 million.  Our Board is free to change our dividend practices at any time and to increase or decrease the dividend paid, or not to pay a dividend on our common stock on the basis of our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements and future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by our Board.  Our current intent is to increase our quarterly cash dividends depending upon market conditions, our results of operations, and potential changes in tax laws. We believe that our existing sources of liquidity combined with cash generated from operations, borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility and our 2025 Term Loan Facility, and proceeds from issuance of our Commercial Paper will be sufficient to meet our currently anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months.  Our long-term liquidity requirements primarily arise from working capital requirements, interest and principal repayments related to our outstanding indebtedness, capital expenditures, cash dividends, share repurchases, and income tax payments.  For additional information regarding our cash requirements see "Note 10. Commitments and Contingencies", "Note 9. Leases", "Note 5. Debt" and "Note 55 Table of Contents 11. Income Taxes" to our consolidated financial statements.  The semiconductor industry is capital intensive and in order to remain competitive, we must constantly evaluate the need to make significant investments in capital equipment for both production and research and development and to expand our existing facilities or potentially construct new facilities.  We may increase our borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility or our Commercial Paper program or seek additional equity or debt financing from time to time to refinance our existing debt, maintain or expand our wafer fabrication and product assembly and test facilities, for cash dividends, for share repurchases or for acquisitions or other purposes.  The timing and amount of any such financing requirements will depend on a number of factors, including the maturity dates of our existing debt, our level of dividend payments, changes in tax laws and regulations regarding the repatriation of offshore cash, demand for our products, changes in industry conditions, product mix, competitive factors and our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates.  We plan to refinance certain of our existing notes as they mature and we may from time to time seek to refinance certain of our other outstanding debt or Convertible Debt through issuances of new notes or convertible debt, term loans, Commercial Paper, tender offers, exchange transactions or open market repurchases.  Such issuances, tender offers or exchanges or purchases, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our ability to negotiate acceptable terms, our liquidity position and other factors.  There can be no assurance that any financing will be available on acceptable terms due to uncertainties resulting from rising interest rates, higher inflation, economic uncertainty, instability in the banking sector, public health concerns, or other factors, and any additional equity financing or convertible debt financing would result in incremental ownership dilution to our existing stockholders.  We are also pursuing incentives under the CHIPS Act to increase our domestic manufacturing capacity; however, there can be no assurance that we will receive any such incentives or what the amount and timing of any incentive we receive will be. Summarized Financial Information The tables below present the summarized financial information on a combined basis for Microchip Technology Incorporated and the following subsidiaries of Microchip Technology Incorporated that provide guarantees of our Senior Notes: Atmel Corporation, Microchip Holding Corporation, Microchip Technology LLC, Silicon Storage Technology, Inc., Microsemi Corporation, and Microsemi Storage Solutions, Inc. (such subsidiaries collectively, the Subsidiary Obligors).  The debt securities are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the aforementioned subsidiaries and rank equally in right of payment with all of our existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated obligations.  The summarized financial information is provided in accordance with the reporting requirements of Rule 13-01 under Regulation S-X and is not intended to present our financial position or results of operations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as such principles are in effect in the U.S. We have presented summarized financial information below for Microchip Technology Incorporated and the Subsidiary Obligors after the elimination of intercompany transactions and balances among Microchip Technology Incorporated and the Subsidiary Obligors and investments in any subsidiaries (in millions).  The Subsidiary Obligors regularly sell goods and services to non-guarantor subsidiaries (Non-Guarantors) and the Subsidiary Obligors regularly purchase goods and services from Non-Guarantor through intercompany arrangements.  The summarized financial information does not eliminate the effects of these intercompany arrangements and separately presents the net effect of all of the Subsidiary Obligors’ transactions with Non-Guarantor for the financial measures presented below. March 31, 2024 Current assets, excluding intercompany $ 470.8 Intercompany receivables from Non-Guarantors 2,665.6 Goodwill and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization 4,619.0 Non-current assets, excluding intercompany 915.7 Non-current intercompany receivables from Non-Guarantors 186.6 Total assets $ 8,857.7 Current liabilities, excluding intercompany $ 618.1 Intercompany payables due to Non-Guarantors 5,867.6 Long-term debt 5,000.4 Non-current liabilities, excluding intercompany 1,037.7 Non-current intercompany payables due to Non-Guarantors 2,158.3 Total liabilities $ 14,682.1 56 Table of Contents Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2024 Revenue, excluding intercompany $ 2,242.7 Revenue from Non-Guarantors 560.4 Total revenue $ 2,803.1 Gross profit, excluding intercompany 1,973.4 Gross loss from Non-Guarantors (692.9) Total gross profit $ 1,280.5 Operating income, excluding intercompany 1,419.9 Operating loss from Non-Guarantors (692.9) Total operating income $ 727.0 Net income, excluding intercompany 1,198.6 Net loss from Non-Guarantors (733.4) Total net income $ 465.2 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements.