Item 5.B. “Liquidity and Capital Resources”. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2013 25 Table of Contents A. Operating Results Critical Accounting Policies Using Significant Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial
condition and results of operations are based upon our Financial Statements, which have been prepared in conformity with US GAAP. The preparation of our Financial Statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities on the balance sheet dates, and the reported amounts of net sales and costs during the reported periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates. We
evaluate our estimates continually and we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates if the assumptions prove
incorrect. To the extent there are material differences between actual results and these estimates, our future results could be materially and adversely affected. We believe that the accounting policies described below require us to make significant
judgments and estimates in the preparation of our Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition ASML recognizes revenue when all four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; delivery has occurred or services have
been rendered; seller’s price to buyer is fixed or determinable; and collectability is reasonably assured. At ASML this policy generally results in revenue recognition from the sale of a system upon shipment. The revenue from the installation
of a system is generally recognized upon completion of that installation at the customer site. Prior to shipment, systems undergo a “Factory Acceptance Test” in our clean room facilities, effectively replicating the operating conditions
that will be present on the customer’s site, in order to verify whether the system will meet its standard specifications and any additional technical and performance criteria agreed with the customer, if any. A system is shipped, and revenue is
recognized, only after all contractual specifications are met and customer sign-off is received or waived. In case not all specifications are met and the remaining performance obligation is not essential to the functionality of the system but is
substantive rather than inconsequential or perfunctory, a portion of the sales price is deferred. Although each system’s performance is re-tested upon installation at the customer’s site, we have never failed to successfully complete
installation of a system at a customer’s premises. In connection with the introduction of new technology, such as our second- and third-generation
EUV systems (NXE:3100 and NXE:3300B), we initially defer revenue recognition until acceptance of the new technology based system and completion of installation at the customer premises. As our systems are based largely on two product platforms that
permit incremental, modular upgrades, the introduction of genuinely “new” technology occurs infrequently, and in the past 15 years, has occurred on only two occasions: 1999 (TWINSCAN) and 2010 (EUV). We have no significant repurchase commitments in our general sales terms and conditions. From time to time we repurchase systems that we have manufactured and sold
and, following refurbishment, we resell those systems to other customers. This repurchase decision is driven by market demand expressed by other customers and not by explicit or implicit contractual arrangements relating to the initial sale. We
consider reasonable offers from any vendor, including customers, to repurchase used systems so that we can refurbish, resell, and install these systems as part of our normal business operations. Once repurchased, the repurchase price of the used
system is recorded in work- in-process inventory during the period it is being refurbished, following which the refurbished system is reflected in finished products inventory until it is sold to the customer. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012,
ASML had no repurchase commitments. We offer customers discounts in the normal course of sales negotiations. These discounts are directly deducted from
the gross sales price at the moment of revenue recognition. In addition, we offer volume discounts to customers. In some instances these volume discounts can be used to purchase field options (system enhancements). The related amount is recorded as
a reduction in net sales at time of shipment. From time to time, we offer free or discounted products or services (award credits) to our customers as part of a volume purchase agreement. The sales transaction that gives rise to these award credits
is accounted for as a multiple element sales transaction as the agreements involve the delivery of multiple products. The consideration received from the sales transaction is allocated between the award credits and the other elements of the sales
transaction. The consideration allocated to the award credits is recognized as deferred revenue until award credits are delivered to the customer. The amount allocable to a delivered item is limited to the amount that is not contingent upon the
delivery of additional items or meeting other specified performance conditions (the non-contingent amount). Net sales are recognized excluding the
taxes levied on sales (net basis). ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2013 26 Table of Contents In the event of expected losses on executory contracts, we recognize a liability for the amount that the cost of
settling the contract exceeds the amount of the contract price. When we satisfy these contracts, we derecognize the related liability. Multiple
Element Arrangements The main portion of our net sales is derived from contractual arrangements with our customers that have multiple deliverables,
which mainly include the sale of our systems, installation and training services and prepaid extended and enhanced (optic) warranty contracts. As of January 1, 2011, we have adopted ASU 2009-13, “Sales Arrangements with Multiple
Deliverables” which amended the guidance on arrangements with multiple deliverables in ASC 605-25. The amended standard changes the requirements for establishing separate units of accounting in a multiple element arrangement and requires the
allocation of arrangement consideration to each deliverable to be based on the relative selling price. Each element in the arrangement is accounted for
as a separate unit of accounting provided the following criteria are met: the delivered products or services have value to the customer on a standalone basis; and for an arrangement that includes a general right of return relative to the delivered
products or services, delivery or performance of the undelivered product or service is considered probable and is substantially controlled by us. We consider a deliverable to have stand-alone value if the product or service is sold separately by us
or another vendor or could be resold by the customer. Further, our sales arrangements do not include a general right of return relative to the delivered products. Where the aforementioned criteria for a separate unit of accounting are not met, the
deliverable is combined with the undelivered element(s) and treated as a single unit of accounting for the purposes of allocation of the arrangement consideration and revenue recognition. The hierarchy of evidence to determine a selling price in ASC 605-25 is as follows: • VSOE – the price at which we sell the element in a separate stand-alone transaction; • TPE – evidence from us or other companies of the value of a largely interchangeable element in a transaction; • BESP – our best estimate of the selling price of an element in the transaction. To determine the selling price in multiple elements arrangements, we establish VSOE of the selling price for installation, training services and prepaid extended and enhanced (optic) warranty contracts. VSOE for
installation is determined based on the prices that we charge for billable labor and materials consumed in comparable services (such as relocating a system to another customer site). VSOE for prepaid extended and enhanced (optic) warranty contracts
is determined on the basis of similar products we sell on a standalone basis, such as full service contracts and billable lens swaps, and which are subject to normal price negotiations. Revenue from installation and training services is recognized
when the services are completed. Revenue from prepaid extended and enhanced (optic) warranty contracts is recognized over the term of the contract. When we are unable to establish the selling price using VSOE or TPE, we use BESP. The objective of
using estimated selling price-based methodology is to determine the price at which we would transact a sale if the product or service were sold on a stand-alone basis. Accordingly, we determine BESP considering several internal and external factors
including, but not limited to, pricing practices, gross margin objectives, market conditions, competitive environment, internal costs and geographies. We review selling prices annually and maintain internal controls over the establishment and
updates of these estimates. Business Combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries are included on the basis of the acquisition method. The cost of acquisition is measured based on the consideration transferred at fair
value, the fair value of identifiable assets distributed and the fair value of liabilities incurred or assumed at the acquisition date (i.e., the date at which we obtain control). The excess of the costs of an acquired subsidiary over the net of the
amounts assigned to identifiable assets acquired and liabilities incurred or assumed, is capitalized as goodwill. Acquisition-related costs are expensed when incurred in the period they arise or the service is received. Evaluation of Long-lived Assets for Impairment Long-lived
assets include goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually at the end of the third
quarter and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the goodwill may not be recoverable. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating
performance indicators, competition, or sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. The test is based on a two-step approach for each reporting unit (being an operating segment or one level below an operating segment) in which
goodwill has been recorded. First, recoverability is tested by comparing the carrying amount of the reporting unit including goodwill ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2013 27 Table of Contents with the fair value of the reporting unit. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit is higher than the fair value of the reporting unit, the second step should be performed. Goodwill
impairment is measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the goodwill over its implied fair value. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined by calculating the fair value of the various assets and liabilities included in the reporting
unit in the same manner as goodwill is determined in a business combination. Other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are reviewed for
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of those assets may not be recoverable. Other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment based on a two-step approach. First,
the recoverability is tested by comparing the carrying amount of the other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment with their fair value, being the sum of the related undiscounted future cash flows. Second, if the carrying amount of the
other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment is higher than this fair value the assets are considered to be impaired. The impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair
value of the assets. In determining the fair value of a long-lived asset (other than goodwill), we make estimates about future cash flows. These
estimates are based on our financial plan updated with the latest available projection of the semiconductor market conditions and our sales and cost expectations, which are consistent with the plans and estimates that we use to manage our business.
We also make estimates and assumptions concerning WACC and future inflation rates. It is possible that actual results may differ from our plans, estimates and assumptions, which may require impairment of certain long-lived assets (other than
goodwill). Future adverse changes in market conditions may also require impairment of certain long-lived assets (other than goodwill), which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Inventories Inventories, including spare parts and lenses,
are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or market value. Costs include net prices paid for materials purchased, charges for freight and customs duties, production labor cost and factory overhead. Allowances are made for slow
moving, obsolete or unsellable inventory and are reviewed on a quarterly basis. Our methodology involves matching our on-hand and on-order inventory with our requirements based on the expected demand and resulting manufacturing forecast. In
determining inventory allowances, we evaluate inventory in excess of our forecasted needs on both technological and economic criteria and make appropriate provisions to reflect the risk of obsolescence. This methodology is significantly affected by
our forecasted needs for inventory. If actual requirements were to be lower than estimated, additional inventory allowances for excess or obsolete inventory may be required, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations. ASML ANNUAL REPORT 2013 28 Table of Contents Income Taxes We operate in various tax jurisdictions in Europe, Asia, and the United States and must comply with the tax laws and regulations of each of these jurisdictions. We use the asset and liability method in accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for tax
consequences attributable to differences between the balance sheet carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Furthermore tax assets are recognized for the tax effect of incurred net operating losses. If it
is more likely than not that the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets will not be realized, a valuation allowance is recorded to reduce the carrying amounts of those assets. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on a two-step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it
is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50 percent likely of
being realized upon settlement. While we believe we have appropriate support for the positions taken on our tax returns, we regularly assess the potential outcomes of examinations by tax authorities in determining the adequacy of our provision for
income taxes, and adjust the income tax provision, income taxes payable and deferred taxes in the period in which the facts that give rise to a revision become known. Results of Operations 2013 Compared with 2012 The following discussion and analysis of Results of Operations
should be viewed in the context of the risks that may interfere with our business objectives, described in