Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations and Financial Condition” and Note 3. Our revenue from U.S. Government contracts depends on the continued availability of funding from the U.S. Government, and, accordingly, we have the risk that funding for our existing contracts may be canceled or diverted to other uses or delayed or that funding for new programs will not be available. We perform work on a number of contracts with the U.S. Department of Defense and other agencies and departments of the U.S. Government including subcontracts with government prime contractors.  Sales under contracts with the U.S. Government, including sales under contracts with the U.S. Department of Defense, as prime contractor or subcontractor, represented approximately 25% and 26% of our total net sales in 2022 and 2021, respectively.  Performance under government contracts has inherent risks that could have a material effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations and the failure of Congress to appropriate funds for programs in which we participate could negatively affect our results of operations.  U.S. Government shutdowns have resulted in delays in anticipated contract awards and delayed payments of invoices for several of 10 Table of Contents our businesses and any new shutdown could have similar or worse effects.  The failure by Congress to approve future budgets on a timely basis could delay procurement of our products and services and cause us to lose future revenues.  Any renewed emphasis on Federal deficit and debt reduction could lead to a further decrease in overall defense spending.  Budgetary concerns could result in future contracts being awarded more on price than on other competitive factors, and smaller defense budgets could result in government in-sourcing of programs and more intense competition on programs that are not in-sourced, which could result in lower revenues and profits.  Rising inflation may result in a shift in U.S. defense spending between various programs based on priorities, which may result in a reduction or loss of expected revenues on programs in which we participate. Also, defense spending does not necessarily correlate to continued business for us, because not all of the programs in which we participate or have current capabilities may be provided with continued funding.  Changes in policy and budget priorities by the U.S. Presidential Administration for various defense and NASA programs could impact our Engineered Systems, Aerospace and Defense Electronics and Digital Imaging segments.  Our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment may be impacted by volume or price reductions in connection with the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program, to the extent they are imposed.  The timing of program cycles can affect our results of operations for a quarter or year, and cancellations of significant programs such as the International Space Station (“ISS”), Marshall Operations, Systems, Services, and Integration II ("MOSSI II"), the Shallow Water Combat Submersible (“SWCS”) or Advanced Aerodynamic and Instrumentation Features and Simulation ("A2IFS") would affect our results.  In 2022 and 2021, the Mission Operations and Integration ("MO&I") contract represented more than 10% of net sales in the Engineered Systems segment.  The MO&I contract ended December 2022 and was replaced with the MOSSI II contract, which was awarded to Teledyne Brown Engineering in September 2022 with an effective start date in January 2023 for the base two-year period.  The remaining option years are proposed through 2030, but there is no guarantee the options will be awarded if the ISS support is cancelled.  Of the total expected contract value, approximately 10% is dedicated to the Indefinite Delivery / Indefinite Quantity ("IDIQ") contract type.  There is no guarantee this IDIQ portion will be fully funded.  In 2021, we were awarded the A2IFS contract and received partial funding in 2022.  We are currently uncertain how much additional funding will be provided for performance. It is also not uncommon for the U.S. Department of Defense to delay the timing of awards or change orders for major programs for six to twelve months.  These delays by the U.S. Government could impact our revenues.  Delays in procurements, awards and modifications to contracts have negatively impacted revenue in 2022, primarily within our Engineered Systems segment.  These delays are continuing in 2023 and may also impact future revenue.  Uncertainty over budgets or priorities with the U.S. Presidential Administration could result in further delays in funding and the timing of awards, and changes in funded programs that could have a material impact on our revenues.  U.S. Government operation under a continuing resolution could impact the business by preventing new programs from starting as planned and by limiting funding on existing programs.  A significant shift in U.S. Government priorities related to programs and acquisition strategies could have a material impact to our financial results. Further, most of our U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination by the U.S. Government either at its convenience or upon the default of the contractor.  Termination for convenience provisions provides only for the recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses, and profit on work completed prior to termination.  Termination for default clauses imposes liability on the contractor for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in re-procuring undelivered items from another source.  During 2022 and 2021, contracts terminated by the U.S. Government have not materially impacted our results of operations. Our U.S. Government contracting business is subject to government contracting regulations, including increasingly complex regulations on cybersecurity, and our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could harm our operating results and prospects. Our U.S. Government contracting businesses, like other government contractors, are subject to various audits, reviews and investigations (including private party “whistleblower” lawsuits) relating to our compliance with applicable federal and state laws and regulations.  More routinely, the U.S. Government may audit the costs we incur on our U.S. Government contracts, including allocated indirect costs.  Such audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs.  Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed would need to be refunded.  We have recorded contract revenues based upon costs we expect to realize after final audit.  In a worst case scenario, should a business or division be charged with wrongdoing, or should the U.S. Government determine that the business or division is not a “presently responsible contractor,” that business or division, and conceivably our Company as a whole, could be temporarily suspended or, in the event of a conviction, could be debarred for up to three years from receiving new government contracts or government-approved subcontracts.  In addition, we could expend substantial amounts defending against such charges and in damages, fines and penalties if such charges were proven or were to result in negotiated settlements.  Routine audits by U.S. Government agencies of Teledyne’s various procurement and accounting systems have the potential to result in disapproval of the audited systems by the administrative contracting officer.  Disapproval could significantly impact cash flow, as up to 10% may be withheld from payments, as well as significantly impact potential contract awards and increase audit oversight of individual contract proposals. 11 Table of Contents The Department of Defense as well as other U.S. Government contracting agencies have adopted rules and regulations requiring contractors to implement a set of cybersecurity measures to attain the safeguarding of contractor systems that process, store, or transmit certain information.  Implementation and compliance with these cybersecurity requirements is complex and costly, and could result in unforeseen expenses, lower profitability and, in the case of non-compliance, penalties and damages, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business.  The cybersecurity requirements also impact our supply base which could impact cost, schedule and performance on programs if suppliers do not meet the requirements and therefore, do not qualify to support the programs. We also are required to procure certain materials and parts from supply sources approved by the U.S. Government. The inability of a supplier to meet our needs, the failure to obtain such approvals or the appearance of counterfeit parts in our products could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  Such failure or inclusion could result in claims under the False Claims Act, which could lead to civil and criminal penalties and disbarment of the applicable business unit from doing business with the U.S. Government, among other things. Risks associated with counterfeit parts could be exacerbated as a result of current supply chain shortages or due to parts becoming obsolete. We generate revenue from companies in the oil and gas industry, especially the offshore oil and gas industry, a historically cyclical industry with levels of activity that are significantly affected by the levels and volatility of oil and gas prices, which has in the past impacted and can impact in the future our financial results. The oil and gas industry has historically been cyclical and characterized by significant changes in the levels of exploration and development activities.  Oil and gas prices, and market expectations of potential changes in those prices, significantly affect the levels of those activities.  Any prolonged reduction in the overall level of offshore oil and gas exploration and development activities, whether resulting from changes in oil and gas prices or otherwise, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and the results of our businesses within our Instrumentation segment. Some factors that have affected and are likely to continue affecting oil and gas prices and the level of demand for our products and services include the following: • worldwide demand for oil and gas; • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”), to set and maintain production levels; • the level of production by non-OPEC countries; • the war between Russia and Ukraine, including the implementation of price controls on Russian oil exports and restrictions on oil and gas exports imposed by Russia; • the ability of oil and gas companies to generate or raise funds for capital expenditures; • domestic and foreign tax policy; • laws and governmental regulations that restrict exploration and development of oil and gas in various offshore jurisdictions or the use of hydraulic fracturing; • laws and governmental regulation that restrict the use of hydraulic fracturing; • technological changes; • the political environment of oil-producing regions; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; and • climate change regulations that provide incentives to conserve energy, use electric vehicles or use alternative energy sources, or that impose restrictions on the development and extraction of oil and gas. Teledyne manufactures seismic energy sources, interconnects and data acquisition products that are used in offshore energy exploration.  When crude oil and natural gas prices are low, the level of marine seismic exploration activity typically decreases, potentially resulting in reduced demand for our products used in offshore energy exploration.  In addition, a decline in the level of capital spending by oil and natural gas companies may result in a reduced rate of development of new energy reserves, which could adversely affect demand for our products related to energy production, and, in certain instances, result in the cancellation, modification or rescheduling of existing orders and a reduction in customer-funded research and development related to next generation products. We may not have sufficient resources to fund all future research and development and capital expenditures or possible acquisitions. In order to remain competitive, we must make substantial investments in research and development of new or enhanced products and continuously upgrade our process technology and manufacturing capabilities.  Our research and development efforts primarily involve engineering and design related to improving existing products and developing new products and technologies in the same or similar fields.  Our Teledyne Scientific Company subsidiary, which serves as our primary research center, has been actively promoting and funding joint research and development projects with other Teledyne businesses, including Teledyne Marine, Teledyne Defense Electronics, Teledyne Digital Imaging and our Test and Measurement businesses. The business of Teledyne e2v, for which the design and development of specialized technology for high performance systems and equipment is integral, also requires substantial investments in research and development. 12 Table of Contents Additionally, some of our businesses have sought or are actively pursuing governmental support and funding for some of their research and development initiatives, including funding in 2019 for DALSA’s semiconductor foundry in Bromont, Quebec.  Nonetheless, we may be unable to fund all of our research and development and capital investment needs or possible strategic acquisitions of businesses or product lines.  Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on a variety of factors, some of which will not be within our control, including the existence of bank and capital markets, investor perceptions of us, our businesses and the industries in which we operate, and general economic conditions.  Failure to successfully raise needed capital or generate cash flow on a timely or cost-effective basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, if we fail to accurately predict future customer needs and preferences or fail to produce viable technologies, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant revenue, which would adversely affect our profitability. Limitations in customer funding for applied research and development and limitations in government support for research and development expenditures may reduce our ability to apply our ongoing investments in some market areas. We may be unable to successfully introduce new and enhanced products in a timely and cost-effective manner or increase our participation in new markets, which could harm our profitability and prospects. Our operating results depend in part on our ability to introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis.  We have major development activities at some of our businesses, for which a failure to execute in a timely manner could negatively impact those businesses.  In order to improve our product development capabilities, we purchased the research center that is now Teledyne Scientific Company in 2006 and in 2011 we purchased DALSA to gain access to a well-equipped MEMS research and development center.  In 2013, we opened a 52,000-square-foot technology development center in Daytona Beach, Florida primarily to serve the offshore oil and gas production and exploration industries.  We are currently upgrading infrastructure at Teledyne e2v’s facility in Chelmsford, U.K. and have expanded Teledyne DALSA’s MEMS foundry in Bromont, Quebec, as well as acquired a second MEMS foundry in Edmonton, Alberta as part of the Micralyne acquisition.  Successful product development and introduction depend on numerous factors, including our ability to anticipate customer and market requirements, changes in technology and industry standards, our ability to differentiate our product offerings from the product offerings of our competitors, and market acceptance.  We may not be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced products in a timely and cost-effective manner or to develop and introduce products that satisfy customer requirements. We also have the risk that our defense businesses may not be able to replace revenue related to legacy platforms with products for new platform applications.  We face the risk that changes in systems architectures will obviate the need for our products. For example, electronically steered radar arrays do not need certain high voltage interconnects like mechanically steered radar arrays do and unmanned aircraft will not need ejection seat sequencers. Our new products also may not achieve market acceptance or correctly address new industry standards and technological changes.  We may also lose any technological advantage to competitors if we fail to develop new products in a timely manner. Additionally, new products may trigger increased warranty costs as information on such products is augmented by actual usage.  Accelerated entry of new products to meet heightened market demand and competitive pressures may cause additional warranty costs as development and testing time periods might be accelerated or condensed. We intend to both adapt our existing technologies and develop new products to expand into new market segments.  We may be unsuccessful in accessing these and other new markets if our products do not meet our customers’ requirements, as a result of changes in either technology and industry standards or because of actions taken by our competitors. We may not be able to reduce the costs of our products to satisfy customers’ cost reduction mandates, which could harm our sales or margins. Cost conscious customers may seek price reductions of our products.  While we continually work to reduce our manufacturing and other costs of our products, without affecting product quality and reliability, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so or to do so in a timely manner to satisfy the pricing pressures of our customers.  Prices of raw materials and other components used in our products may be beyond our control depending on market conditions. As a result, customers may seek lower cost products from China or other developing countries where manufacturing costs are lower. The airline industry is heavily regulated, and if we fail to comply with applicable requirements, our results of operations could suffer. The Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) and equivalent regulatory agencies have increasingly focused on the need to assure that airline industry products are designed with sufficient cybersecurity controls to protect against unauthorized access or other unwanted compromise.  A failure to meet these evolving expectations could negatively impact sales into the industry and expose us to legal or contractual liability. Governmental agencies throughout the world, including the FAA, prescribe standards and qualification requirements for aircraft components, including virtually all commercial airline and general aviation products.  Specific regulations vary from country to country, although compliance with FAA requirements generally satisfies regulatory requirements in other countries.  If any material authorization or approval qualifying us to supply our products is revoked or suspended, then sale of the product would be prohibited by law, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents From time to time, the FAA or equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries propose new regulations or changes to existing regulations, which often are more stringent than existing regulations.  If such proposals are adopted and enacted, we may incur significant additional costs to achieve compliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increasing competition could reduce the demand for our products and services. Each of our markets is highly competitive.  Many of our competitors have, and potential competitors could have, greater name recognition, a larger installed base of products, more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities and greater financial, technological and personnel resources.  New or existing competitors may also develop new technologies that could adversely affect the demand for our products and services.  We have been experiencing increased competition for some of our key products.  Furthermore, some of our patents have or are expiring, which could open up further competition.  Additionally, some of our customers have been developing competing products or electing to vertically integrate and replace our products with their own.  For example, Airbus is providing a wireless product, FOMAX, which competes directly with Teledyne Controls hardware and services.  Furthermore, Boeing has announced a vertical integration program, which includes avionics.  Lastly, some of our products face increasing competition from alternative technologies. Industry acquisition and consolidation trends, particularly among aerospace and defense contractors, have adversely impacted demand for our aerospace and defense related engineering services as large prime contractors elect to in-source major acquisition programs and expand small business participation to meet U.S. Government contracting goals.  Such consolidations can also cause delays in business as the newly consolidated organization undergoes integration. Low-cost competition from China and other developing countries could also result in decreased demand for our products. Increasing competition could reduce the volume of our sales or the prices we may charge, which would negatively impact our revenues.  We are experiencing increasing competition in our digital imaging businesses from Chinese manufacturers which offer lower cost products with increasingly advanced technical capabilities. Product liability claims, product recalls and field service actions could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition and we may have difficulty obtaining product liability and other insurance coverage. As a manufacturer and distributor of a wide variety of products, including monitoring instruments, gas and flame detection instruments, products used in offshore oil and gas production, products used in transportation and commercial aviation, products used in maritime navigation and products used in medical devices (including X-ray detectors), our results of operations are susceptible to adverse publicity regarding the quality or safety of our products.  Product liability claims challenging the safety of our products may result in a decline in sales for a product, which could adversely affect our results of operations.  This could be the case even if the claims themselves are proven to be untrue or settled for immaterial amounts. While we have general liability and other insurance policies concerning product liabilities and errors and omissions, we have self-insured retentions or deductibles under such policies with respect to a portion of these liabilities.  Awarded damages could be more than our accruals.  We could incur losses above the aggregate annual policy limit as well.  We cannot ensure that, for 2023 and in future years, insurance carriers will be willing to renew coverage or provide new coverage for product liability. Product recalls can be expensive and tarnish our reputation and have a material adverse effect on the sales of our products.  We cannot assure that we will not have additional product liability claims or that we will not recall any products. We have been joined, among a number of defendants (often over 100), in lawsuits alleging injury or death as a result of exposure to asbestos.  In addition, because of the prominent “Teledyne” name, we may continue to be mistakenly joined in lawsuits involving a company or business that was not assumed by us as part of our 1999 spin-off.  To date, we have not incurred material liabilities in connection with these lawsuits.  However, our historical insurance coverage, including that of our predecessors, may not fully cover such claims and the defense of such matters.  Coverage typically depends on the year of purported exposure and other factors.  Nonetheless, we intend to vigorously defend our position against these claims. Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc. and other Teledyne companies manufacture components for customers in the nuclear power market, including utilities and certain governmental entities.  Certain liabilities associated with such products are covered by the Price-Anderson Nuclear Industries Indemnity Act and other statutory and common law defenses, and we have received indemnities from some of our customers.  However, there is no assurance we will not face product liability claims related to such products or that our exposure will not exceed the amounts for which we have liability coverage or protection. Our business and financial results could be adversely affected by conditions and other factors associated with our suppliers and subcontractors. Apart from the current shortages we are experiencing due to global supply chain constraints, as discussed above, some items we purchase for the manufacture of our products are purchased from limited or single sources of supply due to technical capability, price and other factors.  For example, Teledyne Digital Imaging has an internal single source of supply for CCD semiconductor wafers used to assemble image sensors and an external single source of supply for CMOS semiconductor wafers used to assemble X-ray panel products.  Furthermore, sole source supply is more common among our businesses that are 14 Table of Contents heavily involved in research and development because there can be few suppliers in the world capable of producing the products or providing the services with the right highly specialized technology.  Teledyne LeCroy continues to outsource a portion of its research and development activities to third-party engineering firms in Malaysia and India where it may be more difficult for us to enforce our intellectual property rights.  We have also outsourced from time to time the manufacturing of certain parts, components, subsystems and even finished products to single or limited sources, including international sources.  Disruption of these sources or supplier-imposed rationing of scarce components could cause delays or reductions in shipments of our products or increases in our costs, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or operations.  International sources possess additional risks, some of which are similar to those described above regarding international sales.  With any continuing disruption in the global economy and financial markets, some of our suppliers may also continue to face issues gaining access to sufficient credit and materials to maintain their businesses, which could reduce the availability of some components and, to the extent such suppliers are single source suppliers, could adversely affect our ability to continue to manufacture and sell our products.   Some companies engage subcontractors to perform a portion of the services we provide to our customers.  To provide these services, the subcontractor must be financially viable, company with applicable laws, regulations and contract terms.  Non-performance by a subcontractor could result in misalignment between subcontractor performance and our contractual obligations to our customers.  Lastly, our Teledyne Hi-Rel business screens, tests, packages, performs various services and resells products of a third party, and faces the risk that such third party may end its relationship due to economic conditions and other factors. We face risks related to sales through distributors and other third parties which could harm our business. We sell a portion of our products through third parties such as distributors, sales representatives, value-added resellers and OEMs (collectively, “distributors”).  Using third parties for distribution exposes Teledyne to many risks, including concentration, credit risk and legal risk because under certain circumstances we may be held responsible for the actions of those third-party sales channels.  We may rely on one or more key distributors for selling a product, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue. Distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivables and financial results.  Violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar anti-bribery laws by distributors or other third-party intermediaries could have a material impact on our business.  Competitors could also block our access to such parties.  Failing to manage risks related to our use of third-party sales channels may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position, and could result in sanctions against us. Failing to comply with increasing environmental regulations, as well as the effects of potential environmental liabilities, could have a material adverse financial effect on us. We, like other industry participants, are subject to various federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations.  We may be subject to increasingly stringent environmental standards in the future, particularly as greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions and climate change regulations and initiatives proliferate.  Future developments, administrative actions or liabilities relating to environmental and climate change matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.  Environmental regulations on hydraulic fracturing and the use of seismic energy sources for offshore energy exploration could adversely affect some product lines of our Instrumentation segment. Our manufacturing operations, including former operations, could expose us to material environmental liabilities.  Additionally, companies that we acquire may have environmental liabilities that might not be accurately assessed or brought to our attention at the time of the acquisition. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) has focused on GHGs, maintaining GHGs threaten the public health and welfare of the American people.  The EPA also maintains that GHG emissions from on-road vehicles contribute to that threat.  The EPA’s endangerment finding covers emissions of six GHGs.  The EPA’s continuing efforts to limit GHG emissions could adversely affect our U.S. manufacturing operations, increase prices for energy, fuel and transportation, require us to accommodate changes in parameters, such as the way parts are manufactured, and may, in some cases, require us to redesign certain of our products.  This, or other federal or state regulations, could lead to increased costs, which we may not be able to recover from customers, delays in product shipments and loss of market share to competitors.  For example, Teledyne Battery Products unit makes lead acid batteries in California and is subject to a variety of environmental regulations and inspections, which have increased over time.  Also, some of our sites conduct electroplating, metal finishing and other operations that utilize hazardous materials that are subject to similar regulations.  Regulatory changes or failure by a business to meet applicable requirements could disrupt that business or force a closure or relocation of the business. Our products are subject to various regulations that prohibit or restrict the use of certain hazardous substances.  For example, our products placed on the European market are subject to the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals and the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment Directives. Future hazardous substance restrictions or prohibitions may limit our ability to market some products in certain countries. For additional discussion of environmental matters, see the discussion under the caption “Other Matters – Environmental” of “