Q4 2017 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day and welcome to the Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2017 Financial Results Conference
Call and Webcast for Zoetis. Hosting the call today is `Steve Frank, Vice President of Investor Relations, Vice President of Investor
Relations for Zoetis. The presentation materials and additional financial tables are currently
posted on the Investor Relations section of zoetis.com. The presentation slides can be managed
by you, the viewer, and will not be forwarded automatically. In addition, a replay of this call will be
available approximately two hours after the conclusion of this call via dial-in or on the Investor
Relations section of zoetis.com.
At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be open for
your questions following the presentation. (Operator Instructions)
It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to `Steve Frank, Vice President of Investor Relations. Steve, you may begin.
`Steve Frank, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you, operator. Good morning and welcome to the Zoetis fourth quarter and full year 2017
earnings call. I am joined today by `Juan Ramon Alaix, Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Executive Officer; and Glenn
David, our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin, I'll remind you that the slides presented on this call are available on the Investor
Relations section of our website and that our remarks today will include forward-lookingdescription of certain factors that could cause results to differ, I refer you to the forward-looking
statement in today's press release and our SEC filings, including, but not limited to, our annual
report on Form 10-K and our reports on Form 10-Q.
Our remarks today will also include references to certain financial measures, which were not
prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or U.S. GAAP. A
reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP
measures is included in the financial tables that accompany our earnings press release and in the
company's 8-K filing dated today, February 15th, 2018. We also cite operational results, which
exclude the impact of foreign exchange.
With that I will turn the call over to Juan Ramon.
`Juan Ramon Alaix, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Steve. Good morning, everyone. Two weeks ago, we celebrated our fifth anniversary
as a public company, and since our IPO in 2013, we have been able to improve the ways we
innovate and serve our customers, grow as a profitable standalone business and build a track
record of delivering the results. Over the last five years, we have maintained a high level of R&D
productivity and developed new and enhanced products that address the more relevant needs
of our customers, new innovative products like Apoquel, Cytopoint and Simparica as well as
lifecycle innovation for our existing portfolio, have supported our leadership in the animal health
industry.
On an operational basis, Zoetis revenue has grown an average of approximately 7% over the last
five years compared with a 5% to 6% for the animal health industry. And our adjusted net income
for the same period has grown operationally an average of approximately 21%.
Over the last five years, we have been able to deliver on our commitment of growing our
revenue in line or faster than the market and growing our adjusted net income faster than sales,
while also targeting value-added investment opportunities and returning excess capital to our
shareholders. And for the next five years, we remain committed to achieving these elements of
our value proposition for shareholders.
In 2017, Zoetis became the first animal health company to deliver more than $5 billion in revenue
as we continue to demonstrate the strength of our business model and the growth opportunities
in animal health.
We achieved operational revenue growth for 2017 of 8% based on the divestiture of our total
portfolio and balanced performance across the US and major international markets. And once
again, we grew our adjusted net income faster than sales at 21% operationally and we continue to
realize the benefits of our operational efficiency initiative and deliver our long-term value
proposition.
The strength of our diverse portfolio of approximately 300 product lines, help to absorb
economic challenge in certain markets and to offset all issues like the implementation of the
Veterinary Feed Directive, or VFD, in the US.
Our companion animal business led the way again in 2017. It grew 14% operationally based on the
continued penetration of Apoquel and ramp up of Cytopoint, and other new products like
Simparica, which gained share in the large and highly competitive parasiticide market. We believe
2018 will be another year of above market growth for our companion animal business.We see further opportunities for gaining share and expanding the market for dermatology
products with our innovative treatment options. We expect to achieve more than $500 million in
combined sales from Apoquel and Cytopoint in 2018.
We also continued to support this product as well as our oral parasiticide, Simparica, with direct to
consumer campaigns in the US and other markets. Simparica has been able to gain market share
in the US in 2017, and we expect further growth there and internationally in 2018.
Meanwhile, we delivered 5% operational growth in our livestock business for the year.
International markets grew faster than the US, where we felt the impact of the VFD
implementation in our cattle and swine anti-infective products. For 2018, we see more favorable
market conditions for livestock, particularly in the US.
Glenn will discuss the details of our fourth quarter results and guidance in a minute, but I would
like to say that we feel very confident about our prospects for 2018. In addition to revenue
growth, we have also been focused on improving our operational efficiency and margins. And in
2017, we achieved an adjusted EBIT margin of 34.1%. This was an improvement of 900 basis point
in the last three years.
With our improved cost structure, margin expansion and revenue growth, we have been able to
almost double our operating cash flow for the year in 2017 compared to the previous year. That
improved cash flow, along with the long-term benefit of the recent US tax reform is providing us
the flexibility to invest for long-term growth.
In terms of long-term growth, we'll continue investing significantly in R&D for our core species and
geographies, and also strengthen our capabilities in areas like monoclonal antibodies, vector
vaccine, genetics, diagnostics, devices and automation, identify new technologies in areas like
data analytics and sensors.
We'll continue supporting our key products like Apoquel and Simparica with direct-to-consumer
advertising and other marketing campaigns. We'll also increase our field force in diagnostics to
better support interaction of new products and the future growth expected in this area. We will
be allocating capital to support many other manufacturing and supply improvements I have
discussed recently in places like China, Ireland and the United States, and as always will continue
to look at external partnership and business development that could accelerate our ability to
grow in our core business and in complementary spaces like genetics and data analytics. All these
investments will support our goal of more integrated solutions, which cover the entire lifecycle of
animal care that our customers need.
In conclusion, as we mark our fifth anniversary as an independent company, I'm grateful to the
colleagues of Zoetis, who have delivered our strong performance and will support our future
profitable growth. We continue to drive innovations, believe in customer excellence, simplify our
operations and increase our cash flow. And as we look to the future, we remain committed to
strengthening our interconnected capabilities in direct sales, R&D, manufacturing, and look for
additional investment opportunities to enhance our growth.
With that, let me hand things over to Glenn, who will provide more details on our fourth quarter
results and full-year guidance for 2018.
`Glenn David, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Juan Ramon, and good morning everyone. Before I get into the details on our fourth
quarter performance and guidance for 2018, I will provide a few comments on the results for fullyear 2017. This year, we delivered operational revenue growth above the market, grew adjusted
net income faster than revenue and almost doubled our operating cash flow.
Reported revenue for full year 2017 was $5.3 billion, with operational revenue growth of 8%. Of
this 8%, 3.5% came from our dermatology portfolio, 3.5% came from Simparica and other new
products, and the remainder of growth came from price and volume. Our product rationalization
initiative had an unfavorable impact of 1% on volume for the year. Adjusted net income for full
year 2017 was $1.2 billion and grew 21% operationally. Adjusted net income continues to grow
faster than revenue driven by the continued impact of our operational efficiency initiatives and a
lower adjusted effective tax rate.
Our performance this year again reaffirms our ability to execute on the financial targets that we
set in May of 2015, when we provided long-term guidance through 2017. With the results that we
are reporting today, both our top and bottom line in 2017 beat the goals outlined nearly three
years ago.
For the full year, we've performed well across all of the species and key markets where we
compete.The diversity and durability of our existing portfolio, our market leading commercial and
manufacturing capabilities and the innovations that we bring to the marketplace, have allowed us
to outpace the animal health industry market growth for the last five years.
Our income growth and our increased discipline on the balance sheet, have enabled us to almost
double our operating cash flow in 2017. This is the result of lower cash outlays for termination
benefits and stand-up costs, increased profitability and inventory improvements. In 2017, we
reduced our months on hand of inventory by more than a month. We have more work to do in
this area, but are pleased with the progress in 2017.
Turning now to quarterly results. Q4 2017 was an exceptional quarter with top line growth coming
from new products in our companion animal portfolio and strong livestock performance in our US
and international businesses. Our product rationalization initiative had no material impact on our
growth this quarter and it will not have an impact on our revenue growth going forward. Total
company revenue in the fourth quarter grew 13% operationally, excluding the favorable 1% impact
from foreign exchange.
Our key dermatology products Apoquel and Cytopoint, once again surpassed the $100 million
mark in revenue with sales in the quarter, reaching $125 million and $428 million for the full year
2017. Sales of Simparica were $18 million in the quarter, growing a 102% over the same period in
the prior year.
Fish products also contributed to growth with sales of $39 million, growing 44% operationally
versus the same quarter last year. Our recently introduced PD-vaccine in Norway was the primary
driver of growth as it continues to gain share and help increase the penetration of other related
vaccines in our portfolio.
Now let's discuss segment revenue. Our international revenue grew 13% operationally in the
fourth quarter with companion animal operational growth of 18% and livestock growth of 11%. The
international segment continues to drive growth across multiple dimensions, with growth coming
from our dermatology portfolio, new products such as Simparica, our new PCV combo vaccine
and our PD-vaccine, and volume and price from our in-line portfolio.
Turning to some key market highlights in the quarter. In Brazil, we grew 13% operationally, driven
by the strength of both our livestock and companion animal businesses.In cattle, investments in our field force have led to increased penetration and coverage in key
regions within the market while favorable export market conditions also continued to contribute
to growth. In swine, increased sales of IMPROVAC or VIVAX as it's called in Brazil, were driven by
higher usage and greater penetration with larger customers. Higher companion animal revenue in
Brazil benefited from the continued growth of Simparica due to increased promotional activity
and higher veterinary clinic penetration.
In Japan, we experienced operational revenue growth of 27% in the quarter. Growth came from
Apoquel, as a result of the timing of distributor purchases last year and the additional market
penetration we achieved as well as the launch of premium injectable products for livestock.
France grew 23% operationally over the same period last year due to a timing impact related to
our price changes and new products for both -- across both companion animal and livestock.
China grew 13% operationally on the continuing strength of the companion animal business driven
by increasing medicalization of pets. Our swine business once again showed modest growth this
quarter due to softening pork prices, which we have expected and discussed on recent earnings
call. Our optimistic outlook and long-term view of the market remain unchanged as we continue
to invest in our local operations there.
To summarize, a very strong quarter for our International segment with growth across a
diversified portfolio, including all of our core species and key markets. Favorable market
conditions, strategic investments in our portfolio and a focus on execution, are all helping to drive
consistent commercial results.
Turning to the US. Revenue grew 13% in the fourth quarter. Companion animal grew 15%, while
livestock grew 11%. Companion animal sales in the quarter were driven primarily by key
dermatology products, Simparica and then a number of other recently launched products.
US dermatology sales for Apoquel and Cytopoint were $86 million for the quarter and exhibited
substantial growth over the same quarter in the prior year. While we did see a small decline on a
sequential quarter basis, Q1 and Q4 are impacted by seasonality with the warmer spring and
summer months experiencing peak activity. Simparica grew over the same quarter last year as
DTC investment and field force effort led to higher clinic penetration in both key corporate
accounts and smaller clinics.
Additional contributions to companion animal growth came from a number of line extensions to
our VANGUARD vaccine franchise, DIROBAN, our recently launched product for the treatment of
heartworm and CLAVAMOX chewable, a trusted antibiotic and a new easy-to-administer tablet.
Our US livestock business saw a return to growth in the fourth quarter with sales increasing 11%,
thanks to the performance out of our cattle and poultry businesses. During the fourth quarter,
growth in cattle products was driven by increased sales of premium products, which were
supported by a greater risk of disease outbreak and incident due to the weather, as well as the
timing of promotional activities in 2016. Our beef cattle business also benefited from higher
numbers of animals moving through feedlots than in the comparable 2016 period.
Our livestock business continues to be impacted by the Veterinary Feed Directive, or VFD, with
another $10 million hit to revenue in the quarter. For the full year 2017, the VFD had about a $40
million impact on revenue.
In poultry, the Zoetis portfolio of alternatives to antibiotics in medicated feed additive, continue
to be the primary driver of growth as certain producers expand their No Antibiotics Ever label.Zoetis works closely with our customers to provide the necessary product and technical
assistance that can help them switch over whenever they choose.
Now moving on to the rest of the P&L. I will quickly cover a few key line items and then move on
to our guidance for 2018. Adjusted gross margin of 68.9%, increased 450 basis points in the
quarter on a reported basis and reflects the benefit of cost improvements in our manufacturing
network as well as the reduction of the inventory waste charges versus the same quarter last
year.
Operating expenses in total grew 2% operationally versus the same period last year, which was
significantly lower than the operational revenue growth of 13% as we benefited from the final
stages of our operational efficiency initiatives.
The adjusted effective tax rate for the quarter was approximately 27.6%. This is higher than the
rate in the comparable 2016 period due to the favorable impact of certain one-time discrete item
that we experienced in the same quarter last year.
Our reported effective tax rate of 43.5% reflects the provisional net tax charge of $212 million in
the fourth quarter, which is the result of the recently enacted tax legislation in the US.
Adjusted net income for the quarter grew 37% operationally through a combination of strong
revenue growth and margin expansion and cost improvements in manufacturing and leveraging
our global scale and infrastructure. Adjusted diluted EPS grew 39% operationally in the quarter
versus the same period in 2016.
Turning now to guidance for the full year 2018. A table of our guidance is included in both our
press release and the presentation slides provided for this earnings call. Please note that our
guidance for 2018 reflects foreign exchange rates as of early February.
Building off a strong 2017, we see another year of operational revenue growth above the long-
term trend we see in the industry overall. Our projected reported revenue range for 2018 is
$5.675 billion to $5.8 billion. This represents operational revenue growth of between 5% and 7%
over our full year results in 2017. Foreign exchanges is expected to add an additional 2% to this
revenue growth.
We continue to expect more balanced performance across companion animal and livestock in
2018. Livestock growth is expected to reflect improved conditions in the US and relatively similar
performance of 2017 in our international segment. While companion animal continue to grow
faster than livestock, its growth rate will moderate as our dermatology portfolio and other new
products grow off a larger base in 2018.
Our adjusted cost of sales, as a percentage of revenue, is expected to be approximately 32% in
2018, an improvement of around 100 basis points over 2017, and driven by manufacturing cost
reductions, price increases and favorable product mix.
We expect SG&A for the year to be between $1.37 billion and $1.42 billion. Similar to revenue,
foreign exchange is expected to increase these expenses approximately 2% on a reported basis.
We will continue to fund our DTC programs to Apoquel and Simparica in the US. These programs
have been successful and we expect they will continue to help our sales teams drive market
expansion in dermatology and market share in parasiticide.
As our diagnostics pipeline continues to advance, we are beginning to fund additionalour customers these products, with the level of service and support we offer them on our other
portfolios.
We expect R&D expenses to be between $400 million and $420 million, a step-up in the level of
spending we've had in prior year.
Over the course of 2017, we've made a number of decisions to either expand investments or
accelerate investments where we saw the opportunity to do so in areas such as monoclonal
antibodies and key emerging markets.
The increase in adjusted interest expense and other income deductions reflects the incremental
interest expense associated with our recent debt offering.
For the full year 2018, the company expects its adjusted effective tax rate to be in the range of
21% to 22%. The decrease versus prior year is primarily the result of the tax changes enacted in
the US in December.
The target range for adjusted net income for the full year 2018 is between $1.45 billion and $1.52
billion, representing an operational growth rate of 20% to 26%. Growth here includes the
favorable impact of continued operating margin expansion and a lower adjusted effective tax
rate. Our guidance for adjusted diluted EPS is between $2.96 and $3.10 for the full year.
Turning to capital allocation. Our priorities remain the same, investments in our own business and
internal R&D programs, and then external business development opportunity, and finally returning
excess capital to the shareholders. With the impact of the recent tax law changes, we will have
greater flexibility to execute on these priorities.
I would also point out that given the level of investments we have discussed in manufacturing
facility, you should expect capital expenditures in 2018 to be approximately $100 million higher
than the $224 million we reported in 2017.
In terms of returning excess capital to shareholders, we increased our dividend by 20% for Q1
2018 and had share repurchases of $500 million in 2017. It's worth mentioning that we still have $1
billion left on our current share repurchase program.
To wrap up, we had strong performance in 2017, and see those fundamental business and
market drivers continuing into 2018. We have the capital and cash flow generation to invest in
growth opportunities across the animal health industry and we have the talent and capabilities to
maintain our market leadership in this attractive market and create more value for our customers
and shareholders.
With that I'll hand things over to the operator to open the line for your questions. Operator?
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) We'll take our first question from `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald with Cantor. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Hi, thanks for taking my questions. My questions is on R&D, we always get a lot of questions on
this, since you don't disclose a lot of detail. I'm just wondering where are your greatest unmetneeds in animal health, how are you addressing these and will we hear more about these
products in 2018? And also can you provide any measures by which you can measure your R&D
productivity? Thank you.
A - `Juan Ramon Alaix, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Louise for the question. And we still see unmet needs in our animal health industry.
One of the unmet needs is related to pain in dogs and cats and bring some alternative solutions
for the current treatment, and this is why we are focused on a number of categories that that will
be providing alternative to the current treatment for dogs and cats. We also see opportunities of
combination of oral parasiticide or internal and external parasiticides and definitely we see the
opportunity of enhancing the productivity in livestock with new technologies that will replace
existing ones. So there are areas that definitely we have internal problems.
As we mentioned many times, our competitors because they are part of pharma companies, we
are not disclosing any details. For us, providing this information will create a negative impact in our
ability to compete successfully in the future.
In terms of how we measure productivity, I like -- Glenn will provide some details.
A - `Glenn David, Chief Financial Officer `
So in terms of measuring the productivity for R&D, a) as we prioritize the projects across the
portfolio, we'll use ENPV and EROI to make sure that we're appropriately prioritizing across the
portfolio. We'll also look retrospectively from a return on invested capital perspective to see the
return that we get from our investments and based on the productivity we've had over the last
number of years, we've been very pleased with our return on our R&D spend.
A - `Juan Ramon Alaix, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question please.
Operator
And we'll go to next question to `Kevin Ellich, Analyst, Craig-Hallum with Craig-Hallum. Please go ahead.
Q - `Kevin Ellich, Analyst, Craig-Hallum `
Good morning. Thanks for taking the question. So very, very strong results this quarter guys and
it's great to see the rapid growth in companion animal as well as the recovery in livestock that you
expect. Glenn, you made a comment about more balanced growth between livestock and
companion animal in 2018 and even moderating growth in dermatology. Can you guys give us a
little bit more detail behind what you expect in companion animal? Should we be thinking about
10% companion animal growth versus 8% livestock or any help on that front?
A - `Glenn David, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, in terms of the growth that we expect for 2018, I'm not going to give any specific numbers
obviously between livestock and companion, but I think, when you look at 2017 for the full year,
we have 5% growth in livestock and 14% growth in companion. So there is a big differential in the
growth. As we move into 2018 with a very strong performance that we had in our companion
animal portfolio in 2017, we've established a new base to grow off of, particularly in our derm
portfolio as well as Simparica. So while we still expect those products to grow in 2018, the overall
contribution that will have for the total companion animal growth will be smaller just as they areoff of a much larger base, so that's going to cause our companion animal growth to decelerate
as we move into 2018.
A - `Juan Ramon Alaix, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, please.
Operator
And we'll take our next question from `Erin Wright, Analyst, Credit Suisse with Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.
Q - `Erin Wright, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Great, thanks. In terms of the development pipeline, a follow-up here. I guess, can you speak to
some of the focus areas outside of traditional therapeutics? So for instance, you launched the
new diagnostic offering at VMX, you also have SMB opportunities, and you mentioned some sales
force investments there. Is that going to be a focus area for you in terms of new product
launches near-term? Will it be a more organic or inorganic initiative? And then just could you
speak to some of the -- you mentioned data and analytics, but some of the other areas or
ancillary areas outside of traditional therapeutics where you see growth opportunity? Thanks.
A - `Juan Ramon Alaix, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Erin. We see Zoetis as much more integrated offer to our customers, including the
products in medicines, vaccines, but also diagnostics, genetics, what we have described as the
healthcare cycle of intention, also prediction, prevention and treatment. And definitely we'll
continue to focus on our core business. In the core business, we'll continue generating the
majority of our revenues and profit. But we see opportunities to accelerate our growth by
investing in some of these complementary spaces. Definitely genetics, diagnostics, data analytics
are part of these efforts. We have now in diagnostics arranged some pipeline that definitely will
be focused on delivering in the next coming years.
We also presented in the last Congress of VMX, a new Carysta high volume chemistry, that is part
of our efforts really to become a key player in diagnostics. But in a way that will be integrated or
we will be integrating more, all these portfolio in our offer to our customers. As well, we will be
investing in data analytics essentials that will complement our offer to our customers.
Next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from `Michael Ryskin, Analyst, Bank of America America Merrill Lynch with Bank of America America Merrill Lynch. Please
go ahead.
Q - `Michael Ryskin, Analyst, Bank of America America Merrill Lynch `
Hi, thanks for taking the call. Congrats on the quarter guys. A couple of questions on the quarter,
and then just a longer-term follow-up. Really strong results in US livestock this quarter, then there
was a bit of surprise relative to what we are looking for. And particularly US cattle had a great
number, you mentioned some of the disease conditions, but you also talked about feedlots and
cattle herd size. I recognize that the weather in the days more transient, but the feedlot data, you
should have pretty good visibility. And I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit about how
the outlook there is for the first part of 2018? Is the feedlot strength sustainable? Do you think it
will continue for several quarters?And then broader on the '18 guide, you talked about a pretty sizeable gross margin
improvement, 120 bps year-over-year. Is the longer-term target still what you talked about 200
bps by 2020, or is there upside opportunity there given how much improvement you're looking
for this year?
A - `Juan Ramon Alaix, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mike. I will respond about the US livestock results and then Glenn will provide the
details of our gross margin improvement and also target for the future.
Well, in the US, definitely, we had a strong fourth quarter in the US, and this was the result of
several factors, including the weather conditions and movement of animals, also the fact that we
decided not to implement promotional activities in the third quarter and then this -- some
movement of sales from the third quarter to the fourth quarter of 2017. But the results are in
some way what we were expecting and we also communicated in the previous quarter. So we
saw that in the first part of the year, we had some limited growth in the US cattle, but we were
also expecting that at the end of the year, we will be reporting revenue growth in the US cattle.
And this quarter is just confirming our projection for the year, which has been the movement of
animals, as I mentioned through the feedlots, and we are pleased with the performance of the
entire portfolio in our cattle business in the US.
Moving forward, for 2018, we see positive developments in our beef segment in the US. We see
that number of animals will continue growing, probably at the lower rate than what we have seen
in previous years, but still growing. Placements are expected also to continue being positive. And
we expect also that the weather conditions in 2018 will be more favorable for animal health than
in '17. So overall, we see that the beef segment will grow and Zoetis will be growing in line with
the market.
We also see that at least in the first half, the diary segment will be facing some challenge
because of the price. The price of the milk is lower than in previous quarters and maybe we will
have an impact on the first half of the year. We expect that the second half will be more positive,
but overall, the cattle will be showing positive growth in 2018. And as I said, we expect that to
grow in line with the market.
Then Glenn, please do you mind to cover the questions on gross margin?
A - `Glenn David, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, Mike, in terms of gross margin, when you look at the 2018 guidance of approximately 32%,
that's more in line with the second half of 2017, which is more reflective of our underlying cost
structure as we've discussed on some of the previous calls.
In terms of the 200 basis point improvement by 2020, we remain committed to that
improvement. And as we said all long, that improvement is driven by the supply network strategy
efforts. To the extent that there is additional opportunity based on price, based on volume,
based on mix, which can go on either direction, that can either have an incremental impact or
incremental improvement over margin over that time or take away a little bit. But the 200 basis
point was always based on the supply network strategy and to the extent that we have favorable
movement in price and mix that would add additional margin improvement.
A - `Juan Ramon Alaix, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, please.Operator
We go next to `Alex Arfaei, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets with BMO Capital Markets. Please go ahead.
Q - `Alex Arfaei, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets `
Okay. Good morning, folks. Thank you very much for taking the questions. And congratulations on
the product performance and all the progress during the past five years, that's really remarkable.
On the US livestock business, clearly much better than expected. The difference is particularly
striking given what we are hearing from some of your competitors, particularly Elanco. So I'm just
wondering if you could highlight what are some of the differences that's driving better
performance for your portfolio versus what we are seeing from some of your competitors? And
then on the companion animal business, could you comment on the base business, excluding
dermatology and Simparica, is that stable or is that under pressure as some of those franchises
mature? Thank you very much.
A - `Juan Ramon Alaix, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Alex. And what I -- probably I should focus on the drivers of our growth, and the
drivers of our growth is basically because of our portfolio. We have a portfolio, which is extremely
well balanced on many different therapeutic carriers, talking about livestock, and these are also
helping us, as I said many times, the diversity is helping us really to manage different cycles,
different opportunities, different challenge and really deliver results, which are very consistent,
and in some cases, we're growing faster than our competitors. And we don't see that the
livestock business in the US has shown any negative fundamental. As I said, for '18, we expect
cattle business, beef and diary combined showing positive growth. We also expect that swine
and poultry will continue growing. In the case of swine, we expect that Zoetis will be growing
faster on the market, because we are introducing new products. And also we have seen that
some of the challenges that we faced in '17 related to the PCV2 vaccine, now are over. And at the
same time, we are introducing new PCV2 vaccines covering more strength, that also will help us
to accelerate the growth in 2018. Poultry also we expect positive growth in the US and will be
growing in line with the market.
So overall very pleased with our performance and also positive about the prospect for livestock in
the US.
In terms of -- you also asked about the companion animal and what has been the drivers of
growth in '17, and also how we see the growth moving forward, maybe Glenn, you can provide
the details of new products, price and also volume growth for the rest of the portfolio.
A - `Glenn David, Chief Financial Officer `
In terms of companion animal in 2017, obviously a lot of the growth was driven by our new
products and we had new products in a number of categories. So, the ones that get the most
attention obviously are Apoquel and Cytopoint, and Simparica, but we also had significant growth
coming from our vaccines as well, and these products were the focus of our field force in 2017.
In terms of the rest of the portfolio, what you then call the in-line portfolio, performance in those
categories was relatively flat as we did experience some pressures from generic competition in
line with what our expectations would have been particularly in the US and that was offset by
some strong performance in our emerging markets that continue to grow as increasing
medicalization rates in markets such as China and Brazil continue to benefit us.So overall relatively flat performance of our in-line portfolio, but really strong performance from
our new products as that was the focus of our field force with the tremendous product that we
had to launch and continued growth.
A - `Juan Ramon Alaix, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, please.
Operator
We'll go next to `John Block, Analyst, Stifel with Stifel. Please go ahead.
Q - `John Block, Analyst, Stifel `
Great, thanks guys. Good morning. Two questions. Glenn, OpEx as a percent of revenue that
improved by the 270 basis point in '17, it was just huge. And the guide for '18, I believe implies
about a 70 bps good improvement OpEx as a percent of revenue. With the rate of revenue
growth that really isn't too dissimilar in '18 versus '17? So I want to be clear, the 70 bps and up is
nothing to sneeze at, but maybe if you can talk to the increased investments that you guys are
pursuing and when those will yield the return or is it just a function of sort of moving further away
from the operational efficiency program?
And then just to pivot, Juan Ramon. I really don't expect specifics, but any thought if you believe
you will have it call a new blockbuster companion animal product in '19, maybe that's from the
triple or something out of the pain portfolio from Nexvet? Any details you guys can give there?
Thanks for your time.
A - `Glenn David, Chief Financial Officer `
So John, in terms of the OpEx improvement that we experienced in '17 versus what's the
expectation may be for 2018, there is really the latter of your comments. 2017, we continued to
benefit from the remainder of our operational efficiency initiatives and we are able to grow
revenue significantly faster than OpEx in 2017. Now as we move into 2018, we still expect to grow
revenue faster than OpEx, but not to the same magnitude as we don't have the same level of
improvement coming from our operational efficiency initiatives.
The other thing I'll point out for 2018 is there are investments that we're making in SG&A to
support the continued development of our diagnostics portfolio and to make sure that we have
the right commercial support behind those products as they become ready for launch.
A - `Juan Ramon Alaix, Chief Executive Officer `
And answering about the potential opportunity of launching future blockbusters, definitely we'll
continue seeing opportunities of launching that product that will generate significant growth. And I
discussed about monoclonal antibodies or pain, I also talked about combination of products in
parasiticide segment for internal and external enhancement of productivity for livestock. At this
point, commenting when these products will be launched, I think is too premature. But we think
that we can continue generating growth, which is in line or faster than market in existing portfolio
and also the addition of maybe blockbuster, but also multiple products that will support our
revenue growth.
In our industry, as I mentioned many times, we are not dependent on bringing these blockbusters
to generate consistent growth because we don't have the same impact that we see in human
sales, because of genetic deceleration. So we are pleased with our pipeline, we are pleased withthe return of our investment in R&D and we continue to focus on generating internal revenue
growth and at the same time assessing the opportunities that -- external opportunities that will
enhance our opportunity to grow.
Next question?
Operator
Next question is from `John Kreger, Analyst, William Blair with William Blair. Please go ahead.
Q - `John Kreger, Analyst, William Blair `
Hi, thanks very much. Can you just expand a bit more on the diagnostic strategy? You've not
talked about it this much in the past. Should we think about that as more focused in companion
animal or livestock and more sort of centralized or sort of point of care type of products? Thank
you.
A - `Juan Ramon Alaix, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, John. Let me say that we see diagnostics as an area that is growing faster than the
average of animal health. And we see diagnostics also as very complementary to our offer to
customers and also opportunity to leverage our existing relationship and infrastructure in many
markets. The focus today is developing our internal pipeline to bring these products into the
market. We see that is a significant competition in companion animal, especially in the US, much
more opportunities to offer penetration in international markets in companion animal. And
because of also our expertise on our presence in livestock, we see this area as a significant
potential opportunity for Zoetis. And this should be in areas like rapid test point-of-care, but also
equipment. So this is where we are focused on today in Zoetis. These type of point-of-care
diagnostic tools that will help veterinarians in companion animal and livestock to make decisions
at the point of care.
Next question please.
Operator
The next question is from `David Risinger, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `David Risinger, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Hi, Juan Ramon and Glenn. I have two questions. The first is, could you provide a little bit
more color on the ramp of new products, specifically new companion animal products, ex-US in
2018? And then second, with respect to cash flow for 2018, could you please discuss the outlook
for operating cash flow and free cash flow in 2018 relative to 2017? Thank you.
A - `Juan Ramon Alaix, Chief Executive Officer `
I will provide some comments on the companion animal products outside of the US. Glenn also
will may be expanding in some of the details for international markets and definitely will be
commenting on the operating free cash flow, the question that you've raised and also the
outlook for 2018.
We have seen in international markets very high growth in companion animal. The international
market is a combination of new product launches, Apoquel, to lesser extent, Cytopoint,
Simparica, but also the growth that we have seen in some of the emerging markets in companionanimal where the rates of medicalization has been growing very fast and we have seen in
countries like Brazil, China, significant growth. And in countries like China, we started new product
launches. So we still see the opportunity of growth in the future once we introduce Apoquel,
Cytopoint and Simparica in the Chinese market. We still see significant opportunities for growth in
international market, because the level of penetration of Apoquel, Cytopoint and Simparica
compared to the US is much lower, so we expect in 2018 that we will be continuing enjoying
growth in international markets in companion animal.
Maybe Glenn, you can maybe expand some details on this question and also on the free cash
flow one.
A - `Glenn David, Chief Financial Officer `
And so in terms of free cash flow and the cash flow that we expect for 2018, so our operating
cash flow, we expect to grow pretty much in line with our growth in the adjusted net income. As I
also mentioned in my prepared remarks, with the increased expenditures we have for CapEx,
free cash flow will grow slightly lower than what we expect to grow for operating cash flow.
A - `Juan Ramon Alaix, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, please.
Operator
Next will be `Kathleen Miner, Analyst, Cowen with Cowen. Please go ahead.
Q - `Kathleen Miner, Analyst, Cowen `
Thank you. Good morning. Just wanted to follow up on the dermatology area little bit more. Juan
Ramon, I think you said like you increased your guidance for the Cytopoint, Apoquel franchise to
500 million in 2018. Can you tell us if this is being driven more by Apoquel and/or Cytopoint and
what the penetration is in dogs now for the -- for dermatology conditions? Thank you.
A - `Juan Ramon Alaix, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Kathy. And I think definitely we have seen that the adoption of Apoquel and Cytopoint
has been growing in 2017 very fast. And that's why we are now projecting for 2018 already to
generate 500 million in sales or more. Both products are performing still well. And now I think it's
something that we feel that -- based on this, when they go to clinics and they have dermatology
issues, they are leaving the clinics with either Apoquel or Cytopoint. Definitely the direct-to-
consumer advertising has been helping to accelerate the adoption and also to expand the
market.
In terms of penetration, definitely the penetration in the US and international market is different.
In the US, we reported last quarter that we have a penetration, in terms of patients, of about
59%. We have seen in the fourth quarter these penetration stable and it is something that in
some way was expected because it's a quarter in where most of the use in active and acute,
while -- I'm sorry chronic, while we have seen increase in the penetration because of the use of
acute and seasonal. Seasonal and acute is mainly in the second and third quarter, and we expect
in 2018 continue growing in these acute and seasonal and also helping also to -- with increase of
awareness, in terms of dermatology issues with our continued DTC campaign in 2018. We have
not seen too much cannibalization of Apoquel because of Cytopoint, it's about 26%, which is
what we were expecting. But I think it's something that we are offering both solutions to theNext question?
Operator
We will go next to `Liav Abraham, Analyst, Citigroup with Citigroup. Please go ahead.
Q - `Liav Abraham, Analyst, Citigroup `
Good morning. Just a quick question on the tax rate. You've guided to a tax rate of 21% to 22%
for 2018. Can you comment on your outlook for tax beyond 2018 and the opportunities for this to
be reduced further at the time? Thank you.
A - `Juan Ramon Alaix, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Liav. And it will be Glenn answering this question.
A - `Glenn David, Chief Financial Officer `
In terms of the tax rate, as you mentioned for 2018, we've guided to a 21% to 22%. We haven't
provided guidance for beyond 2018. There are additional costs that kick in beyond 2018 for us
and come into effect in 2019, we need to fully understand the impact of that. But again the
guidance for 2018, based on our current understanding, we're comfortable with the 21% to 22%
for 2018.
A - `Juan Ramon Alaix, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Glenn. And maybe some clarification on the dermatology penetration. I mentioned
data for the US. International markets, definitely we have lower patient share and we still see a lot
of room for growing in terms of patient share and also in terms of expanding the market.
Next question, please.
Operator
We'll go next to `Chris Schott, Analyst, JP Morgan with JP Morgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Chris Schott, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Great. Thanks very much for the questions. Just two quick ones here. First, anything -- I know you
don't give quarterly guidance, but anything we should be keeping in mind as we think about the
quarterly progression of both top line and earnings, we think about 2018 relative to 2017? And the
second was, just maybe following up on those comments on Apoquel and Cytopoint. Just a little
bit more color, just how much more room for growth is there in this franchise beyond '18? And I
guess, what I'm really trying to get, is there anymore color of how -- what could peak sales look
like for this franchise? I guess we'll start getting through '18 this $500 million plus number, is there
still significant room for growth or are we starting to a point where we're reaching peak sales for
these assets? Thanks so much.
A - `Juan Ramon Alaix, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Chris. And let me cover the question on dermatology portfolio and then Glenn will
discuss about the quarterly projections for 2018. We still see growth, not only in 2018, but in
future years for dermatology portfolio. And maybe the growth in the markets that the products
has been introduced stable [ph] overall like in the US. This growth that will be moderated in thedefinitely have still a lot of opportunities to continue growing. I mentioned China as a country
where we don't have yet Apoquel and we expect also China generating growth in the future. So
we don't see that 2018 will be our peak sales in terms of Apoquel, Cytopoint and the company
will continue growing. Definitely, the growth will be moderated, but we expect also continue
growing, and definitely will see growth coming from volume, but also growth coming from prices.
A - `Glenn David, Chief Financial Officer `
Chris, in terms of the 2018 quarterly projection, as you mentioned, we don't give 2018 guidance
by quarter, but just a couple of things to think about. We do expect more balanced growth in
2018 than we saw in 2017 and a more steady performance in terms of cost of goods as a percent
of revenue than we saw in 2017 in particular. The other thing I'll point out is we are moving from a
4-4-5 accounting calendar to a month-end accounting calendar, and that will have some small
impact for the quarter. The greatest impact that you'll see will probably be in Q4, where it could
negatively impact our growth in Q4 2018 by almost 2%. So those are the only things that I would
point out.
A - `Juan Ramon Alaix, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question please.
Operator
Next question from `Gregg Gilbert, Analyst, Deutsche Bank with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
Q - `Gregg Gilbert, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Thanks, gentlemen. I'm curious whether you saw any headwinds or benefits tied to the
consolidation of vet clinics in the US. I realize there wouldn't be a material effect for the whole
year, for the whole company, but curious on that team as it continues to build.
And my other question is about the environment overall in some of your competition. You know
one of the elephants in the room this year is that Lilly will explore actions of Elanco. And I know
Juan Ramon, you've commented in the past that mergers among the larger players in the
industry would be difficult from an antitrust perspective. But how would you view a spinoff of
Elanco if that's what they decide to do. Curious on your thoughts there sort of operationally and
otherwise as it relates to any effects, good or bad for Zoetis. Thanks.
A - `Juan Ramon Alaix, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Gregg. And definitely we have seen consolidation of vet clinics in the US. Also we have
seen not too much consolidation of clinics outside of the US, but there maybe buying groups that
also are having an impact. So far we are managing very well the relationships with these clinics. In
some cases, we have been able really to reach exclusive agreements for Simparica on one of
these larger group that it's something that we see as a very positive.
We understand that in some cases, we may have some pressure in terms of prices, which is part
of also our projections and our model. But the same time, we see the opportunity also of
expanding the healthcare, because of better services to veterinarians [ph].
So we see also that in the case of Zoetis, we have a portfolio of specialty care that is also
providing a significant benefit to this change of clinics and definitely we are managing extremely
well. It was a very positive collaboration with Banfield [ph] in the future. In the past, we also hadgood collaboration with VCA and we expect that the combination of the two group also will
continue positive for Zoetis.
In terms of, the decision of Elanco, I think it is something that I prefer not to comment on other
companies' strategic reviews. We went through our process -- our process five years ago. It was
the right decision for Pfizer and also for Zoetis. Very pleased with our performance and definitely
we have seen the benefits of being Zoetis having a single focus on animal health and singular
focus on providing value to our customers and to our shareholders.
Next question.
Operator
And we'll go next to Jami Rubin with Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.
Q - `Candace Richardson, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Good morning. This is `Candace Richardson, Analyst, Goldman Sachs on for Jami Rubin. I've two quick questions. Tempered
growth in the US companion this quarter appears to be related to tougher comps from certain
products that launched last year. When should we expect this to annualize? And then secondly,
your recent dividend increase of nearly 20% is among the highest in the industry. But wondering,
if there is a specific payout ratio you're looking to achieve and given that you're the only
standalone public animal health company, what comps do you look at when you evaluate your
dividend policy? Thank you.
A - `Juan Ramon Alaix, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you for your question. Please Glenn, do you mind answering the question.
A - `Glenn David, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So in terms of US companion animal growth for 2017, for the full-year, we had 13%
operational growth in our US companion animal in the quarter, we had 15% growth. So we saw
another continued quarter a very strong growth in US companion animals and not necessarily
tempered growth for Q4. In terms of our dividend policy, we generally grow our dividend at or
pace faster than our growth in adjusted net income and that is our commitment moving forward,
and that will continue to grow our dividend at or faster than income and have a focus on dividend
growth. We're also focused on share repurchase as another way to return excess capital to our
shareholders and we currently prefer share repurchase that gives us a little more flexibility, and
that is the other priorities we have for capital allocation being our internal investments, as well as
business development.
A - `Juan Ramon Alaix, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question, please.
Operator
We'll go next to `Douglas Tsao, Analyst, Barclays of Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Douglas Tsao, Analyst, Barclays `
Hi, good morning. Thanks for taking the questions. Just focusing on the companion business, you
referenced some greater amount of competition for the in-line products. Just curious if that is adermatology franchise going forward, should we -- would it be safe to assume that a lot of the
growth going forward will come from the ex-US? And if you think about that peak potential, I
know people sort of hinted at this question, but do you think that the ex-US opportunity could be
ultimately as big as what we've seen in the United States? Thank you.
A - `Juan Ramon Alaix, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Doug. We don't see that the competition has been increasing in companion animal for
our in-line portfolio. Definitely, we have seen the impact of generics in line with previous years
and also in line with our projections. Definitely, vaccines, which have been growing very fast, and
in our opinion, growing faster than the market for companion animal.
So in general, we understand that there has been new problems in the pain market in 2017, that
has an impact on RIMADYL, but this is not something that we see as greater competition in our in-
line.
Maybe our in-line portfolio has been affected because of so many products, new products that
has been launched in previous year. And as you can imagine, the level of attention of our field
force during this period has been intentionally in these new products, but we are very pleased
also with the performance of our in-line, and definitely we see that this in-line will be performing
according to our projections.
In terms of the dermatology portfolio opportunity outside of the US. So there is probably a
couple of the years or 18 months difference in terms of the interaction of Apoquel in international
markets. Cytopoint, that it was introduced in US at the end of '16 or mid-'16, has been introduced
at the end of '17 in Europe, still not introduced in many international markets. I mentioned that
even Apoquel is not yet approved in China and we expect approval in the future. So definitely, it's
a significant opportunity of growing our dermatology portfolio outside the US, but still we see
opportunities of continue growing in the US, and definitely we will be supporting this growth with
the DTC campaign in 2018 in our US market.
Next question?
Operator
And we'll go next to `Brett Wong, Analyst, Piper Jaffray with Piper Jaffray. Please go ahead.
Q - `Brett Wong, Analyst, Piper Jaffray `
Hey guys, thanks for fitting me in here. You talked a bit about your positive expectations for US
livestock, but can you comment on kind of the international livestock business specifically in your
key markets like cattle Brazil, hogs in China et cetera, and if you expect the strength that you saw
in 2017 to continue in '18?
A - `Juan Ramon Alaix, Chief Executive Officer `
We see livestock in international markets also continue positive, China show, if I remember, it was
20% growth in '17. This was the combination of companion animal and livestock. There are always
as we mentioned many times, economic cycles, prices for pork in China and some of the
markets, they can affect temporary some of the growth drivers. But one of the advantages of
Zoetis that we explained many times is the diversity of our business in all the geographies.
In terms of Brazil, we don't see any change in the fundamentals of our business in Brazil. The
cattle business is doing very well, swine is doing very well. We had some challenges in 2017 in ourpoultry business in Brazil, but overall, we see also projection for livestock international as a
positive for 2018.
And again, so we may see some quarterly fluctuations in some of the markets, but this is not
indicative of the fundamentals of the markets that should be analyzed on a longer period of time.
And we don't see any significant or any headwind in terms of the projections for 2018 in
international markets for our livestock.
Next question?
Operator
Sorry, we'll go next to `David Westenberg, Analyst, C.L. King with C.L. King. Please go ahead.
Q - `David Westenberg, Analyst, C.L. King `
Thanks for taking my questions. Congrats on a good quarter. So my question is, some of our
research is suggesting that veterinarians do tend to like order in bulk in -- from one vendor for
additional discounts. So with the derm portfolio now approaching 500 million in sales, what's the
opportunity to add to the product bag of the veterinarian, there's Simparica and vaccines, and
you know, really what's the cross-selling opportunity on derm becomes a $500 million drug?
A - `Glenn David, Chief Financial Officer `
So, this is Glenn. We do think there are definitely opportunities to leverage our portfolio, and in
many of our markets, we have programs that do provide additional incentives with more products
that you buy from Zoetis. So we're definitely able to leverage the scale that we have with
Apoquel, with Cytopoint, with Simparica, with many other vaccines to provide additional discounts
for buying our total portfolio versus just buying one of our individual products.
A - `Juan Ramon Alaix, Chief Executive Officer `
And when we are talking about the total portfolio, also we include products like rapid test
diagnostics or in the future equipments, so that's why we see the advantage of integrating larger
portfolio and offer this portfolios to our customers.
So next question?
Operator
And it appears we have no further questions. I'll return the floor to you Juan Ramon for closing
remarks.
A - `Juan Ramon Alaix, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, thank you very much for joining us. And thank you for your questions and looking forward to
have another discussion for the first quarter of 2018. Thank you very much.
Operator
And this will conclude today's program. Thanks for your participation. You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.