Q4 2019 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day and welcome to the Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2019 Financial Results Conference
Call and Webcast for Zoetis. Hosting the call today is `Steve Frank, Vice President of Investor Relations, Vice President of Investor
Relations for Zoetis. The presentation materials and additional financial tables are currently
posted on the Investor Relations section of zoetis.com. The presentation slides can be managed
by you the viewer and will not be forwarded automatically. In addition, a replay of this call will be
available approximately 2 hours after the conclusion of this call via dial-in or on the Investor
Relations section of zoetis.com.
At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be open for
your questions following the presentation (Operator Instructions). It's now my pleasure to turn the
floor over to `Steve Frank, Vice President of Investor Relations. Steve, you may begin.
`Steve Frank, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Keith [ph]. Good morning everyone and welcome to the Zoetis fourth quarter and full
year 2019 Earnings Call. I am joined today by `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Executive Officer; and Glenn
David, our Chief Financial Officer. Before we begin, I'll remind you that the slides presented on
this call are available on the Investor Relations section of our website. And then our remarks
today will include forward-looking statements and that actual results could differ materially from
those projections.For a list and description of certain factors that could cause results to differ I refer you to the
forward-looking statement in today's press release and our SEC filings, including but not limited
to our Annual Report on Form 10-K and our reports on Form 10-Q. Our remarks today will also
include references to certain financial measures which were not prepared in accordance with
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or US GAAP. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP
financial measures for the most directly comparable US GAAP measures is included in the
financial tables that accompany our earnings press release and in the Company's 8-K filing dated
today, February 13th, 2020. We will also cite operational results which exclude the impact of
foreign exchange.
With that, I will turn the call over to `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer.
`Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Steve. Good morning, everyone. By now you read our press release and financial
tables in the Zoetis website. So I'll take just a few minutes to recap the full year, talk about our
outlook for 2020 and outline some of the long-term investment plans and growth opportunities
we see for Zoetis. Our CFO, `Glenn David, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will then cover the fourth quarter and our full year
guidance for 2020 before we open the lines up for your questions.
So let's get started. Zoetis delivered another year of strong growth and market leadership in
2019. Thanks to our diverse and durable portfolio and our commitment to continuous innovation.
We grew revenue 10% operationally, which includes about 2% of growth from the Abaxis
acquisition. This is once again above the market growth for animal health, which is expected to be
about 3% to 4% for 2019, reflecting the negative impact of African swine Fever.
We grew our adjusted net income faster than revenue at 14% operationally. Continuing to achieve
our goal of growing profitability faster than revenue over the long term. In terms of other
elements of our value proposition, we achieved several new approvals in areas that will
strengthen our traditional portfolio of parasiticides and vaccines and we invested in critical
acquisitions and partnerships that will accelerate our growth in areas where we are expanding
such as diagnostics.
For example, we received approvals for new parasiticides such as ProHeart 12 in the US and
Simparica Trio in the EU and Canada. We are enhancing our vaccine portfolio with new products
like Versican Plus Bb Oral the first oral vaccine for dogs in Europe and Poulvac Procerta HVT-ND
our first vector vaccine for poultry. We also continue to invest in building our overall diagnostics
capabilities with acquisitions in the reference lab space, which will give us a more holistic offering
to veterinarians. And we expand our equine and pet care portfolio into nutritional formulas with
the acquisition of Platinum Performance, a premier leader in this market.
Finally, in terms of our commitment to returning excess capital to shareholders, we generated a
2019 quarterly dividend of $0.16 per share. An increase of 30% from the 2018 dividend rate and
we completed approximately $625 million in share repurchases. We've built a strong record of
delivering on this value proposition for shareholders over the last 7 years. And I'm very confident
we can continue on this path of long-term growth and value creation based on the capabilities,
colleagues and customer focus we bring to every market opportunity.
Looking ahead now to the rest of 2020, animal health remains a steady and reliable market
based on people's increasing commitment to their pet's health and based on the steady
demand for safe and affordable animal proteins. For 2020, we currently expect the overall
industry to return to growth of approximately 4% to 5% excluding the impact of foreign currency.The market took a dramatic hit in 2019 from African swine Fever in China. With at least a 50%
reduction in herd size, according to reports.
While this disease had a significant impact on our business in China last year, we see early signs
of stabilization and the opportunity for the industry in terms of farms consolidating, investments
being made in better infrastructure and biosecurity and the frozen pork supply being reduced. As
a global pork market and trade fixtures ensured that more in 2020 and with increased export
opportunities for many markets, we could see the overall animal health market return to slightly
better growth rates.
In terms of species, the Swine market should be below the overall market growth for 2020. The
companion animal and poultry markets are expected to be somewhat above the market growth
and cattle is expected to be a little more limited than the market based on the continuing
challenges faced by beef and dairy customers. For Zoetis, we expect to grow faster than the
markets for companion animal and poultry and in line with the cattle market, but the swine
market, we would expect to be in line or faster than the market depending on the pace of
recovery from African swine fever and its impact on additional markets this year.
In terms of our guidance for 2020, Zoetis expects to grow revenue significantly faster than the
industry in a range of 7% to 9.5% operationally. And in terms of adjusted net income, we expect
operational growth in the range of 8% to 11%. To meet our goals for 2020, we will continue
supporting our latest product launch and lifecycle innovations with direct-to-consumer advertising
and the recently expanded pet care field force in the US. And in international markets, we're
focused on supporting new products with field force expansion in certain markets and
differentiating ourselves with a focus on direct field force's effectiveness and technical expertise.
We will also continue investing in other accelerated growth areas, such as diagnostics, genetics,
precision livestock farming and digital and data analytics. This will be an important year in
diagnostics, as we complete the integration of our systems and look to accelerate sales growth
with more integrated offerings of medicines and diagnostics, an important way we can deliver
more value to our customers.
And we will continue advancing our pipeline with investments in parasiticides, vaccines,
monoclonal antibodies and other therapeutic areas. The Modest Simparica Trio, our triple
combination parasiticide, is highly anticipated for 2020. And we remain confident in the US
approval in the fourth quarter with a large shortly thereafter. And we have said recently, we
completed the technical section of the Simparica Trio package for the US and are currently in the
administrative review awaiting a final approval.
We have already received approvals for Simparica Trio in the EU and Canada and we expect the
Simparica Trio launch in Europe to begin in certain markets this month, as we take a phased
approach to launch there. Based on these assumptions, we continue to expect to generate
incremental global sales of Simparica Trio in 2020 at approximately $150 million. I'm energized by
the opportunities ahead of us in 2020. We have a vibrant and growing companion animal
portfolio driven by internal innovation and more to come with Simparica Trio.
We are delivering steady performance across our livestock products despite the market
challenges some of our customers face from economic conditions, emerging infectious diseases
and natural disasters. We're partnering with our customers in innovative ways to help them stay
ahead of the curve on evolving technology, new commercial opportunities and shift in consumer
trends. We are building out our capabilities in digital and data analytics to bring meaningful
solutions to the challenges facing their farms and clinics. And we are executing on a strategy forgrowth with internal and external investments that have us well positioned for long-term growth. I
look forward to carrying on the company's successful formula of customer focus, innovation and
execution, as we continue to deliver on our long-term value proposition to shareholders.
Now I'll hand things over to Glenn.
`Glenn David, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Kristin, and good morning. As Kristin indicated, we had another exceptional year with
revenue of $6.3 billion and adjusted net income of $1.8 billion with both top and bottom line
exceeding the high end of our guidance ranges for the year. Reported revenue growth was 7%
for the year including a 3% unfavorable impact from foreign exchange, which is driven primarily by
strengthening of the dollar against the Euro, Brazilian Real and Argentinean Peso.
Operational revenue growth up 10% was driven by a 2% price contribution and an 8% volume
contribution. Volume growth included 2% from the addition of legacy Abaxis products 2% from
our key dermatology portfolio 2% from new products and 2% from our other in-line portfolio.
Revenue growth for the year was broad based with the US growing 11% and International growing
9% operationally. Companion animal led the way in terms of species growth, outpacing livestock
for the year. Revenue from our key dermatology portfolio, our diverse parasiticide portfolio with
several new launches this year and legacy Abaxis products drove companion animal operational
performance up 23%.
Livestock declined 1% operationally for the year, impacted by the outbreak of African swine Fever
in China and challenging beef and dairy cattle market conditions in the US. Our poultry and fish
product portfolios continue to grow partially offsetting the cattle and swine headwinds.
Operational growth in adjusted net income of 14% was driven by strong revenue growth and
gross margin favorability.
Now moving on to our Q4 financial results. We had solid performance again this quarter with
revenue of $1.7 billion representing an increase of 7% on a reported basis and 9% operationally.
Adjusted net income of $440 million increased 15% on a reported basis and 13% operationally.
Foreign exchange in the quarter, drove an unfavorable 2% impact on revenue primarily driven by
the strengthening of the dollar against the Euro, Brazilian real and Argentinean peso. Operational
revenue growth of 9% for the quarter was driven by 1% price and 8% volume. The volume
contribution of 8% includes 3% from new products, 3% from other in-line products and 2% from
key dermatology products.
Contributions from legacy Abaxis products were not a material driver of growth in the quarter
globally, since this is the first full quarter lapping the impact of the prior-year acquisition. Breaking
down our operational revenue growth by species; companion animal grew 19% and livestock
grew 2%. Companion animal revenue growth was driven by continued strength of our key
dermatology products and our parasiticide portfolio including new products Revolution Plus and
ProHeart 12 and the continued adoption of Simparica. Equine also contributed to growth in the
quarter with a full quarter of revenue from the acquisition of Platinum Performance and its
nutritional products.
As well as continued growth of our Core EQ Innovator vaccine. Livestock growth in the quarter
was primarily driven by strong poultry and fish performance partially offset by declines in cattle
and the impact of African swine Fever. Swine increased 1% operationally in the quarter, despite
the impact of African swine Fever. New products contributed 3% overall growth in the quarter
driven by parasiticide's Revolution Plus and Stronghold Plus as it's known internationally ProHeartOther in-line products contributed 3% of growth in the quarter. This was primarily driven by
revenue from recent acquisitions and commercial agreements including Platinum Performance,
our reference lab acquisitions, the Stablelab diagnostic test for equine and companion animal
parasiticides including Simparica. This growth was partially offset by declines in US cattle and the
ongoing impact of African swine Fever. Simparica contributed strong growth in the quarter, with
revenue of $42 million and 34% operational growth. For the full year simparica sales were $214
million growing 40% operationally. Our key dermatology portfolio continued to grow globally this
quarter contributing 2% growth.
Global sales were $200 million in the quarter, representing 29% operational growth. Full year
revenue for this portfolio was $754 million growing 29% operationally. The positive performance
in this portfolio was driven by increasing market share, price and expanded usage of both
Apoquel and CYTOPOINT into recently launched market. Sales from legacy Abaxis products were
$68 million in the quarter, representing 5% operational growth over the prior year.
Now let's discuss the revenue growth by segment for the quarter. US revenue grew 6% with
companion animal growing 15% and livestock declining 3%. Companion animal growth in the
quarter was driven by increased sales of our key dermatology products, the impact of recent
acquisitions, our parasiticide portfolio and a number of other in-line products including Cerenia
and Rimadyl. US dermatology sales were $133 million for the quarter, growing 21%. Growth this
quarter was driven by price and benefits from the direct-to-consumer advertising, driving
increased market share.
Our parasiticide portfolio including new products such as Revolution Plus and ProHeart 12 and in-
line products such as Simparica contributed to strong companion animal growth. Positive
companion animal performance was partially offset by US livestock declines in the quarter driven
by cattle. Cattle product sales continue to be negatively impacted by unfavorable market
conditions driven by heavier and healthier animals coming in from pasture with a low risk profile
and pricing pressure driven by competition.
Partially offsetting challenges in cattle was continued poultry growth primarily from our portfolio of
alternatives to antibiotics and medicated feed additives. We also benefited from new customer
adoption and competitors having product efficacy and supply challenges. Swine also had a strong
quarter, returning to growth, due to increased sales and medicated feed additives and vaccines.
To summarize US performance, innovation and returns on our investments drove positive results
despite challenging market conditions impacting growth in cattle. Our International segment also
contributed strong growth this quarter with operational revenue growth of 12%. Companion
animal operational revenue growth was 26% and livestock operational growth was 5%.
Companion animal growth was driven by key dermatology products, growth in our parasiticide
portfolio including Simparica and our Stronghold franchise and legacy Abaxis products.
International livestock also performed well driven by growth in cattle, fish and poultry. This growth
was partially offset by modest declines in swine due to the ongoing impact of African swine Fever.
Growth in cattle was due to favorable pricing as well as increased feedlot placements in Australia,
new customers and other developed and emerging markets and favorable conditions in key
markets such as Mexico.
With this portfolio benefited from the continued uptake of the Alpha Flux parasiticide in Chile,
while poultry growth was driven by price and increased sales of vaccines. As expected, swine
remained challenged this quarter by the ongoing impact of African swine Fever. We did see some
positive signs however, partially offsetting these declines with new markets launching our
combination swine vaccines and growth in key accounts in China.Our outlook for 2020 remains neutral to slightly positive for swine in China. In the near term,
however, we remain confident that other regions and proteins will Increase production to help
mitigate the pork shortage and long-term industrialization pork production in China will be a
tailwind. Overall our International segment continue to be a significant driver of growth supported
by innovation and a diverse portfolio across products and geographies, despite the impact of
African swine Fever.
Now moving on to the rest of the P&L. Adjusted gross margin of 68.5% increased approximately
210 basis points in the quarter on a reported basis, compared to the prior year. The increase was
driven by foreign exchange, manufacturing cost efficiencies, product mix and price partially offset
by increased inventory charges. Total adjusted operating expenses grew 13% operationally. The
increase is primarily related to compensation-related expenses, the impact of recent acquisitions,
direct-to-consumer advertising and investments to support future growth of the business.
The adjusted effective tax rate for the quarter was 14.2%. The decrease from the comparable
2018 period is primarily related to non-recurring discrete tax benefits recorded in the fourth
quarter of 2019, partially offset by the impact of the Global Intangible Low Tax Income or GILTI tax
which is effective for Zoetis in 2019. Adjusted net income for the quarter grew 13% operationally
driven by strong revenue growth, favorability in gross margin and a lower effective tax rate.
Adjusted Diluted EPS grew 14% operationally compared to the same quarter in the prior year.
Now moving on to guidance for 2020. Please note that guidance reflects foreign exchange rates
as of late January. In 2020, we are projecting revenue between $6.65 billion and $6.8 billion
representing 7% to 9.5% operational growth. Foreign exchange is expected to be a headwind
again next year of approximately 100 basis points. Innovation will be a key driver of growth next
year, particularly in companion animal. Companion animal overall is expected to again outpace
livestock, benefiting from our diverse parasiticide portfolio, key dermatology, diagnostics and
strong market dynamics, including continued growth in emerging markets.
And, as Kristen mentioned, our guidance assumes an incremental $150 million in revenue related
to Simparica Trio. This estimate represents revenue for roughly three quarters of the year. And in
2020, as Kristen indicated, we anticipate all livestock species returning to global growth. From a
geographic perspective, we anticipate balanced growth between our US and International
segments. Adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue is expected to be in the range of
30% to 31% neutral to slightly increasing from 2019 due to unfavorable foreign exchange and
moderately diluted acquisitions partially offset by price and positive mix.
Adjusted SG&A expenses for the year are expected to be between $1.59 billion and $1.64 billion
with the increase over 2019 focused on critical areas of revenue growth, including recent and
future product launches recent acquisitions and expansion into reference lab diagnostics as well
as the annualization of our US field force expansion and direct-to-consumer advertising.
Adjusted R&D expenses for 2020 are expected to be between $455 million and $475 million,
consistent with our commitment to invest in pipeline opportunities both lifecycle and novel new
therapies. Going into 2020 investment will be focused on delivering the next wave of high value
innovation, including monoclonal antibody therapies, the osteoarthritis pain in cats and dogs and
new vaccines for poultry.
We're also investing in strategic areas of focus such as diagnostics, bio devices and precision
livestock farming and strategies to maximize the value of the continuum of care through
integrated offerings. Adjusted interest and other income deductions is expected to be
approximately $215 million with the increase over 2019 driven by reduced royalty income as wellas lower interest income. Our adjusted effective tax rate for 2020 is expected to be in the range
of 20% to 21%.
The increase in 2020 is related to the impact of favorable, non-recurring discrete items that
occurred in 2019. Adjusted net income is expected to be in the range of $1.865 billion to $1.915
billion representing operational growth of 8% to 11%. We remain committed to our value
proposition of growing revenue, in line with or faster than the market and growing adjusted net
income faster than revenue. However, as I've highlighted, growth in adjusted net income in 2020
will be negatively impacted by the higher effective tax rate, limited gross margin expansion and
strategic investments.
For context, the higher effective tax rate in 2020 will negatively impact our adjusted net income
growth by approximately 300 basis points. Consistent with 2019, we are anticipating elevated
capital expenditures in 2020 to support investments in manufacturing focused on (inaudible)
capacity increases, and facilities to support pipeline opportunities. We're also investing in
information technology to support our recent acquisitions as well as digital capabilities and data
analytics. We're also committed to our capital allocation priority of returning excess cash to
shareholders that isn't deployed internally or for business development opportunities. To that
end, we recently announced a 22% increase in our dividend and we have approximately $1.7 billion
remaining under our multiyear share repurchase program after repurchasing approximately $625
million in Zoetis shares in 2019.
Finally, we expect adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $3.90 to $4.00 and reported diluted
EPS to be in the range of $3.53 to $3.65. While our guidance represents full year expectations,
we do anticipate Q1 to be slightly weaker in terms of revenue with limited growth in adjusted net
income due to the timing of the Simparica Trio launch and the investment required to support the
launch and recent acquisitions.
Now to summarize before we move to Q&A. 2019 was another exceptional year in which we
delivered 10% operational revenue growth and 14% operational growth in adjusted net income.
Our guidance for 2020 underscores our ability to grow revenue organically, well above the
market, and grow adjusted net income faster than revenue. And our focus remains on delivering
long-term shareholder value through disciplined internal and external investments and returning
excess cash to shareholders.
Now, I'll hand things over to the operator to open the line for your questions. Operator?
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions). Thank you. Take our first question from `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald with Cantor
Fitzgerald. Please go ahead.
Q - `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Hi, thanks for taking my questions and congratulations on the quarter end 2020 guidance. My
question for you is, if you could provide more color on the headwinds and tailwinds and the
macro outlook for animal health in 2020? Thank you.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Good morning, Louise, it's good to hear from you. As we talked about the overall marketcompanion animal as we've seen in previous years. As we think about where Zoetis is coming in?
We believe we'll grow faster than that market, really driven by our innovation. Obviously we've
given guidance around the excitement around the Simparica Trio, our Paras, our Derm portfolio.
We see poultry growing faster than the market as well and Zoetis is growing faster than the
market as well.
We have some launches there as well as the portfolio we have in poultry to help raise no
antibiotics ever. We see cattle are returning to growth in 2020, albeit slower than the overall
market and we see Zoetis probably growing in line with the market overall. And swine we see
returning to growth as well in 2020 and Zoetis is growing in line or faster. So as we see some of
the headwinds that will remain innovation overall as well as sort of a return to growth for livestock
in general. Thanks, Louise.
Operator
And we'll take our next question from Jon Block with Stifel. Please go ahead.
Q - Jonathan Block `
Great, thanks guys, good morning. I'll ask both upfront. You mentioned launching the Trio in
Europe later this month, I guess, anything you're willing to share on price of Trio or positioning in
the market? In other words, what do you guys can do to try to get the incremental revenue from
the top two oral flea and tick products versus call it just partially cannibalizing Simparica?
And then Glenn one for you. When I look at 2020 guide, it seems like revenue is certainly ahead.
The adjusted interest expense was above expectations, I think you alluded to less royalty income.
What about just from a cash flow perspective. In other words, in the guide, is there any assume
buyback or pay down of debt in there? Thanks for your time guys.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Thanks, John. I'll take the first and I'll let Glenn take the second question. We are expecting
to be launching commercial launch in Europe in a few markets this month, we'll do as Phase I. So,
Italy, Spain and the UK are launching this month in Europe. We are not first to market as many of
you know in Europe. There are other products in the market. And so, to your point, it is a
competitive position. We will be pricing as we've spoken about before at a premium to Simparica
overall. And really as we look back the competitive side, it's actually very dramatically in Europe by
market with a different competitive products on the market overall. We remain excited for
approval in Q1 in the US and plan to launch shortly thereafter as it's customer and as we've
spoken about another product launches probably 6 to 8 weeks after that.
And in the US as we spoken about, we should be first to market. Again we'll plan to launch at a
price premium to Simparica, but at a discount probably overall if you look at it from the two
products there. We're focused very hard in the US and gaining share. So we haven't gotten
specific on overall pricing, but it should be at a significant premium to Simparica today, but we
haven't fully launched in the US, so our pricing is not public yet in US. So I'll let Glenn take the
second question.
A - `Glenn David, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. From a revenue perspective, we're very excited about the expectations for revenue growth
this year with growth of 7% to 9.5% and obviously where we've started about Simparica Trio as
well. In terms of the bottom line growth of the 8% to 11%, a little less of a differential fromrevenue that we typically expect a lot of that being driven by the impact of the tax rate change
year-over-year, accounting for that impact we have about another 300 basis point impact of
growth at the bottom line and also foreign exchange was negatively impacting us in terms of
adjusted net income, absolute number, and that was about 200 basis point negative impact from
foreign exchange. Specifically to your questions, there is no assumed payback or pay down of
debt and in terms of share repurchase, the number of shares that we assume in our EPS are the
shares ending as of the end of December 2019.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Michael Ryskin with Bank of America. Please go ahead.
Q - Michael Ryskin `
Thanks, guys. Just sticking on the Trio to round out those sort of questions. You've been talking
about this for a while obviously on the conference calls in early this year with VMX, we saw pretty
significant presence from you on the Trio. Have you seen any response from your competitors
ahead of the launch in terms of either stuffing the channel or giving any promotions with the
Spectra product in Europe or even with the standalone products in the US taking any price actions
or any combo or bundling actions in the US to try to get ahead of the March launch as vets stock
up in the first quarter?
And then just on the same line follow up, what's your expectation for Trio impact on gross
margins? Question just found up on your promise and how it's priced and obviously you have the
API component of two different drugs in there. So net-net, what's going to be the impact on
gross margins in 2020 and then even in the out years as volume ramps from the Trio product?
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Thanks so much, Mike. This is the single biggest category in animal health or companion
animal parasiticides. So, it is a highly competitive space to exactly your point, it's a $4 billion
market, in the US alone it's $2.5 billion. So, we are expecting a significant competitive response.
This is a category that a lot of people will depend. We would expect normal CapEx obviously
trying to set the channels or sell-in and fill up the shelves as best they can. We're certainly
expecting some of them to look at pricing programs, but we think there's significant excitement
around the opportunity for triple in the US. We've certainly heard it. We did not, as you saw at
VMX, we were not -- we didn't have full on this product.
So we were not promoting this product at VMX, but there is a definite understanding that triple is
coming from us. I think customers are anticipating that and are very excited to have something
new and innovative to share with their customers. So I think we're expecting whatever you
normally see in a competitive response. But this is a major category. So our plans for launch, our
revenue guidance we provided with anticipating a significant competitive response in this area
overall.
So I'll turn it over to Glenn to take the gross margin implications on Trio.
A - `Glenn David, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, in terms of the impact on gross margin, for 2020, we expect it to be mildly beneficial to our
overall gross margin. Obviously as time goes on, and we've become more efficient in the
production and on operating at full capacity, we do expect this to be a higher margin product for
us and it we'll benefit our gross margin over times as we move beyond 2020.A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Mike.
Operator
Our next question is from Erin Wright with Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.
Q - Erin Wright `
Great, thanks. Can you give us an update on the diagnostic strategy at this point? Do you expect
continued inorganic activity in reference labs both US and globally and/or is it more of an organic
build at this point and can you speak to some of the success you're seeing already in the
bundling across the portfolio between therapeutics and diagnostics?
And then separate question on stocking. Were there any stocking dynamics worth noting in the
quarter and should we anticipate distributor stocking in the first or the second quarter for
Simparica Trio? I guess I just want to make sure we're thinking about the quarterly progression
appropriately, there? Thanks.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure, I'll take Trio first. In Europe, we obviously did begin shipping in Europe to customers there.
So you will see some stocking in Q1 there. In Q2 it will depend on exact timing, but there could be
some shipments. Obviously, in Q1 it's true and so we have an approval as we said before, we
won't be able to get very specific, but we're discussing weeks here. It is just happens to be the
timing in Q1. So it's hard to give you an exact guidance, but if you look at 150 million guidance we
gave you, it's assuming we're selling for three quarters of the year, so there could be stocking
obviously.
But back to the diagnostic strategy, overall, we remained very excited at diagnostics. For starters,
it's a market growing at around 10% per year. So it's quite attractive. It continue to also drive use
of our therapeutics and preventative, so it's exciting. So, we look -- as we look into 2020, we're
looking for double-digit growth overall and so with Diagnostics portfolio both in the US and
abroad. We've spoken a lot about our point-of-care strategy. We're really focused there in
increasing placements, as well as driving consumable use. And if you look at the reference lab
strategy, we have made a number of Bb deals over the last three or four months in the US
specifically. These are small deals that we've seen, but we're looking to build a network, digitally
in the US, a lot of organic builds from there scaling the sites we have today. Looking at some
spoke sites as well.
But I think you will see some Bb as we look to grow into International. So this will continue to be a
mix of organic and inorganic. But again very focused on ROI. We will see these as significant deals
right now, we're looking at a -- continuing to grow this over time, but great excitement. If you look
at sort of some of our excitement ending 2019 and moving into 2020, we've been leveraging our
Freedom Flex program which combines and offers opportunities across our core portfolio and
diagnostics. And are very excited to add in reference lab into that opportunities as we look into
2020.
A - `Glenn David, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
And just to add to the comments on the quarterly utilization of progression for Trio. As I
mentioned in the in the prepared remarks, we would expect, significantly more sales in Q2 forTrio and really that growing throughout the year. So when we look at the overall progression of
revenue for the company, we would expect Q1 to be slightly lower in terms of overall growth. And
then because of the investments that we are making in Q1 to support the launch of Trio as well as
some other strategic investments, we would expect income to be relatively flat or to low single
digits.
Operator
Our next question comes from John Kreger with William Blair. Please go ahead.
Q - John Kreger `
Hi, thanks very much. Kristin, can you just give us an update on the monoclonal products that
you're talking about in cats and dogs? Where does that stand from a regulatory standpoint? And
do you think they could be a notable contributors in 21 or is that more of a kind of a late year
launch event? Thank you.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. On our Q2 2019 guidance we indicated we have filed in both the EU and US. And we're
expecting approval on 2021. It is obviously too early for us to be terribly specific as these
regulatory views where we wish we could predict with that level of precision. So it's probably a
little early to be able to say whether or not we have failed in 2021 or 2022, but these would be
the first meds reviewed by the FDA. So we want to make sure we give them on cat at the time
and we have less understanding of exactly how fast that will be by far.
We continue to be very excited as we've spoken about before pain in cats is really there are no
products today that adequately serve that market. So there's a lot of excitement as well as for
the canine. So when we have more information then we're happy to provide it, but we remain
excited.
Operator
Our next question is from Chris Schott with JPMorgan. Please go ahead.
Q - Chris Schott `
Great. Thank very much for the questions. Just to your -- first on the reference lab and organic
build in the US from here. Just give us some sense of how long you envisioned that taking the
fully built out your network and portfolio in terms of when this becomes I guess a bigger piece of
the offering. My second question was just on the gross margin dynamics in 2020, it seems like we
have kind of mix going in your favor with the growth in companion yet I think the guidance is
suggesting flat to slightly declining gross margins? So a little bit more color of what's happening
there? And longer term, is it fair to still think about gross margin improvements as we see that
companion pipeline continue to ramp over time? Thanks very much.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Thanks, Chris. I'll take the first question and Glen can take the second. If you look at
reference lab build in the US, we think this is multiple years. We looked at scale in geographic as
we've talked about our reference lab. Given the importance of logistics in reference lab. It is an
MSA by MSA market. And we're very focused on doing this and making sure we scale the price
that we opened. So we do believe it will take a number of years before we will have a significant
presence in the US. I would say the same for international. It will be a buy-and-bill.So to your point, I don't think this is something you're going to see really be a significant player
within the next 12 months, but we're very excited about the long-term growth and scaling in the
markets, we've entered and then adding spokes there. But I'll turn it over to Glenn to take the
gross margin in 2020 and beyond questions.
A - `Glenn David, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So in terms of gross margins, so stepping back to 2019 where we've benefited significantly
from foreign exchange in 2019 to the turn of about 120 basis points. As we move into 2020 that
impact of FX turns to the other direction. We have approximately about a negative 50 basis point
impact from foreign exchange on gross margin in 2020. So that offset some of the favorability
that we're seeing; a) from price, but also some mix from a companion animal perspective. The
other thing we need to take into account is some of the acquisitions that we have completed
reference labs in particular and diagnostics, they do come into slower or lower gross margin. So
that offset some of the mix favorability that we see from companion animal. Over time, we do
anticipate that we'll continue to see gross margin improvements driven by the completion of our
supply network strategy as well as from continued improvements in price, and to the extent that
companion animal continues to grow faster than livestock that will benefit our margin.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Chris.
Operator
The next question is from Kathy Miner with Cowen & Company. Please go ahead.
Q - Kathleen Miner `
Thank you. Just one question, could you comment on your China business little more specifically?
Give us some color for the fourth quarter. And also how you see the coronavirus impacting both
business and your outlook for African swine Fever? Thank you.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. I'll start on Corona and then I'll let Glenn get more in specifics of our performance in 2019
expectations. As everyone is watching the Coronavirus is obviously emerging very quickly in the
sense of certainly the news overnight. As we look at our business right now, it's probably too
early to tell exactly what the impact will be, but let me talk a little bit about some of the risk that
we're watching. First it's just an overall economic slowdown, which is already driving some
reduced overall consumption and animal protein. As we've seen some of the hardest hit market
are hospitality and travel.
So without that there's other people obviously not heating protein. So it should affect
consumption a little bit. How long this last will really impact whether or not that's a significant
driver or not. There is arguably some commercial risks, many of our field are not able to get out
to veterinarians and many pet owners are not currently bringing their pets to veterinarian, giving
some of the carotene, but if carotene left or as that emergence will watch that. We're obviously
watching our supply chain. We do have a number of MFA as our APIs or Active Pharmaceutical
Ingredients that are produced in China for the world.
We're very confident with most of those that we have adequate supply multiple months. So even
if the port did shut down, we should be fine unless that wasn't extended. The ports are still openchain. We'll continue to monitor this. Obviously, last year, the big impact was ASF, which we did
see either flattening of returning to growth in China, but obviously that will be subject to the
ability to continue to move both feed around China, as well as animal protein.
So it's a little earlier to tell, but I hope that could give sense of some of the issues that we're
tracking to get a sense. But it remained a significant market. I'll let Glenn sort of talk about
performance and expectations for China overall.
A - `Glenn David, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. If we look at China overall solid full year and then talk a little bit about Q4. But China for full
year 2019 was about $200 million in revenue, which was essentially flat to the prior year, which is
pretty impressive performance considering the impact of African swine Fever, which we estimate
to be greater than $50 million in 2019. That was really driven by rapid growth in companion
animal. Companion animal now represents more than 50% of the overall revenue in China and
it's growing very rapidly. So the market performed very well even in the challenges of African
swine Fever and I think you saw some of that particularly in Q4 where we saw a 10% growth in
China, in Q4, and an operational perspective. Even with a negative $11 million impact from African
swine fever.
Operator
The next question is from David Westenberg with Guggenheim Securities. Please go ahead.
Q - David Westenberg `
Hi, thanks for taking the questions and congrats on a good quarter. So your competitor, one of
the largest competitors in diagnostics has historically spent 3 or 4 times the amount on R&D
versus Abaxis. In order to close the competitive gap, do you think it simply require scaling or do
you think that you need to actually close the R&D GAAP longer term. And then, sticking with
diagnostics with the acquisitions in reference lab, what kind of safeguards in place you have to
make sure that your sales force remains focused on selling your products with this such a wide
product bag? Thank you.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Thanks, David. So with your first question, I'm not sure I know that there is a number of
reports out on R&D versus I think versus Zoetis. We have significant investments in R&D in our
Diagnostics portfolio. So I don't think we're looking at any incremental spending to close any
perceived innovation or R&D gap there. If you remember, we were part of our diagnostics those
that are core part of how we even develop the products we develop today, making sure that we
can diagnose the diseases that we create treatments for.
So we remain very confident in our R&D spend and the percentage of it is dedicated to
diagnostics and see significant synergies from an R&D perspective between our core portfolio of
medicines, vaccines et cetera with diagnostic. So no, we don't see that. And if you look at the
field force, we actually again, we like to be solution selling as we've spoken about. So we go in
and talk about our wellness visit by which diagnostics is a role. If we need to, if we're looking to
place new instruments or sign up somebody on a new reference lab offering, we bring in
specialist, diagnostics specialists to do that and then we have diagnostics technical specialists to
come in and maintain that equipment.So we do not believe it's distracting at all. We do believe once you place that equipment that our
core our representatives and strategic account managers can really help drive consumable use as
they talk about a wellness visit and how they can combine looking at vaccines preventative and
doing wellness screening and diagnostic. So we think it's actually quite synergistic and we have
experts to come into sort of help on focused sales and placement of new equipment as well as
in reference lab. So we don't see that as a big challenge.
Operator
We'll take our next question from David Risinger with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - David Risinger `
Great, thank you very much and congrats Kristin to a very nice start to your new role as CEO. I
wanted to just get a little bit better understanding of the finalization of the Simparica Trio
approval. So, what needs to be done at this point I know that you're highly confident that it's
imminent. But what steps need to take place? And then I believe that you mentioned that your
wait 6 to 8 weeks after the approval to launch. And could you just explain that? I would have
expected the launch to come much more quickly after the approval, given that it's highly
anticipated. Thank you.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. I'll let Glenn say some of the specific details there?
A - `Glenn David, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So in terms of the Simparica Trio approval, as we said, we're in an administrative review
period. All the technical sections are complete. So we're just awaiting final response from the
regulators at this point in time. In terms of timeframe of 6 to 8 weeks from approval to launch,
that's pretty typical within the industry. There are a number of things that need to occur. You need
to find a label, you need to complete packaging of the product, you need to make sure you're
building up the appropriate launch quantity. Obviously we're doing that every day and we're
looking to minimize that time of 6 to 8 week period, but that is very typical within the industry
from in terms of approval to launch base on the activities that need to occur post approval.
Operator
The next question is from Gregg Gilbert with SunTrust. Please go ahead.
Q - Gregg Gilbert `
Thanks. First back to ASF, Kristin has your thinking changed at all in terms of the overall impact of
ASF and when that impact will begin to abate? And then, Glenn, can you talk about how much
growth you're factoring in for the derm portfolio in 2020 and maybe comment bigger picture on
what inning you think we're in, terms of realizing global peak sales for that portfolio? Thanks.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Thanks, Greg. I'll start with ASF. We do think it's the overall impact based on what we know
today is leveling out in China. The real question is how fast will they rebuild the herds in China?
And how will China overall meet it's animal consumption demand? So as we sort of see it, as we
talked a little bit, we do think in China, specifically, you'll see flat to low single-digit growth in our
core business there. I think you'll slowly see some of the more innovative technologicallyadvanced industrialized production starts with very strong biosecurity. You're starting to see some
signs of this, but it's invest and starts in it. It's a little hard right now with Corona to understand
how fast that will really evolve.
But I think if you look at the broader impact of African swine Fever, they are going to need to
feed their people even if consumption is a little bit down. So I think you're going to see the
impact of African swine Fever in countries like the Brazil, The US and EU as they look to meet that
demand. There has been a little volatility, obviously given Corona and pork prices more recently,
but overall, they've been trending up. This will encourage our producers to raise more pigs, raise
heavier pigs. We are seeing significant increases in export at least in the US already, in Brazil, in
the China. So I think you'll see that, which is why that we believe that drivers of why we said. We
think livestock overall across species will return to growth in 2020, because China leader have to
feed their population, some will come from internal, but they will need significant imports into
China and that will continue to come from Brazil, the US and the EU both in porks overall, but
seeing potential opportunities in both poultry and beef.
I'll let Glenn, take the second question.
A - `Glenn David, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. In terms of Derm per se, just looking back at 2019 a really strong year for the Derm
portfolio in 2019. We grew 29% operationally, US growing 25% and International growing 38%.
We'd expect to have continued growth in 2020 not to that level as we're working off of a higher
base, but the areas that we expect to exceed growth, a) International, we expect international
continue to outpace the US in terms of growth, just because currently the mix of the revenue
between US and international is about 2/3rd US 1/3rd international. Although the number of
medicalized dogs is pretty much equivalent between the two, so we would expect to gain market
share in international as that gets more and more comfortable with the products internationally.
And US have the advantage of direct-to-consumer advertising, which is not available on all
international markets. From US perspective, we continue to see opportunity in terms of continuing
to expand the market, continuing to expand the usage into few patients and we do expect
continue to get price in the US as well. So we seen 2020 has been another year of growth for the
derm portfolio. But as the portfolio continues to mature, the pace of growth will slow.
Operator
Next question is from Navin Jacob with UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - Prakhar Agrawal `
Hi. This Prakhar Agrawal on behalf of Navin. So, thanks for taking our questions. My first question is
on a long-term opportunity for Simparica Trio. In the parasiticide space, the switch from Topical
corticosteroids was quite significant at greater than 70%. So do you think this switch is a good
analog for how much share it could be switched over from the tablet to the TripIt [ph] class or are
we missing any dynamic. And secondly, on your Alpha Flux vaccine, do you have plans to launch
this vaccine in Norway as well and could you frame the market opportunity for this vaccine? Thank
you.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure, I'll start with the first one and I'll let Glenn take the second one. So due to the long-term
opportunity for Trio, I thought to be significant as we talked about. It is the single largest category
in companion animal and certainly overall. It's a highly competitive category as well. So we're veryexcited. We think that we will gain share as we think about 150 million incremental for 2020. The
assumption in that overall is, we do not have competition in the US in that year. It is already
obviously competitive space in many markets outside of the US. We think we'll get a movement
obviously from some from OTC we think will certainly see some cannibalization, we've spoken
about on Simparica but we also think it will take some, some of the other orals in the market
overall.
So I'm not sure there is a switch from our topical to oral is necessarily the best overall proxy. And
part of the long-term opportunity for Trio will also depend on our label versus the label of
potential other competitors to come to the market as well as the distance between our launch
and their launch. I know the favorite question is what are we expecting a competitor. As you know
in our space there is very little information available, as one of those is a private company and the
other one does not disclose. So at the moment, we believe we'll be the only product on in the US
in 2020 and that is part of the assumptions on 150. But the longer we are, the greater the
opportunity to gain share overall. We continue to see this as a significant innovation for both the
pet owner and the vet and a lot of excitement around it. So, we'll be investing significantly in that.
I'll turn it over to Glenn a little bit on Alpha Flux.
A - `Glenn David, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So in terms of the fish portfolio for Q4, we saw very strong growth at 17% and Alpha Flux
was a key contributor to that growth in the quarter, particularly in Chile. There is already a similar
product on the market in Norway, so that would not be an incremental opportunity in terms of
launching a new products in Norway. As we look into 2020, we continue to see the fish portfolio
growing. There may be some limitation in terms of the number sample [ph] available to treat
based on certain regulations, but we still see fish as a rapidly growing species for us in 2020.
Operator
The next question is from Elliot Wilbur with Raymond James. Please go ahead.
Q - Elliot Wilbur `
Thanks, good morning. First question for Kristin, just want to ask you about longer term R&D
investment at the midpoint of the guide for 2020 on a percentage basis. Guidance would have
you coming in below 7% and that number has trended down on a relative basis last couple of
years obviously you've joined strong growth. But as you think about driving what it need to invest
to really drive more innovation is a sub 7% R&D investment ratio, sustainable or should we expect
that to -- increase perhaps as we start to see the topline decelerate a little bit in the next couple
of years.
Just a quick follow-up for Glenn. You mentioned the lower gross margin profile, the diagnostic
businesses, but as we think about modeling segment margins, I would also presume that on an
operating income basis, those businesses also have lower margins, but I want to confirm that.
Thanks.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Thanks, Elliot. On long-term R&D investment, we look every year as the portfolio of
opportunities and innovation that we've ahead of us and invest based on where we see those
opportunities. It does fluctuate a little bit year-to-year. It's been growing I think faster than our
overall SG&A, not necessarily only the revenue growth. We are we -- I think made very strong
investment and if we see opportunities we're more than happy to increase that R&D investmentand have done. So certainly quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year, but we are confident that the
spend around where we are, again, you should expect fluctuations year-to-year based on
opportunities. Some of these studies can -- especially livestock when you move them, they can
drive significant cost year-to-year. But we are very confident that we have the right level of spend
to drive our value proposition of significant topline growth at or faster than the market long-term
in what we've provided overall.
I'll see if Glenn wants to add anything to that. And if he can take the second question.
A - `Glenn David, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
So -- in terms of the question on operating margins for diagnostics. So gross margins will be
lower over the long period of times for diagnostics. However, when you look at operating margin,
obviously, right now we're in the build phase. So it's a little lower than our overall business. But as
we progressed over the next number of years with the ability to leverage our commercial
infrastructure, we do see the operating margins for diagnostics coming very close to our core
portfolio as well.
Operator
The next question is from Balaji Prasad with Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - Balaji Prasad `
Hi, good morning. And thanks for the questions. So couple of questions on the poultry side. One
Kristin you spoke about your competitors that efficacy and supply challenges in the quarter. Can
you throw some more light on what were these challenges and how prolong do you think this
could be. And for 2020, would you still have been able to grow faster than market of these
dislocations did not exist? Secondly, could you also throw some light on the market opportunity
for vector vaccines and how should we think about the portfolio on revenue ramp from this
segment?
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. I'd like to Glenn take this.
A - `Glenn David, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, so in terms of the poultry, I would say, this year we had a very strong performance in
poultry. We grew 10% for the year, globally in poultry. And we see 2020 is being another very
positive year for poultry growing much faster than the overall market and with our portfolio
continuing to outpace the market. In terms of the vector vaccine, in 2019, we launched our first
vector vaccine that really set the stage for us from an R&D perspective to continue to develop
more and more vaccines over the next number of years for those to become a bigger section of
our portfolio. And we do see poultry continuing to be a rapidly growing market and we'll continue
to invest in our R&D for that market.
Operator
Next question is from Nathan Rich with Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.
Q - Nathan Rich `Thanks for the questions. Just two quick ones on diagnostics. You talked about double-digit
revenue growth in 2020, could you just maybe help us think about how much of the contribution
you expect from through reference lab deal that you've done and what you're kind of expecting
for organic growth kind of ex those deals. And then, Glenn, I think you mentioned reference lab
being a drag on margins -- gross margins in 2020. Could you maybe just give us some sense of
magnitude and help us kind of get a better picture of what you're expecting for margins for the
underlying business? Thank you.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure, I'll take the first. Obviously, and if you look at diagnostic overall, to be clear, we are
expecting double-digit growth in our core point of care Zoetis diagnostics that, that's not being
driven by reference labs, reference lab would be incremental to that. It's, again, I want to
emphasize, still a pretty small part of our overall portfolio in the US, but we are expecting double-
digit growth in both the US and in international in the point of care space.
But I'll let Glenn talk a little bit more about gross margin over all in that space.
A - `Glenn David, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. From gross margin perspective again, overall on diagnostics, as we are expecting rapid
growth in that area. It will be a negative driver of our overall gross margin as those products tend
to be lower gross margin profile. When you look at the overall EPS impact particularly to your
question on reference labs, reference labs in 2020 is about a negative $0.03 to $0.04 impact on
our overall EPS based on the investments we're making to grow that business for the future.
Operator
The next question is from Kevin Ellich with Ace Research. Please go ahead.
Q - Kevin Ellich `
Good morning. Hey, guys. So a lot of my questions have been asked. But just wanted to see if
you could provide a little bit more detail on what you're doing in the digital, and data analytics?
And when we could see some material impact from those initiatives? Thanks.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Thanks, Kevin. Digital and data analytics obviously is an important strategy of the company.
It's one of our five priorities as we move into 2020. I would say there's two components of that,
one is leveraging digital, and data to drive greater sales of our core business. So, that's really
focused around better targeting our customers, providing more personalized and customized
solutions for them. So leveraging the data we have to better understand how they operate their
business? What product are we most attractive? What offer will be most attractive to them?
So I think that will -- that's already in place and I think we're doing a very strong job both in the US
and international of leveraging some of those capabilities to drive our core business. We also see
that opportunity in both pet care and livestock to create new revenue-generating solutions, some
of that on a pet care side will be around overall diagnostic opportunities and linking those
opportunities to our core portfolio and providing insights to our customers. In livestock that
remains as well around both our genetics portfolio as well as our precision livestock farming,
which we see as a significant growth driver for us in the medium to long term. I think if you look at
both the consumer preferences and where the industry moving, it's moving more to individualizeand better understanding the health and the productivity aspect of animals, individual animals and
helping producers and veterinarians make better decisions. In the short term, it's an opportunity,
and we link that to both our genetic business, which is -- we then also predict which animals will
be borne healthier and we'll have a better productivity.
And then we see in the medium term, the opportunity to link that as well to our diagnostics. And
really provide both veterinarians, producers and consumers with better understanding and better
health for animal. So we think this will help drive our business. As we see some of those that you
saw are more short-term opportunities, some are more medium term. And I think about the
connection between all 3 genetics precision livestock data in our core portfolio and diagnostics,
that's probably more in the medium to long term.
Operator
Last question is a follow-up from Michael Ryskin with Bank of America. Please go ahead.
Q - Michael Ryskin `
Thanks, guys. Just sort of a quick one that keeps coming up. So I appreciate you squeeze me in. I
have had a lot of questions on products coming off IP or potential generic competition or others,
you talked a little bit about no expectation for a competitor Simparica Trio for example. But I was
wondering if you have anything, any expectations or any thoughts about a competing products in
the derm portfolio in the US. And also product like Draxxin have they had questions on IP rolling
off there for a while. So I'm just curious if you're seeing anything there or sort of what your
expectations for that for 2020?
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. And we will start Derm. We obviously have pretty significant market for dermatology. We
have been expecting our competition I will enter at some point, based again in our industry, there
is not great data. So I can't tell you exactly when a competitor launch. We are obviously planning
for a competitor launch in the next one to three years. Exactly when that will be, will be difficult for
us to fully affect. But we do expect a potential small or large molecule entrant. We don't know
exactly when that will be, but we have put plans in place to prepare for that overall it's a key focus
for us.
And for Draxxin we still have time protection through 2021. This is a significant market, so we
again here, expect we will see competition when that does hit and when it -- and that exclusivity
runs out, that's a significant market. But as we said what's different about animal health and
human health is, even though we'll see hardest competition, we still think in our business that
normally has an impact between 20% and 40% both in terms of market share and price over a
number of years. So we do expect obviously a challenge in 2021 or 2022 on record.
Operator
And it appears we have no further questions. I'll return the floor to you Kristin for closing remarks.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, thank you very much for -- I do appreciate all the great questions today and if you got any
further questions obviously let us know. Thanks so much.
OperatorAnd this will conclude today's program. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect
and have a great day.