Q4 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2020 Financial Results Conference Call and
Webcast for Zoetis. Hosting the call today is `Steve Frank, Investor Relations, Vice President of Investor Relations for
Zoetis. The presentation materials and additional financial tables are currently posted on the
Investor Relations section of zoetis.com. The presentation slides can be managed by you, the
viewer, and will not be forwarded automatically. In addition, a replay of this call will be available
approximately 2 hours after the conclusion of this call via dial-in information or the Investor
Relations section of zoetis.com. At this time all participants have been placed in a listen-only
mode. The floor will be opened for your questions following the presentation. (Operator
Instructions)
It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to `Steve Frank, Investor Relations. Steve, you may begin.
`Steve Frank, Investor Relations `
Thank you. Good morning, everyone and welcome to the Zoetis fourth quarter and full-year 2020
earnings call. I am joined today by `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Executive Officer and `Glenn David, Chief Financial Officer, our
Chief Financial Officer. Before we begin, I'll remind you that the slides presented on this call are
available on the Investor Relations section of our website and that our remarks today will include
forward-looking statements that actual results could differ materially from those projections. For a
list and description of certain factors that could cause results to differ, I refer you to the forward-
looking statement in today's press release and our SEC filings, including but not limited to our
Annual Report on Form 10-K and our reports on Form 10-Q.Our remarks today will also include references to certain financial measures, which were not
prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or US GAAP. A
reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable US GAAP
measures is included in the financial tables that accompany our earnings press release and in the
company's 8-K filing dated today February 16, 2021. We also cite operational results which
exclude the impact of foreign exchange.
And with that, I will turn the call over to Kristin.
`Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Steve. Good morning, everyone. I hope you and your loved ones are all staying
healthy. As we all know we're still experiencing hard times in many regions as COVID cases
continue and new variants of the virus emerge, but I hope you share my optimism that with
progress on vaccinations and continue to care the safety protocols better days are ahead. The
year 2020 will be remembered for COVID-19 but for Zoetis it also reaffirm the resilience of our
business, the essential nature of animal health and the agility and dedication of our colleagues in
the face of industry and personal challenges.
Throughout the year we successfully insured colleague safety and maintained reliable supply for
our customers. We kept driving innovation and strengthening our diverse portfolio of 13
blockbusters and more than 300 product lines across eight species and seven major product
categories. We successfully launched our triple combination parasiticides Simparica Trio. We also
achieved approvals for the first-ever long-acting monoclonal antibodies for osteoarthritis pain in
dogs and cats, with relative authorization for dogs in the European Union and several other
markets and so lengthy its first authorization for cats in Switzerland. We also continue to build on
our vaccine portfolio in livestock with the approval of our CircoMax Myco swine vaccine in the
European Union and in poultry we continued advancing our recombinant vector vaccines with the
approval of (inaudible) ACT [ph] IVD in the US.
Meanwhile, in diagnostics we successfully launched Vetscan Imagyst a breakthrough platform
using cloud-based artificial intelligence for veterinary clinics. We were able to do all this while
staying anchor to our purpose and advancing the five long-term priorities that I set out at the
beginning of the year, including sustainability where we made important progress in our ESG
programs and metric reporting. We look forward to sharing our long-term ESG goals in the
coming weeks. And finally, we delivered financial results for 2020 that were in line with the
guidance we provided last February, before the impact of the global pandemic was known.
For the full year, we generated 9% operational growth in revenue, primarily based on new
products and our companion animal business, the continued strength of our key dermatology
portfolio and growth in China. In part of our long-term value-proposition, we once again grew
revenues faster than the anticipated growth for 2020 and faster than historical industry rates of
46%. As part of our value proposition, we also delivered on growing our adjusted net income
faster than revenue. For the full-year, we delivered operational growth of 10% in adjusted net
income or adapting our operations due to the pandemic and continuing investments in our
pipeline and new product launches.
We generated strong fourth quarter results which Glenn will discuss in a minute and these
performance trends give us confidence in our growth drivers and strong momentum for 2021. We
expect to continue growing revenue back in the market in 2021 driven by ongoing strength in pet
care, continued expansion in markets outside the US, most notably China and acceleration of our
diagnostics portfolio penetration. We are guiding to operational growth of 9% to 11% in revenueGrowth expectations for the companion animal market are in the mid-single digit and we expect
Zoetis to grow significantly faster than that based on the continued uptake of Simparica Trio, the
strength of our key dermatology portfolio and the launch of monoclonal antibodies in markets
outside the US. Positive pet care trends during the pandemic based on increased adoption and
people spending more time with their pets should continue driving market growth in the near-
term. Date in the US shows visits to veterinary clinics have rebounded and the average revenue
per visit has continued to increase. Over the long-term, we see these trends moderating as
adoption rates normalize and people eventually return to the workplace. The Specialty Care
regimens and chronic care treatment that began in the pandemic should continue and our
innovative portfolio across dermatology, parasiticides, pain, vaccines and diagnostics have us
well-positioned for continued growth and capturing share as we shift the curve.
In terms of livestock market, we expect low single-digit market growth in 2021 as the impact from
COVID-19 will still be felt at a number of products experience loss of exclusivity. We expect Zoetis
to grow in line with the market even as we face increased headwinds from generic competition
for DRAXXIN, our leading anti-infective product.
We are confident we can leverage our lifecycle innovation strategy together with the overall
diversity of our livestock portfolio including swine product sales in China to help us address the
loss of exclusivity for DRAXXIN and maintain livestock growth that will support our 2021 guidance.
Longer-term, we will continue to invest in livestock innovations and data-driven animal agricultural
solutions. As we continue through 2021, we will be building on the progress against our five
priorities driving innovative growth, enhancing customer experience, leading in digital and data
analytics, cultivating a high performing organization and championing a healthier, more
sustainable future.
Our investment plans and focus on growth for 2021 include continuing the successful launch of
Simparica Trio in the US and other markets, as well as the ongoing adoption of other new
parasiticides Revolution Plus and ProHeart 12, driving growth in dermatology through the
increased use of direct-to-consumer advertising and disease awareness campaign in the US and
globally. Our focus remains on growing this market and increasing customer loyalty to our
innovative treatments which we expect to help us top $1 billion in annual sales for the first time.
As noted earlier, we will be investing in the launch of the first monoclonal antibody for
osteoarthritis pain in dogs and cats in Europe in the first half of 2021 and advancing the regulatory
process in the US and other markets. While we remain confident in the eventual US approval of
these products based on the safety and efficacy data we submitted, at this point we believe it is
unlikely we will receive approvals for Solensia or Librela in the US in 2021. We continue to work
through regulatory reviews and manufacturing inspections with the FDA and we will continue to
keep you updated on this progress on future calls.
And finally, we're continuing our development of digital and data solutions that will support more
individualized animal care and more efficient and sustainable operations for producers. In
conclusion, I'm incredibly proud of what our people accomplished in the face of such uncertainties
during 2020 and it gives me great confidence in our continued success and full-year guidance for
2021. As we navigate through recovery from the global pandemic and capitalize on the growth
opportunities we see ahead, by optimism comes from what drove us over the last year. The
resilience and essential nature of the animal health industry, the diversity, innovation and market
leadership of our portfolio and the agility and passion of our colleagues to face any challenge.
Now, let me hand it off to Glenn who will speak more about our fourth quarter results and
guidance for the full-year 2021.`Glenn David, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Kristin and good morning everyone. We had another exceptional year with revenue of
$6.7 billion and adjusted net income of $1.8 billion, both exceeding the high end of our November
full-year guidance range. Full-year revenue grew 9% operationally and 7% on a reported basis,
with adjusted net income increasing 10% operationally and 5% on a reported basis.
Going deeper into the numbers, price contributed 2% to full-year operational revenue growth
with volume contributing 7%. Volume growth consisted of 3% from new products, 3% from key
dermatology products and 1% from acquisitions with other in line products flat for the year. We
again saw broad-based revenue growth with the US growing 11% and International growing 7%
operationally. The innovation we brought to the market and the diversity of our portfolio was key
to our strong performance, as companion animal grew 17%, while livestock was flat on a year-
over-year basis.
Performance and companion animal was led by our parasiticide portfolio bolstered by the launch
of Simparica Trio, which generated revenue of $170 million. This added approximately $150 million
of incremental revenue and exceeded our expectations set prior to the pandemic. Sales of
Simparica also grew double-digits for the year with operational revenue growth of 16%. Our key
dermatology portfolio demonstrated continued strength in 2020 growing 23% operationally,
generating revenue of $925 million and increasing more than $170 million versus prior year.
The COVID-19 pandemic created a difficult market environment for livestock, however, we are
encouraged by the resiliency displayed in 2020. We remain optimistic that global livestock will
return to modest growth in 2021, as the recovery from African Swine Fever in China continues and
consumption patterns normalize. Operational growth in adjusted net income of 10% was driven
mainly by strong revenue growth and operating margin expansion.
Now moving on to our Q4 financial results where we posted another strong quarter with revenue
of $1.8 billion, representing an increase of 9% operationally and 8% reported. Adjusted net
income of $438 million is an increase of 3% operationally and flat on a reported basis.
Operational revenue grew 9% with 2% from price and 7% from volume.
Volume growth of 7% consisted of 4% from new products, 3% from key dermatology products,
1% from acquisitions and a decline of 1% from other in-line products. Companion animal products
led the way in terms of species growth growing 25% operationally, while livestock declined 5%
operationally in the quarter. Companion animal parasiticides grew 52% in the quarter, gaining
market share in the US of more than 7% within the flea tick and heartworm segment versus the
same period in the prior year. This includes the continued adoption of Simparica Trio which
generated sales of $60 million in Q4. Our key dermatology products, Apoquel and Cytopoint
again had significant global growth in the quarter with $257 million of revenue, representing 27%
operational growth versus an extremely difficult comparative period in which key derm grew 29%
for the fourth quarter of last year.
Our Diagnostics portfolio again made positive contributions to revenue, with reference lab
expansion and double-digit growth in consumable and instrument revenue. The recovery and
wellness visits continue to be a catalyst for growth following the slowdown from social distancing
restrictions earlier in the year. As we noted on our previous earnings call, the early fall cattle run
for the portion of fourth quarter sales into the third quarter leading to a weaker quarter in cattle
than we would typically expect. This was the primary driver of the 5% operational decline in
livestock for the fourth quarter.For the remainder of the livestock portfolio, swine posted a second consecutive quarter of
growth with the herd rebuild continuing key accounts as the market recovers from African Swine
Fever in China. Our aquaculture business grew high single digits in the quarter and along with
swine partially offset the decline in cattle and poultry.
Now moving on to revenue growth by segment for the quarter. US revenue grew 11% with
companion animal products growing 30% and livestock sales declining by 15%. For companion
animal, the positive trends at the vet clinic continued in Q4 with patient visits up 2% and revenue
per visit increasing by 13%. Companion animal growth in the quarter was driven by sales of our
Simparica franchise, as well as key dermatology products. We maintained an increased
investment in direct-to-consumer advertising in both therapeutic areas and continue to see a
good return on that investment.
Simparica Trio performed well again in the quarter with sales of $56 million. We remain extremely
encouraged for the future growth of our product and the growth of the overall market segment
as a material portion of Trio sales came from new patients to the category. Key dermatology
sales were $176 million for the quarter, growing 32% with significant growth for Apoquel and
Cytopoint.
Our investments to support the franchise have been instrumental in driving more patients into
the clinics. Companion animal diagnostic sales increased 22% in the quarter as a result of
reference lab expansion and growth in point of care instruments and consumables. US livestock
declined 15% in the quarter driven primarily by cattle which had a portion of Q4 sales pulled into
the third quarter as a result of the earlier movement from pasture to feedlot. The remaining
species declined as well with COVID-19 and pricing pressure negatively impacting our swine
business.
Poultry declines are largely attributed to product rotation and less producer profitability, leading
to reduced usage of our premium products.
To summarize US performance, innovation and return on investment once again drove
exceptionally strong growth in companion animal, while livestock was down in the quarter, the
results were in line with our expectations. Revenue in our international segment grew 7%
operationally in the quarter. Companion animal revenue grew 17% operationally and livestock
revenue grew 2% operationally. Increased sales of companion animal products resulted from
growth in our parasiticide portfolio vaccines and key dermatology products.
Parasiticide growth in the quarter was again driven by the Simparica franchise with further
adoption of Simparica Trio. In Q4, we observed a series of favorable market trends such as
increased pet ownership and medicalization rates in Asia. Overall, companion animal grew in
every major market except Italy and the UK, which had arguably the strictest lockdown down
protocols. Companion animal diagnostics grew 16% in the quarter, led by an increase in point-of-
care consumable usage. Swine revenue grew 14% operationally, posting a third consecutive
quarter of double-digit growth. Swine sales in China grew in excess of 100% for the second
straight quarter. Key accounts expanded their use of vaccines and other products as they
continue to rebuild herds from smaller farms to large-scale operations. China total products grew
45% operationally in the quarter and 34% operationally for 2020.
Brazil was also a significant contributor to international growth in the quarter, growing 18%
operationally. For the fourth quarter and full year 2020, Brazil delivered double-digit growth in all
species except poultry which modestly declined. Overall, our International segment deliveredstrong results despite the challenges presented by COVID-19. Our diversity across products and
geographies enables our international segment to again be a significant driver of growth.
Now moving on to the rest of the P&L for the quarter. Adjusted gross margin of 67.7% fell 80
basis points on a reported basis compared to the prior year resulting from other manufacturing
costs, inventory charges, recent acquisitions and elevated freight expense. This was partially
offset by favorable product mix and price increases.
Adjusted operating expenses increased 10% operationally, resulting from increased advertising
and promotion expense for Simparica Trio and Apoquel, partially offset by cleanly savings. Return
on investment from our DTC campaigns has been very favorable and will remain an important
investment to support future growth of the business. The adjusted effective tax rate for the
quarter was 13.5%, a decrease of 70 basis points, driven by the impact of net discrete tax
benefits, partially offset by the jurisdictional mix of earnings. And finally, adjusted net income and
adjusted diluted EPS for the quarter grew 3% operationally.
In December, we announced 25% annual dividend increase, continuing our commitment to grow
our dividend at or faster than the growth in adjusted net income. In addition, we resumed our
share repurchase program in January with $1.4 billion of remaining capacity under the current
authorization.
Now moving on to guidance for 2021, please note that guidance reflects foreign exchange rate
as of late January. For 2021, we are projecting revenue between $7.4 billion and $7.55 billion
representing 9% to 11% operational growth. We are expecting foreign exchange favorability in
2021 of approximately 200 basis points. We expect companion animal to be the primary driver of
growth in 2021 with the continued strength of our diverse parasiticide portfolio which includes full
year Simparica Trio sales.
We believe market dynamics for companion animal will remain strong in 2021 allowing for further
expansion of our key dermatology products, as well as our diagnostics offerings, which we
anticipate will grow faster than the overall animal health market. While we expect to face of
certain trends that accelerated in 2020 to moderate such as increased spend per visit, our view is
that 2020 has a status of the higher base for future growth. We anticipate livestock will return to
global growth in 2021, primarily driven by more normalized food consumption patterns.
Geographically, we expect total company sales growth to be relatively balanced between our US
and International segments. However, we do expect continued and meaningful growth in China
and other emerging markets.
I'd like to touch upon the key assumptions that underpin our expectations for revenue growth.
Beginning with dermatology, our guidance does not assume a meaningful competitive entrant in
2021 and with continued investment behind the franchise we believe revenue will exceed $1 billion
for the full-year. We also do not assume the triple combination product will launch in the US in
2021 to compete against Simparica Trio. We're extremely excited about our monoclonal
antibodies for pain with both Librela and Solensia having long term blockbuster potential.
However as Kristin mentioned, while both products will launch in the first half of 2021 in the EU
and other international markets, we do not currently expect either product to receive approval in
the US this year.
For the remainder of the P&L, adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue is expected to
be approximately 30%, which is relatively consistent with our cost of sales in 2020. Adjusted
SG&A expenses for the year are expected to be between $1.775 billion and $1.85 billion with the
increase in 2020 focused on supporting primary drivers of revenue growth, including recent andfuture product launches, key brands and recent acquisitions and reference lab expansion in
diagnostics.
Adjusted R&D expense for 2021 is expected to be between $500 million and $520 million as we
remain committed to investing in pipeline opportunities for new therapies and lifecycle
innovation. Adjusted interest and other income deductions is expected to be approximately $260
million with the increase over 2020 driven by increased interest expense, as well as lower
interest income. Our adjusted effective tax rate for 2021 is expected to be approximately 20%.
The increase in 2021 is primarily related to the impact of favorable non-recurring discrete items
that occurred in 2020.
Adjusted net income is expected to be in the range of $2.08 billion to $2.13 billion representing
operational growth of 9% to 12%. Our guidance reflects our value proposition of growing revenue
in line with or faster than the market and growing adjusted net income faster than revenue during
the year when we'll be making meaningful investments to support future growth. Consistent with
2020, we are anticipating elevated capital expenditures in 2021 to support investments in
manufacturing, focused on internal sourcing of API capacity increases and facilities to support
pipeline opportunities.
We're also investing in information technology to support our recent acquisitions, as well as digital
capabilities and data analytics. Finally, we expect adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $4.36
to $4.46 and reported diluted EPS to be in the range of $4.02 to $4.14. While guidance represents
full year expectations, we do anticipate growth will be more heavily weighted towards the first
half of the year. This is largely due to full year Simparica Trio sales and a favorable comparison
versus Q2 2020 as a result of COVID-19.
To summarize, 2020 was another exceptional year in which we delivered 9% operational revenue
growth and 10% operational growth and adjusted net income in the year that presented a unique
set of challenges. Our guidance for 2021 highlights our ability to grow revenue organically above
the market and grow adjusted net income faster than revenue even during times of elevated
investment.
Before turning it over to Q&A, I'd like to express how proud I am of our colleagues and all we've
accomplished amidst an unprecedented set of circumstances. While there is no assurance that
the New Year will be without similar challenges faced in 2020, we cannot be more excited about
the opportunity to again deliver on a long-term shareholder value proposition.
Now I'll hand things over to the operator to open the line for your questions. Operator?
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator instructions) And we will take our first question from `Jon Block, Analyst, Stifel with Stifel. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Jon Block, Analyst, Stifel `
Thanks guys, good morning. Congrats and just a great 2020. Our mass went upfront, for the
quarter 4Q '20 gross margins were a bit below despite being companion animal growth and next
year it seems like you're guiding to flattish call it gross margins again despite seems like positive
mix shift. So, Glenn can you talk about that a bit, why we are seeing a bit more gross margin
considering the companion animal performance and an expanding gross margin still a part of thelong-term story. And then I'll stick with sort of guidance, just really big numbers on 2021 guidance
out of the gate. You talked how livestock versus companion, can you talk to components of
companion a moment bit more, I don't know about specifically heard a Trio number only safe to
assume Trio $400 million plus in any other components you call out. Thanks, guys.
A - `Glenn David, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure, Jon. So, firstly look at the gross margin expectation for 2021, it is relatively flat versus 2020.
As you mentioned, the mix with companion animal will be beneficial as we move into 2021. Some
of the offsets that add there were some of the investments that we're making in other areas
such as reference labs, which come at a lower margin particularly in the early stage of their life
cycle as we're building at those labs the margins will be a little lower until they reach their full
operating scale. So that's some of the offset, so there are some positives in terms of the
companion animal mix, some offsets there with some of the longer-terms we're investing in
other -- making in other areas.
In terms of the drivers of companion animal growth, so obviously we do expect Trio to be a
significant driver of growth for 2021. We're not putting a specific number on Trio, but we would
expect a contribution from growth in 2021 to be at least as big as what we achieved in 2020, so
that will obviously be one of the drivers. Also continued growth in our dermatology portfolio, we
saw very strong performance in 2020 with 23% growth in that portfolio operationally for the year.
We do expect that portfolio will exceed $1 billion as we move into 2021. Also in companion animal
diagnostics, we expect very rapid growth in diagnostics as well. In the fourth quarter, we saw a
20% growth and we expect that will help carry us forward with the strong momentum that we had
in the quarter into 2021, as well as strong performance that we're seeing in many of our
emerging markets such as China and Brazil. So those are some of the factors that are driving the
strong companion animal growth.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Michael Ryskin, Analyst, Bank of America with Bank of America. Please go ahead.
Q - `Michael Ryskin, Analyst, Bank of America `
Hey, thanks guys. May I have quick two part here, first one going to be on livestock markets and
just specifically on DRAXXIN are you starting to see some competition, I know the patents just
rolled off, but any early comments you can tell us in terms of pricing from competing launches
and sort of updated expectations on market share, but also what steps you're taking and how
meaningful the headwind do you expect in 2021? And then broader on livestock we've heard a lot
about input costs going higher on corn [ph] things that potentially pressuring, produced in some
markets just poultry and swine, how does that factor into your outlook for low-single-digit growth?
And then second question would be just little bit more on the companion animal expectations for
2021, obviously you're growing well above the market, but any thoughts on sort of in-line portfolio
and you commented on on Trio and you commented on strong derm strength what you're
seeing Librela which is can you sort of comment on Revolution Plus and on the rest of the
portfolio there.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Mike. So starting on DRAXXIN, we are expecting a number of competitors to enter in the
US market again the LOE is this month so it hasn't happened yet. I would say more probably
interested and we expected a few months ago, but we don't think that will last, obviously, I thinkthe market will shake out obviously to a few. As we said previously, typically we expect about to
lose about 20% to 40% share over several years.
In the case of DRAXXIN given the large number of competitors, we do expect that to be factor,
but we don't really expect it to be overall different. And really partly what drives that I think is we
do believe that a lower price on DRAXXIN will expand the market for macro overall. And
therefore the market itself will grow. We also think we're positioned well from a broad portfolio,
strong technical and we do expect that the price to come down in the 20% to 40% that that is an
expectation, but as we said this is all baked in right now to our guidance.
So the expectation around DRAXXIN is going to be is there and if you look at broader livestock,
you referenced some of the input cost. If you heard in some of our opening remarks, we are
expecting low single-digit growth, so a return to growth in livestock overall, some of that will be
led in the US and certain species, a lot of that will be led outside the US. As a reminder, about
60% [ph] of our livestock business is outside of the US and we're seeing incredible growth right
now in China and some other markets Brazil, et cetera.
So overall we do think some of the input cost in the US will be a pressure, but we have given the
diversity of our portfolio, looking at some large markets, our second largest market is China, our
third largest market is Brazil, we do see strength in livestock there. So we overall do believe
livestock will return to low single-digit growth in 2021. And we continue to believe it will return to
normal growth in the mid-single-digit range 4 to 6 over the medium term.
So, Glenn. I'm not sure if you want to take the incremental question on the broad companion
animal trends in '21?
A - `Glenn David, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, so the transfer companion animal remained very strong, it's really driven by the breadth of
our portfolio. So we talk a lot about the growth that we expect to see from Trio, from our derm
portfolio, from Diagnostics Portfolio. Also in 2021 we'll have the launch for our monoclonal
antibodies for pain in Europe as well as some other markets will also be a key contributor to
growth. But then there are other products that round out the portfolio of products such as
ProHeart 12, product such as Revolution Plus, also the growth that we're seeing in markets like
China where companion animal is growing very rapidly, markets like Brazil. So there are really
many areas of growth that we see and that's driven by the fact that we do have the broadest
portfolio in companion animal we'll able to leverage that with our customers.
Operator
And our next question comes from `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald with Cantor Fitzgerald. Please go ahead.
Q - `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. So what are the macro factors that you see for Zoetis in 2021 as
it pertains to livestock feed prices, whether any other headwinds or tailwinds that you see out
there? Thank you.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure, Louise, good to here from you. As you look at livestock overall, we're seeing some of the
macro trends and sort of a recovery in China or an ASF is driving significant portion of the growth
from a swine perspective. China is still going to be importing a decent amount probably less thanWe're also hopeful that you will see an increase in dine out which will send signal to the industry
to expand herds. So, I mean 2020 was obviously hit with many different factors, but we do see
both an increase in demand and in markets where our technology to really leverage some of the
emerging markets, but we're seeing significant uptick there. There will remain challenges in some
of the US producers, obviously, for some of the import costs, et cetera, but we do believe you'll
see more of a return to normalcy as we move into 2021 and that's why we're guiding at sort of
the low-single digit, but we do believe in the medium term we'll be back to sort of a mid-single
digit overall.
Operator
And our next question comes from `Erin Wright, Analyst, Credit Suisse with Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.
Q - `Erin Wright, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Great, thanks. I'm curious how the more P formulation approach towards parasiticides is rising
across your customer be at (technical difficulty) isn't tactical, you hadn't had the equal strength
historically on herds underwent cannibalization of legacy products, they're playing out in line with
your expectations. And then my second question is on mAb, how should we think about the
contributions from this year and year out for other countries, will it be meaningful at all and how
should we think about the dynamics are impacting approval in the US, do you still anticipate, are
you still confident that these will be blockbuster product for you with the launch in the US in 2022?
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Erin, I heard the second question on mAb which I can answer, you were breaking up in
digitizing on the first question, I think more or less have us let us give a shot and you can
comment if we miss some of that we heard. So starting on your second question on the mAb, we
were very excited now at Librela approved and launching in the first half of this year and the EU,
Brazil, Canada and Switzerland.
And Solensia we continue to expect approval in the EU in the first half this year and to be
launching sort of mid-year. We're already due of approval on Solensia in Switzerland. And we
remain confident in the eventual approval based on the safety and efficacy data we submitted in
the US. But as you saw in our remarks and our release, with the approval timeline has doubt a bit,
we believe this has to do with the fact that this is the first monoclonal antibody approved by the
FDA in animal health, our previous Cytopoint was actually UFDA, it's making it a little harder for us
honestly to predict some of the regulatory process. We're continuing to work through the
regulatory process in manufacturing inspections and we'll continue to keep you updated. We
don't think that changes the overall peak sales of this product at all, but it is a slightly different
process.
I guess Glenn might have understood a little bit better, we'll try your first question if we miss it.
A - `Glenn David, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, Erin, I think your question was around how we're performing with the breadth of our portfolio
from parasiticide with our customers? And I think that's going very well in the veterinary clinics.
We're really able to offer our customers a variety of options based on how they want to best
treat the animals. And I think that shows in the performance that we saw in the Simparica
franchise in 2020, not only did we exceed our goals for Trio with $170 million in sales in the year,
but we also saw significant growth in Simparica, which really exceeded our expectations. So we
grew operationally 16% with Simparica. What we saw was that the advertising and driving patientsinto the clinic for Simparica Trio actually benefited the overall portfolio. We also saw very positive
growth in ProHeart 12 as well. So we think the breadth of the portfolio in the parasiticides was
really a benefit and our fuel colleagues really able to execute very well with that portfolio.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Was that your question, did we get it off? Hope we missed here, all right. You can come back in
the queue if we missed you, sorry about that Erin, little bit digital.
Operator
Okay. We'll take our next question from `John Kreger, Analyst, William Blair with William Blair. Please go ahead.
Q - `John Kreger, Analyst, William Blair `
Hi, thanks very much. Just maybe a quick follow-up on Librela and Solensia timeline in the US. You
have a sense for how far push back the approval timing might be and do you think you need to
collect additional clinical data?
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, we don't have a great sense right now, we're still working through the regulatory and
manufacturing process. We also -- the FDA is going to require inspections, facilities are outside
the US. So the exact timing of when they're going to be able to do that is a little bit uncertain. So I
don't have a great sense of not if we did, we would have obviously given more specific guidance.
We do not expect this to be in 2021 which is what we're being clear on now and as soon as we
know more, we'll be happy to update you on future calls going forward, but unfortunately I don't
have greater again, we remain very confident that will eventually be approved, but we need to
go through a new process with the regulator in animal health under CVM approved monoclonal
antibodies previously. So it's a little bit different for us, so this is the best we know at this point.
Q - `John Kreger, Analyst, William Blair `
Great, thank you. And then second question, can you maybe just sort of frame the diagnostics
plan for '21, it seems like results are starting to accelerate there, are any of the investments being
focused in the livestock or should we really think about your efforts right now being concentrated
with companion animal?
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. For 2021, our focus remains on companion animal. We're very pleased with our progress on
placements, which is a really good leading indicator of usage. As you saw, we had double-digit
consumable growth as well, which we're quite pleased with. What we look at new products,
we've added the images platform, we're excited with its first indication obviously in fecal, that's
the AI powered online.
We're looking for additional indications there. So the last piece there would also be reference
labs. So we're continuing to expand our US reference lab probably adding about 3 to 5 more labs
this year. So we believe diagnostics is a core part of our portfolio, it's a market that grows at 10%
plus. We're really pleased that we're starting to see some strong momentum across the different
parts of it, so both reference lab as well as placements, as well as consumable. So we remain
very committed to the space and are pleased with our progress over there.
OperatorAnd our next question comes from `David Westenberg, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities with Guggenheim Securities. Please go
ahead.
Q - `David Westenberg, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities `
Hi, thank you for taking the questions and congrats on a great year. Can you give us a little bit of
flavor on where Trio is taking share from. I think you mentioned there is some new to the
category, but I'm just kind of trying to get a flavor is it legacy just regular suite intake or I mean
what component is HeartWare I mean basically what I'm trying to do is get a good sense of how
big the some grow in terms of both, both the HeartWare market and the flea and tick market.
And then just a second related question on Trio, is there any synergies particularly on sales
synergy from the direct-to-consumer marketing campaign can might be of the benefit maybe
derm or maybe even there is a cost synergy. So thank you very much.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure, so starting on the Trio. We did see an increase in share in Q4 of 7%. So we are taking share
number of places that's coming from, you think about it, the first is new puppies where I think
we're doing quite well with new I think puppies. Also new people to the category overall I would
say people who maybe previously a derm product over the counter are moving in and we are
taking share from some of the other established competitors in the space.
So I think we're seeing strong growth overall I will say there and pleased with our share. As you
look at the potential for the product, the 2 competitors both NexGard and Bravecto are each
$600 million product today. So we continue to believe there is significant growth. We remain
under indexed to be honest with you in parasiticide, so we continue to see this as a significant
part of our overall growth.
From a sense of is -- are there synergies with derm, not really is what I would say, except for on
the cost side, obviously we can get better buying power when you replace CPCS [ph] by
leveraging the spend across both. But beyond that, we don't see strong synergies honestly
between the DTC on one couple of thing affecting the other unless a clinic have to carry both and
things like that, but we think may be the only synergy there is that and our buying power by
leveraging the combined DTC spend.
Operator
And we can go to our next question from `Nathan Rich, Analyst, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.
Q - `Nathan Rich, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Hi, good morning, thanks for the questions. Kristin, maybe to start, what do you think the launch
curve looks like for products like Librela and Solensia, obviously a new way for vets to treat
osteoarthritis and chronic pain. I guess kind of what are your initial kind of impressions on sort of
the level of demand that's out there from that for this type of treatment and how will Librela be
priced relative to existing treatments on the market. I know it can be kind of up to $100 a month
here in the US, I'm sure it varies a lot by market, but just any comment on pricing would be
helpful?
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. I think the lifecycle for Librela and Solensia in the curve will be a slightly different, Librela is
entering a market that's $400 million today, so it's an established market. So I think the ability forto expand the number of patients given the safety and efficacy profile and the compliance
benefits of the product.
I think we can also increase these on therapy, which also helps us from the market and then
obviously price to your point, so it is priced at a premium to many of the products on the market
today. It is not -- obviously, we don't have a price in the US since we don't have even an approval
yet in the US. I think Solensia is going to be a little bit different the current take a little longer. And I
have to do the fact that there really isn't our market today in most parts of the world. If you had a
casual, there really was no treatment, so cat owners have kind of conditioned to not bring their
cats in, we started focusing in about a year ago to try to build that market may be pet owners
aware what (inaudible) looks like in cat and get encourage them to start bringing their cat to do
the vet and then getting vet to treat that. We think it's a significant market, but you have to first
medicalize some of these conditions and treat it, it's significant, there is 50 million cats in the US
today and really only about 40% of them have a way, but only 18% of them are really identified by
that.
So, we think both are significant markets that we can grow the market, Solensia is more about
creating a market and I think you can look at our success in doing that with dermatology with
Apoquel and Cytopoint. So we are investing early as Glenn has been talking about in some of the
guidance over the last year and for 2021 in building those markets, but I would assume the curve
for Librela will be much faster than the curve for Solensia as we are building a market.
Operator
And our next question comes from `Balaji Prasad, Analyst, Barclays Investment Bank with Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Balaji Prasad, Analyst, Barclays Investment Bank `
Hi, good morning and congratulations on the results. Couple of questions from me. Firstly since
livestock recovery this year seems to be so contingent on China and there are news of on
regulatory or illegal vaccines being used and the recons of ACF. So I want to understand what
you're seeing on the ground and how should we wrap our heads around be regarding cycle in
2021. Second on operating margins, considering that you will not have the dilutive impact of
diagnostics that we saw in 2020, should we be looking for better operating margins considering
that revenue mix is better, livestock should be in a recovery and if so, what are the offsets to
these? Thanks.
A - `Glenn David, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. So when you look at overall livestock particularly in China, so we've seen very positive
performance in livestock in China this year. So from a livestock perspective, we grew 45% in
China this year and we expect continued strong performance in China in 2021 as we continue to
see the herd rebuild recovery from African swine fever. And where we're seeing that recovery is
particularly in our larger accounts. And the larger accounts use more of the multinational products
and of our premium products. So we've seen a really rapid acceleration of our growth, for
example in the second half of the year in swine in particular in 2020, we grow over 100% in swine
in China and we expect very positive momentum moving into 2021 and very significant growth
from China in 2021.
In terms of the operating margins, there are a couple of things to look at as we move into 2021.
A) number of areas of investments that we have in our SG&A really continuing to support the
growth of Trio as well as monoclonal antibodies for pain, as well as dermatology. We've increased
our DTC investment in 2020 particularly around Trio and derm and we plan on continuing that in2021 as we saw a very positive return on investment there. Obviously, we'll continue to invest in
R&D and that will be an area of continued investment as we've seen very positive return on that
investment as well.
The other thing to consider when you look at the overall guidance which -- with revenue growing
9% to 11% and income growing 9% to 12%. One of the reasons that income isn't growing more
rapidly is the change in assumption in tax rate between 2020 and 2021. In 2020 our rate was
18.3%, our guidance for 2021 is approximately 20%. If you neutralize for the impact of the tax rate,
our adjusted net income would actually be growing 2% faster, so a more 11% to 14%. So we are
seeing margin expansion, but the impact of the tax rate is diluting that to some degree.
Operator
And we'll go next to Chris Schott with JP Morgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Christopher Schott, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Great, thanks so much. Can you talk first maybe a bit about innovation on the livestock side, it
seems like the market between COVID and similar dynamics has been kind of a bit lackluster in
terms of growth for last few years. So what does it take to get back to mid-single-digit growth on
the livestock side and what are some of the bigger innovation trends we should be watching
there? And my second question was just following up on the topic of margins, as we start looking
up to 2022 and beyond, should we be thinking about a sustained window of higher expense
growth as you get many of these new launches off the ground or is lot of that groundwork
already been I guess invested as we go into '20 and '21. I'm trying to get a sense of how we
should think about longer-term margin expansion dynamics assuming we continue this very
healthy top line set up things to be playing out. Thanks so much.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Chris. We have been talking about the fact that to really get to the mid-single digits in a
sustainable way, you're going to need innovation. I think there's a few spaces that we're already
starting to see that and some that will be coming. The first is around the vector vaccine space
which we've been talking about. In 2020, we launched our first one in the US for new cattle, in
2021 we launched one for IBD, we're looking for more launches there. This is a significant market
about $300 million market growing double-digit.
So we do see vector technology in poultry which is one of the faster-growing species being area
of innovation and growth for us. We also think more broadly the immunotherapy, they're going to
be really important for two reasons, one, they're alternative to antibiotics. And secondly healthier
animals are more productive. So it also increases our productivity for producers. So I think
immunotherapy which we've been working on for a while and have a partnership with Colorado
State to develop will be important.
The other factor that I think is really important to focus on is precision livestock farming, which we
also think has great potential. We're leaders right now in the genetic space there, in genetic
testing. We also purchased PLA as you know, we're looking at really that's about individual animal
care and herd monitoring and I think that's probably the next big way that's probably more of a
medium-term growth driver, but I think there is a number of spaces where you're going to see
innovation at the livestock spot. So across vector, Immunotherapies and precision livestock
farming, I'll let Glenn take the second question on long-term margin expansion.
A - `Glenn David, Chief Financial Officer `Yeah, so in terms of the long-term margin expansion, there are a couple of factors to consider.
So for 2021 we mentioned that the gross margin is relatively flat and talked about some of the
drivers of that with some of the investments we're making in reference labs. Also the impact of
the DRAXXIN LOE this year on gross margin. So as we move into 2022 and beyond some of
those impacts will be a little less and we would expect to see continued expansion in gross
margin.
In terms of the overall operating expenses, beyond 2021, obviously there will be one year where
T&E normalizes when things get back to normal from COVID. But beyond that impact, we would
expect that we would continue to be able to grow our expenses at a pace below that of revenue.
So we'll probably continue to grow R&D in line with revenue, that may vary in a given year based
on the opportunities, but SG&A based on the infrastructure that we have globally established we
should be able to grow that somewhere between inflation and revenue. So we would expect to
continue to see expansion there on an overall operating margin perspective.
Operator
Our next question will come from `David Risinger, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `David Risinger, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Yes, thanks very much and let me add my congrats on another phenomenal year as well. So I
have two questions. First, with respect to the monoclonal antibody approval delays, so it's for
both cats and dogs, but it wasn't quite clear to me whether the FDA wants more clinical data or
whether there are manufacturing issues because of manufacturing questions because I think
Kristin you had mentioned manufacturing. So if you could just clarify on both of them what the
FDA issues are whether they are clinical or manufacturing. And then second, Zoetis' R&D has
obviously been amazingly differentiated from competitors, competitors struggle to bring
blockbuster companion animal products to market, even including follow-ons to Zoetis' top
growth drivers over several years. And so considering that, can you just help us understand the
unique aspects of Zoetis' R&D and its ability to maintain separation from the competition? Thank
you.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Thanks, Dave. With regards to the monoclonal antibodies, Librela and Solensia, it really is
just working through the regulatory process and the questions that they are asking and they're
requiring inspection of sites. So at this point we have not been asked for any clinical data, but
we're still in the regulatory process is what I would say. It is the first time doing this with the FDA,
so it's just actually a new process for both and understandably the person they are looking at
some of these types of products and they have a number of questions.
So it really is just going through the regulatory review process and trying to manage new
manufacturing inspections, which I do probably COVID is definitely affecting that a little bit, but
we're just working through that. So at this point we have not been asked for any additional clinical
data and we don't think there's any manufacturing issues at this point, we're just still working
through the review process and what their expectations are.
With regard to Zoetis R&D, what I would say is I think it's a partnership between R&D
manufacturing and our commercial organization. It's taking those insight the commercial add of
customer needs and part with early on with R&D to develop products. I think the other thing
we've done really well is partner with manufacturing to be able to scale those product and be
able to bring them to market. We manufacture our own monoclonal antibodies, we've got verystrong manufacturing capabilities, which is I think important for launching many of the products
and scaling up at the level. We certainly learned the hard way early on in our journey about
investing in that partnership when we got some of the challenges we had supplying Apoquel.
So I think from an R&D perspective, obviously, I think we have great scientists, but I think it reverts
our process and partners if they have with our commercial and manufacturing colleagues and our
willingness to invest in disruptive technologies and take those risks that we've been doing, we've
been managing over the last eight years.
Anything to add here, Glenn?
A - `Glenn David, Chief Financial Officer `
No, I think it's exactly what you said Kristin, we talked about the capabilities between commercial
manufacturing and R&D and I think that works extremely well, like Kristin said identifying what the
key needs are in the marketplace early on coming up with solutions and making sure that the
products that we're able to manufacture and we've been very successful in doing that.
Operator
Our next question will come from `Kathy Miner, Analyst, Cowen and Company with Cowen & Company. Please go ahead.
Q - `Kathy Miner, Analyst, Cowen and Company `
Good morning. Thank you. First question I have is relates again to the monoclonal. Can you just
clarify when you talked about plant site inspections being needed, is it correct then both either
one or both of the monoclonals are manufactured outside of the US. Second question also on the
products is the intention to launch both the cat and dog ones at the same time, is there an
advantage to do in one of the other and we can speak just about the EU markets where you have
approval. And the second question on the derm products, you've targeted $1 billion in sales for
this year. Can you talk about some of the drivers behind that, is it outside of the US, is it more
pets et cetera. Thank you.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. So first of all, Kathy, great to hear from you. Secondly on the mAb, they are both -- the
manufacturing facilities are different for them, but they are outside the US and prior approval
inspections, regulators handle them differently by. They are going to be required probably for
both of these products and they are both different, but they are both outside of the US.
And I think your second question was around the derm sales growth US or ex-US, it's both. We
still believe we're under-penetrated by US with the same number of dogs in the US and outside
US, yes, two-thirds of our sales in derm remain in the US. So we do think there is a significant
opportunity. It has been harder to get scale outside the US, historically, mostly because we've not
been able to do direct-to-consumer advertising this brand specific. One of the investments we
are going to make for the first time is doing just overall disease awareness direct-to-consumer
advertising in 2021. So we cannot be specific with brands, but in derm we really are the only
product.
So hopefully if you raise awareness around a disease and that our treatments, you can encourage
people to speak to their vet and get the best care. So that I think is one of the reasons why
International we are hoping will start to grow faster, but I have to give our US team tremendous
credit, they continue to grow the market. The investment in direct-to-consumer advertising,in the US there are still 6 million dogs who have who need our products or need a derm solution
who aren't getting one. So we do believe there is still growth in the US, although we would
expect although I'm sure, I know in the last years, we've seen very stronger that of the US, we
would expect over time for the US growth to start to decline the overall growth and more the
growth to come from international, but we still believe there is significant potential in both.
Operator
And our next question will come from `Elliot Wilbur, Analyst, Raymond James with Raymond James. Please go ahead.
Q - `Elliot Wilbur, Analyst, Raymond James `
Thanks, good morning and congratulations on the strong performance of Trio in a challenging
year. Kristin, just maybe want to dive in a little bit more on the launch details around the product,
seems like obviously one of the reasons for its relative success this year versus earlier
expectations was just far less cannibalization of Simparica than originally expected, but wondering
if you could just share with us additional metrics in terms of where you are with respect to clinic
penetration rate, how many targeted clinics have you been able to actually reach, just additional
metrics around the uptake and launch would be helpful. Then just thinking about the product
longer-term, obviously very strong first year, if I think about launching analogs on the human
health side, I mean generally 5 five years out you're looking at something on the order of 6x to
10x first year sales. Not sure if that's applicable in the companion animal market, but just some
thoughts in terms of maybe longer-term launch analogs with respect to the product. Thanks.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. With regard to the launch of Trio, I would say there is a lot of unique characteristics of the
Trio launch, A) we launched at the height of the pandemic in the US, so I'm not sure how to
compare that to other people's launches. We were slower to penetrate clinics I would say in Q2
and Q3, but we're quite pleased that by the end of the year we reached all of our penetration
goals. So I think our penetration has been quite strong. Given the delay, really the
outperformance was our share was penetrated within the clinic, the ability to get more of the
patients on our product has been really strong and that gives us good confidence as we move
into 2021.
As Glenn mentioned a few minutes earlier, we are expecting a similar contribution. We started a
lot in Q1, we didn't have sales last year, but with the penetration we were able to achieve by the
end of the year, which is reaching the goals we had wanted. We think that we can just get the
same pull through that we had at those clinics in 2021. We'll continue to see great growth across
there.
We're also seeing it also pull our broader parasiticide portfolio. So, I'm not sure I would say -- I'll
use human health analog, but continue to remind really work, we remain underpenetrated in this
space and cat is a single biggest category in the animal health space, it's $4 billion globally with
$2.5 billion in the US, continuing to see that 15% growth in Simparica beyond Trio globally it
shelted there is significant opportunity here for us and we continue to grow and we were quite
pleased if you looked at overall we had an increase in share of 7% in Q4. So we think we can
continue to take share in it and drove it overall. So I'm not sure it looks like human health, but with
our biggest competitors already being $600 million products, I think we've got strong ability to
continue to grow as you get at least our fair share in this space.
A - `Glenn David, Chief Financial Officer `Yeah, I mean the only thing I would add to in terms of the question on peak sales while it
becomes challenging with peak sales is the timing of competition and that remains unknown.
Obviously for 2021, our current guidance does not expect another triple combo within the US and
the timing of that will obviously impact what our overall peak sales can be for the product.
Operator
And our next question will come from Navin Jacob with UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Hi, everyone. Thanks for taking the question. This is Shri o for Navin Jacob. I just have a couple of
specific questions. Can you quantify the revenue impact in 2020 be earlier for cattle run and do
you expect this to recur this adverse negative revenue impact you expect it to recur in 2021? And
then can you quantify the difference in gross margin in diagnostics from your therapeutics
portfolio your corporate average. Thanks very much.
A - `Glenn David, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, so in terms of the impact of the early fall cattle run for 2020, that did not have an impact
for the year, that was just a seasonal impact between Q3 and Q4. I think you saw the very strong
performance in Q3. You saw the opposite occurred in Q4 of this year. And then predicting the
seasonality of that in 2021 obviously is difficult, but we focus more on the full year obviously in
terms of the overall impact. And in terms of gross margin for the diagnostic business, we don't
specifically provide gross margin by therapeutic area or by species, but overall we will say our
companion animal business obviously has the higher margin diagnostics in general is lower than
some of our key therapeutic areas.
Operator
And our next question will come from `David Steinberg, Analyst, Jefferies with Jefferies. Please go ahead.
Q - `David Steinberg, Analyst, Jefferies `
Thanks and (inaudible) rising pet adaptions obviously one of the tailwinds from the pandemic is
decreased DRAXXIN around the container world and in previous comments I think you'd said
there are about $3.2 million DRAXXIN annually, just curious now that 2020 is in the books, do you
actually have any data, how many more adoptions there were last year and the early tailwind
you've called out is just increase in downloads per vet visit. And as most pet owners get
vaccinated they go back to work, how durable do you think both increased dollars per visit and
increased adoptions are, is there any chance that could reverse when most people back at the
office.
And just as a follow-up question on Trio -- potential Trio competition, I think Glenn, you said no
expectations for practice this year. You previously said no competition in the first half of this year,
when do you actually I know it's Mercky, but when do you actually think it might be your first
competitor. And also what gives you such great confidence that there would not be any
competition in 2020 when I simply ask because with such a successful launch, it's obviously a
target for any competitor. Thanks.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. With regard to pet adoption, there are 135 million pets in the US, in a typical year you see
about 3.2 million adoption, so even a 10% increase that doesn't going to dramatically changethings, but we are seeing an increase in vet visits, which we think is a positive trend and we do
expect that to continue in 2021. So as Glenn mentioned earlier, we did see a 2% increase in vet
visits in Q4, we are expecting that to continue. So I think you are seeing maybe proportional to
what was the incremental pets that were adopted. We don't have very specific numbers, but I
would say assume it's somewhere between like 2% and 10% there. It will be helpful and I do think
we're going to continue to see an increase in visits.
You asked as well about spend per visit, which was incredibly strong in 2020. We don't believe it's
going to remain that strong to be honest with you, we still think it will grow, if you look generally
speaking at our base, you do -- we've seen overall revenues of clinics growing in the mid to high
single-digits on a normal year. I'm not sure what 2021 is going to look like, but assuming it's
somewhere close to a normal year. We do think you're going to see strong growth overall there
in spend, overall revenue into the vet clinic both with growth and total number of visits, as well as
spend per visit.
With regards to the Trio question on competition, we don't have the visibility that human health
had as to when we'll get competitors. To be very frank, we would have expected a competitor by
now, we would have expected one in derm as well. So we're not exactly sure what the challenge
is, but we don't have a great way of knowing other than rumor mill in the market and the strategic
account to often try to renegotiate with us when they think a competitor is entering the market,
which we haven't seen yet. That does not mean that someone couldn't surprise us, so there
could be, but we wanted to be clear what our guidance was based on.
So at this point given we don't have any specific knowledge, we will assume we do not have
competition in 2021 and as to when they would come, honestly we don't really know. But to your
point, these are large markets both your question on Trio, but as well as derm and we are
expecting competition. We just at this point do not have any specific knowledge, so our guidance
did not include an assumption for competition in either space.
Operator
And we'll take our next question from `Greg Gilbert, Analyst, Truist with Truist Securities, please go ahead.
Q - `Greg Gilbert, Analyst, Truist `
Hi. Going back to the diagnostics field, Glenn, you mentioned the growth rate there I think 20 plus
percent. Can you talk about to what degree that rate is influenced by M&A if at all. And maybe
more broadly about your strategy there, clearly there is an element of sort of building and
catching up, but I'm also curious on sort of how you're trying to differentiate or leapfrog
competition broadly from a diagnostic standpoint. And then Glenn, are you seeing any signs of
upward pressure on key input costs as the world thinks about commodity price inflation or at least
the potential for it. Thanks.
A - `Glenn David, Chief Financial Officer `
So in terms of the diagnostics growth for the quarter like you said, we did see 20% growth in
diagnostics. A part of that was driven by the reference lab acquisitions that we had. So net of that
organic growth was around 12% to 13% in diagnostics for the quarter. So, still very positive growth
in the quarter and we saw a nice momentum as we move throughout the year and we think that
will carry us well into 2021. Also we established a much better infrastructure for diagnostics in
2020 in two ways, A) we fully integrated into our core SAP system the diagnostics business that
we now are able to provide one face to our customer in terms of billing, as well as product
offerings.The other thing that we did was we made significant improvements in our bidirectional
connectivity, improving significantly throughout the year. At the beginning of the year, we had that
connectivity to about 30%, we increased that at the end of the year to over 70%. So we think that
establishes very well as we move into 2021, as well as some of the new innovation we're bringing
with the images platform as well.
So we think those are some of the key drivers as we move into 2021, as well as the continued
reference lab expansion that we are embarking on. So we're very excited about the growth that
we expect to see in diagnostics in 2021. In terms of key input costs and inflation for us from a
manufacturing perspective, there is nothing in particular that we see particularly challenging,
obviously for 2020, we had some elevated freight cost because of the impact of COVID-19 that
will probably continue as we move into 2021, that is embedded in our guidance, but nothing else
of a significant impact.
Operator
And there appears to be no further questions at this time, I will turn the call back over to the
speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Thanks, everybody for your questions and your continued interest in Zoetis today. We
look forward to keeping you updated on our business throughout the year and continuing to
deliver the results and innovations that you and our customers expect. Thanks so much for joining
us.
Operator
Thank you. And this does conclude today's program. Thank you for your participation, you may
disconnect at any time.