Q4 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Welcome to the Foruth Quarter and Full Year 2021 Financial Results Conference Call and Webcast
for Zoetis. Hosting the call today is `Steve Frank, Vice President of Investor Relations, Vice President of Investor Relations for Zoetis.
The presentation materials and additional financial tables are currently posted on the Investor
Relations section of zoetis.com. The presentation slides can be managed by you, the viewer, and
will not be forwarded automatically. In addition, a replay of this call will be available approximately
two hours after the conclusion of this call via dial-in or on the Investor Relations section of
zoetis.com. In addition, a replay of this call will be available approximately two hours after the
conclusion of this call via dial-in or on the Investor Relations section of zoetis.com.
At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be open for
your questions following the presentation. (Operator Instructions)
It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to `Steve Frank, Vice President of Investor Relations. Steve, you may begin.
`Steve Frank, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Catherine. Good morning everyone and welcome to the Zoetis fourth quarter and full
year 2021 earnings call. I am joined today by `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Executive Officer; and Wetteny
Joseph, our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin, I'll remind you that the slides presented on this call are available on the Investor
Relations section of our website and that our remarks today will include forward-looking
statements and that actual results could differ materially from those projections. For a list and
description of certain factors that could cause results to differ, I refer you to the forward-looking
statement in today's press release and our SEC filings including, but not limited to our annual
report on Form 10-K and our reports on Form 10-Q.Our remarks today will also include references to certain financial measures, which were not
prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or US GAAP. Reconciliation
of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable US GAAP measures is
included in the financial tables that accompany our earnings press release, and the Company's
filings dated today, Tuesday, February 15th, 2022. We also cite operational results, which exclude
the impact of foreign exchange.
With that, I will turn the call over to Kristin.
`Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Steve and welcome everyone to our year-end earnings call for 2021. I am happy to
report that Zoetis delivered its strongest performance ever in 2021. Thanks to our innovative,
diverse and durable portfolio and the talent and commitment of our colleagues.
We grew revenue 15% operationally, which is once again above the anticipated growth rate for
the animal health market. And these results were highlighted by 27% operational growth in our
companion animal portfolio with 1% operational growth in livestock. Our parasiticides dermatology
vaccines, diagnostics and monoclonal antibody therapies all contributed to these strong results,
driven by the positive trends in petcare, trends that we see continuing to be a key growth driver
in 2022 and beyond.
From a segment perspective, we saw solid balance across our global footprint with the US up
14% and International growing 17% operationally. Operationally, for the year, China grew 25%,
Brazil grew 28% and other emerging markets grew 22% leading the way for our international
performance.
Another major growth driver for the year has been our global diagnostics portfolio, which grew
21% operationally with significant strength in International markets and the continued launch of
Vetscan Imagyst, our AI-driven diagnostics platform.
Based on the strong revenue performance, we were able to deliver 19% operational growth in
adjusted net income for the year, while investing significantly in our latest product launches as
well as staffing, R&D and manufacturing projects for future growth.
Looking ahead, we believe this momentum sets us up well for 2022. We expect to continue
growing revenue faster than the market in the coming year, driven by continued strength in
petcare, expansion of our diagnostics portfolio internationally and significant growth in both
companion animal and livestock product sales for emerging markets, including China and Brazil.
As a result, we are guiding to full-year operational growth of 9% to 11% in revenue. Wetteny and I
will discuss more details about the full year 2022 guidance. But let me share some views on the
year and other updates.
First, the essential nature of animal health continues to be affirmed by our performance during
the COVID-19 pandemic. We have seen the fundamental drivers such as increased emphasis on
pet wellness, a growing global population and continuous consumption of animal-based proteins.
All reinforce the animal health industry as a positive investment choice.
In terms of the companion animal market, people's commitment to the health and well-being of
their pet has continued to drive higher spending and new opportunities for innovation,
geographic expansion and increasing levels of care. Pet owner spending on animal health remains
one of the more durable trends and consumer spending as people place a premium on theIn January, the Human-Animal Bond Research Institute and Zoetis released the results of a new
global survey of more than 16,000 pet owners and 1,200 small animal clinics which reinforce how
deep the connection is between pets and pet owners and have that dynamic relates to views on
veterinary care and the related benefits of pet ownership.
In this study, 92% of respondents said there was no reason they could ever be convinced to give
up their pet. And 86% said they would pay whatever it takes if their pet needed extensive
veterinary care. The strength of the human-animal bond strongly correlated with higher rates of
veterinary treatment for both preventative care and specific conditions in their pets. This study
and other research support our focus on advancing an innovative pipeline for pain, dermatology
and parasiticides for pets and we continue to invest in our field force, direct-to-consumer
marketing and manufacturing capacity to bring these products to market.
Moving on to the livestock industry, the need for safe and reliable sources of animal protein
continues to be a fundamental growth driver for the industry, particularly in emerging markets. In
any given year, whether disease and market dynamics may have various regional impacts. But the
underlying demand continues to be served locally more to[ph] global trade across more than 100
markets where Zoetis products are sold.
We continue to see Zoetis' livestock business show modest growth during the pandemic and
recent economic challenges based on our strength internationally. We see the International
growth continuing this year, while we continue to see declines in the US, driven primarily by
generic competition in certain product lines. Our competitive strategies and pricing and new
lifecycle innovations will help us mitigate some of that impact. Livestock products are a key
element of our global strategy and long-term growth. And we continue to expand our vaccine
product lines by pullback for (inaudible) poultry and Alpha Ject Micro for fish, as well as Draxxin KP
as a treatment for cattle.
We're also exploring more livestock innovations are in greater efficiency, precision animal health
and more sustainable food production. We've been focusing on our investments in vaccines for
prevention and maintaining healthy animals, data analytics for more individualized animal care and
research into other sustainability improvements or anti-immunotherapies.
I was particularly excited by few recently announced additions to our precision animal health
portfolio. Performance Ranch, a new cloud-based, cow-calf management software, this simplifies
tracking of individual animal performance and health product usage and our new BLOCKYARD
platform, which is Blockchain technology developed in cooperation with IBM to provide a secure
way to share information across different segments of the animal production supply chain.
For Zoetis, we continue to stay focused on our five strategic priorities for the long term, and we
are optimistic about the growth drivers we see for 2022. Petcare will remain a major growth driver
for Zoetis globally based on our diverse and innovative portfolio. We see continued growth
potential for our dermatology portfolio which surpassed $1 billion in revenue for the first time in
2021. Our parasiticides driven by our triple combinations Simparica Trio, as well as Revolution Plus,
Stronghold Plus, Simparica and ProHeart 12.
We'll continue to achieve growth as we gain market share in major markets and look at further
lifecycle innovations and label came across the portfolio. Librela and Solensia, our monoclonal
antibodies for control of osteoarthritis pain in dogs and cats will continue to increase the revenue
in 2022. Primarily in the EU and we're making regulatory progress for these products in the US.
We received FDA approval for Solensia in January, with the launch expected in the second half ofthe year. And we still anticipate approval of Librela in the second half of the year assuming FDA
inspections are completed at a facility outside the US.
As we begin 2022, we are seeing strong demand in the EU for Librela and Solensia and we
remain confident in the blockbuster potential, Librela in 2022 and Solensia in the longer term. We
continue to optimize our global supply chain and manage ongoing challenges, which have been
creating isolated constraints for Librela, Solensia and some of our other products. As always
maintaining a consistent reliable supply for our customers is our top priority. And we've been
communicating with them about any impact to their orders. We want to ensure all pets can
continue their treatment without interruption especially for chronic treatments of OA pain.
Our global manufacturing network is working around the clock to ensure reliable supply for our
customers as they did throughout 2021. And our full year guidance and strong growth reflects our
views on supply.
Diagnostics is our next major growth driver in 2022, with a fully integrated point-of-care business
that is prime for strong growth internationally, along with the expansion plans for relatively new
reference lab operations. We are making significant progress in one of the fastest-growing
markets for animal health. We're adding more dedicated field force and customer service
resources while developing more offerings that will leverage our portfolio across the continuum
of care.
And finally, we see significant growth opportunities in emerging markets, including China and
Brazil, where we see excellent opportunities for both our companion, animal and livestock
products based on increased medical innovation and other positive trends.
Meanwhile, our R&D team along with external partners will continue to generate the industry's
most productive pipeline in the years to come. With more than $500 million in R&D spending in
2021, our largest ever annual investment for R&D. We continue progressing research to drive
allergies, livestock health, chronic pain and inflammation. Chronic kidney disease and diagnostics,
through our vaccines, therapeutics and digital technology platforms.
In conclusion, I want to thank our colleagues for delivering another terrific year and for always
bringing the value of Zoetis to our customers every day. Zoetis remains well-positioned and turn
of our market leadership, financial strength, investment strategies and diverse portfolio to deliver
sustainable growth to investors in 2022 and beyond.
Now let me hand things off to Wetteny.
`Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Kristin, and good morning everyone. 2021 was an exceptional year for us with revenue
of $7.8 billion and adjusted net income of $2.2 billion, both exceeding the high end of our
November full-year guidance range. Full year revenue grew 16% on a reported basis and 15%
operationally with adjusted net income, increasing 21% on a reported basis and 19% operationally.
Looking deeper into the 2021 numbers, price contributed 1% to full year operational revenue
growth with volume contributing 14%. Volume growth consisted of 6% from other in-line products,
5% from new products including Simparica Trio, and 3% from key dermatology products.
Revenue growth was again broad-based with the US growing 14% and the International growing
17% operationally. Our strong performance was driven by our innovative, diverse and durable
companion animal portfolio, which grew 27% operationally. Our livestock business which facedgeneric competition on key franchises, as well as challenging macro conditions in certain markets
grew 1% operationally on a year-over-year basis.
Performance in companion animal was led by our Small Animal parasiticide portfolio bolstered by
full year sales of Simparica Trio. We generated revenue of $425 million, an increase of $305
million compared to 2020 sales. So Simparica also grew double digits for the year with
operational revenue growth of 13%. For the year, The Simparica franchise grew 82% operationally
with revenue of approximately three quarters of $1 billion.
Our key dermatology products performed incredibly well growing 24% operationally with
approximately $1.2 billion in revenue for the year, performing above our expectations. Our
diagnostics portfolio with 21% operationally in the year with strong contributions from our US and
International segments and we will continue to make meaningful investments in the coming years
to drive global growth. We do believe the adoption of diagnostics products and services outside
the US, represents larger growth opportunity geographically. And feel we are favorably
positioned to capture future growth in those markets.
I lost my performance in 2021 depicts the importance of geographical diversification. Generic
competition and challenging market conditions weighed on our US performance, but were offset
by solid growth internationally, primarily in emerging markets. The modest livestock growth on a
global basis was in line with our expectations for the year.
Moving on to our Q4 financial results. We posted another strong quarter with revenue of $2 billion
representing an increase of 9% on both a reported and operational basis. Adjusted net income
of $474 million is an increase of 8% on a reported basis and 5% operationally. Of the 9%
operational revenue growth, 1% is from price and 8% from volume. Volume growth of 8%
consisted of 5% from new products, which includes Simparica Trio, 2% from key dermatology
products and 1% from other in-line products.
Companion animal products led the way in terms of species growth, growing 21% operationally
with livestock declining 6% on an operational basis in the quarter. Small animal parasiticides with
the largest contributor to growth in the quarter were our innovative and diverse flea, tick and
heartworm portfolio with 32% operationally. Simparica Trio posted revenue of $124 million
representing operational growth of 106% versus the comparable 2020 period and the third
consecutive quarter with sales exceeding $100 million.
Meanwhile, our key dermatology products, Apoquel and Cytopoint again had significant global
growth in the quarter with $360 million of revenue, representing 22% operational growth against
a robust prior year and which key derm grew 27% in the fourth quarter of 2020.
Our livestock business declined 6% in the quarter as a result of generic competition for Draxxin,
unfavorable market conditions in the US, primarily resulting from elevated input costs as well as
softer conditions in China, largely driven by reduced pork prices. Our fish business grew double
digits in the quarter and along with the strength of our emerging markets partially offset the
board of decline. Overall, livestock performance in the foruth quarter was in line with our
expectations.
Now moving on to revenue growth by segment for the quarter. US revenue grew 9%, with
companion animal products growing 20% and livestock sales declining by 13%. US petcare vet
practice trends remained robust in Q4 with practice revenue growing approximately 8%, with this
is growing 3% despite challenging prior year comps. Companion animal growth in the quarter was
driven by sales from our Simparica franchise, as well as key dermatology products. We are drivingconsumer advertising and field force. And we continue to be pleased by the return on investment
the programs are yielding.
(inaudible) of Simparica Trio was again strong in the quarter, with sales of $114 million growing
more than 100%. We also met our clinic penetration targets and continue to take share within the
clinics. Key dermatology sales were $260 million for the quarter growing 22% with Apoquel and
Cytopoint each growing significantly. Our investment to support the franchise have been
instrumental in driving more patients into the clinic and we'll continue to invest meaningfully in this
space as the large portion of dogs with dermatitis remain untreated representing an opportunity
to further expand the market.
US livestock fell 13% in the quarter primarily resulting from our cattle business, which as expected
was challenged by generic competition for Draxxin, as well as elevated input cost continuing to
weigh on producer profitability. Our poultry business was negatively affected by reduced disease
pressure from small flux sizes of those generic competition while swine faced competitive pricing
pressure on anti-infectives and vaccine products.
Moving on to our International segment, where revenue grew 8% on a reported and operational
basis in the quarter. Companion animal revenue grew 23% operationally and livestock revenue
declined 2% operationally. Increased sales of companion animal products resulted from growth of
our key dermatology products, our monoclonal antibodies for the vision of OA pain and our
parasiticide portfolio. Several key brands are benefiting from our international DTC campaigns in
Latin America and parts of Europe and we remain excited with the long-term prospects of these
programs.
Overall companion animal grew double digits operationally in every major market in the quarter.
We are encouraged by the performance of our monoclonal antibodies for OA pain, but Librela
generating $15 million and Solensia delivering $3 million in fourth quarter sales. In the fourth
quarter, Librela became the number one pain product in the EU in its first year with the underlying
performance metrics being very favorable for future growth. We order in rates were in excess of
90% and compliance rates exceeded our initial expectations. In the past, we've highlighted the
significant opportunity to expand the pain market. Therefore, we were extremely pleased to see
approximately 40% of Liberla and Solensia sales were from patients receiving medication for the
first time.
International livestock declined 2% operationally in the quarter as declines in cattle and swine
were partially offset by growth in fish and poultry. Cattle declines were largely in the EU and
Canada as generic competition for Draxxin weighed on sales. The declines in swine sales was
primarily the result of lower pork prices in China negatively impacting produce profitability.
Our fish portfolio grew double digits again this quarter, driven primarily by growth of Alpha Flux in
Chile and the growth in poultry was largely attributed to further key account penetration.
Now moving on to the rest of the P&L for the quarter. Adjusted gross margin of 69.6% increased
190 basis points on a reported basis compared to the prior year resulted from favorable product
mix, lower inventory charges, favorable FX and price. This was partially offset by higher freight
manufacturing and other costs. Adjusted operating expenses increased 12% operationally with
compensation related costs being the primary driver, 15% operational increase in SG&A, as well
as 3% operational increase in R&D expenses.
Increase International advertising and promotion expense for key brands also contributed to
higher SG&A, while R&D had increased project spend in the quarter. The adjusted effective taxrate for the quarter was 18.6%, an increase of 510 basis points, driven by the impact of prior year
discrete tax benefits and changes to the jurisdictional mix of earnings.
And finally, adjusted net income grew 5% operationally and adjusted diluted EPS grew 6%
operationally for the quarter. In December, we announced 30% annual dividend increase.
Continuing our commitment to grow our dividend at or faster than the growth in adjusted net
income. In the quarter, repurchased approximately $200 million of Zoetis shares and announced
the authorization of a $3.5 billion multi-year share repurchase program. Because we generate
significant free cash flow, we have the ability to grow our business through organic investments
and business development and return excess cash to shareholders without consuming our cash
balance or being dependent on elevated leverage.
Now moving on to guidance for 2022. Please note that guidance reflects foreign exchange rates
as of late January. We are expecting an unfavorable foreign exchange impact versus prior year by
approximately $160 million in revenue, which is roughly 200 basis points and approximately $0.12
on EPS, which is about 250 basis points. For 2022, we are projecting revenue between $8.325
billion and $8.475 billion, representing 9% to 11% operational growth. We again expect companion
animal to be the primary growth driver in 2022 with the continued strength of our diverse
parasiticide portfolio for the expansion of our key dermatology products, the adoption of our
monoclonal antibodies for OA pain and the growth in point-of-care diagnostics and reference
labs.
We see a very favorable companion animal backdrop for 2022, while expecting certain vet clinic
trends to moderate over time, we believe they will remain above pre-pandemic levels. The
catalyst for growth in 2022 and beyond same from a younger pet owner demographic and the
standard of care increase -- increases which took shape over the prior two years. Our innovative
portfolio geographic representation and significant investments in key brands have us positioned
extremely well to capture a meaningful portion of that growth. We anticipate modest livestock
growth again in 2022 led by the contributions of our emerging markets. The macro trends which
make livestock and essential business remain intact and we believe more normalized growth will
occur in 2023.
I'd like to touch upon the key assumptions that underpin our expectations for revenue growth.
Beginning with companion animal, we do not assume a triple combination product will launch in
the US in 2022 to compete against Simparica Trio or competitive entrants for our key
dermatology products, Apoquel and Cytopoint.
As Kristin mentioned in 2022, we expect Librela to become a blockbuster product in the first full
year of sales with revenue exceeding $100 million largely from the EU markets. We remain very
optimistic about the potential Solensia as well. While the revenue curve will have a different shape
due to the lack of an established feline pain market, we view Solensia as a long-term blockbuster
product which adjusted a significant unmet need in animal health. In livestock, we expect generic
competition to negatively impact Draxxin revenue by approximately 20% in 2022 comparable to
the impact we saw this year.
For the remainder of the P&L, adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue is expected to
be approximately 29% were favorable product mix and price are expected to generate margin
expansion. Adjusted SG&A expenses for the year are expected to be between $2.07 billion and
$2.12 billion with the increase from 2021 focus on supporting primary drivers of revenue growth,
including investments to support new and existing products as well as diagnostics.Adjusted R&D expense for 2022 is expected to be between $540 million and $560 million. Zoetis
is the leader in animal health because of the novel products, disruptive innovation and lifecycle
enhancements we bring to the market. Our internal R&D engine remains the primary source of
innovation and we are committed to ensuring it will continue to be significantly funded as a
priority and capital allocation.
Adjusted interest and other income and deductions are expected to be approximately $240
million, representing a minimal year-over-year change. Our adjusted effective tax rate for 2022 is
expected to be approximately 20%. The increase in 2022 is primarily related to the favorable
impact of foreign derived intangible income and nonrecurring net discrete tax benefits that
occurred in 2021.
Adjusted net income is expected to be in the range of $2.415 billion to $2.470 billion representing
operational growth of 10% to 13%. Our guidance once again reflects our value proposition of
growing revenue in line with or faster than the market and growing adjusted net income faster
than revenue. We are anticipating a significant increase in capital expenditures in 2022, primarily
related to investments in manufacturing expansions in Ireland, the US and China.
Finally, we expect adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $5.09 to $5.19 and reported diluted
EPS to be in the range of $4.75 to $4.87. While our guidance represents our expectations for full
year financials. I would like to provide some color on the expected phasing of growth in 2022.
We expect top-line growth to be fairly consistent between the first half and second half of the
year. However, due to the impact of generic competition for Draxxin, isolated supply constraints
and the continued weakness of our swine business in China. We expect growth in the first quarter
of 2022 to be lower than the remaining three quarters.
In addition, the significant investments we are making early in the year to support revenue growth
primarily in companion animal, including diagnostics along with very challenging comparative
periods for T&E and other expenses will impact Q1 materially more than the subsequent quarters.
Now to summarize. 2021 was another exceptional year. Our best performing year with 15%
operational revenue growth and 19% operational growth in adjusted net income. Our guidance
for 2022 reflect the strength of our innovative portfolio, our ability to successfully launch new
products and established new markets and our confidence in the end market dynamics for the
phases we compete in.
Now I'll hand things over to the operator to open the line for your questions. Operator?
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) We'll go first to `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald with Cantor Fitzgerald. Your line is open.
Q - `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Hi. Congratulations on the quarter and thanks for taking my question. So you've been very
successful over the years in your R&D efforts and where do you see your next wave of innovation
coming from. And is it going to be a companion or livestock-focused drugs or diagnostics? Thank
you.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `Thanks, Louise. Good to hear from you. We are quite excited with regards to our pipeline and I
really think it is the innovative nature of Zoetis that has made it so successful. As you look at the
pipeline, we're excited about a number of areas both across pet care and livestock. In petcare
continuing to innovate in the parasites base, it's a $5 billion market. I think we can continue to
bring innovation there, certainly growing our osteoarthritis, monoclonal antibodies for pain Librela,
Solensia, continuing to innovate in the derm space. You saw us add Apoquel chewable in Europe
for example there.
Also leveraging that whole platform of monoclonal antibodies for other indications, we think it's a
big opportunity. Really excited on diagnostics, and the ability to continue to bring really disruptive
innovation there, certainly our Imagyst platform and some of the new indications there is a great
example. We also think taking a lot of our products and growing them in emerging markets will be
valuable.
And as you move into the livestock space, we're excited about vector vaccines and poultry
vaccines in cattle and in swine. And then really investing as well in our precision livestock farming
and genetics portfolio. You probably saw, we launched two new products there over the last few
weeks. So we think there is a significant innovation across both pet care and livestock and believe
we have strong platforms in R&D for growth investing over $500 million in R&D.
Operator
We'll take the next question from Mike Ryskin with Bank of America. Your line is open.
Q - `Michael Ryskin, Analyst, Bank of America `
Great. Thanks for taking the question and congrats on the quarter and strong guide. Just to start,
I know you touched on this in the prepared remarks. But I have to ask a follow-up on the Trio
competition. We heard from one of your competitors that they may be closer than that. So even
though you don't expect competition and it's not built into your assumptions for 2022. How would
you react if you did see it, how would your assumptions be impacted and how do you think you
would -- just pricing or go to market sort of, how would you see flow through?
If I could ask just a quick follow-up to that. On pricing in general across the portfolio, what are your
expectations for 2022? Where you going to able to take more price less price. Obviously, there is
an the inflationary environment and you have to think about livestock versus companion
differently. So could you just talk us through your assumptions on price across the portfolio?
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So let me take that first. With respect to Trio, we continue to be very pleased with the
performance of Trio and really the entire Simparica franchise. And when you look Trio, we
delivered $124 million of revenue in the quarter and you look across the franchise, we continue to
see really strong growth for the year. The franchise grew 82% across the board. So very pleased
with that.
And we're putting significant investments behind the product and cross Simparica as well in
markets where you don't see heartworm being prevalent and so we've seen Simparica grow 13%
on the year. And so we continue to make those investments in our field force as well as
advertising in DTC campaigns across. Our confidence is that we'll continue to see growth even
when a competitor in this space. We have seen that in other cases where other products are
coming to the market. When you look at the flea, tick, heartworm market, its biggest market
within animal health with $5 billion. And there are other products in the space that have sizes of$300 million plus. So as we look here, we continue to see more headroom to continue to grow
this brand in this franchise even when there is competition.
When I look at price, we delivered a 1% of growth in price net in 2021. And probably looking at
about the same sort of range when we think about 2022. You have to keep in mind while we see
opportunities to take price across the board, particularly, in companion animal and behind our
innovative brands and seeing really strong demand in the end markets. We'll continue to pull that
lever in terms of what's going the other way as you aware, Draxxin is one with competitive
generic competition there with respect to that, as well as, so it makes in DMD.
We've seen that sort of partially offset. I would say, but we still delivered net price increase in
2021 and we believe given as we look to offset inflation as we have done in 2021. We have an
opportunity to do that. We do look at price on a market-by-market and SKU by SKU basis. And so,
we're deliberate about where we can be more aggressive. And we'll take those opportunities as
we go through.
Operator
We'll take the next question from `Nathan Rich, Analyst, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
Q - `Nathan Rich, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Hi, good morning. Thanks for the questions. I had two on Librela. Kristin, I think you said you
expect Librela to be a blockbuster in '22. What have you seen with respect to prescribing
patterns for that have started to use the product? I mean, has this displaced other products or
events just diagnosing OA more and does the guidance for it being a blockbuster in 2022
assume a US launch?
And then just as a quick follow-up to that, could you just go into more detail on the supply
disruption that you mentioned for Librela? Is it an API issue or a factory issue? Just anymore
details that you could share there. That'd be great. Thank you.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure, sure. Thanks, Nathan. We are very excited at the trends we're seeing in Librela in Europe.
For starters, it is now the number one selling OA pain product in Europe, which is pretty incredible
given it wasn't even a full year in Europe.
And what's really exciting about that is we're seeing 40% of the prescriptions of pets that are
new to the category. So I think for a lot of pet owners who were worried about safety or efficacy
of the previous portfolios, they really see this as really game changer. And the people who have
been on it, we've seen a 90% re-order rate from clinics and very high compliance. So once
they're on it, really staying with it, which gives us great confidence as we look into 2022 that we
can get Librela to be a blockbuster product.
To your question about, does that assume a US launch? It definitely does not assume a US launch.
We would not -- with approval late in the year, we would not be able to launch Librela in 2022. So
that would hit blockbuster status, just outside of the US.
And if you look at some of the supply challenges, the inputs to Librela are the same inputs as you
would make a human COVID vaccine. So we've been really thoughtful about where we launch
and making sure we do market-by-market and ensure we can supply. We have our challenges
intermittently just having to do with the fact that the inputs are the same. So I think our supplyselling OA pain. But we are really thoughtful about where we're launching. A lot of those are
getting addressed the capacity and a lot of those component parts in human health have
increased. So we become more confident, every quarter we can do that. But that is what was
driving some of the short-term intermittent supply challenges we had in Europe.
But I think, if you look at our office guidance for this year, we can clearly see if we're going to hit
$100 million that we're pretty confident we can address those.
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. And I'll just add with Liberla in the fourth quarter. We're deliberate about holding back of
the new patients coming on because want to make sure that we can secure the inputs. So that
when it all comes on, they can stay on given that it's a chronic OA Pain condition. So, and that
we've been able to secure materials and be able to run and we're confident in our forecasted
demand here to be able to manufacture and deliver those.
Operator
The next question comes from `Erin Wright, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.
Q - `Erin Wright, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Great, thanks. A question on the monoclonal antibodies. Can you speak to the pipeline outside of
(Technical Difficulty) and you have significant capacity there and you have ventured multiple
partnerships including (Technical Difficulty). How would you think about the target there in the
timeline and what's next on that front? Do you see several monoclonal antibody launches over
the next three to five years?
And then on diagnostics, you mentioned increased focus internationally. And can you speak to
how that strategy is progressing? I guess before the US and internationally for reference lab as
well as on point-of-care and international reference lab also on your radar screen? Thanks.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Erin. Yeah. If you look at the monoclonal antibody platform, we do see there's very much
as a platform for growth with Librela and Solensia being the second and third. We also have data
points. We are the only one with any monoclonal antibodies approved right now. So I do think we
have a good head start. We do see that similar to what you see in human health with application
across a number of diseases. So, we have not been terribly public about that pipeline. I think
we've talked about a few such as chronic kidney disease, et cetera. But obviously in our world,
our pipelines are not public. But we are very excited. We have invested in building significant
capacity across monoclonal antibodies, both in the US and outside the US and multiple facilities
just given our excitement on the fact that this is a really important space.
We do have a number of partnerships with human health companies and even some small animal
health companies in this space. So we're really excited as the pipeline and believe we can
continue to launch new products, new mAbs over time, and I will let Wetteny take the diagnostic
question.
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. We continue to be very excited about the diagnostic space with growth above the animal
health space in general. If you look at 2021, we delivered 21% growth in diagnostics across the
year. And particularly when you look at, although we grew both across US and international. Andwe've always said that International was a more level playing field. But we look to a new
aggressive, and we continue to make investments across field force, reference labs, et cetera.
Here, you've seen us innovate in this space with Imagyst. The first AI platform with (inaudible)
indication, we'll look at additional indications coming on there as well. And so, we'll do to make
those investments and diagnostics is one of our key growth drivers as we look ahead.
Operator
We'll go now to Jon Block with Stifel. Your line is open.
Q - `Jonathan Block, Analyst, Stifel `
Thanks, guys. Good morning. It seems like you're implying 2022 companion animal growth
roughly a mid to high teens, a very solid growth rate. Maybe I can just put you guys a little bit on
some of the key products, any specifics for Trio when we think about 2022, recall the Simparica
franchise and/or the atopic derm franchise, just maybe in terms of contribution to growth.
And then a little bit of a follow-up, those Librela -- Certainly, the Librela numbers are really solid
international numbers out of the gate where the medicalization rates are usually a lot lower. So,
Kristin, can you just comment, does this still hold were longer term. This is still like a 70-30 US
International split in terms of revenue from those novel therapeutic when we look out a number
of years? Thanks, guys.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. I'll start with your second question on just Librela, Solensia and International. They are solid.
Look, we're really focused on increasing the medicalization and the adoption of new technologies
outside the US. I think it's been a key focus for Glenn David, since he's moved into the
International group. I mean, as you know, there is a very similar number of animals in the US and
outside the US.
And to your point, historically, the revenue splits have been quite different. But we're really
looking at especially in categories right now where we are the only product out there. Derm is
one, but even monoclonal OA pain really thinking of unbranded, really think we can raise the
standard of care. It's a key focus for us as well on the diagnostic space. How we increased
medicalization outside the US.
I think it will evolve over time and I'm not sure when it gets to the equal number of animals. But
really why we feel like we have a lot of optimism International, if you think about some of the
emerging markets where they're adopting new technologies, net curve is quite different. So if
you look at the increase in China, Brazil across a number of emerging markets, they're really
moving up that curve much, much more quickly and we also -- our belief that we can continue to
do that in some of the key categories.
And to your point on your first question, we continue to see growth potential in derm. We do not
expect a competitor in 2022 in derm. Again, I don't have any data when you go and ask me, why
do I believe that, I mean based on this what I know today. I could obviously be wrong. So we're
going to invest aggressively as we have been doing in direct-to-consumer. We still believe there
are 6 million untreated dogs in the US alone who have veterans and don't have treatment. And if
you saw the growth that we delivered in 2021 across derm with 24% growth and already at over
$1 billion, we still see growth in derm, certainly in Paris. We're going to aggressively grow that ourportfolio through direct-to-consumer advertising amongst other things in 2022 to make sure we
have the highest share as we had.
I think the brand equity there has been really strong. So we continue to see significant
opportunities as well in Paris. So, and I think you also can add in our emerging markets across all
these continuing to do really well. So as we look at growth, obviously, growth will be led as you
referenced by our companion animal business in 2022. And I think what's important is, there's not
one key platform that's is driving that. It is multiple. It is derm, it is para's, it is diagnostics, it's
mAb's, it's emerging market. So we do think we have a range of platforms to continue to grow in
2022 and beyond.
Operator
We'll go now to `Chris Schott, Analyst, J.P. Morgan with J.P. Morgan.
Q - `Chris Schott, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Great. Thanks so much for the questions. Just to follow up on Librela and capacity in the US
launch. I guess by the time that drug is approved later this year. Do you expect some of these
issues will be addressed by then or should be thinking about either a gap between approval and
rollout or a more targeted rollout, as you're dealing with capacity? I'm trying to get a sense of, is
this something that's the next few quarters that you're going to be addressing most of this or is
this going to be an ongoing kind of challenge given the kind of broader capacity demands in the
industry out there?
And then the second question I had was just maybe a longer-term operating margin question and
the guidance implies moderate kind of operating margin improvement in '22. As I think about the
longer-term, do you see kind of a sustained period where we're going to see OpEx growth that's
kind of keeping up with overall sales growth? So you're seeing some margin improvement, but
not a ton or do we think about a window where there is maybe a larger margin improvement
cycle coming as we maybe think out 2023 and beyond as maybe some of these initial
investments on derm Trio et cetera kind of start to plateau at some point here? Thanks so much.
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, sure. Let me take both. So going to your first question with the sector Librela. As we said in
the prepared commentary, we continue to anticipate approval sometime late in 2022 that is
hinging on inspection, that the FDA has to do at a facility outside the US. By front this product
gets approved and as we continue to leverage our global manufacturing footprint and our plans.
But we anticipate having the manufacturing capacity that we need to meet demand across the
market.
We will certainly leverage our learnings from our launches outside the US in terms of how we go
about executing that with respect to early expense programs et cetera. But at this point, we're
confident our ability to manufacture to meet customer commitments across their product when it
gets approved.
Now going on to the operating margins. As we've said, we see opportunity to really invest behind
a number of areas to drive long-term sustainable growth. And we're doing so whether you look
at R&D investments in our field force. For example, investments in advertising campaigns, DTC
campaigns behind our brands that we can really drive growth in. Particularly in areas where we
have an advantage like being the only triple combination in the US as we speak, as well as in the
derm area.As we do that, we'll be aggressive, but we're mindful to grow the bottom line facet in top-line.
And now may narrow the range that you see from time to time, but certainly the business has the
ability to continue to expand margins and we've demonstrated that. But we are going to be
aggressive about those opportunities when we see them, which mean there that range.
In terms of how long do we continue to see that, because we see the opportunity to continue to
drive growth and grab more share. We will execute on those, but be mindful of that value
proposition.
Operator
We'll go now to `Balaji Prasad, Analyst, Barclays with Barclays. Your line is open.
Q - `Balaji Prasad, Analyst, Barclays `
Hi. Good morning and congratulations on the quarter. Firstly on the R&D pipeline of innovations
that you called out and the focus that you called out six, seven areas for innovation. I'm not sure if
I'm reading too much into it, but I thought oncology pipeline was missing. I remember this being
flagged as an important area in the past. Have you had a change of thought around oncology as
a key area of innovation?
And just on Librela, does your success in the past year drive you to revisit your thoughts around
the longer-term opportunity in the clinic pain market? Are you -- called out as the market which
can potentially double over the next few years. Is there an upside risk to those numbers? Thank
you.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. As we talked about the pipeline, certainly, oncology's in there. We don't get very specific
with regards to that. I don't believe we've ever anything specific with regards to oncology
historically. It's certainly an area we're looking at. But I would say some of the other focus areas
we talked about. We still think in the near-term will likely derive more value.
As you look at Librela has the outlook change, I mean, we think that taking a $400 million market
that's been established for a long time and doubling it is pretty aggressive. We are and probably
have more conviction in our ability to do that is what I would say. Just based on the first two full
quarters that we've launched the product outside the US, so more confidence there and more
confidence as well that we can take what is almost like a non-existent market in the cat for
Solensia and make that a $200 million. So I'm not sure we're really to say above that.
I think doubling a market as a pretty aggressive timeline progressive there, but I do think our
commitment and our conviction in our ability to do that and do it faster. Certainly, I would say it
strong.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Christine Rains, Analyst, William Blair with William Blair. Your line is open.
Q - `Christine Rains, Analyst, William Blair
Hi, congratulations and good morning. I was just hoping to have some more color about this front
year rollout in Europe, and how that can translate into the US? So just kind of, how are you making
cat owners given the low medicalization of cats in the fact that cat owners really bring their cat tothe veterinary often. And also is this a vet-administered product or something pet owners can do
at home the injection? Thanks.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. The one thing we've done with Solensia was learning from Cytopoint, certainly, as you bring
new technologies and create new markets. It starts with really with your KLO. So our plan as you
probably saw in 2021 was to just start with early experience with some of the key opinion leaders
in each of the markets to get them experienced, to get them talking for general practitioners to
be able to call them and sort of cure their experiences seeing videos.
As you think about, you raised a really good point. You've seen with regards to pet owners. We're
also trying to provide tools for pet owners to be able to know when their cat is in pain, cats do a
great job of hiding it. So that's really been a focus on video to show them what it looks like, so
they can sort of notice it, doing a big awareness campaign there. And then helping that
understand how to make it easier for people to either bring their cat in or to some now cat only
clinics or the ability to have that go out and do injections or our technicians go out into injections.
We are not focused right now on having monoclonal antibodies being able to be done by
consumers at their house. This is a pretty advanced technology.
Our focus is really on helping to raise awareness, increase the medicalization and make --
treating these cats easier at the clinic or at home. There's really no reason for example,
technician, once that has seen it, can't do the monthly injection at home. So we're just seeing
really positive. But it takes a thoughtful creation of the market. And as I talked about before, that
would be our plan in the US as well.
We will start with early experience, get the KLOs talking, getting to be able to be seeing multiple
cat and that really helps us, once you get into the GPs and sure that they're using it and they
know how to do it successfully. So that is our plan as we think about it.
Operator
We'll take the next question from `Elliot Wilbur, Analyst, Raymond James with Raymond James. Your line is open.
Q - `Elliot Wilbur, Analyst, Raymond James `
Thanks, good morning. I guess just two questions for Kristin. Specifically, with respect to your
outlook for the livestock segment in aggregate, anything you could say about growth
expectations for the specific species and what -- which of those may have more risk based on
your current assumption than others?
And then just switching gears to the International markets and specifically thinking about regions
where you showed 20% plus or stronger growth, Chile, Italy, China et cetera. Can you just talk
maybe a little bit more about the key drivers there, how much of the growth is coming from
companion versus livestock, which markets is the company over performing and what are the key
drivers of that over performance? Thanks.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Thanks, Elliot. I'll take the first and I'll let Wetteny take your second one on some of the
specific International markets. As we talk about livestock, first of all, it has been hit much harder
with COVID then the (inaudible) is actually been a beneficiary of COVID. And is by its nature, a
cyclical industry. So it can go up and go down. Ultimately, we believe as you look at sort of, oncewe get past the Draxxin, and some of the other big product LOEs. It will go back to mid-single-
digit growth.
But if you double click that a little way, obviously the biggest challenge for us specifically has been
cattle and that's really been led by Draxxin which overall last year declined by 15%, which was in
line with our expectations. We expect in 2022 to have a 20% decline as we had a full year with
generic competition there. But there's a lot of bright spots as you look at the different species to
your point. You look at fish, they grew 23% in 2021. We see that is a fast-growing species with
really positive fundamentals. We think poultry which grew last year 6%, maybe a little bit more
challenge obviously in the US with some of the generic competition there. But we're really excited
about some of the innovative things we're launching there. We saw swine last year at 4%. So
livestock is not one as you know and it obviously varies by market.
And I think it's important to sort of note as you look at international, it was growing in livestock
significantly last year. So if you really pull out the Draxxin effect. As we look at livestock, we do
believe it will go back to you for often for the industry, mid-single digits for us. We've just got to
get out of some of these near-term LOEs. We're also excited about our pipeline there, which we
think again can drive incremental growth above the market as we launch innovation into that
sector.
So I know, Wetteny, if you want to take some of the specifics on the International markets,
emerging markets, Brazil, China.
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, absolutely. Look, one of the most remarkable things at least in my first year here, that I
come to realize this. What we're seeing in terms of trends on companion animal are not just in
the US, but we're seeing them across emerging markets.
Now if you step back, International is still about just over 50% of our International revenues or
livestock. And companion animal is about just over 40%. However, the pace of growth that we're
seeing across markets and companion animal is absolutely phenomenal. Markets like China that
used to be mostly livestock is now about 50%. Companion animal and elsewhere, even when we
talk about Brazil.
We're seeing a really great year across cattle et cetera. Brazil is growing double digits IN
companion animals. So we believe those trends with same reasons that are driving well for
companion animals, where pet owners prioritize the health of their pets and are willing to spend
more on them. We're seeing those across International markets and we see those outpacing
growth versus livestock, although we've seen livestock growth in International markets as Kristin
mentioned.
It was 8% growth in livestock in 2021 across International markets. And if you -- look its fish, for
example is 100% of our fish business is outside the US. So that's one area of growth that we
anticipate as well. So hopefully that gives you some color, looking across international.
Operator
The next question comes from `Navann Ty, Analyst, Citi with Citi. Your line is open.
Q - `Navann Ty, Analyst, Citi `
Hi. Good morning. Could you discuss your expectation on that staffing in the near term and theon Simparica Trio. Can you give us more details on the label expansion, how significant could be
the new indication? Thank you.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
I could thank to my time[ph]. I'll start with the vet staffing. There are sort of short-term and long-
term. We did see some vets, having challenges in the US in December and January, given
absenteeism with our COVID. And that was sort of short-term.
So as you look at vet trends overall in the US, we continue to see those to be on with our 8%
revenue growth, led by 3% increase in traffic and spend per visit at 5%. Double-clicking on that,
traffic 3%, we think again, it will get back to sort of what are more normal trends. There has been
a challenge as you mentioned, given there are so many more pets being seen, making sure that
the staffing levels at both the vet and the technician side remain strong. We're really focused on
partnering with both the AVMA and the AVMC in the US.
And honestly around the globe to ensure there is a reliable supply of that's and that technicians.
But importantly as well to make sure the veterinary profession and vet clinics remain really
attractive job. And so it's really partnering with different organizations to make sure that that is
the case. I would say, everyone is aligned here. I think you're seeing significant increases in
compensation for many of these vets. We firmly believe that they're doing the right things to
make sure that they can provide the great customer care and pet care that they need to. But
obviously, it's something that we're highly invested in partnering across the industry to make sure
that pets get the care that they need and the staffing levels remain high.
It is a challenge given the very quick growth in the number of pets that were adopted over the
last two years. So the challenge is there, but we're really confident that in partnership with many
other companies, pharmaceutical companies as well as vet clinics and associations, we can
ensure that the vets and the vet technicians can meet that need.
Do -- There is a question on Trio label expansions in the future. I don't think we've been specific
about what we're looking at there. And we wouldn't just for competitive reasons.
Operator
The next question comes from Kathy Miner with Cowen. Your line is open.
Q - `Kathleen Miner, Analyst, Cowen and Company `
Thank you. Just a couple of follow-up questions. First on Solensia. In the US launch, can you just
clarify that the launch in the second half of this year is just setup for getting education and
preparation as opposed to any supply issues? And will you be coordinating marketing with Librela
in the US, once it gets approved?
Second question, just to follow up on the derm side of it. For 2022, I don't think you said a growth
target. But clearly, you've got to be pretty optimistic with no competition coming in for this year.
Do you think that you could see growth, get it matching the 2021 trends? And to your
assumptions for the derm included US chewable or any feline options? Thank you.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. So with regards to Solensia, yes, we are focused where we think about the (Technical
Difficulty) that we start with early experience, we build that market and we will obviously launchshortly thereafter. But we're not concerned there on a supply issue. The plans that we have
assumed supply for exactly what we're planning and doing. So that is not what's driving that one.
And derm in 2022, we continue to expect robust growth obviously with right now as we talked
about, we are not expecting competition next year. Of course, we could be wrong, but we are
not. And therefore, we will invest aggressively, not just in the US but outside the US that is not to
your question assume that we have Apoquel chewable in the US and nor does that number that
we're talking about in derm. I assume that we're having it for cat. So we really believe with
Apoquel, Cytopoint, Apoquel chewable outside the US, we can continue to drive robust growth in
2020 across the category.
Operator
This will conclude our Q&A session. It is now my pleasure to hand the program back to Kristin
Peck for any additional or closing remarks.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Well, thank you everyone for your questions and your continued interest in Zoetis. Just to
summarize, I am really proud of what Zoetis delivered in 2021 having our best year ever. And we
see that positive momentum really continuing into 2022 this year. I think you heard today from
both Wetteny and myself. We will continue to build on our diverse global portfolio and really our
strength in petcare, diagnostics and emerging markets to grow faster than the market in 2022
and beyond and we're committed to the investments in talent, technology and manufacturing
innovation that will spread our future growth.
So, thanks so much everybody, and talk to you soon.
Operator
This does conclude today's program. Thank you for your participation. You may disconnect at any
time.