Q4 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2022 Financial Results Conference Call and Webcast
for Zoetis. Hosting the call today is `Steve Frank, Vice President of Investor Relations, Vice President of Investor Relations for Zoetis.
The presentation materials and additional financial tables are currently posted on the Investor
Relations section of zoetis.com. The presentation slides can be managed by you, the viewer, and
will not be forwarded automatically.
In addition, a replay of this call will be available approximately 2 hours after the conclusion of this
call via dial-in or the Investor Relations section of zoetis.com. At this time, all participants have
been placed in a listen-only mode and the floor will be open for your questions following the
presentation. (Operator Instructions). In the interest of time, we ask that you limit yourself to one
question and then queue up again with any follow-ups. Your line will be muted when you
complete your question.
It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to `Steve Frank, Vice President of Investor Relations. Steve, you may begin.
`Steve Frank, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the Zoetis fourth quarter and full
year 2022 earnings call. I am joined today by `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Executive Officer and Wetteny
Joseph, our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin, I'll remind you that the slides presented on this call are available on the Investor
Relations section of our website and that our remarks today will include forward-looking
statements and that actual results could differ materially from those projections. For a list and
description of certain factors that could cause results to differ, I refer you to the forward-looking
statements in today's press release and our SEC filings including, but not limited to, our annual
report on Form 10-K and our reports on Form 10-Q.Our remarks today will also include references to certain financial measures, which were not
prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or U.S. GAAP. A
reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP
measures is included in the financial tables that accompany our earnings press release and the
company's 8-K filing dated today, Tuesday, February 14, 2023. We also cite operational results,
which exclude the impact of foreign exchange.
With that, I will turn the call over to Kristin.
`Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Steve and welcome everyone to our fourth quarter and full year 2022 earnings call.
Today, we reported a strong full year results for 2022, in line with the high end of our guidance
from November and thanks to our diverse portfolio, global scale and talented colleagues.
Our 8% operational revenue growth for the year was driven by our innovative companion animal
portfolio, which grew 14% operationally, while our livestock portfolio declined 2% operationally,
primarily due to generic competition and market challenges, especially in the U.S. Thanks to our
broad global scale and diversity, we delivered well balanced operational growth across our U.S.
and International segments, which grew 7% and 9% respectively.
For the year, we generated operational growth in all of our top 13 markets, despite the economic
challenges, continued COVID recovery and political uncertainty created by the war in Ukraine.
Reflecting our longstanding value proposition, we grew our adjusted net income faster than sales
for the year with an operational increase of 11% for the full year, and we use this performance and
financial strength to continue investing in the R&D, manufacturing capacity and sales and
marketing resources to support our future growth and pipeline.
As we begin 2023, we will stay adaptable to the evolving macroeconomic factors and geopolitical
tensions around the world, and focus on executing our plans. We remain very confident in the
fundamental and resilient global demand for animal care and most importantly, we are confident
in Zoetis' ability to continue delivering solid sustainable growth as we resolve our prior supply
constraints and build share of our market leading franchises.
Looking ahead, we are committed to our track record of value creation and above market
performance even in the face of today's economic uncertainty. We are well-positioned with our
strategic priorities and capabilities to expand in large and growing product areas like parasiticides
dermatology products, monoclonal antibodies, vaccines and diagnostics. We are guiding to a
range of 6% to 8% operational growth for revenue in 2023 and adjusted net income growth in
the range of 7% to 9% operationally, which reflects our increased investment plans for R&D and
manufacturing to support growth.
As the world leader in animal health, a market that has grown on average of 5% to 6% through
various economic cycles over the last two decades, we feel very positive about how our portfolio,
pipeline and strategies can drive long-term sustainable growth and create value for our
customers and shareholders. Wetteny, will discuss more details about the 4Q results and full year
2023 guidance. But let me provide some additional perspectives on our business and set the
stage for some of our growth drivers for the year.
First, we have remained the world leader in animal health over the last decade, outperforming
the market and bringing groundbreaking innovation to veterinarians, producers and pet owners
who care for animals. We marked our 10 year anniversary as a public company on February 1, a
decade which saw us bring more than 2,000 new products and lifecycle innovations to market,build a diverse portfolio, featuring market-leading franchises and 15 current blockbusters,
generate consistent above-market revenue growth and deliver a total shareholder return of
more than 500%, all while increasing our market cap from $16 billion in 2013 to about $75 billion
today.
While, we celebrate those accomplishments, I'm even more excited about where we can go in
the next decade and by the talented colleagues, innovative pipeline and best-in-class capabilities
we have brought together at Zoetis. Our colleagues' purpose driven mindset and steady
performance in the face of adversity give me confidence in the continued execution, innovation,
growth and durability of our business.
As we turn to 2023, we're focused on five key growth catalysts for the year. In dermatology, we
see excellent growth opportunities even after nearly a decade of game changing innovation that
began with the introduction of Apoquel in 2014 and has continued with the success of our first
monoclonal antibody Cytopoint, as well as recent lifecycle innovations like Apoquel chewable. We
continue to see even more opportunities to grow and expand in this market.
In pet parasiticides, the largest single product area in animal health, we continue to gain share
and are now the second largest in revenue for this category. We've improved supply in 2023, we
expect to continue expanding share in this market and supporting our diverse global portfolio,
beating Simparica Trio, our triple combination product. In the area of pain, we are off to a great
start with our two monoclonal antibodies for osteoarthritis pain, Librela for dogs, which became
our latest blockbuster in 2022 and Solensia for cats. We are once again revolutionizing care in this
category and seeing very positive early reaction to both products in their local markets, as we
continue to expand geographies and supply.
In terms of the U.S. approval for Librela, we remain confident in receiving approval in the first half
of '23 with a lease [ph] plan for late in the year. In Diagnostics, we continue to generate solid
above market growth in international markets, above our go-to-market model in the U.S. and
drive greater global adoption for Vetscan Imagyst, our AI based diagnostics platform. And finally,
as population growth and economic mobility drive more demand for animal protein in pets, we
see major opportunities in fast growing emerging markets outside the U.S. where our portfolio is
well suited to meet those evolving needs.
Overall, our business continues to be weighted towards higher growth, innovation-driven areas in
companion animals and these will remain our growth drivers for the foreseeable future.
Meanwhile, our livestock portfolio will remain a valuable cash generating piece of our business as
we continue to recover in the U.S. from generic competition and show solid growth in emerging
markets. As always, we will stay disciplined yet adaptable and our approach to the new market
opportunities, potential challenges and economic shifts that could occur. And in conclusion, Zoetis
remains well-positioned in terms of our market leadership, financial strength, investment
strategies and diverse portfolio to deliver sustainable growth in 2023.
Thank you. And I'll hand this off to Wetteny.
`Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Kristin, and good morning, everyone. As Kristin mentioned, we had a strong year in
2022, with revenue of $8.1 billion and adjusted net income of $2.3 billion, both in line with the high
end of our November full year guidance range. Full year revenue grew 4% on a reported basis
and 8% operationally with adjusted net income increasing 3% on a reported basis and 11%
operationally.Looking deeper into the operational growth for the year, price contributed 3% to full year
operational revenue growth with volume contributing 5%. Volume growth consisted of 4% from
new products, including Simparica Trio and our monoclonal antibodies Librela and Solensia, and
2% from key dermatology products partially offset by a decline of 1% from other in line products.
Revenue growth was broad based with positive operational growth in each of our top 13 markets,
which make up approximately 85% of our total revenues, with International growing 9%
operationally and the U.S. growing 7%. Our growth was driven by continued demand for our
innovative new products in our companion animal portfolio, which grew 14% operationally. Our
companion animal portfolio now makes up 64% of our global revenues. This will was partially
offset by our livestock business, which declined 2% operationally, primarily due to the generic
competition, supply constraints as well as challenging market conditions in certain geographies.
Performance in companion animal was driven by our small animal parasiticide portfolio, which
grew 20% on an operational basis. Simparica Trio generated $744 million in sales growing 58% on
an operational basis. Our Simparica franchise reached $1 billion in global revenue for the first time
in 2022. Our key dermatology products generated $1.3 billion in sales, posting strong growth of
17% operationally with double-digit growth in both International and the U.S. Key derm growth in
our international markets was especially strong at 27% operationally.
We continue to see solid growth in our monoclonal antibodies for osteoarthritis pain. As
expected, sales of Librela eclipsed the $100 million mark on the year, marking Zoetis' 15th
blockbuster product. We look forward to Librela's expected launch in the U.S. in late 2023.
Solensia contributed $30 million in sales in 2022, primarily from international markets, with solid
client penetration in the U.S. after a launch late in the year.
Our companion animal diagnostics portfolio declined 2% operationally in the year, with declines in
the U.S. partially offset by growth internationally. Our livestock business declined 2% on an
operational basis. Our portfolio continues to be challenged by generic and cheaper alternatives
to Draxxin in cattle, as well as Zoamix in poultry. We do expect these generic impacts to begin to
moderate in 2023. Additional declines were driven by supply challenges on certain livestock
products as well as unfavorable market conditions, especially in the U.S. cattle and China swine
markets.
Moving on to our Q4 financial results, which was another strong quarter. We closed Q4 with
revenue of $2 billion, representing an increase of 4% on a reported basis and 9% on an
operational basis. Adjusted net income of $539 million is an increase of 14% on a reported basis
and 27% operationally. Of the 9% operational revenue growth, 3% is from price and 6% from
volume. Volume growth consisted of 3% from new products, which includes Simparica Trio as well
as well Librela and Solensia and 2% from key dermatology products, while other in line products
grew 1%. Companion animal products grew 15% operationally, while our livestock portfolio was
flat in the quarter.
Simparica Trio was the largest contributor to growth in the quarter, posting global revenue of $171
million representing operational growth of 39% for the quarter. We expect Simparica Trio to
continue to grow the addressable market for flea, tick and heartworm globally and drive the
conversion from collar and top parasiticides to OA combination products. These dynamics will
provide additional runway for future expansion of the broader market and revenue growth for
Trio even once competing triple combination products enter the market.
Our key dermatology products Apoquel and Cytopoint had solid global growth in the quarter,
posting $347 million of revenue, representing 14% operational growth against a robust prior yearin which key derm grew 23% operationally in the fourth quarter of 2021. Our monoclonal
antibodies for osteoarthritis pain in dogs and cats continue to grow, posting $39 million of
revenue in the quarter, primarily in international markets. Meanwhile, sales of livestock products
were flat on an operational basis in the quarter with growth in fish and poultry offset by the
impact of generics and supply constraints on cattle and swine products.
Now moving on to revenue growth by segment for the quarter. U.S. revenue was $1.1 billion in the
quarter, growing 7% with companion animal sales growing 12% and livestock sales declining by
6%. Focusing first on companion animal, we returned to double-digit growth in the quarter, as we
resolved the majority of our supply issues from earlier in the year. In the U.S., veterinary practice
revenue is growing approximately 6% and spending per visit remained strong again this quarter,
increasing 10% despite a 4% decline in clinic visits in the quarter. The visit decline reflects
comparison to the peak visit numbers in 2021, driven by pandemic after effects and increased
adoption of pets, as well as the impact of veterinary workforce challenges that have limited some
clinic capacities. Absolute clinic visits remain above pre-pandemic levels.
We continue to see growth in the retail segment outpacing other channels. In Q4, sales to our
retail partners grew by 49%. Simparica Trio continues to grow -- to drive growth in the quarter
with sales of $158 million in the U.S. growing 39%. With the supply constraints from earlier in the
year largely resolved, we were able to leverage promotional efforts to drive growth and regain
market share in the quarter.
Key dermatology product sales in the U.S. were $239 million for the quarter, growing 11% with
Apoquel and Cytopoint each growing double-digits. We expect to continue the expansion of the
market for the foreseeable future. U.S. livestock declined 6% in the quarter as expected with
sales of cattle products impacted by supply restocking for certain products in the third quarter of
2022, as well as the impact of generic competition in cattle and poultry.
Moving on to our International segment, where revenue was flat on a reported basis and grew
12% operationally in the quarter. International companion animal revenue grew 21% operationally
and livestock grew 4% operationally. Increased sales of companion animal products resulted from
growth in our parasiticides portfolio, our key dermatology products and our monoclonal
antibodies for alleviation of osteoarthritis pain.
Our international small animal parasiticides portfolio had a very strong quarter. Growth was driven
by our Revolution franchise, which rebounded well from supply challenges, especially in China.
Our key dermatology products contributed $108 million to revenue and grew 22% on an
operational basis in the quarter, with growth in Cytopoint across all key markets and continued
double-digit growth of Apoquel.
We continue to be pleased with the performance of our OA pain portfolio with Librela generating
$26 million and Solensia delivering $7 million in fourth quarter sales internationally. Librela sales in
the quarter dipped slightly below the prior quarter due to the removal of supply allocation in
certain markets, which led to higher inventory levels at the end of Q3. We expect to see
significant contribution to growth in 2023 coming from Librela across our International segment.
Moving on to our International Livestock segment, which grew 4% operationally in the quarter.
Our fish portfolio grew 25% operationally due to increased demand for vaccines in key salmon
markets, including Norway and Chile. Sales of poultry products grew due to increased demand
for poultry protein. Growth was partially offset by swine sales, which declined due to supply
constraints in certain vaccines across international. The slight decline was partially offset bygrowth in China, driven by a weak comparative quarter in the prior year and improved swine
market conditions.
Now moving on to the rest of the P&L for the quarter, adjusted gross margins of 68.1% decreased
150 basis points on a reported basis compared to the prior year, resulting primarily from
unfavorable foreign exchange impacts. Operationally, gross margin declined 60 basis points
driven by higher inventory charges as well as higher manufacturing and freight costs, which were
partially offset by favorable price and mix.
Operationally, adjusted operating expenses decreased 6%, with SG&A declining 9% driven by
lower compensation related expenses and lower advertising and promotion partially offset by
higher freight and logistics related expenses. R&D expenses increased 10% operationally due to
higher compensation costs and higher project spend.
The adjusted effective tax rate for the quarter was 20.8%, an increase of 220 basis points,
primarily due to lower net discrete tax benefits in the quarter and a lower benefit in the U.S.
related to foreign derived intangible income. Adjusted net income grew 27% operationally and
adjusted diluted EPS grew 30% operationally for the quarter. Capital expenditures in the fourth
quarter were $171 million.
In the quarter, we repurchased approximately $400 million of Zoetis shares and returned over
$0.5 billion to shareholders through a combination of share repurchases and dividends. For the
year, we have repurchased almost $1.6 billion of Zoetis shares and returned over $2.2 billion to
shareholders. In December, we announced a 15% annual dividend increase continuing our
commitment to grow our dividend at or faster than the growth in adjusted net income.
Now, moving on to our guidance for the full year 2023. Please note that guidance reflects foreign
exchange rates as of late January. We are expecting foreign exchange to have a minimal impact
versus the prior year, with the full year impact neutral at revenue and slightly accretive at adjusted
net income. The foreign exchange impact in the first half will be unfavorable versus prior year,
particularly in the first quarter. In the second half of the year, foreign exchange is expected to be
favorable based on the late January exchange rates.
For 2023, we are projecting revenue between $8.575 billion and $8.725 billion representing a
range of 6% to 8% operational growth. Volume will be 1% to 2% at the low end of our guidance
range and 3% to 4% at the high end. We again expect companion animal to be the primary
growth driver in 2023 with the continued strength of our diverse parasiticides portfolio, the
adoption of our monoclonal antibodies for OA pain and further expansion of our key
dermatology products.
Despite the decline in vet clinic visits last year, industry fundamentals remain strong. Visits remain
above pre-COVID levels, and clinic revenue is at an all-time high as the standard of care
continues to increase. We anticipate modest livestock declines in 2023 driven by the generic
impact on Draxxin sales particularly in the first half as well as unfavorable market conditions in U.S.
cattle. These declines will be partially offset by growth in poultry, driven by increased demand for
poultry protein and new product launches, as well as fish. The fundamental trends which make
livestock an essential business remain intact.
I'd like to touch upon the key assumptions that underpin our expectations for revenue growth. For
companion animal, we assume a triple combination product we will launch in the U.S. in the first
half of 2023, to compete against Simparica Trio. We expect this entrant will help Trio drive the
conversion from topicals and collars to triple combination or parasiticides and still projectdermatology products, Apoquel and Cytopoint. We expect another year of robust growth of our
key derm portfolio, coming from continued expansion of the dermatology market and price. We
are excited about the continued growth in our OA franchise and plan to launch in several new
markets next year.
For the remainder of the P&L, adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue is expected to
be in the range of 29.5% to 30%, where favorable foreign exchange price increases and product
mix are partially offset by higher input costs. Adjusted SG&A expenses for the year are expected
to be between $2.06 billion and $2.1 billion with the increase from 2022 focused on supporting
primary drivers of revenue growth.
Adjusted R&D expenses for 2023 is expected to be between $635 million and $660 million. R&D
spend can fluctuate year-over-year. This increased investment is reflective of both new projects
as well as those advancing in our pipeline. Zoetis is the leader in animal health, because of the
disruptive innovation, novel products and lifecycle enhancements we bring to the market. This
increase in R&D expenses reflects our commitment to ensuring our capital allocation prioritizes
innovation.
Adjusted interest and other income deductions are expected to be approximately $170 million.
Our adjusted effective tax rate for 2023 is expected to be in the range of 20% to 21%. Adjusted
net income is expected to be in the range of $2.49 billion to $2.54 billion, representing
operational growth of 7% to 9%. Our guidance once again, reflects our value proposition of
growing revenue in line with or faster than the market and growing adjusted net income faster
than revenue.
We expect adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $5.34 to $5.44, and reported diluted EPS to
be in the range of $5.03 to $5.14. We are anticipating capital expenditures in 2023 to increase to
$950 million to $1 billion. We continue to make investments to support our future growth,
including manufacturing capacity for our monoclonal antibodies as well as oral solid dosage.
Finally, while Zoetis and the animal health industry remain resilient in the face of economic
headwinds, our 2023 guidance range is reflective of uncertain macroeconomic conditions and the
impact of veterinary clinic labor challenges. While guidance represents our expectations for the
full year, Q1 revenue is expected to be below the low end of the operational growth rate in our
full year guidance, due to a variety of reasons. First, Q1 2022 was a strong comparable quarter, as
we saw a robust growth with limited impact from vet clinic labor constraints, as well as minimal
disruption from our diagnostics field force model change which began in Q2.
Additionally, in the quarter, we expect to see lingering impacts of the latest COVID wave in China.
Lastly, the return of supply on certain products, including Simparica Trio and subsequent channel
restocking, as well as promotions to regain share in Q4 2022, modestly increased inventory levels
in the channel in the short term. In Q1, we expect a modest decline in adjusted net income versus
the prior year as a result of the timing of our 2022 sales force expansion in the U.S. which did not
start until Q2, as well as the R&D investment noted earlier which is also off a low base in Q1 2022.
Now to summarize, 2022 was another strong year despite some challenges we significantly
outperformed the market and continued to take share all while growing the bottom line faster
than the top line. As we begin 2023, we once again expect to grow faster than the market driven
by the strength of our innovative portfolio, our ability to successfully launch new products, and
expand existing markets and our confidence in the end-market dynamics for the spaces we
compete in.Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
At this time, we will open the floor for questions. (Operator Instructions) Please limit your
questions to one at a time. (Operator Instructions) We'll take our first question from Michael
Ryskin from Bank of America.
Q - `Michael Ryskin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. Thanks for taking the question, and congrats on the quarter, guys. I'm going to throw in a
couple of just real quick. First, would love to get your latest thoughts on NexGard Plus the BI [ph]
triple combo now that it's been unveiled at VMX. Just what are your expectations for? Simparica
Trio growth this year, if you could give us a ballpark for that?
And then second, I want to talk about R&D spend in 2023. It seems to have jumped quite a lot
year-over-year, and that's a big part of why operating margins aren't expanding as much as we're
used to. Any specific programs you want to highlight? And anything you can say in terms of when
that R&D spend will translate into future launches? Is this something that's sort of in the
regulatory phase or late clinical phase? Just give us a sense of where the extra $100 million year-
over-year is going? Thanks.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Thanks, Mike. I'll take those, and let's see if Wetteny has anything to add. The first on Trio,
obviously, we had a phenomenal year with 58% growth, really proud of that. Obviously, we got
back in clinics after some of the supply problems and we're fully back there. We've got 90%
penetration with an 80% reorder rate, and are now the number two flea, tick, heartworm there.
We are expecting competition from NexGard Plus sometime in the first half. We, as in Trio, don't
know exactly when that will be. But we continue to expect the market to expand and we continue
to expect Simparica Trio to be growing on the year, I mean, albeit probably not at 58%, but we
expect it to have a very strong year. I think what you're going to see is really moving more
customers from collars and topicals into what is a best-in-class flea, tick, heartworm combined
oral products. So we expect to continue to go through this as we've continued to say.
We don't have any more information on the exact timing there. But we're going to be aggressive
as you've seen us in Q4 and Q1, really investing behind this brand, doing DTC, et cetera. So we
expect strong growth there continuing even with a new entrant. And when you think about R&D
spend, and I'll start and I will see if Wetteny wants to build there. We've gotten questions often
from you and from a lot of our investors, why don't you even spend more in R&D or if you had a
program would you invest in it? And I think what we're demonstrating is, we see a very strong
pipeline here.
These incremental investments, to your question, are certainly the bigger ones. They are in late-
stage development, going into development on the cost side, but also some great new
technologies in the research side as well. So it's broad across the portfolio. It is a significant
investment. And hopefully, it's assigned to all of you of our confidence in our pipeline and the
strength of our R&D engine and our willingness to invest in that for the short and the long-term
across there. We see, obviously, really big platforms there in parasiticides continuing to investthere, in dermatology and across our monoclonal antibody franchise. Certainly, looking at long
acting as we've talked about, but also new disease areas.
So I don't know if I missed anything, Wetteny, do you want to add anything?
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
No, look, I would just add a couple points going back to Trio. We expect, as Kristin said, for Trio to
grow significantly in the year, although as we now are well into our third year with the product we
wouldn't expect it to continue to grow at 58%, which is what it did in 2022. Now the timing of our
supply recovery in 2022, and the fact that as we see competition come in, it may drive some
promotional activities that might drive some variability in terms of quarter-to-quarter in terms of
where the growth is. But for the total year, we expect significant growth on Trio.
And then on the R&D spend, it's our practice that we don't actually dictate what the investment in
R&D is going to be. We let the pipeline dictate it. And so as we see programs either coming into
research or coming out of research into development or into late development, as those
programs require spending, and we do a full ROI spec et cetera on them, we go ahead and fund
those. And so, very pleased to see that the pipeline is demanding this level of investment. And
we will still be able to deliver faster growth at ANI than revenue based on our guide of 6% to 8%
of revenue and 7% to 9% of adjusted net income.
Operator
Our next question comes from Jon Block from Stifel.
Q - `Jonathan D. Block, Stifel `
Great. Thanks, guys, and good morning. Wetteny, the 4Q GM 68.1% was a little bit below it was
for the quarter. But the 2023 guidance of 70% to 70.5% was certainly solid. So maybe if you can
just talk to the drivers for '23 gross margin, whether it's the supply chain easing, maybe a little bit
about the cadence? And then maybe just sort of as a tack on to that or the second question. In
2022, it was sort of a tale of two halves for atopic derm. 1H was operational around 20%. 2H
operational, I think, it was closer to 10%. I think you guys alluded to solid growth in '23. But do you
want to just frame that for us? Is it a continued deceleration of atopic derm into '23, with no
competition because I think you clarified that? Or can we expect some level of stabilization, call it,
in that high-single low-double-digit range for the atopic derm franchise? Thanks, guys.
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So I'll start and see if Kristin would add anything here. Let's start with gross margins. Look, if
you look at the year, we were able to expand margins on the year. And certainly, as we explained
in the prepared commentary, we saw FX come in to the tune of about 80 basis points headwind
against gross margins in the fourth quarter. And certainly, we've seen input costs, as well as some
manufacturing costs to impact the gross margin picture that you saw in the fourth quarter.
But given where OpEx came in, you saw substantial growth at ANI versus revenue where revenue
came in at 9% on the quarter, ANI coming in at 27% growth on the quarter. I think as we go into
2023, given the timing of our price increases, which started at the beginning of the year, as you
know, certainly we've seen some inflation in input costs coming out of '22. But we're going into
'23 with price increases that start to change that as we go into '23, which is why we give guidance
where we see about 40 basis points margin -- gross margin expansion on the year.And obviously a point -- if you look at the midpoint of our guidance on growth higher at ANI
versus the top line is what I would say on the margins front. And certainly, as you look at
continued growth of companion animal outpacing the growth of livestock in the business, that mix
will be favorable to us in addition to what I have already covered from our price perspective. I
think if you look at atopic derm, we delivered $1.3 billion of revenue in 2022, that's a 17% increase.
And we're almost at 10 years since Apoquel was launched. And it's just amazing to see that we
continue to expand the market and we believe there's more room to expand not only in the US,
where we grew 12% in 2022, but particularly in international markets where it takes longer to get
to peak sales levels and we delivered 27% growth in international. I think we'll continue to see
really solid growth across the business. We expect double-digit growth in 2023, though it may not
be at the level that you've seen in 2021, where we grew, I think, about 23% and then 17% in 2022.
But we continue to see room to continue to expand the derm market here.
Operator
Our next question comes from Erin Wright from Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Erin Wilson Wright, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thanks. So two questions here. One, how much did the lingering supply chain issues
impact Simparica Trio sales in the quarter, if at all? And how much did the stocking benefit offset
that in the fourth quarter? And did you benefit across other product lines in terms of distributor
stocking that we should be aware of in terms of that first quarter cadence as well? And just if you
could talk a little bit more, and maybe you touched on this with the gross margin dynamic, but in
terms of overall price you are taking across the two core species segments here?
And then my second question is on Librela. Can you give us an update on the US Librela
approval? And what does guidance assume in terms of US contribution from Librela? Is that
material in 2023? Thanks.
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So let me first touch on your questions around supply and it's Trio as well as other products.
As we said in the third quarter call, while we had some outages in supply during the year,
particularly in the third quarter, competitors actually took advantage of that and run promotions.
And we certainly intended to run promotions as we recover on supply, which we did in the fourth
quarter.
And so I think the timing of our supply recovery, whether it's for Trio in the US or for Revolution in
China, will drive some stocking levels certainly as we enter into 2023, which we discussed. But I
think typically, you'll see some increase in inventory levels from Q3 to Q4 anyway because
distributors are anticipating our price increases, and they tend to drive a little bit of that. So I
would say, when I look at across other products, it's probably more in the range of typical
increase that you would see.
But if you look at Trio, we're probably, if I had to bracket it in terms of the impact on Trio, if you
back out what would typically be an increase from Q3 to Q4 anyway, so the incremental
contribution in the fourth quarter, I'd put somewhere in the $25 million to $30 million range. So it's
not a significant number for us. And certainly, as we've discussed already, we factored that into
our guidance, and we expect significant growth from Trio on the year. With respect to Librela,
look, we continue to expect and are very confident that we will see an approval well in the first
half of the year, our plans have not changed. We continue to plan to have an early experienceprogram run on the program once we've gotten approval and we have the label set, et cetera,
and that will transition into a launch sometime late in the year.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
And our practice -- just to build on that. Our practice on that is that we do not include in our
guidance or our budgets if we're expecting a late launch in the year, we've always done that as
those cover us for a while. So Librela is not in our current guidance that we provided. We will
update the guidance once we have a better sense. Obviously, this is a big product. And when it
launches, it could have a big impact. So whether or not you have one month, three months, et
cetera, four months, it makes a big difference. So we'll update guidance once we have a better
sense of that approval.
So to clarify your second question, Librela is not in the guidance that we provided. We fully do
expect to have it, but we'll update our guidance once we have a better sense of what the exact
timing is.
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. And we'll give a better bracket in terms of what we expect the impact depending on the
timing of the launch and what we see through the EEP program, et cetera.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Louise Chen, Cantor Fitzgerald from Cantor.
Q - `Louise Chen, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Hi. Thanks for taking my questions here. So I wanted to see if you could give more color on how
you're investing in supply to meet the growing demand for your products? And when do you
exactly expect to complete or reach your objectives here? Thank you.
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I'll take that, and see if Kristin will add-on anything. We don't investing in a number of areas
when it comes to our supply network. I'll put a couple of categories I'd see in the short near-term.
We have investments clearly in inventory to help absorb any shocks that come through the supply
chain. We're making investments in our demand planning processes and tools to give us better
visibility, et cetera, as well as we've done -- we're building in in certain aspects of our inputs now
coming into our manufacturing process.
Longer-term, as you may have listened on the prepared commentary, we're making significant
capital investments across our network, across the network in the US to support our monoclonal
antibodies, both for products that have already been approved and are launching and what we
have in our pipeline as well from a math perspective. It is a platform that we continue to innovate
on. And then all solid dose as well, whether it's parasiticides derm session in various aspects we
are making investments throughout the network for those who are making investments to
support our vector vaccine manufacturing, for example, as well for livestock and so on. So, we are
making investments across the organization, investments in tech and digital to leverage data,
again to give us better visibility as well for the long-term to support our long-term growth
aspirations.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `The only thing I'll build on there, Louise, is I mean, if you look at the CapEx number that Wetteny
was talking about in his prepared remarks of $950 million to $1 billion, that is clearly the highest
CapEx that we've had. But I also think you should look also at what we said about R&D. And if you
look at significant new investments in R&D, those are going to be products that we're going to
have to be able to manufacture in a few years. So what you're seeing is the commensurate
investment in our manufacturing capabilities to be able to launch those products in really critical
platforms across the globe. So we are very confident in where our pipeline is. And we're going to
invest in our manufacturing capacity to deliver on those products over the medium to long-term.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Nathan Rich, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Nathan Rich, Goldman Sachs `
Hi. Good morning. Thanks for the questions. The first one on Trio. I'd be curious, just to get a
sense of what kind of factors you're watching as you think about the impact that competition
could have and magnitudes that will kind of push you to the higher or lower-end of your range for
competition? And are you anticipating any changes to pricing or your promotional cadence when
competition enters? And then my second question on Draxxin. Just how much of a drag will that
continue to be in 2023?
I think you've previously said that you'll start to cycle the second year of competitive entry in the
first quarter, but I think there's been some more recent price changes. So just curious what we
should expect in terms of the impact on the livestock business this year?
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Sure, Nat, I'll take the first question, and then I'll let Wetteny take your second question on
Draxxin. Look, we've been expecting competition for a long time on Trio, I would say. So I would
say, we are well-prepared for what that is. We've been investing heavily obviously behind DTC,
really investing with our customers and with pet owners directly to make sure that when
competition enters that we have very pleased customers.
And a few things I'll point to there. Obviously, it's our direct-to-consumer advertising. I would say,
our broad portfolio and our -- if you look at our relationship with corporate accounts, we're very
strong with corporate accounts. We are their preferred product. So I think that will provide some
resiliency. But I'd also say auto ship remains a real strength. This is not a sector where people
often switch, unless there's a really good reason. So a new dog, they'll make a choice. But they're
not -- I think customers are already on our product are not going to be that inspired to change.
And if you look at the dynamics certainly in the US around retail, it grew 43% on the year. It's now
about 11% of our US business. And I highlight that because the more that insulates us from
potential new entrants coming. And we obviously expect NexGard Plus. But I'm sure there'll be
others over the next one to two years that enter as well. So we're really investing and insulating
ourselves from that impact by investing in pet owner loyalty programs, DTC, a broad portfolio
with innovation with our customers wanting to do, corporate accounts, I'd also underscore, and
then lastly, auto ship and strong relationships with the retail sector.
So, do you want to take the second question on Draxxin?
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `Yes, absolutely. Look, as we said from the very beginning, we were expecting Draxxin to have
about a 20% decline in the first year of generic competition and then another 20% in the second
year. The first year was slightly better than our expectations, coming in somewhere around 16%
decline, but the second year was a little bit worse. So I think we're sort of in that ballpark, I think
second year was about 25%.
So we are at a level now that once we lap, I would say, the second year, which would be through
the first quarter of '23, which is why in the prepared commentary, we said particularly in the first
quarter, I think we're at a low enough level, it won't be as meaningful as an impact on us. And I
think the drag on our overall livestock business won't be as significant. So I would still expect
some pressure on livestock given where US cattle, for example, as a market is, we're watching
swine, particularly in China and the impact it has across other regions to determine where we end
up lending. But we think livestock will be slightly down year-on-year, maybe marginally better than
we -- than you saw in 2023 where livestock was down 2%.
Operator
Our next question comes from `David Westenberg, Piper Sandler from Piper Sandler.
Q - `David Westenberg, Piper Sandler `
Hi, thank you for taking the questions. So I want to kind of continue with -- on the Trio dynamics.
Can you talk about maybe if you got any word on in terms of what the label might look like on the
competitive launch? And can you give a little bit more color -- I think, you said in the prepared
remarks that you expected to come from collars and topical. What are you kind of seeing in the
marketplace that suggests that as opposed to two other maybe legacy oral parasiticides?
And then kind of the second question here is on the increase in R&D spending. Are you going to
continue to give out some of the -- what you have in pipeline about -- I think you guys usually give
out six months in advance to Wall Street. Is that kind of still the expectation when you talk about
pipeline? And thank you very much.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Hi, Dave, I'll start on Trio, and then maybe Wetteny can clarify because -- if there's anything
missing, and then I'll let me take the R&D question as well. Look, we don't have any clear signs of
what the label of competition will be. We're very confident in our current label. We don't think it
has any holes. I've got to tell you we're at 100% heartworm protection. So I'm not really sure
where you're going to hit us on that.
We've also been out on the market now since 2020 with this, which means we have a very strong
set of safety data as well. So I'm sure as always the competition will enter and they'll try to find
any angle they can. But we don't really think there's any holes in our label right now that we're
concerned about. We're in puppies, if you look back to Simparica. And the second part of your
question. Look, yes, they will move from single agents, I think they will, single agents from just
flea, tick or just heartworm products. I think we'll move into the combination label for sure.
But we're not expecting pricing to be a big factor initially. And really, that has to do with who's
entering because if they don't enter the market similarly priced or higher than their current two
products, they're going to cannibalize themselves. So I think really the power of who's entering
does not lead us to believe that price is going to be a major factor and who enters. I mean,
obviously, we'll adapt to whatever comes, whatever label they have, but we remain very
confident in our label, in our relationships and in our data today.But do you want to take the second question on R&D, Wetteny?
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Look, it's only a small addition I would do to Trio is we do get to 100% heartworm after the
first dose. So -- and with the product being in the market almost three years and satisfaction
levels being very high and penetration across Simparica Trio [ph] we're very confident on our
position as competition enters into the space.
On R&D, look, I think unlike human health, in animal health there's not as much visibility that's
given with respect to what's being specifically worked in the pipeline. We see that is a
competitive advantage for us given our track record and how we continue to drive innovation in
the spaces that we enter. And so, we won't necessarily be changing that significantly here in
terms of what we have in here. But we have talked about various aspects of unmet needs that if
you were to ask veterinary practitioners, what are the top five or 10 unmet needs that they have, I
think you would imagine that we're working on all of those areas.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Chris Schott, JPMorgan from JPMorgan.
Q - `Chris Schott, JPMorgan `
Great. Thanks so much. I just had a question on the overall volume comments you made. I think it
was 1% to 2% volume growth at the low-end versus 3% to 4% at the high-end. Can you maybe
just elaborate on the dynamics there? So if -- how does that look at for companion versus
livestock, and maybe as part of that, what's implied in terms of vet visit growth this year? And is
that even a relevant swing factor as you think of the overall outlook for the business? Thank you.
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So look, I think, if you look at our 2022 results, the net price contribution is about 3%. Now if
you take Draxxin out, that number is about 4% and companion animal would be at the higher
number here, with certain products essentially above that. Now, we're very pleased to be able to
take price which typically is about 2% to 3%. And here in 2022, it was about double what we
would normally do, and we still saw about 5% volume growth in 2022.
So as we look at 2023, I think you'd see price with Draxxin impact being less than it was in '22, in
particular plus how we're going into pricing certain products, I think you are going to expect a
higher price contribution on the year. The timing of that in terms of where customers may have
bought ahead of the price increases and so on, so you might see a little bit of a lag in terms of
when you see the price, a picture play out. But you'd see at the low-end of our range quite -- is a
bigger contributor, but at the upper end, it's all additional volume. In terms of where we see vet
clinic traffic, certainly, we've seen vet visits come down versus the peak that we saw in 2021. In the
fourth quarter, visits were down about 4%, but revenue per visit was up 10% and total revenue
was up 6% on the quarter, again continuing the trends that we see as being sustainable, which is
pet owners willing to pay for innovation and seeing sustainably higher revenue for vet clinics. Now,
we're still very early in 2023. But as we look at data in January, we are seeing some increases in
vet visits. Again, as we expected, we've been running above pre-pandemic levels. So even in Q4,
where visits were down 4%, they were actually still 2% above Q4 2019.
And so, we've been saying that that's the element we continue to watch. I think one month is a
little bit early to call it, but we are expecting visits to be flat to up in 2023, and we're starting tosee some signals of that early in the year.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Brandon Vazquez, William Blair from William Blair.
Q - `Brandon Vazquez, William Blair `
Hi everyone. Thanks for taking the question. My first is just on a diagnostics side. You guys have, I
believe, talked about this before. But maybe can you refresh us on where you are on some of the
commercial changes, I think it was in the US? Where those are? And what that might mean for
growth and potentially accelerating that business into '23 plus? And the other is just on China. You
guys had a nice rebound there. I think you mentioned a little bit of supply coming back on the
market, but maybe tempered that a little bit with COVID headwind. So curious, how those two
shake out, maybe a month and a half into this first quarter? Thanks.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure, Brandon, I'll start, and let Wetteny build on both of them. So in diagnostics, first of all, just
Wetteny and I are joining you from our National Sales Meeting actually out in Denver. And I would
say the energy in our diagnostics team is just amazing. So we will as -- as Wetteny mentioned in
his prepared remarks, Q1, a little -- we didn't have them onboard until Q2 of 2022.
So what we are expecting as we look into 2022, as we get into the sort of middle of the year and
the end of the year is really a return to at least market growth in the US, if not faster. We continue
to see very strong growth in international as you saw from last year, and we expect that to
continue into the year. So we're really excited about the new field force, having them on the
ground, having them fully up to speed. Wetteny and I spent a lot of time with them yesterday. So I
would say super optimistic overall in diagnostics, returning to growth across the board, certainly
the images platform and investments there.
And then I'll start on China and let's see what Wetteny has to build on it. We did see overall
strong growth in the year of 11%. And we're optimistic so far year-to-date in sort of the return in
China. We've seen both on the companion and animal side, a really strong rebound there as we
look into certainly for us, our year ends both December and January. December, obviously, with
the number of people homesick, there was a little weaker, but we're seeing really strong
rebound in January. We're looking, I think, at a strong year for us in China.
Also, if you look at livestock, with opening up China, more return to eating out to travel to tourism
will not just be good for China, to be honest with you. It could be good for livestock across the
globe. So it's one to watch. Obviously, there's huge uncertainty around China and not to mention
geopolitical tensions and potential UFOs these days. But we stay really confident in where we
think China will be for the year, but it remains a big risk both for China as well as for livestock
across the board because I think a lot of -- if China returns, they'll see China buying a lot of
poultry, beef, et cetera from Brazil, Europe, the US there. But I don't know if you want to build
anything either on the diagnostics question or China, Wetteny?
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
No, look, it's great to be here in Denver with a large number of our colleagues on Valentine's Day.
But look, I think China, we've been very pleased to see how China ended the year, high-double-
digit growth on the quarter. My comments around supply was just the timing of recovery,
particularly on Revolution, Revolution Plus in that market that might create some dynamics onquarter-to-quarter. But we are expecting a really solid growth out of China this year, I think the
first quarter though, given the timing of the COVID waves. Just as a reminder, our international
segment closes in -- at the end of November, which means the quarter really started in
December for them. And so, a lot of that occurred in the first quarter and we're seeing that
having an impact, but we do see a rebound. As Kristin said, it has implications for other markets in
terms of exports into China, but we are expecting a really solid rebound there.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Elliot Wilbur, Raymond James from Raymond James.
Q - `Elliot Wilbur, Raymond James `
Thanks. Good morning. Wanted to go back to some of your early commentary around growth
expectations for the key derm franchise and just specifically thinking about the key levers in 2023.
Kristin, wondering if you can maybe just talk about, especially given the high level of penetration
of Apoquel in the US, what the key levers there are going forward, whether it be price, new
market entry, geographic expansion or just outperformance by Cytopoint relative to Apoquel?
And then for Wetteny, just I don't know if you said this in your prepared commentary or not, I
didn't catch it if you did. But within gross margin guidance, could you just talk maybe about the
inflationary headwinds that are sort of embedded in your guidance for this year? Thanks.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. I'd say a few things on derm, both domestically as well as globally. We will be looking to
expand. And I think as Wetteny said in his prepared remarks, reaching peak sales in some of
these markets takes a little bit longer outside of the US. So we're continuing to see very strong
growth in dermatology, both in Apoquel and Cytopoint as well as lifecycle innovation remains
really important for us here. The movement to Apoquel chewable. That's been a real -- it's been
growing much faster than we expected, and the conversion there remains very, very strong.
So I think it's both, you're going to see growth in volume, certainly potentially a little more
globally. But beyond Apoquel, I mean, I think Cytopoint, that's really love it and so do customers.
It's 100% compliance. So I think if you look at the overall franchise, Apoquel, Cytopoint, Apoquel
chewable, we'll probably see greater growth outside the US. So we're both looking at volume.
We've taken price consistently here. And certainly, 2023 will be no different here. So I think you'll
see growth from both price and from volume. You'll see chewable really building on it. I think
you'll see a real uptick in Cytopoint.
Again, we're back to absolute full supply. We, as you know, last year, did need to make some
trade-off decisions there because that's the same impact as our other mAbs and in some of our
vaccines with regard to some of the COVID vaccine supply challenges we had, but we're back full
speed. So we're also really investing in other big growth drivers here will be direct-to-consumer
advertising in international. So we are going to do unbranded DTC as we've started last year. And
we are really even in the US, we still have 6 million itchy dogs that are currently undiagnosed and
not treated. So we really continue to see growth here, as we said, double-digit as Wetteny
mentioned earlier. But I'll let Wetteny take the second question, obviously, on inflation in 2023 etc.
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So look, I think across the macro elements, we've been appropriately prudent in how we laid
out this guidance in the range that we've given today. But specifically on gross margins, if youlook at inflation, as we we're preparing to come into the year, we're certainly accounting for
significant inflationary pressure on some of our input costs, energy, Europe, et cetera. But as
we've entered the year, I think they're a little bit better than what we anticipated coming into the
year, but still significant inflation that's baked into what we have here, which obviously more than
offset by our mix and our price, which is why you see some modest gross margin improvement
year-on-year as we go through the year. But we have factored in a fairly significant inflationary
pressure in the gross margin figures that we gave.
Operator
And our last question comes from Balaji Prasad from Barclays.
Q - `Michaela Burt, Barclays
Hi. This is Michaela on for Balaji. Thanks for taking our questions. Just two from me. I guess, could
you first, just provide some additional color on business development priorities for the year? And
then building upon an earlier question, what are your volume expectations from new pet
additions for the year? Thank you.
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So look, when you look at our capital allocation priorities, certainly investing in the business is
the first place we go. And clearly, we are poised to significantly invest in the areas of R&D as well
as across our supply chain and manufacturing. You saw the significant increase in R&D spend
anticipated for 2023 versus 2022. And our CapEx numbers are going to be in the range of $950
million to $1 billion on the year.
Certainly, if you look at our strategic priorities, they are aligned with where we look at from a BD
[ph] perspective in terms of where there might be opportunities to accelerate some of those
execution of our strategies, and they span across our current slate of businesses including some
of the R&D areas in terms of external innovation and so on. BD is one of those areas, as you
know, is hard to predict in terms of exact timing and so on. But it is an important lever that's I
would say, second after investing in the business, and then thirdly, as you saw in 2022, we are
returning capital to shareholders to the tune of $2.2 billion in total between share buybacks and
dividends.
I think you had a question -- sorry, I think you had a question in terms of new pets. Look, if you
look at the growth in the industry over the last two decades, it's been about 5% to 6%. The way I
look at it, vet visits in essence, as you see, vet population growth and so on, it will be reflective in
that. They've accounted for about 1% of that growth historically. So the bigger element of growth
here is really pet owners' willingness to spend for innovation, and you see that reflected in the
spend per visit figures that are far more in terms of the impact on growth historically and we
anticipate that continuing.
So as we sit here today, I wouldn't say new pet increases is a major factor into what we're looking
at. It's our innovation and pet owners' willingness to pay, and the demographics of pet ownership
with Gen Z millennials willing to spend more on pet health and prioritizing those, as well as higher
income households that are bringing pets -- and more pets into their homes. Those are the
factors that we watch that contribute to growth.
OperatorIt appears we have no further questions at this time. I will now turn the program back over to
CEO, `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you so much, and thanks, everybody for your questions and certainly for your continued
interest in Zoetis. And just to summarize, we see really positive and sustainable demand for our
products based on the fundamental drivers of animal health, we see continued strength across
our diverse global portfolio, especially in our products for pet care. And we're continuing to invest
in the talent, the pipeline and the manufacturing capabilities that can support our future growth,
while adapting our business to the increasingly dynamic environment where we operate.
So we look forward to keeping you updated on future calls, and thanks so much for joining us
today.
Operator
Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. You may now disconnect.