Q4 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2023 Financial Results Conference Call and
Webcast for Zoetis. Hosting the call today is `Steve Frank, Vice President of Investor Relations, Vice President of Investor Relations for
Zoetis. The presentation materials and additional financial tables are currently posted on the
Investor Relations section of zoetis.com. The presentation slides can be managed by you, the
viewer, and will not be forwarded automatically. In addition, a replay of this call will be available
approximately two hours after the conclusion of this call via dial-in or on the Investor Relations
section of zoetis.com. At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode and the
floor will be open for your questions following the presentation. (Operator Instructions)
It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to `Steve Frank, Vice President of Investor Relations. Steve, you may begin.
`Steve Frank, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the Zoetis fourth quarter and full-
year 2023 earnings call. I am joined today by `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Executive Officer; and
`Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Financial Officer. Before we begin, I'll remind you that the slides
presented on this call are available on the Investor Relations section of our website and that our
remarks today will include forward-looking statements, and that actual results could differ
materially from those projections. For a list and description of certain factors that could cause
results to differ, I refer you to the forward-looking statements in today's press release and our
SEC filings, including but not limited to our annual report on Form 10-K and our reports on Form
10-Q. Our remarks today will also include references to certain financial measures, which were not
prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or U.S. GAAP.A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP
measures is included in the financial tables that accompany our earnings press release and the
company's 8-K filing, dated today, Tuesday, February 13, 2024. We also cite operational results,
which exclude the impact of foreign exchange.
With that, I will turn the call over to Kristin.
`Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Steve, and welcome everyone to our fourth quarter and full-year 2023 earnings call.
Today, we reported strong full-year results driven by the success of our diverse portfolio across
markets and species, game-changing innovation, and the outstanding commitment of our
purpose-driven colleagues. We delivered 7% operational revenue growth, growing faster than the
industry, propelled by steady demand for innovative products that enable our customers and the
animals they care for to thrive. With the ongoing momentum of our monoclonal antibodies for
osteoarthritis or OA pain, we saw segment growth of 6% in the U.S. and 9% operational growth
internationally. Our companion animal portfolio remains a key growth driver, up 8% operationally,
and we saw a return to growth for our livestock portfolio, up 6% operationally.
While we continue to operate in an environment of global uncertainty, our diversity across
markets, species and therapeutic areas has sustained our performance, further demonstrating
that animal health is a durable, essential, and growing industry. Our track record of innovation
from pioneering breakthroughs to product lifecycle enhancements has solidified our position as
the industry leader, consistently growing above the market and enabled us to create market-
leading franchises. We don't just follow trends, we make markets. The launch of Librela and
Solensia, the first two injectable monoclonal antibodies for the alleviation of osteoarthritis is
fundamentally improving the quality of life for dogs and cats and strengthening the human-animal
bond. That's why today Librela remains the number one selling OA pain product in Europe.
At Investor Day last May, and again at the JP Morgan Healthcare Conference, I shared that our
own pain franchise could have peak sales exceeding $1 billion. And we are excited about Librela's
performance since its U.S. launch in October, which reaffirms that view. Due to high clinic
penetration, we've activated our direct-to-consumer, or DTC, efforts faster than any other
product in our history, which we expect to provide a tailwind for commercial growth. Similarly,
Solensia has also been well received with strong clinic penetration around the world with
increased opportunity as we generate more awareness of OA pain in cats. Within our
dermatology franchise, we've established ourselves as the trusted partner to veterinarians.
And after nearly a decade of impressive growth, we still believe we have room to expand this
market. Increasing pet owners' awareness that itch is a medical condition that requires treatment,
improved compliance and the opportunity to address even more unmet needs underpins our
optimism. We remain confident that we can sustain growth thanks to our differentiated products
like Cytopoint and Apoquel Chewable, the first and only chewable treatment for the control of
allergic itch and inflammation in dogs. Our parasiticides portfolio, and particularly Simparica Trio,
remains a key growth driver, even in the face of increasing competition. This continued success
highlights our strategic execution, label strength and the efficacy of our products. The
performance across our key product franchises not only reinforces our market leading position,
but also that our innovation consistently meet the evolving demands in veterinary medicine.
As we begin in 2024, we will stay disciplined and adaptable to the evolving macroeconomic and
geopolitical backdrop around the world and focus on executing our plans and continuing to grow
faster than the market. Two durable global trends give us confidence in that future growth. Theprotein. Our commitment to operational excellence ensures we are ready to scale to meet those
demands and navigate unforeseen challenges, while delivering shareholder value. Looking
ahead, we are committed to our track record of value creation and above-market performance.
Our dedication to innovation remains the cornerstone of our market-leading position. We've
consistently demonstrated agility, outpacing the market to bring groundbreaking solutions that
meet and exceed customer expectations.
We will continue to leverage that advantage and we're guiding to a range of 7% to 9%
operational revenue growth in 2024 and adjusted net income growth in the range of 9% to 11%
operationally, which reflects our ongoing investments in R&D, supply chains, and commercial
excellence to cultivate new markets, drive growth and create value. As you've heard me say time
and time again, we are confident in our strategy, portfolio, pipeline and capabilities to deliver
value to shareholders and customers, while performing above the market. Our focus positions us
well to navigate potential challenges and capitalize on emerging opportunities. In closing, we will
continue our relentless pursuit to exceed customer expectations and invest in advancing the
capabilities that differentiate Zoetis.
As we look to 2024, I could not be more excited about our future. Our key growth drivers will
continue to showcase our commitment to nurturing the world and humankind by advancing care
for animal. And our ongoing innovations will expand the market, reaffirm our best-in-class product
portfolio and defend our position amidst competition. I want to reiterate the four tenets of our
value proposition discussed on Investor Day. We will grow revenue better than the market, we will
invest in innovation and growth capabilities. We commit to growing adjusted net income faster
than revenue and we will return excess capital to shareholders. While there is need and demand
to improve the quality of life for animals, Zoetis will continue leading the way and setting the
standard for performance and growth. This is core to our vision to be the most trusted and
valued animal health company, shaping the future of animal care through innovation, customer
obsession and purpose-driven colleagues. Thank you.
Let me hand it over to Wetteny. Wetteny?
`Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Kristin, and good morning, everyone. As Kristin mentioned, we had a strong year in
2023, with revenue of $8.5 billion and adjusted net income of $2.5 billion. Our full-year revenue
was near the top end of our guidance range, while our adjusted net income was slightly below
our guidance range, primarily due to the impact of foreign exchange as well as an impairment
charge related to a prior acquisition. Our revenue growth was broad, with strong growth across
both our U.S. and international segments, both our companion animal and livestock portfolios and
due to both price and volume.
Full-year revenue grew 6% on a reported basis, and 7% operational, with adjusted net income
increasing 7% on both a reported and operational basis. Of the 7% operational revenue growth,
5% is from price, and 2% is from volume. Volume growth was driven primarily by new products,
including our monoclonal antibodies for OA pain, Librela and Solensia, as well as our key
dermatology products and Simparica Trio. On a segment basis, our U.S. business posted $4.6
billion in revenue, growing 6% on the year, while our international segment reported revenue of
$3.9 billion with operational growth of 9% on the full year. Additionally, while China represents less
than 5% of our global revenues, the ongoing economic weakness there continues to impact our
business and represented a 0.5 percentage point drag on our total company operational
revenue growth for the year, entirely in volume. Our full-year growth was driven by continued
demand for our innovative companion animal portfolio, which grew 8% operationally.Our livestock portfolio also had a strong year with operational growth of 6%. Performance in
companion animal was led by OA pain mAbs, which posted $321 million in global revenue for the
year. Growth came from first wave European markets, as well as from the impact of new launch
markets in 2023, including the U.S. We continue to see penetration of our pain mAbs grow within
vet clinics and a high level of satisfaction among both vets and pet owners. Our key dermatology
products generated $1.4 billion in sales globally, posting strong growth of 8% for the year on an
operational basis. Simparica Trio contributed global revenue of $813 million in 2023, representing
growth of 9% operationally, despite distributor inventory headwinds in Q1 and aggressive
competitive promotions for much of the year.
Our companion animal diagnostics portfolio recorded $356 million in revenue and grew 7%
operationally, with growth contributions from both the U.S. and international. Our livestock
portfolio had a strong year, with 6% operational revenue growth, driven by both price and
volume. Moving on to our Q4 financial results, which was another strong quarter. We closed Q4
with revenue of $2.2 billion, representing an increase of 8% on both a reported and operational
basis, posting our third consecutive quarter of at least 8% operational revenue growth, despite a
tough comparative, particularly in U.S. companion animal. Adjusted net income of $569 million is
an increase of 6% on both a reported and an operational basis. Of the 8% operational revenue
growth, 6% is from price and 2% is from volume.
Volume growth consisted of 4% growth from new products and a 2% decline in our feline
products. Volume from our key dermatology products was flat in the quarter. On a segment
basis, our U.S. business posted $1.2 billion in revenue, growing 9% on the quarter, while our
international segment reported revenue of $982 million, with operational growth of 8% on the
quarter. Our companion animal portfolio was the main driver of revenue growth in the quarter,
growing 10% operationally. Livestock also contributed with operational growth of 6%. We saw
double-digit companion animal growth in both our U.S. and our international segments, driven by
our innovative products. Our OA pain mAbs were the primary driver of growth, posting $124
million in combined revenue in the quarter. Global growth came primarily from the impact of new
launch markets bolstered by the Q4 full launch of Librela in the U.S.
Simparica Trio generated $208 million globally in the quarter, representing a growth of 21%
operationally. Price was the primary driver of growth in the quarter, followed by volume growth,
driven by expanded DTC advertising support globally, as well as from increased field force focus.
Our key dermatology products generated $375 million in sales globally, posting growth of 7% on
an operational basis. Our companion animal diagnostics portfolio reported revenue of $87 million
and grew 8% operationally with growth contributions from both the U.S. and international. Our
livestock products ended the year on a strong note with growth of 6% operationally, growing in
both our U.S. and international segments. Growth was driven equally by price, which grew despite
headwinds from drags and price decreases, as well as by volume with growth in Synovex from
our expanded label claims.
Now, I'm moving on to revenue growth by segment for the quarter. U.S. revenue was $1.2 billion in
the quarter, growing 9%, with companion animal sales growing 10% and livestock sales growing
4%. Companion animal again posted double-digit growth in the quarter, bolstered by the full
launch of Librela at the start of the quarter, all while facing a tough comparative quarter with
promotional activity and heavier-than-normal pre-priced buy-in at the end of last year. In the U.S.,
vet clinic visits were flat on the quarter and flat for the year, while we continue to see solid clinic
revenue and revenue per visit growth of 6% for the quarter and 7.5% for the year. Our U.S.
companion animal revenue growth continues to outpace veterinary clinic revenue growth due in
part to our innovative therapeutics as well as our strong presence in the retail channel. Moving onto product performance, growth in the U.S. was driven by our pain mAbs, Simparica Trio and our
key dermatology portfolio.
Our combined pain mAbs posted $58 million in U.S. sales in Q4. We moved to a full launch of
Librela in the U.S. early in the fourth quarter and we have been pleased with the results our field
force has been able to drive thus far. Librela posted $44 million in U.S. sales in the quarter, which
is at the higher end of our initial expectations. It's important to note that while we are not
leveraging distribution for our pain mAbs, there's significant clinic stocking impact in the first few
months after launch. We have seen higher-than-expected penetration and reorder rates through
the end of the year, as well as rapid patient share growth in the canine pain category. Solensia
has sales of $14 million in Q4 in the U.S. We have seen a marked increase in feline vet visits and
feline revenue growth in the clinic. In the U.S., feline OA patients are up 23% for 2023.
Simparica Trio posted U.S. sales of $185 million in the quarter, growing 17%. Growth was driven
primarily by price as we were in promotions in Q4 of 2022, following our Q3 2022 supply
challenges, and in advance of a than-expected competitor launch in early 2023. In our second
quarter with competition in the triple combination space, we continue to see patient share
growth in Simparica Trio. We remain confident in our ability to compete and grow in this space
through the strength of our label, retail channel presence, strong corporate and specialty
relationships and a significant advantage of being first to market. (Inaudible) dermatology product
sales in the U.S. were $252 million in the quarter, growing 6%. Cytopoint sales continue to drive
growth through both price and volume, with vets and pet owners preferring its injectable method
of administration. Apoquel franchise growth is driven by better net price realization on lower
volume due to promotional activity at the end of last year.
Our U.S. companion animal diagnostics portfolio posted growth of 9% in the quarter. U.S. livestock
grew 4% in the quarter, primarily driven by growth in poultry as a result of favorable rotations
back to certain medicated feed additives and the extended use of Zoamix, as well as share gain
due to competitor supply constraints. Sales of both swine and cattle products increased in the
quarter, primarily as a result of increased supply of vaccines that were limited in the same quarter
of the prior year. Moving on to our international segment where revenue in the quarter grew 9%
on a recorded basis, and 8% excluding the impact of foreign exchange. International companion
animal grew 10% operationally and livestock grew 7% operationally.
China represented 3% drag on our international segment operational revenue growth in the
quarter. Higher sales of companion animal products was led by our pain mAbs, our key
dermatology products and our small animal parasiticides portfolio. Growth in our OA pain
products was equally driven by field force focus and DTC awareness campaigns in early launch
European markets, as well as continued uptake in markets launched earlier this year. Librela sales
were $53 million internationally, with 93% operational growth in the quarter. Solensia sales were
$13 million internationally in the quarter, growing 77% operationally. Our international key
dermatology portfolio contributed $123 million in revenue, posting growth of 10% in the quarter
on an operational basis. We continue to see benefits to Apoquel from our DTC awareness
campaigns across several international markets and conversion to Apoquel Chewable has been
positive.
Growth in Cytopoint continues to benefit from higher rates of conversion from Apoquel and
overall market growth. Our international small animal parasiticides portfolio grew 4%
operationally, driven by our Simparica franchise, with Simparica posting $48 million in revenue and
growing 32% on an operational basis in the quarter, driven primarily by price, a strong parasiticide
season and demand generation in emerging markets. Simparica Trio has contributed $23 million
internationally, growing 72% operationally, driven by high peak season sales in Australia andcontinued uptake in Europe, driven by key account penetration and field force effectiveness. This
growth was partially offset by a 33% operational decline in our Revolution franchise, which
generates a high proportion of sales in China where we had a tough comparative quarter due to
the return of supply in Q4 of 2022, as well as the ongoing impact of the current economic
conditions.
Continuing on to international livestock, which grew 7% operationally, driven primarily by price
increases in all species, especially in high inflationary markets. Our poultry portfolio also benefited
from favorable MFA rotations in certain markets. China had an unfavorable impact on our
international livestock sales in the quarter, particularly in our swine portfolio. Now moving on to
the rest of the P&L for the quarter. Adjusted gross margins of 67.1% decreased 100 basis points
on a reported basis compared to the prior year. On an operational basis, adjusted gross margins
decreased by 20 basis points, resulting primarily from higher manufacturing costs, which were
partially offset by price increases and lower freight costs. Adjusted operating expenses increased
11% operationally, driven primarily by higher SG&A expenses, which grew 10% operationally,
primarily due to higher compensation related expenses as well as a charitable contribution
related to the funding of the Zoetis Foundation.
R&D expenses grew 17% on an operational basis, driven by higher compensation related
expenses, as well as portfolio progression of key pipeline projects. Finally, other income and
deductions were higher in the quarter due to an impairment charge related to an acquisition. The
adjusted effective tax rate for the quarter was 18.8%, a decrease of 200 basis points, primarily
due to higher net discrete tax benefits in the quarter, a higher benefit in the U.S. related to
foreign-derived intangible income and a more favorable jurisdictional mix of earnings. Adjusted
net income grew 6% operationally and adjusted diluted EPS grew 7% operationally for the
quarter. Capital expenditures in the fourth quarter were $198 million. For the full year, we had
capital expenditures of $732 million. Lastly, we continued to return excess capital to shareholders.
For the year, we have returned approximately $1.8 billion to shareholders through a combination
of share repurchases and dividends. In December, we announced a 15% annual dividend increase,
continuing our commitment to grow our dividend at or faster than the growth in adjusted net
income. Now moving on to our guidance for the full-year 2024. Please note that guidance reflects
foreign exchange rates as of late January. We are expecting foreign exchange to have an
unfavorable impact on our growth versus the prior year. At net revenue, we expect foreign
exchange to negatively impact our growth by 90 basis points, with the impact being more
pronounced early in the year and decreasing later in the year. At adjusted net income, we expect
FX to negatively impact our growth by 150 basis points, with significant unfavorable impact in the
first half of the year, transitioning to slight favorability in the second half of the year.
As a reminder, we do not actively forecast FX, so these estimates assume rates remain where
they were as of late January. For 2024, we are projecting revenue between $9.075 billion and
$9.225 billion, representing a range of 7% to 9% operational growth, with growth across both
price and volume. We expect companion animal to be the primary growth driver in 2024. With the
expected impact of the U.S. launch of Librela, we expect to see robust growth from our OA pain
mAbs, both in the U.S. and internationally. Our current clinic penetration levels for Librela in the
U.S. are exceeding our expectations. And as Kristin mentioned, we have launched our DTC efforts
ahead of schedule to drive increased pet owner awareness. Even with the expectation of
competitive entrants, we anticipate mid-to-high single digit growth in both Simparica Trio and our
key dermatology portfolio.
For livestock, 2023 exceeded our expectations. Our growth in the year benefited from several
tailwinds, including improvements in supply in certain markets, as well as competitive out-of-stocks. While our outlook for the upcoming year is more optimistic than it was as we entered
2023, we do expect our growth rate to normalize and be in line with livestock industry growth. I'd
like to briefly touch upon the key assumptions that underpin our expectations for revenue growth.
For companion animal, we are not projecting significant change to the current vet clinic trends. We
expect U.S. visits to grow flat to 1% and expect to see growth in therapeutic visits aided by the
impact of our OA pain products. For our companion animal parasiticides, we continue to expect
meaningful growth from Simparica Trio.
We expect new entrants will help continue to drive the conversion from topicals and collars to
triple-combination oral parasiticides, a space where we are the market leader. In our key
dermatology products, we are prepared for competition and confident in our ability to defend
and grow our share through our three differentiated dermatology products, the strength of our
customer relationships, and the expertise we have gained from almost 10 years in the space.
Lastly, while we are not assuming a change in the current economic situation in China, we do
expect a headwind to growth, especially in the first half as the situation worsened over the
course of 2023.
Now moving on to the rest of the P&L, adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue is
expected to be approximately 29.5%. We continue to make investments to ensure we can
support expected future growth in our portfolio, especially in monoclonal antibodies. These
investments are driving short-term margin impacts from lower site utilization. This is offset by
price increases and favorable product mix. Adjusted SG&A expenses for the year are expected
to be between $2.17 billion and $2.22 billion, with the increase in 2023 focused on supporting
primary drivers of revenue growth. Adjusted R&D expenses for 2024 is expected to be between
$665 million and $675 million. Spend is driven by the advancement of key pipeline projects, as
well as higher compensation-related expenses. Adjusted interest expense and other income and
deductions is expected to be approximately $210 million.
This is significantly higher than the prior year, as our growth here is negatively impacted by the
non-recurring royalty settlement income we reflected in Q1 of 2023, as well as the impact of
lower interest income. Our adjusted effective tax rate for 2024 is expected to be in the range of
20% to 21%. Adjusted net income is expected to be in the range of $2.65 billion to $2.70 billion,
representing operational growth of 9% to 11%. Our guidance, once again, reflects our value
proposition of growing revenue in line with or faster than the market, and growing adjusted net
income faster than revenue. We expect adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $5.74 to $5.84
and reported diluted EPS to be in the range of $5.34 to $5.44.
And finally, we are anticipating capital expenditures in 2024 to be in the range of $800 million to
$850 million. These levels remain elevated compared to historical spend levels as we continue to
make investments to support our future growth. To summarize, 2023 was another strong year,
even with distributor inventory headwinds entering the year and a challenging economic
environment, especially in China. We again outperformed the market. We continue to grow share,
even in spaces where we face new competition, and we remain confident in our ability to expand
existing markets and create new ones in the future. As we move into 2024, our guidance
highlights our ability to again grow faster than the market driven by our innovative product
portfolio and multiple sources of growth, as well as our ability to grow our bottom line faster than
our top line, while making meaningful investments for the future and returning significant excess
capital to our shareholders.
Now I'll hand things over to the operator to open the line for your questions. Operator?
Questions And AnswersOperator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We will take our first question from `Erin Wright, Morgan Stanley with Morgan
Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Erin Wright, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thanks for taking my question. So can you talk a little bit about the reorder rates and
feedback and expectations around Librela for 2024 in the U.S. and some of those stocking
dynamics that we should think about quarter-to-quarter? And then a bigger picture question just
on margins and profitability and there are some moving factors in 2024, such as FX and the
ramp-up of Librela that weigh on margins. But can you talk a little bit more about the potential
margin leverage that you could see across your business as you expand in some of those faster-
growing and higher-margin categories in 2025 and beyond? And if you could describe a little bit
more about that longer-term margin leverage? Thanks.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Erin. I will take the first question on Librela and let Whitney take that second question.
Yes, we were very pleased with how we did with Librela in the first full quarter of launch in Q4. As
you saw, we did about $44 million in the quarter, $47 million for the year, including the early
experience trial. And really how we achieved that was our penetration was ahead of schedule, as
we mentioned in the prepared remarks. We -- given that penetration, which was in the high 60s,
we actually began DTC ahead of what we were expecting. Reorder rates are coming in exactly
where we expected, in line with our expectation, so that makes us really confident as we go into
the year.
We're looking at what -- your other question was, what kind of stocking or inventory build we saw
in the clinics. It's hard to give you a firm number. It's somewhere between a quarter and a third, I
would say, overall in stocking. But look, this is the number one selling pain product in Europe and
we have no doubt it will be that in the U.S. as well. So we're quite pleased and certainly ahead of
our plan on penetration and look with our direct-to-consumer advertising investments we've
already started late last year and into Q1 to drive growth in this product in the U.S.
So I'll let Wetteny take the second question.
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, sure. Look, when looking at margins, yes, indeed, there are some moving factors when you
think about 2024 and then beyond. We do have Librela in 2023, as we've said at Investor Day. If
you look at our monoclonal antibodies at peak, particularly as we ramp up production in our
capacity, which was built to make sure that we're confident in being able to take advantage of
demand, they started being dilutive to the overall company average, for example, in 2023. As we
go into 2024, Librela becomes accretive to our overall margins, but still below what you would
consider our innovative companion animal products. And then as we exit '24 into 2025 and
beyond, it becomes more in line with our innovative companion animal products.
So overall, beyond '24, I won't give you specific guidance here in terms of what to expect. But I
think if you look at it, we continue to expect companion animal to outpace the growth of livestock
so that mix will continue to be favorable for us. And as we get into the higher levels of production
for monoclonal antibodies, they're also accretive to overall margins. And we're positioned to beable to leverage our G&A base as well. So all of those should translate to margin expansion
through the P&L over time. But as we've demonstrated, we're not afraid to make the right
investments behind our products, behind our key franchises as we see them, investments in R&D,
as you saw in 2023, and as the guide implies, R&D will continue to grow faster than revenue as
well. So those investments will slightly offset some of those, but we're positioned to continue to
expand.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question `Michael Ryskin, Bank of America with Bank of America. Please go ahead.
Q - `Michael Ryskin, Bank of America `
Great. Thanks for taking the question, guys. First, I want to touch on margins, maybe both for
2023 and 2024. So it looks like you're guiding, back on the envelope math, you're guiding to
about 100 bps of margin expansion in 2024, but you also did finish '23 lower than we would have
expected, I think 4Q especially came in significantly lower. And you called out some headwinds
during the call in terms of FX. You called out some timing, some contribution to the Zoetis
Charitable Foundation. Any way you could kind of back that out, give us sort of a cleaner number
for what margins should have been in '23? And then maybe what some of those one-time
headwinds would have as an impact to 2024, just to give us a better sense of underlying margins
and underlying EPS?
And then my second question is just following up on Librela. I don't believe you actually quantified
a target, so I want to, just given what you did in 4Q, a major focus point is something like $200
million to $250 million for Librela for 2024 reasonable? And especially -- that's for U.S., but then
on the O-U.S. side, we've heard some concerns may be coming out of Europe, and it seems like
Librela has sort of been a little bit flat over the last couple of quarters in international markets. So
any color on what's going on internationally? Thanks.
A - `Heidi Chen, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary Business `
Yes. Sure, Mike. Let me take this and then see what Kristin wants to add. So take a look at
margins. Indeed, in 2024, we are guiding to about 100 basis points of expansion in margins. Keep
in mind, when you look at 2023 and how we ended, Q4 had about 100 basis points of margin
impact and about 80 basis points of that is from FX. So you're talking about roughly 20 basis
points when you consider manufacturing costs and a little bit of mix. Now looking at mix, we had
clearly a really strong end and quite frankly a strong year in livestock. And we're actually here at
the national sales meeting for our livestock with our livestock team in Utah. And look, they've had
a great year, and we expect livestock to continue to grow as we go into 2024, but clearly ended
stronger at the end. So that created a little bit of a mix and as well as Librela outperforming our
expectations exiting the year is also as I said, a bit dilutive.
So when you look at mix and manufacturing costs, you're still talking about 20 basis points of
headwind exiting '23. Most of the impact here is coming from FX, about 80 basis points. The
other items that we referenced in our prepared commentary with respect to impact on the
quarter and how we ended, FX, as I just said, that had the impact on our finish here. If you take a
look at FX, which is clearly non-operational and you factor non-recurring items like the impairment
charge for the prior acquisition, those two items are about $0.07 of headwind in the quarter, in
2023, in the fourth quarter. So that's really the vast majority of what you saw impacting us here.
Of course, we don't forecast FX. So what we bake into our guidance for 2024 is essentially what
would happen if we assume FX rates stay where they are at the end of January here. And withthat, on a constant basis, we would expect to extend margins in 2024. And so that's really
consistent with how we've approached our forecasting in the past.
And I'll sit here and guess at what FX is going to do throughout the year 2024 and that will have
an impact, either favorable or unfavorable, depending on how that goes. For the other part of
your question, I just want to maybe talk a little bit about Librela, how we expect Librela. Clearly,
when you think about how we will deliver on 7% to 9% operational growth in revenue, price is a
pretty significant factor. We continue to expect to be running price above our historic levels of 2
to 3 points and perhaps slightly below what you saw in 2023 at 5%. And then Librela with the U.S.
launch clearly is going to be a significant factor. Certainly, $44 million in the quarter in Q4 was,
again, very pleased to see that. We do see about a quarter to a third of that being initial stocking.
So you can model that out in terms of what that would translate to. We're still in the early stages
of our launch, but we're very pleased with what we're seeing so far as we discussed already.
In international, we couldn't be more pleased with what we're seeing. If you look at international,
the fourth quarter, you still have about 47% growth if you look at the base markets where we
were launched at the beginning of the year, and then the new markets are driving another bit of
growth. You have another $12 million contribution from those new markets in addition to the U.S.
$44 million. So I think what we have to really take into account here is as we've been launching in
markets in Europe, there's some stocking that happens from quarter-to-quarter as we do those
launches. If you factor those out and you just focus on those markets that were already launched,
we're talking about 47% growth in the quarter, which has been consistent over the last few
quarters, about 50% give or take growth. So we're couldn't be more pleased with what we're
seeing in international markets.
Q - `Michael Ryskin, Bank of America `
No, it's great.
Operator
Thank you. We'll move next to Jon Block with Stifel. Please go ahead.
Q - `Jonathan Block, Stifel `
Great. Thanks, guys. Good morning. Wetteny, any revenue cadence in the year to call out? You've
got sort of the easier 1Q '23 comp, but you were also noting more acute China headwinds in the
first half. So just how do we think about it? Do we sort of look at it on a two-year stack basis? And
on the guidance for the full year, maybe GMs were a little bit below but -- what we were thinking,
but SG&A expense, despite the investments, Kristin, that you called out, the accelerated DTC,
the SG&A was a little bit lower than where our heads were at. So maybe you can just talk through
those items, why we're only seeing -- it seems like low to mid-single-digit SG&A growth year-
over-year. I don't know if some of that's blunted by FX. And then just finally, I'm sorry, Librela, due
to the stocking, do you still expect Librela to be up in the U.S. 4Q '23 to 1Q '24 as it absorbs the
stocking? Thanks, guys.
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Look, I'll take the cadence point first and then see where Kristin wants to add in terms of Librela
expectations. Look, sitting here, I would expect a roughly balanced cadence across the year. Now,
let's take a look at Q1, which is a specific point you raised in your question, John. If you look at Q1,
certainly, if you look at companion animal in the U.S., there's an easier comp. We had destocking
in the first quarter of last year, clearly something we look to see as an easier comp that we comeup against. But at the same time, you had a 12% growth quarter in livestock in Q1. And so I think if
you look at -- if you look the balance (inaudible) but it's livestock growth both in the U.S. as well as
international.
And then you have China, which clearly started to more deteriorate in terms of the economic
conditions there throughout the year. So that becomes a heavier, I would say, headwind coming
into Q1, as well as the conditions, weather conditions in Australia, et cetera, having an impact
there. So I think if you balance those out, and the last point I'll make is, Librela clearly very pleased
with how we exit Q4 and enter into Q1, but it's going to continue to contribute more and more as
you go through the year. So Q2 and Q3 would be more than Q1. Therefore, the contribution from
Librela accelerates through the year. Again, it doesn't have as much, relatively speaking, in Q1. So
when you take all those into consideration, I actually see a roughly balanced year.
Now, we did make references to FX, so from a reported basis, that, again, taking a look at where
the FX rates were a couple of weeks ago, you do have a heavier impact in terms of both revenue
and bottom line. When FX de facto, hopefully, what we provided in prepared commentary is
helpful there. So that's the other piece you have to think about. But when I think about
operational-based growth, I mean, we did exit the year with the momentum as we exited Q4 and
Q1, again, looking at U.S. companion animal, but that's how I think about it. Now, is Q1 going to be
higher than Q4 from a Librela perspective? I think if you factor about a quarter to a third of impact
coming from stock and that's $12 million to $15 million. So even if you had a flat, that means you
grew by $12 million to $15 million going into the Q1. I won't call it exactly here. Right now, what I
would say is we're pleased with how the product is performing, but we are still in the early stages
of this launch.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `David Westenberg, Piper Sandler with Piper Sandler. Please go
ahead.
Q - `David Westenberg, Piper Sandler `
Hi. Thank you for taking the question. So last year, we saw some discounting in front of the
NexGard combo launch. Do you anticipate there might be similar competitive dynamics in front of
Elanco's (inaudible) launch and how are you thinking about that in consideration with the gross
margins? And then just a second one on just the DTC efforts in Librela. I don't think there is DC
allowed in Europe, but can you talk about maybe some of the learnings that you learned in
Europe in terms of marketing and how they might apply specifically around communication of the
vet? The vet obviously is the one that understands the superior safety profile with monoclonal
antibodies and maybe how that messaging can come out. Thank you.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. I'll start with that one and Whitney can certainly build on it. I mean, I want to first underscore
we had a very strong Q4 with Trio with 21% growth in the quarter with competition. For the year
overall Trio grew 9%. So we're very pleased with that. As we guided and Wetteny mentioned
earlier, we're expecting mid-to-high single digit growth in Trio for the year. So this obviously
underscores, and we think we'll see that both in price and in volume. So we do anticipate
obviously a competitor entering, I'm not exactly sure what -- how (inaudible) will do it. Our
expectation is that is not a differentiated product. They do mention tapeworm, but you get
tapeworm from fleas and we aptly control fleas. So therefore, that's really not a differentiated
product. So we're used to having good competitors, obviously with NexGard. I'm sure there'll beexperience switching is low for people with this product. It's very unlikely someone on Trio is
going to switch.
We're doing quite well with retail and auto ship, which I think also protects us. And we expect a
new competitor to expand the market. What we're seeing a lot is a movement into the triple
combos out of topicals, collars, et cetera. So as we look at that, we're confident in our Trio
number as we look into the year. And with regards to your question on what have we learned
from Librela in Europe. So we cannot do branded advertising for Librela in Europe, but we can do
overall advertising for disease awareness and encouraging people who have pets, both dogs
and cats with osteoarthritis pain to bring them to the vet. And we are seeing real impact of that
disease awareness. I think it's been a long time where pet owners have not had a product that
they could turn to and encouraging them that there is a new product and that they should go to
the vet and be seen. We are seeing really positive uplift from direct-to-consumer advertising,
even when it's not branded. So I don't know, Wetteny, if you wanted to add into that?
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Look, I think you covered it, Kristin. Trio has been performing really well for us in the face of
direct competition in the U.S., couldn't be more pleased and to be gaining patient share in the
face of competition, I think that speaks a lot to what we've been talking about, which is the power
of our relationships, the strength of our label and being first to market. So there'll be some initial,
I'm sure, heavy promotion that happens when a new competitor comes in. We've factored some
of that into our thinking here. But until we see the label and see what they do, we won't hone in
on specific reaction and so on. But we're very confident in our ability to grow -- continue to grow
the franchise, and we're saying we're going to see mid-to-high single digit growth across Trio in
2024 as well.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Nathan Rich, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.
Q - `Nathan Rich, Goldman Sachs `
Great. Good morning, and thanks for the questions. I wanted to ask on the derm franchise, I think
you had talked about mid-to-high single digit growth for the franchise overall. I guess specifically,
are you assuming a headwind within that guidance from the competitive entry that's likely to
occur against Apoquel this year? And can you talk about the strategies you're maybe putting in
place to defend market share for that product? And then a quick follow-up on China. Could you
maybe frame the type of headwind that you expect in China in 2024? And is that impact more on
the companion or livestock side of the market? Thank you.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Sure. I'll take the derm question, and I think Wetteny can follow up on your China question.
Look, we saw strong growth both in the quarter and overall in derm at 8%. And I just want to
underscore that, that growth is obviously understated given the price -- if you're looking at the
pre-priced buy-in that we saw in late 2022. As we look at our guidance for mid-to-high single digit
growth for our derm franchise in 2024, that is the expectation that we will see a competitor
launch. We expect this market to continue to expand and grow, as we've talked about. There are
85 million dogs in the U.S., you have -- who have pruritus. There are still over 6 million untreated
dogs and 3.5 million who are treated, but with steroids and sort of over-the-counter products. So
we strongly believe this is a market we can continue to expand. Look, we've had two products
been on the market 7 and 10 years, respectively. We've had millions of dogs on these products.Our products have been proven over time to be safe and efficacious, and they're trusted by pet
owners, they're trusted by vets. And we're seeing more and more a switch to Cytopoint, both --
a preference for compliance by both the pet owner and the vet. And our competition, we're
expecting to come in a film-coated tablet. And if you look at that, we're really focused on
investing in Apoquel Chewable and moving them to chewables, which pet owners really prefer.
We've been successful in doing this in Europe. We're quite focused on doing this in the U.S., and
we're also continuing to look at innovation in the short term on the long acting. So we are going
to defend this franchise. We're confident in this franchise. Our guidance of mid-to-high single
digits demonstrates that we believe we can continue to grow this market in the U.S. and around
the world, not just defend our brand, but continue to bring life cycle innovation to the space over
time to grow our share. Wetteny, do you want to take China?
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, sure. And one point on derm. Of course, we have a mid-to-high single digit growth
expectation that we laid out in our guidance. Of course, across a broad range of expectation
there, there's various scenarios around competitor entry, timing, pricing, et cetera, will play into
that. And the label that they have, of course, will be playing into how that plays out. But we're
confident in our ability to grow. Our franchise has been around for a decade in this space. On
China, we've been consistent on this one. I think, we continue to see sort of the broad economic
situation there to remain where it is. We're not expecting to deteriorate nor improve, at least
through the first half of our year. And we also have stronger comps, similar to the second half of
2023, a little bit less so into the first half of '24, but still a headwind into the first half of '24. You
continue to see consumer confidence being low and swine prices are remaining fairly depressed
in consumption there as well.
So all those factors, of course, long-term, we continue to expect China to be a strong growth
market. It has done exceptionally well for us over the last decade, but in the near term, we're not
expecting that to be a contribution to growth. In fact, we'll see some declining comps in the first
half on China.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Balaji Prasad, Barclays with Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Balaji Prasad, Barclays `
Hi. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for the questions, a couple. Firstly, I just wanted to
understand the currency dynamics better, considering that most of the nearly 100 basis points hit
on revenue and 150 basis points hit on EPS seems to be going from here. Why is the effect so
severe and any particular currencies hurting you. I mean, my general understanding is with $4
billion of -- $4 plus billion of export revenues and dollar weakening, I thought the impact would
have been the other way around. Second question is around the FDA letter that Zoetis received
on Librela in November. I wanted to understand how frequent or normal are these kinds of letters
on the animal health side and the issues that FDA found with Librela's promotion with the
inclusion of the P value on the secondary endpoints. And what is the current status now with
regard to your communication with FDA? Thank you.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure, Balaji. I'll take your second question first and then let Wetteny take it. I assume you're
referencing the letter back in November. Honestly, the letter is uneventful and was well
addressed. We immediately resolved the request for clarification. What you're talking about is arequest for clarification on our promotional materials. We just made a minor change to the
promotional materials and how we represented some statistical data. The concerns are well
addressed and the modifications were accepted by the FDA. I mean, this isn't uncommon. So I
don't -- that was easily resolved last year. That was a minor issue. But Wetteny, do you want to
take the second question?
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, sure. On currency dynamics, and again, we don't forecast FX, so we tend to report out what
we see the impact is. And the dollar continues to strengthen against the number of currencies
that we operate in and there's a little bit of a disproportional effect that we see on some of the
higher inflationary markets, like Argentina. If you follow Argentina, there have been two really
significant drops in terms of FX rates versus the dollar, if you follow back as we ended last year,
both in December and I think back in August. And there's a little bit of a delayed effect on those.
Clearly, there's an impact on top line that we've talked about, but there's also a little bit of a
delayed effect if you look at the impact it has on inventory and receivables that are on the books
at the time. So by the time you collect those, they have a greater impact, which is why you see
the impact down to bottom line. So combinations volumes Argentina, Brazil, Turkey, those are
more pronounced in their relative percentage of our revenues, given how significantly they
devalue.
That's what you're seeing play out, but really across the board, if you look at how the dollar
ended the year, it ended a bit stronger than that you saw throughout the average of the year.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Brandon Vazquez, William Blair with William Blair. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Brandon Vazquez, William Blair `
Hi, everyone. Thanks for taking the question. First, can you talk a little bit about the pre-priced
buy-in in the quarter? Are you able to quantify how much of a headwind that was? And then
maybe talk about should we expect that to be a headwind going forward at all? Are you guys still
working through that? And a follow-up to that, maybe higher level. Is there anything in the
pipeline or kind of in product cycle management that you guys can share with us? You're still
spending a lot of money in R&D, and even for next year, it looks like that may not be a specific
area to get leverage off of the R&D line. So anything that you'd be able to share with us there
would be helpful. Thank you.
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, sure. I'll take the first one and then Kristin will cover the second one. Look, there's always
some level of pre-priced buying in our -- as we exit the year, given where -- what our price
increases are going to be. I would say, compared to the prior year, where there was higher-than-
average pre-priced buying, as in 2022 into 2023, which had the effect on '24, we more actively
managed customer orders in terms of pre-priced buying exiting 2023, and that gave us, really,
first, the underlying market strength and momentum that we carried into, but also I would say, our
order position walking into January 2024 was certainly in better position than, say, the prior year.
So we more actively managed those, but there's always some level in the numbers.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `Sure. And the question with regard to R&D. Obviously, we are very confident in our pipeline. I think
we've been the most innovative company in animal health, and if you look at the -- how we
exceeded market growth every year for the last 11 years, it is due to the innovation in our pipeline.
We are investing both for the short, medium and long term. In animal health, different than human
health, that really makes a difference. You look at sort of what I call like, life cycle enhancements
that we just launched, such as Apoquel Chewable, which will significantly support our key brands.
We're also looking at pretty disruptive innovations as well. As you look at sort of the short one to
three-year term of innovation, we're excited really for some of our long acting. And we've talked
a lot about investing in the medium to long term in really important new franchises as well, such
as renal, chronic kidney disease spaces, looking at cardiology, looking at oncology and diabetes.
There's really important spaces of unmet medical need in animal health that we're really excited
to tackle. We're continuing to invest behind our diagnostics, as well as behind our livestock
business, looking at new vaccines and immunomodulators and our genetics business. So we have
a very diverse pipeline because we have a diverse portfolio. So we're continuing to invest behind
that and remain very confident in that.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Chris Schott, JPMorgan with JPMorgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Chris Schott, JPMorgan `
Great. Thanks so much for the questions. Just two for me. Just latest on that visit growth, I know
it's not the primary driver of growth for your business, but you're targeting 0% to 1% this year. I'm
just trying to get more color on what the underlying kind of dynamics here. Is this mostly still
about capacity? Is it macro dynamics? Any color there would be appreciated. And then my second
question was just coming back to Librela ex-U.S. From your perspective, how penetrated is the
market for monoclonals at this point? And where do you see the largest opportunity for growth in
these markets? I'm trying to get a sense of like, are we in the second inning or the seventh inning
of the ramp ex-U.S.? Thanks.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. I mean, starting on the first, we are not very levered as we've spoken about many times
before to vet visits. I mean, obviously they're not inconsequential. Our view of 0% to 1% is that's
where it's historically been. That is historically what you see in vet clinic visits over time. So I think
we're really saying it's back to normal. What's really happening is there's strong end market
demand. There remains some capacity issues in the U.S. But I think some of that's being
addressed by more stuff going to auto ship and retail and online, which has also been supporting
it. But we really sort of view the year as you looked into the year for 2023, although we saw flat
vet visits, we saw revenue and revenue per visit up 7.5%. So we really are seeing really strong
growth, obviously overall in revenue and we're much more correlated over time with that, just
given the strength of our portfolio, et cetera.
And to your second question with regards to Librela outside the U.S., I think we're still early
innings. And really where I think we see the growth is right now that product is primarily being
used in severe dogs. I think getting it into more moderate dogs, I mean, I think obviously, at least
somewhere, I mean, in my 50s, I will say, my hip hurts right now, but everyone doesn't know that
it's around me. And so the reality is osteoarthritis exists in animals long before they're limping
and can't walk up the stairs. And the more we can control that pain early, I think it's critical. So I
think what we're really trying to change the paradigm is getting Librela in first-line use for animalscan do that, the more we can continue to grow the market here and grow our franchise. So we
know. We believe we're in early innings, across the globe with regards to osteoarthritis pain with
both Librela and certainly with Solensia, where we still have to continue to grow awareness for
osteoarthritis pain in cats.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Steve Scala with TD Cowen. Please go ahead.
Q - Analyst
Hi. This is Chris on for Steve. We have two questions. First, on Librela. To what degree are U.S. vet
capacity constraints are headwind to longer-term treatment compliance? And then is there a
regulatory path for the approval of an at-home donor-administered formulation? Thank you.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Obviously, making sure that pet owners can get in monthly for their injections is critical. So
vet capacity is certainly something that we're quite focused on. But I think, after the first visit, this
is an injection that can certainly be done by a vet tech. And I think the industry is really focused.
And we've been partnering with corporates, with the AVMA, with lots of people to really think
about how to change the paradigm of vets to vet techs in clinics and things like that. So we
believe there are solutions to really address some of the vet capacity issues. So far, globally and
by the way, this vet capacity issue is not just a U.S. issue, it's global. So far, it hasn't affected the
growth of our key products. And your second question is with regard to home delivery. Do you
want to take that one?
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Look, I think the regulatory path to that isn't really the direction we're going in terms of
where we think we can make an impact here. Lifecycle innovation, not only in our OA pain mAbs,
but across our portfolio are really, really important. And as I look ahead, I think longer-acting
formulations, both Solensia and Librela will be the direction that will help with this, even though,
as Kristin said, we're not seeing any significant impact in terms of our ability to grow the mAbs. I
think initial visits where the vet has to see the pet and do the injection, beyond that, the techs are
able to do it, et cetera. And that varies a bit, but we don't see that as being a significant impact
for us.
Operator
We'll take our next question from `Navann Ty, BNP Paribas with BNP Paribas. Please go ahead.
Q - `Navann Ty, BNP Paribas `
Hi, good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. I have two, one on Librela and one on Trio. The
first one on Librela. With continued investments in 2024, what are the remaining SG&A needs in
addition to the current DTC campaign? And just a clarification. Do you currently expect Librela to
become potentially gross margin accretive in 2025? And then on Trio, can you help us explain the
switches from to NexGard PLUS? Are they mostly from BI's own NexGard rather than from
Simparica Trio? And do you see uptake from BI on younger dogs and puppies mostly? Thank you.
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `I'll take the first one on Librela. Look, of course, we are going to be making investments and we
already started because as you heard in the prepared commentary, our penetration levels are
running above our expectations and we've launched DTC on Librela and we're already doing
DTC across Europe and international markets as well. As we look ahead, we did make significant
investments in our field force going back about a year and a half or so ago. So we're able to
leverage those investments and we don't see incremental investments beyond those to drive
our expectations and take advantage of demand on the product.
The gross margin picture, as I mentioned earlier, it is dilutive if you look at 2023, and particularly
because you saw us outperform expectations on Librela in 2023, right? As you go into 2024,
Librela margins are actually accretive to the overall company margin leverage above. So 70%-ish
gross margin for the company, Librela is above that, but it's below the gross margins that you
would see in our innovative companion animal brand. As we get beyond 2024, you will start to
see it be at those innovative levels, which is above -- well above the company average. So
hopefully that helps clarify that point. Trio, as we've said, we've seen really strong performance in
Trio, posting double-digit growth. Trio grew 17% in the U.S. in Q4 and we continue to gain patient
share, which means, again, switching is low when you have a product that's safe efficacious and
been in the market for almost four years now. So we're very pleased with what we're seeing. I
don't know, Kristin, if you want to add anything.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
The only thing I'll add we're doing quite well with puppies. You asked specifically with regards to
puppies. I mean, puppies are on the Trio label, so I just want to emphasize that. I know it wasn't
on the original Simparica. So I mean, really, if you're looking at new starts, we see a lot of puppies
and we see a lot of conversion from single and dual-agent customers to a triple combination, and
certainly a movement to more people from topicals to oral. So there's lots of ways for us to
continue to gain market share for that product, but we're doing quite well with puppies to answer
that other part of your question.
Operator
And there appears to be no further questions at this time. I'll turn the call back to the speakers for
any closing remarks.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thank you all so much for the questions, and honestly, for continued interest in Zoetis. I
want to underscore that the enduring strength of the human animal bond, for pet owners'
expectations of human-quality health care for pets and the need for a safe and secure food
supply all underscore that animal health industry is essential and very durable. We remain
confident about our strategy and the ongoing value proposition because we know that our
colleagues will make a difference every day in everything that we're doing. And with their
support, I want to reiterate that we expect to grow faster than the market again in 2024, not just
in line and to grow operational revenue by mid-to-high single digits.
We are firmly committed to investing in our innovative pipeline, our portfolio, and the DTC
programs we need to support the broadening and building billion-dollar franchises. The animal
health industry is resilient, even in times of uncertainty and we're poised to navigate these
challenges because of our portfolio diversity, our commitment to exceptional customer
experience, operational excellence and agility, and we look forward to keeping you updated on
our progress in future calls. Thanks so much for joining us today, guys. Have a great day.Operator
Thank you. This does conclude today's program. Thank you for your participation. You may
disconnect at any time.