Q4 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2024 Financial Results Conference Call and
Webcast for Zoetis. Hosting the call today is Steve Frank, Vice President of Investor Relations for
Zoetis.
The presentation materials and additional financial tables are currently posted on the Investor
Relations section of zoetis.com. The presentation slides can be managed by you, the viewer, and
will not be forwarded automatically. In addition, a replay of this call will be available approximately
two hours after the conclusion of this call via dial-in or on the Investor Relations section of
zoetis.com. At this time, all participants have been placed in a listen-only mode, and the floor will
be open for your questions following the presentation. (Operator Instructions)
It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Steve Frank. Steve, you may begin.
`Steven Frank, Vice President of Investor Relation `
Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the Zoetis fourth quarter and full
year 2024 earnings call. I am joined today by `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Executive Officer; and
`Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin, I'll remind you that the slides presented on this call are available on the Investor
Relations section of our website, and that our remarks today will include forward-looking
statements and that actual results could differ materially from those projections.
For a list and description of certain factors that could cause results to differ, I refer you to the
forward-looking statements in today's press release and our SEC filings, including but not limited
to, our annual report on Form 10-K and our reports on Form 10-Q.Our remarks today will also include references to certain financial measures which were not
prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or U.S. GAAP. A
reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP
measures is included in the financial tables that accompany our earnings press release and the
company's 8-K filing dated today, Thursday, February 13, 2024. We also cite operational results
which exclude the impact of foreign exchange.
With that, I will turn the call over to Kristin.
`Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Steve, and good morning, everyone, and welcome to our fourth quarter and full year
2024 earnings call. Today, thanks to the dedication of our purpose-driven colleagues, we
reported an excellent full-year results, in line with the high end of our November guidance.
We delivered double-digit operational revenue growth of 11%, highlighting the strength of our
strategy and the enduring demand of our brands. And our relentless focus on execution drove
broad-based growth across the business. In the U.S., revenue grew 11%, while internationally, we
grew 10% operationally, marking significant revenue milestones, even in a competitive landscape.
Our ability to grow, defend and launch products across markets drove 14% operational revenue
growth in our companion animals portfolio, alongside solid 5% operational revenue growth for
our livestock portfolio. Reflecting our commitment to shareholders, adjusted net income grew
15% operationally. As we look ahead to 2025, we are confident that the drivers of our 2024
success are sustainable, positioning us for continued above-market growth in the mid-to-high
single-digit range for this year and beyond.
Our confidence is rooted in the diversity of our business model where multiple growth drivers
powered by scientific innovation and commercial excellence works together to create and
expand markets. This combination ensures that our market-leading franchises deliver long, and in
some cases, decade long, growth tailwinds with significant room for further expansion.
While Wetteny will discuss the quarter, I want to highlight some of the drivers that will carry us into
2025. Our global Simparica franchise grew 28% operationally on the year, even amidst
competition. This success is fueled by the ongoing shift for triple-combination treatment, a
market that has grown over 40% in the past 12 months. Currently valued at $2 billion, the global
triple-combination market pioneered and led by Simparica Trio in the U.S. is projected to more
than double to $4.5 billion by 2028.
Over 50% of puppies in the U.S. are now on triple-combination, a clear signal of the market's
trajectory. And veterinarians and pet owners tend to stay with trusted, proven solutions,
underscoring the importance of our three-year first-mover advantage in triple. This dynamic
combined with the strength of our diverse portfolio and robust channel strategy, driving higher
compliance and increasing total value per patients, positions us to continue leading in this critical
segment.
Our osteoarthritis or OA pain franchises, including Librela and Solensia, grew revenue 80%
operationally in 2024. Librela's U.S. launch is the most successful in our history, cementing its
blockbuster status in less than four quarters, and it's quickly become the fourth largest product in
our U.S. pet care portfolio.
As Wetteny mentioned at the JP Morgan Healthcare Conference in January, true disruptive
scientific innovation often follows a non-linear growth trajectory due to the investment, educationand market development required to establish entirely new categories of care. Even so,
innovations like Librela are revolutionizing the treatment paradigm, offering new hope for pets
and their owners. With nearly 25 million doses distributed globally, we've already helped millions
of dogs regain mobility and improve their quality of life. Just as Librela is transforming care for
dogs, Solensia is doing the same for cats.
Now, a blockbuster product, Solensia has redefined OA pain management, driving a meaningful
increase in feline veterinary visits. By encouraging proactive care, Solensia is bridging
longstanding gaps in medicalization and strengthening the relationship between cat owners and
their veterinarians. This momentum underscores a significant opportunity to drive sustainable
growth in the underpenetrated feline segment and demand for future therapies and long-acting
formulations. In our key dermatology franchise, we grew revenue 17% operationally for the year.
As we shared at JP Morgan, even with over 25 million dogs treated by our differentiated portfolio
to curb itch, the total addressable market is projected to grow to $2.5 billion by 2028, an 11%
CAGR. That's because there are still 20 million dogs worldwide who remain untreated or
undertreated. With a long runway for growth ahead, a diverse, safe and effective portfolio
supported by strong customer satisfaction, brand loyalty and future long-acting formulation
positions us to lead and expand the market.
And at the heart of our success is our commitment to living our purpose each day, to nurture the
world in humankind by advancing care for animals. That means as customer preferences evolve,
ensuring our treatments are available where and when they are needed, while always
championing the essential role of veterinarians. This commitment has shaped our omni-channel
strategy, meeting customers where they are, whether at the clinics or through alternative
channels. As a result, Simparica Trio and Apoquel are the top-selling products in U.S. retail,
contributing meaningfully higher compliance.
When combining retail and home delivery, approximately 20% of our U.S. pet care portfolio flows
through alternative channels, driving growth and expanding the total market. We expect this trend
to continue into 2025.
At the same time, we continue to educate veterinarians and pet owners on the benefits and
availability of our treatments, helping to drive informed decisions and better health outcomes. For
the year, our livestock portfolio delivered strong 5% operational revenue growth, exceeding our
initial expectation of being at the high end of the historical 2% to 4% annual industry growth
range. We achieved this result despite the Q4 divestiture of the medicated feed additive product
portfolio and certain water-soluble products and related assets.
The divestiture was a strategic move to streamline our portfolio, enhance operational focus and
prioritize high-growth, high-value areas that align with our long-term strategy. And we remain
deeply committed to livestock and to continue to lead with innovative vaccines and lifecycle
solutions, including antibiotic alternatives and advanced therapies that enhance disease
prevention and support sustainability, aligned with our core capabilities.
As a result of the MFA divestiture, our press release and slides highlight organic operational
revenue growth for the full year and fourth quarter, excluding all divested products and adjusted
for foreign exchange. Based on this and building on the momentum from 2024, we are guiding to
a range of 6% to 8% organic operational revenue growth in 2025 and we'll continue to provide
updates on this metric throughout the year.
We also expect organic operational growth in adjusted net income in the range of 6% to 8% inreflecting the strength of our business fundamentals and the robust secular trends driving our
industry. Our strong underlying performance and financial discipline ensures we remain well
positioned to deliver on our value proposition. This guidance underscores the strength of our
portfolio and commercial engines as we continue to grow our key franchises. The industry
remains essential and resilient, driven by strong underlying demand and the indispensable nature
of our work.
As we look ahead, we will continue balancing strategic investments in innovation and commercial
excellence to sustain our track record of profitable growth and generate long-term value for our
shareholders. In 2025, our success will be anchored in the same key drivers that have propelled
us over the past decade. We operate in highly attractive end markets, driven by scientific
innovation and market-leading franchises.
With our global scale, we can launch therapies across geographies and channels, ensuring
veterinarians and pet owners have access to the best treatments available. And while the
operating environment evolves every year with new entrants, shifting geopolitical dynamics, and
an evolving regulatory and trade landscape, our agility positions us to navigate these challenges
and capitalize on emerging opportunities.
Our success is driven by the strength of our strategy, differentiated execution, innovative
pipeline, our colleagues and culture. This is evident in our R&D engine, where we expect at least
one major approval annually over the next several years, with multiple potential blockbusters in
our pipeline. These innovations will drive durable, diversified growth across both companion
animals and livestock, reinforcing our commitment to addressing unmet needs. Above all, we
remain committed to our track record of value creation and delivering performances that outpace
the market, positioning Zoetis as a trusted leader in animal health now and in the future.
And finally, a sincere thank you to our colleagues whose dedication makes these results possible.
And with that, let me turn it over to Wetteny.
`Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Kristin. To echo your enthusiasm, 2024 was an excellent year. Our full-year
performance reflects broad-based revenue growth across segments, species, price and volume.
The foundation of our ability to continually outperform the animal health industry comes from the
diversity of our portfolio and the channels and markets in which we lead.
For the year, we posted revenue of $9.3 billion, growing 8% on a reported basis and 11%
operationally, with 6% driven by price and 5% from volume. We raised our revenue guidance
throughout the year and ultimately finished above the high end of our initial range. Adjusted net
income grew 10% on a reported basis and 15% operationally to $2.7 billion. Global revenue growth
was driven by our companion animal portfolio, which grew 14% operationally. Leading the way, our
Simparica franchise posted $1.4 billion in revenue on the year, growing 28% operationally.
Simparica Trio exceeded $1 billion in revenue globally. Simparica Trio remains the number one
selling canine parasiticide in the U.S. and the trusted choice for vets and pet owners. As Kristin
mentioned, triple-combination treatments are the fastest-growing segment in animal health and
are less than 40% of prescription treatments, signaling significant room for continued growth.
In OA pain, we continue to see increased adoption. Librela and Solensia reported combined
revenue of $581 million globally for the year, growing 80% operationally. Over a decade since our
first launch, our key dermatology franchise posted operational growth of 17%, generating $1.6billion in revenue. We remain steadfast in our confidence to grow the franchise in the face of
competition, and we delivered strong double-digit growth balanced across both Apoquel and
Cytopoint. We expect continued market expansion, driven by higher compliance and new patient
growth, as we have highlighted that a significant portion of this market remains untreated or
undertreated.
Lastly, our livestock portfolio also had a strong year, with $2.9 billion in revenue or 5% operational
revenue growth, driven primarily by price, while volume growth faced headwinds from the MFA
divestiture. On an organic operational basis, livestock grew 7%.
Moving on to segment performance for the year, both the U.S. and international segments saw
impressive double-digit revenue growth. The U.S. posted $5.1 billion in revenue, growing 11% on
the year, while our international segment reported revenue of $4.1 billion, growing 10%
operationally for the full year. U.S. growth was led by our companion animal portfolio, which grew
15%, driven by the performance of our Simparica franchise, our OA pain mAbs and market
expansion across our key dermatology franchise.
The Simparica franchise reached nearly $1 billion in revenue, growing 26%. Simparica Trio was the
primary growth driver, with $918 million in sales, growing 30%. With high vet and pet owner
satisfaction, Trio is the leading parasiticide product in the U.S. Our ability to grow our volume
double-digits while simultaneously taking price by being more targeted in our promotions
highlights our first mover advantage.
Our OA pain mAbs reported $271 million in sales in the U.S., growing 197%. In its first full year in
the market, Librela generated $201 million in sales and reached blockbuster status in the U.S.
market faster than any product in our history, where it is already the first-line choice for severe
OA cases. With nearly 40% of dogs suffering from OA at some point in their lifetime, we are
confident that Librela will be a contributor to growth for years to come.
Solensia posted $70 million in U.S. revenue for the year, growing 58%. For the year, Solensia
accounted for over 70% of clinic revenue in the feline OA category and has continued to
substantially grow the market since launch. Key dermatology had an exceptional year, posting
growth of 16% on $1.1 billion in sales.
As we highlighted, there is a substantial population of untreated or undertreated dogs with derm
conditions. Our double-digit volume growth in key dermatology demonstrates our ability to
convert those patients to our differentiated portfolio of treatment options and highlights the
continued expansion opportunity in the derm space. U.S. livestock business declined 1% on the
year due to the MFA divestiture, which closed on October 31. Excluding the impact of MFAs, our
organic operational U.S. livestock growth was 6%, which was driven by improved supply of
ceftiofur.
Moving on to our international segment, revenue grew 5% on a reported basis and 10%
operationally for the year. International performance was favorably impacted by price increases,
especially in high-inflationary markets, including Argentina, which contributed more than 1.5% to
our total company growth for the year. Our international companion animal growth was driven by
our Simparica, key dermatology and OA pain mAbs franchises.
Our Simparica franchise grew 32% operationally to $357 million in international sales. Performance
was driven by Simparica, growing 29% operationally to $212 million in sales, driven by
performance in Latin America and Eastern Europe. Simparica Trio grew 39% operationally on $145
million in sales, driven by key account growth in Europe, DTC and the positive impact of our Q1Key dermatology posted revenues of $551 million for the year, growing 18% operationally.
Performance was driven by Apoquel through new patient growth, especially in Europe. Cytopoint
also contributed with new patient growth and compliance in existing patients.
Internationally, our OA pain mAbs grew 34% operationally, posting $310 million in combined
revenue. Sales of Librela were $246 million internationally, growing 33% operationally. Solensia
sales were $64 million, growing 39% on an operational basis. Our international livestock portfolio
grew 8% operationally to $1.9 billion in sales for the year, with growth driven by price as well as
strong performance in fish, partially offset by headwinds from swine volumes in China.
Moving on to our Q4 results. In the fourth quarter, we posted $2.3 billion in revenue, growing 5%
on a reported basis and 6% operationally, with 5% driven by price and 1% from volume. Excluding
the impact of our MFA divestiture, our Q4 organic operational growth was 9%, with 4% coming
from volume. Adjusted net income of $632 million, grew 11% on a reported basis and 9%
operationally. Revenue in the quarter was driven by our innovative companion animal portfolio.
Globally, our Simparica franchise contributed $324 million, growing 21% operationally. Our key
dermatology franchise posted $417 million, or 11% operational growth. And our OA pain mAbs
contributed revenue of $150 million, growing 20% operationally in the quarter. Our livestock
portfolio also contributed an operational growth of 1%, with $726 million in revenue. Livestock
organic operational growth in the quarter was 8%. Our global companion animal diagnostics
business grew 10% operationally in the quarter on revenues of $96 million.
Now, let's move on to our segment results for the quarter. U.S. revenue grew 4% in the quarter,
with companion animal growing 7% and livestock declining 8% due to our MFA divestiture. On an
organic operational basis, excluding the MFA impact, U.S. revenue grew 8% in the quarter with
12% livestock growth. In companion animal, U.S. performance was driven by growth in our
Simparica, key dermatology and OA pain franchises.
Pet owners continue to seek the higher standard-of-care offered by our innovative products, and
vet clinic revenue remains healthy, growing 7% on an average spend per visit basis, despite
declining visits overall. Our mAbs are driving higher therapeutic visits. Our Simparica franchise
posted U.S. growth of 17%, with $240 million in revenue for the fourth quarter, led by Simparica
Trio. As Kristin highlighted, we expect the triple-combination parasiticide market to more than
double by 2028, and higher triple-combo share amongst puppies is a key indicator of where the
market is going.
Our key dermatology franchise grew 7% in the quarter, generating $270 million in revenue,
despite clinic stocking headwind from the Apoquel Chewable launch last year. Derm visits were
4% in the quarter, highlighting the willingness of pet owners to treat itch. Cytopoint was the
largest driver of growth, driven by preference for injectable treatments. Apoquel growth
continues to be driven by expansion of Apoquel Chewable, benefiting from increased conversion
and compliance driven by alternative channels.
Our OA pain mAbs, Librela and Solensia posted a combined $71 million in U.S. sales in Q4,
growing 22%. Our growth in the quarter is reflective of headwinds from initial clinic stocking in Q4
of 2023. Librela, now entering its second year in the market, generated $53 million, growing 21%
on the quarter and reaching more than 1.2 million patients. We remain confident that the market
opportunity is significant.
Pain-related vet visits increased 16% in the fourth quarter, highlighting the demand that has
propelled Librela to the fourth-largest product in our U.S. business and the most successful launchin animal health history. Organic operational growth in U.S. livestock of 12% was primarily driven by
the timing of supply of ceftiofur and volume growth in Draxxin.
Moving on to our international segment for the quarter. Revenue grew 6% on a reported basis
and 10% excluding the impact of foreign exchange. Companion animal grew 13% operationally
and livestock grew 6% operationally. The MFA divestiture did not have a material impact on our
international organic operational growth.
Our international companion animal portfolio growth was driven by our key dermatology
products, our Simparica franchise and our OA pain mAbs. Our key dermatology products grew
19% operationally with sales of $147 million in the quarter. Growth in key dermatology was driven
by new patients and increased share for both Apoquel and Cytopoint, driven by field force
execution and brand marketing campaigns.
Preference for chewables continues to increase, with conversion to Apoquel Chewable in Europe
now at 50%. We saw 32% operational growth in our Simparica franchise internationally, with
revenue of $84 million in the quarter. Simparica was the main growth driver, growing 33%
operationally on $53 million in revenues. Simparica Trio grew 30% operationally, with $31 million in
revenues.
Internationally, our OA pain mAbs grew 18% operationally, posting $79 million in combined
revenue. Librela posted sales of $62 million in the quarter, growing 15% operationally. We see
continuous growth in prescribing rates and penetration and reorder rates remain high. Solensia
growth of 28% operationally on $17 million of sales is driven by increases in both returning and
new OA patients. International livestock reported sales of $477 million in the fourth quarter,
growing 6% operationally. Growth came primarily from price in hyperinflationary markets and in
cattle.
Moving down to P&L. Full-year adjusted gross margins of 70.7% grew 50 basis points on a
reported basis. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 40 basis points. Excluding FX, we
saw higher margins due to price and favorable mix, partially offset by higher manufacturing costs.
Adjusted operating expenses increased 10% operationally for the year. Growth was driven
primarily by SG&A increases of 9% operationally, largely due to higher compensation-related
expenses, due in part to company performance.
Full-year SG&A growth is inclusive of Q4 growth of 11% operationally, reflective of the acceleration
of certain demand-generating activities into Q4 of 2024. R&D spend grew 12% operationally for
the year on higher compensation-related expenses due to company performance, and increases
in project spend related to internal portfolio advancement.
Adjusted net income grew faster than revenue at 15% operationally. Adjusted diluted EPS grew
17% operationally for the year. We remain committed to reinvesting in the business while returning
capital to shareholders. In 2024, we repurchased $1.9 billion of Zoetis shares, the most in our
history. We also reaffirmed our commitment to buying back shares in August when our Board
approved a new multi-year, $6 billion share repurchase program. Additionally, we increased our
dividend rate 15% during the year, while distributing $786 million back to shareholders. In total, we
returned over $2.6 billion to shareholders in 2024, an increase of over $800 million versus the
prior year.
Now moving on to our guidance for the full year 2025. The strengthening U.S. dollar throughout
2024 has been a headwind to our reported revenue and adjusted net income projections. As a
reminder, we do not forecast foreign exchange and our guidance reflects rates as of late January.Our 2025 guidance reflects foreign exchange headwinds of approximately $250 million to
revenue and $50 million to adjusted net income versus 2024.
For 2025, we are projecting revenue between $9.225 billion and $9.375 billion, representing an
organic operational growth range of 6% to 8%, with growth across both price and volume. We
expect our performance to be driven by our companion animal business, with broad-based
growth across our Simparica, key dermatology and OA pain franchises. We are projecting these
combined innovative franchises to grow double-digits in 2025. Our growth estimates include a
range of assumptions for new market entrants and conditions across our business. As a reminder,
our guidance does not include products that have not yet been approved. Additionally, guidance
does not account for the impact of recent and potential policy changes, including tariffs, tax
reform or other regulatory changes.
For livestock, 2024 growth was favorably impacted by tailwinds from price, particularly in high-
inflationary markets, including Argentina. Those impacts normalized as the year progressed, and
we do not expect similar tailwinds for 2025. Additionally, our reported growth for livestock will be
negatively impacted by our MFA divestiture. We will continue to provide organic operational
comparisons throughout the year to normalize for this impact. We expect our organic operational
livestock growth to be in line with the livestock industry growth for the year.
Now, moving on to the rest of the P&L. Adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue is
expected to be approximately 28%. Our expected margin improvement is driven by favorable
product mix aided by our MFA divestiture. This improvement is partially offset by foreign
exchange impacts within our supply chain. Adjusted SG&A expenses for the year are expected to
be between $2.3 billion and $2.35 billion. This change is reflective of the normalization of
compensation increases tied to 2024 performance, as well as the acceleration of certain
demand-generating activities into Q4 of the prior year.
Adjusted R&D expenses for 2025 is expected to be between $680 million and $690 million. We
are coming off a multi-year cycle of R&D investment at a pace greater than revenue growth, with
the output of those investments reflected in the portfolio progress we disclosed at the JP
Morgan Conference last month.
Adjusted interest expense and other income deductions is expected to be approximately $200
million. Our adjusted effective tax rate for 2025 is expected to be approximately 21%. Adjusted
net income is expected to be in the range of $2.7 billion to $2.75 billion, representing growth of
2% to 4% on an operational basis and 6% to 8% on an organic operational basis. Our growth on
adjusted net income is impacted by net interest headwinds due to lowering rates on invested
cash versus prior years. Additionally, while our adjusted effective tax rate guidance for 2025 is
within our historical range, it is at the higher end of the range due to higher taxes on foreign
earnings.
Our organic operational adjusted net income growth is expected to be 6% to 8%. If we further
exclude the impact of interest and taxes, our bottom-line growth is expected to be between 8%
and 10%. Lastly, we expect adjusted diluted EPS to be in the range of $6 to $6.10 and reported
diluted EPS to be in the range of $5.70 to $5.80. Our EPS projections are based on current share
count and do not consider the future impact of our ongoing share repurchase program.
In closing, 2024 success was built upon the strength of our broad portfolio and our purpose-
driven colleagues. Our success across key brands, geographies and channels is the foundation
which gives us confidence in our ability to sustain above-market growth this year and into the
future.Now, I'll hand things over to the operator to open the line for your questions. Operator?
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We'll take our first question from `Michael Ryskin, Bank of America with Bank of
America. Please go ahead.
Q - `Michael Ryskin, Bank of America `
Great. Thanks for taking the question, guys. I've got two related ones. I'll sneak them in together.
So first, Wetteny, in your prepared remarks, you sort of said you have a range of assumptions for
new market entrants and market conditions in the guide. I want to dive into that. There's a lot of
competition in the market this year. You already have one on the market for derm. There's a
second major Apoquel competitor expected this summer.
So explicitly, could you sort of walk us through what you're factoring into the guide, whether it's in
terms of color for growth for those products? You kind of gave some broad comments on growth
expectations, but also just sort of incremental headwinds from competition and how that could
play out?
And then tied to that, I guess, are you taking on any incremental investments to support your
major brands, derm, combo parasiticides, in terms of go-to-market strategy, commercial efforts,
maybe in terms of bundling products together, alternative channels, just sort of how are you
adjusting that in the face of some of that growing competition? Thank you.
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Mike. Happy to take the question on competition. Look, first of all, we have delivered
an outstanding 2024 with 11% growth operationally at revenue of 15% adjusted income. If you look
across our key major franchises, we delivered double-digit growth across all three of those major
franchises, including derm. And we're -- in the context of derm, more than a decade in, we're
delivering 17% operational growth.
Occluded, as we usually do with our guidance as we start the year, we take into consideration a
number of factors. We have multiple sources of growth. And while we're not providing individual
product guidance, what we're saying is these three major franchise areas, we expect to drive
double-digit growth for us in 2025. And we see the underlying trends that drove our performance
in 2024 carry us into 2025 with momentum.
Now, in terms of competition, we are factoring in various scenarios in terms of what competition
might look like. In the case of derm, we expect that to be in the second half of the year. Again,
not providing individual guidance on derm specifically, but certainly long-term, we expect to
continue to drive substantial growth in these categories.
If you look at derm, for example, we're estimating 20 million dogs globally that are not treated or
undertreated. We're treating about 12 million today with Apoquel and Cytopoint. There's still 7
million that are on other therapies like steroids, for example, and another 13 million that are not
getting a prescription drug. So clearly, the opportunity that remains here is actually pretty vast and
that gives us a lot of confidence in terms of long-term growth.In terms of investments, look, I think you've seen us do this quite well. At the same time, we are
leveraging other investments made in our field force, et cetera, to drive operational leverage
through the P&L. In the case of putting support behind our key brands, whether it's DTC, whether
it's educational veterinarians, et cetera, that's something we have demonstrated an ability to do.
And they have great returns for us when we do that. We have significant measurements that
show that. And those are areas that we are factoring into our guidance from a spend standpoint.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Erin Wright, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Erin Wright, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thanks. I wanted to get a little bit more into Librela. Just can you speak to how vets are
responding following the vet letter and label change? Like has that helped them in terms of
understanding kind of how to prescribe? And you mentioned it's not linear, but how do we think
about U.S. Librela contributions in terms of what's embedded in the guide for 2025?
And just to confirm, the long-actings and other pipeline products are not embedded in your
guidance for this year. And then just the last one, just on the margin improvement year-to-year in
2025, can you talk a little bit about what's driving that in terms of the mix shift with the MFA
divestiture or anything else to call out? Thanks.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Erin. I'll take the Librela questions and let Wetteny take the margin question. A quick
answer, no new products are included. The long-actings are not included in the guidance, I think
Wetteny mentioned. Look, we're really pleased with the launch of Librela. With $581 million in
sales across Librela and Solensia and 80% growth on the year, we're really pleased. It is the most
successful launch in history, as we've mentioned. It's also now the fourth largest product for
Zoetis with 25 million doses.
40% of dogs suffer from OA. And what we really see as we look forward is continued growth in
this category. We did get the Dear Vet letter which helped vets understand what the update in
adverse events were using real-world data. And we obviously showed you the label that we
implemented based on that. And I think that really underscores our commitment for transparency,
which we've been doing all along with regards to the adverse events.
I would highlight that there were no contraindications, no warnings, and no precautions in that
label. But we were really pleased to be able to share that with veterinarians consistent with our
purpose and consistent with our commitment. And I think veterinarians have found that quite
helpful. That label, as we had mentioned to you many times, we expected it to be consistent with
our label in international, where we continue to be driving growth, as you saw throughout 2024.
So the U.S. label looks largely like a label in Europe or Canada, and we really look forward to
continuing to grow this franchise.
Wetteny, do you want to take the second question on margin?
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. Before I get to the margin, maybe just one more point I'll make. On Librela, you asked
about how we factored that into our guidance. Clearly, we combined the three major franchise
areas, and we're calling double-digit growth across those. As you've seen in Librela, even afterthe third year. So we are expecting annual growth to be strong to robust across these franchises,
across the OA pain as we go forward, even if we're not giving specific guidance on individual
products.
On margins, you're right, MFA divestiture is accretive to our gross margins and our bottom-line
margins as well. In addition to that, we have mix as we see more of our growth driven by
companion animal products. That drives favorable mix for us from a margin standpoint as well.
And from a price, as we've said consistently, we are expecting to see price be above the two to
three that we've typically done historically, but below the 6% we did this year or nearly 5% within
the prior year.
Part of that is lower contribution from some of these hyperinflationary markets that we saw in the
prior year is why you see that, but still we're taking price and therefore that's contributing to our
margins. One of the offsets as we've seen with the U.S. dollar strength over the last number of
years is FX, and we do see that being an offset in addition to increased manufacturing costs that
we have. But net-net, and on the FX side it's about 50 basis points headwind at the gross margin
level.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from Jon Block with Stifel. Please go ahead.
Q - `Jonathan Block, Stifel `
Thanks, guys. Good morning. Just Wetteny, any thoughts on the revenue cadence for 2025?
Arguably competition will pick up in some key areas, you called it out, but that's more back part of
the year. You got arguably an easy comp in the fourth quarter, so curious on the cadence? And
then just for R&D, flat year-over-year, you walked through some of that, is this sort of a new
beginning for you guys where this can be considered a more leverageable call line item going
forward? Thanks.
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So look, Jon, first on the revenue cadence, as I mentioned, the most important aspect here
is we look at the trends that are driving our business and demand across our products, and the
momentum we had in 2024, we see that entering into 2025. So that gives us a lot of confidence
and that's baked into our guidance here.
As I said on the earlier question, we are factoring a number of scenarios around new entrants
that may come in, and those are more so on the back half of the year, so that will imply a
stronger first versus second half. I wouldn't necessarily call out an easy comp in Q4 from an
organic operational perspective, maybe from a reported perspective, given the divestiture of
MFA.
As I said in the prepared commentary, when you factor out the MFA, it's a 9% operational growth,
organic operational growth quarter for us. And then we had the comps from the prior year where
we launched both Librela and Apoquel Chewable in the fourth quarter of the prior year. When
you add that into consideration, the growth rate in the fourth quarter is above 10%. And so I think
that's a solid quarter, and I wouldn't call that an easy comp necessarily as we look at 2025.
In terms of R&D, look, we're very pleased with the progress that we're seeing across the
pipeline, and we showcased those with the updates we provided last month at the JP MorganConference. We tend to let the pipeline drive where the investment is, and not necessarily
deliberately drive that as a leverageable component.
Now, we did say two years ago almost, at Investor Day, we expected the R&D line to grow above
revenue for some time, and then it would sort of move back towards a sort of top-line revenue
growth rate. And we're seeing that. But I think that's more of a factor of where the pipeline is.
Certainly as major items go through certain cycles in development, they tend to drive more
spend. And then as they get on the other side of that, it's not as much. So that will ebb and flow
from time to time. But we don't look at that necessarily as a leverageable line item that we're
deliberately moving, because the long-term delivery of our innovation drives where we drive
investments there.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from Brandon Vazquez with William Blair. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Russell Yuen, William Blair `
Hi. This is `Russell Yuen, William Blair on for Brandon Vazquez. Thanks for taking the question. So looking at a
high level, are you guys able to give us any sense as we go into 2025 on how the entire pet
population is kind of trending? Now that we're past COVID years, are we back to normal growth
rates and growing year-over-year? Or if not, is there anything we kind of need to keep in mind for
the backdrop to get a normalized growth rate? I know we sometimes hear about a lagging effect
from weak macro, where pets are not replaced as they die. So kind of just curious on what you're
seeing. Thanks.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. What we continue to see is the strength of the human-animal bond and that relationship. If
you look back to historical numbers, normally there's not significant changes in the number of
pets. The only one exception, obviously, in the last 12 years was COVID. But we're expecting the
pet population to remain relatively stable. That's what it's done historically.
I think what's really changed and what's driving the fundamental growth of the industry is the fact
that the human-animal bond makes animal health essential and very resilient. 86% of pet owners
would spend whatever it takes. And those incremental pets that were adopted during COVID are
aging, and as they age, they're going to get more diseases, chronic diseases, et cetera.
So we see very strong fundamental drivers with more millennials and Gen Z adopting pets. Their
relationship with those pets, they're delaying having kids as they're having kids. And those pets
are important parts of their family's life. And they're making sure that those pets are taken care
of. So we see very strong growth drivers based on the human-animal bond, based on who's
adopting those pets, as well as an aging pet population. So we think those are fundamental
drivers that Zoetis' innovation and commercial excellence will only emphasize more.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Balaji Prasad, Barclays with Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Balaji Prasad, Barclays `
Hi. Good morning. A couple of questions for me. Firstly, Wetteny you clarified that none of the
expected approvals within the next 12 months have been factored into the guidance. Curious tounderstand, maybe excluding FX, what are the upside risks to guidance that you can see from
here? And on the same line, of the three buckets of approvals, the drivers, as you can describe
that, is there any way to quantify the approvals in the second bucket in the 12 months to 36
months, what the TAM for these approvals are and what are the investments into this? Thanks.
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. Look, in terms of confirming that we have not factored in new approvals, and that's
consistent with how we have approached guidance historically. So those are not in here. We did
highlight how much FX headwind we see at the top-line, roughly $250 million, given where our
spot rates are. And as a reminder, we do not forecast FX. So the quantification we're providing is
strictly off of the current spot rates versus what the average rates were through 2024.
In terms of upside, look, I think we have a very diverse portfolio and our diversity stems across
geography, across our products, et cetera. You saw us deliver across our three major franchises
of companion animal, all three had double-digit growth and double-digit growth in terms of
volumes as well. So I think the underlying trends here are strong as we enter into 2025 and could
be more pleased.
Of course, the factors that we put in in terms of where competitive entrants might come in could
be a factor that might move us in any direction in terms of the timing of those and what some of
the short-term sort of dynamics might be around those. And those are the things that might
move us one way or the other, which is why we provide a range in our guidance. But we're very,
very excited about how we're entering the year and the demand profile that we're seeing across
our products and the opportunities we have before us.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
I can pick up the second question on the TAMs for the new product categories. I mean, I wanted
to start with, we have more drivers of growth to improve the standard-of-care than any other
company. And as we talked about in our pipeline, we have multiple blockbusters. And at JP
Morgan, we discussed what the total addressable market for some of these new therapies would
be.
To your point in the 12 months to 36 months window, we have chronic kidney disease products.
And as we mentioned, that's a $3 billion to $4 billion market. We also mentioned oncology, and
that's a $1.2 billion to $1.7 billion market. And then in the longer term, we were also talking about
cardiology. I also just want to double click for a second on the long-acting portfolio, because I
really think these are going to be significant growth drivers. There's a lot of people who can't
make it in every month. So it'll both increase compliance, which will grow the market, as well as
meet a lot of pet owners who just the monthly is too much for them. And it would be much more
convenient to come in four times a year versus 12 times a year.
So we really think, as we look at potential approval every year for the next several years, and
really more drivers of growth for the short, medium and long-term for the company, we remain
really excited about the potential unmet needs that we can address.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Chris Schott, JP Morgan with JP Morgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Chris Schott, JP Morgan `Hi, great. Thanks so much for the questions. Just two for me. First on Librela, is there any updates
in terms of how you're seeing veterinarians approach patient selection as you think about severe
patients versus moderate? Is it still skewed more towards severe? Are you starting to make
progress on the moderate side? And the second question was on Simparica Trio, obviously, very
healthy growth in 2024. Just any pushes and pulls we should think about for that product
specifically in '25? Thank you.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. With regards to Librela, we continue to see in Europe more of our patients be mild-to-
moderate and that trend has continued. In the U.S., the beginning part of the launch, we were
seeing more severe. They are moving more into moderate. Again, you get to know the product
better. So that will be a key focus of the growth in the U.S. as we move more into the moderate
patients. We continue to do blind studies with veterinarians. And they continue to be very
satisfied with the product. And they continue to intend to prescribe. And I think the more we do
and get into moderate patients, we'll see continued growth there.
With regards to assumptions in Trio, we had a phenomenal, across the Simparica franchise, year.
Trio is now exceeding $1 billion. It is the number one seller in the U.S. and it's been on the market
now four years. Even with significant competition, we saw about a 28% growth. I think what's
important to really remind people is there's still significant growth in this category today. We've
got 50% of puppies, which means 50% of puppies are still not on a triple-combination. We think
that will continue to grow the market.
We think also, as you have more and more people on auto-ship, once you start a parasiticide,
you're very unlikely to switch. So this is a very sticky category. So even if we see new competition,
we continue to believe just as we did when we got there that we could continue to grow this
market and grow our share. And I think we continue to demonstrate our ability to do that.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Glen Santangelo, Jefferies with Jefferies. Please go ahead.
Q - `Glen Santangelo, Jefferies `
Yeah. Thanks for taking my question. Hey, Wetteny, I just wanted to follow up on some of the
comments you made with respect to the organic growth. If you look at the sort of pricing
expectation you're building into your assumption this year, I think you said it would be better than
your 2% to 3% normalized expectation. So with sort of half of the operational growth coming
from pricing, it seems like you're assuming some modest slowdown on the volume side.
And just sort of given that you expect significant double-digit growth in your three major
franchises, I guess maybe talk about if either you or Kristin can talk about maybe some of the
other areas of the portfolio where you may be seeing some levels of deceleration in volume and
maybe that shift some level of conservatism you're building into your guidance. Thanks.
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. Happy to do that. As I said, our pricing expectations for 2025 are a bit north of our historical
2% to 3%, but below the 6% we planted in 2024 and roughly 4.5% to 5% the prior two years. So
that is certainly a consideration.
One other thing I'll remind you is we saw livestock growth in 2024 at a roughly 5%. And if you takeindustry growth rate is from a livestock standpoint. Again, I will repeat this point, which is really,
really important. The underlying trends that we see driving demand for our products are entering
into 2025. And so that gives us a lot of confidence in what we're going to see, which is a double-
digit volume growth across these major franchises in 2024.
We are factoring a certain competition in there. So depending on how you look at the range, the
6% to 8%, if taking what I'm saying on price, at the lower end of the range, yes, you would have
slightly more price than volume. At the higher end of the range, you would actually have a
balance between price and volume, which is what you saw from us excluding hyperinflationary
markets in 2024. So that feels about the same as what we're saying in 2025, depending on
where you fall in the range that we're providing on guidance.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Navann Ty, BNP Paribas with BNP Paribas. Please go ahead.
Q - `Navann Ty, BNP Paribas `
Hi. Good morning. I have two questions, please. The first one on Librela, if you can discuss any
expected impact of the U.S. label changes, if any on the transition to the moderate population in
the U.S.? And then my second question is on innovation. If you can comment on the blockbuster
potential of the expected approvals that you have listed? Thank you.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. We were very pleased to implement the new label. We think it helps vets understand the
latest data on real world adverse events. We've continued to be incredibly transparent
throughout with regards to what we were seeing in other markets, and we shared that data. So
we really see this as just helping vets better understand, it's consistent with what we have been
sharing with them all along. So we don't really think it changes the trajectory much. We think what
we're seeing in the U.S. is more moderate patients and continuing to grow that market.
And as I mentioned before, the surveys we're doing with vets, they are satisfied with the product
and they continue to have an intent to prescribe. What we're really seeing is just the impact it's
making on improving the quality of life for so many pets. So we really see continued growth
overall in that.
And with your second question on the multiple blockbusters, we're really seeing as we talked
about the total addressable market for some of these new unmet needs being very significant.
The one I'd really focus on the largest is obviously chronic kidney disease. That's both for dogs
and for cats. And there really are no treatments today. And we expanded the size of those total
addressable markets from our Investor Day. And that was really about better understanding the
molecules that we have today, and really how they're going to meet that unmet medical need.
But also importantly, increases and improvements in diagnostics to be able to better diagnose
animals to make sure that we're getting the right patient population aligned with the potential of
the product. So we're very excited as we look at chronic kidney disease, oncology, as well as
cardiology to really meet new unmet medical needs. So the market has really been looking at.
And as I mentioned before, have more drivers of growth for the short, medium and long term to
improve the standard-of-care.
OperatorQ - `Chris LoBianco, TD Securities `
Well, thank you. This is `Chris LoBianco, TD Securities on for Steve Scala. We just had a question on the pipeline,
risk adjusted the pipeline opportunities with renal and oncology. Have these assets generated
pivotal data yet? And does Zoetis have multiple shots on goal, i.e. multiple late-stage assets for
each of these opportunities? And could these products be placed at a premium compared to
Zoetis' current derm and pain products? Thank you.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. We don't give specific information with regards to our molecules and animal health. So the
guidance that we provided with regards to product launching is the guidance that we've got.
Operator
Thank you. We'll go next to `Andrea Alfonso, UBS with UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Andrea Alfonso, UBS `
Yes. Hi. Good morning. Thank you so much for taking my question. I specifically wanted to ask
about the dermatology franchise and how you're thinking about your positioning in 2025 from a
pricing versus mix standpoint in light of competitive entries? And have you had to amplify some
of your education and awareness efforts around efficacy relatively? And then, I guess, finally what
is sort of your view on kind of the mix shift between Cytopoint and Apoquel? Thank you so much.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. We're very excited for the performance of dermatology in 2024 with 17% growth with a
$1.64 billion portfolio. Importantly, even with competition in Q4, we had 11% revenue growth. And
we really are seeing growth in this market overall. I think Wetteny mentioned in his remarks
before, we're seeing this market grow 11%. We think by 2028, it'll grow to $2.5 billion.
And there are 20 million dogs that still remain untreated or undertreated that we can still focus
on. So we see growth here in a few areas. First, higher compliance, getting more animals on
auto-ships. Obviously looking at a long-acting portfolio coming as well. We see that as potentially
improving compliance and really going after the undertreated dogs today, as well as the
untreated dogs. So we see significant continued growth here for the overall market, even with
competition. And what we continue to see in other franchises and in other categories is with new
competition, you have new awareness and we continue to grow the category overall.
A - `Wetteny Joseph, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I'll just add from a pricing standpoint, we don't provide product-specific pricing
considerations, but I would remind you, in 2024, we saw 17% operational growth and double-digit
volume growth despite robust price here. So we do believe there's opportunity given the
remaining untreated pets in this space and opportunity to continue to grow.
In terms of the balance, look, we see strong demand for both products. If you look at Cytopoint
and Apoquel, Cytopoint in the clinic is preferred, both from a compliance standpoint and having
that volume through the clinic. Apoquel in alternative channels, when you combine both retail and
home delivery, that total is about 40% of our Apoquel volume, and you're seeing that
convenience factor, the compliance that that drives significant growth as well. So in '24, we
actually saw balanced growth between the two, which is very, very encouraging as we go intoOperator
Thank you. We'll go next to `Daniel Clark, Leerink Partners with Leerink Partners. Please go ahead.
Q - `Daniel Clark, Leerink Partners `
Great. Thank you. I just wanted to drill down a little bit on the figure that 50% of puppies are on a
triple-combo parasiticide. What are the different pushes and pulls that you think could maybe
drive that number higher and how are you thinking about that for 2025?
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Again, we think awareness and growth, if you look at it right now, the triple-combination
therapy still is less than 40% overall, and it's growing at 40%. So we think that you'll continue to
see the more you add new puppies, the more they're on and once they go on, they're very
unlikely to go off. So we really are excited to see this growth, and what we continue to see is new
entrants enter. It only brings more attention to triple-combinations, which is the fastest-growing
segment of parasiticides overall.
And the triple market today is $2 billion, and we're expecting, as we mentioned before to grow
to $4.5 billion by 2028. So we just see the natural growth here, and as someone who was first this
year, we've had four years and an additional three years on the market ahead of anybody else,
we see really that lead making a big difference in continuing to grow our share and to grow the
market overall.
Operator
And there are no further questions at this time. I'll turn it to Kristin for closing remarks.
A - `Kristin Peck, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Great. As always, thank you, everyone, for your questions and importantly, for your
continued interest in Zoetis. As you heard today, we are extremely pleased with our excellent
performance in 2024 and eager to really build on this momentum as we move into 2025. We
remain confident in the steady demand for our diverse and our innovative portfolio, which
continues to deliver value to our customers and to advance animal health globally. And we're
driven by our purpose to advance care for animals, and we remain focused on executing our
strategy, instilling confidence in our stakeholders and reinforcing our unwavering commitment to
our value propositions. We look forward to keeping you updated on our progress as the year
progresses. Thanks, everybody.
Operator
Thank you. This does conclude today's program. Thank you for your participation. You may
disconnect at any time.