Management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition is intended to assist the reader in understanding and assessing significant changes and trends related to the results of operations and financial position of our consolidated company. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." Certain statements in this Item 7 constitute forward-looking statements. Various risks and uncertainties, including those discussed in "Forward-Looking Statements" and Item 1A, "Risk Factors," may cause our actual results, financial position, and cash generated from operations to differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Executive Overview This section provides an overview of our financial results, recent product and late-stage pipeline developments, and other matters affecting our company and the pharmaceutical industry. Earnings per share (EPS) data are presented on a diluted basis. COVID-19 Pandemic In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have focused on maintaining a supply of our medicines; reducing the strain on the medical system; developing treatments for COVID-19; protecting the health, safety, and well-being of our employees; supporting our communities; and ensuring affordability of and access to our medicines, particularly insulin. As part of our response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and at the request of the United States (U.S.) and international governments, we invested in large-scale manufacturing of COVID-19 antibodies at risk, in order to ensure rapid access to patients around the world. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted Emergency Use Authorizations (EUA) for bamlanivimab and etesevimab administered together for higher-risk patients who have been recently diagnosed with mild-to-moderate COVID-19 and for baricitinib for treatment with or without remdesivir in hospitalized COVID-19 patients. In the third quarter of 2021, the FDA expanded the EUA for bamlanivimab and etesevimab administered together to include post-exposure prophylaxis in certain individuals for the prevention of SARS-CoV-2 infection. We expect that additional revenue from the sale of bamlanivimab and etesevimab after the first quarter of 2022 will be limited. In February 2022, the FDA granted an EUA for bebtelovimab for certain high-risk patients who have been recently diagnosed with mild-to-moderate COVID-19. We have agreed with the U.S. government to supply up to 600,000 doses of bebtelovimab no later than March 31, 2022 for at least $720 million with an option of 500,000 additional doses no later than July 31, 2022. The FDA has revised, and may in the future revise, any EUA for our COVID-19 therapies in response to the prevalence of variants against which our therapies have varying degrees of efficacy. The COVID-19 pandemic has, and may continue to, adversely impact our business and operations. The focus of resources on COVID-19, widespread protective measures implemented to control the spread of COVID-19, and the resulting strain on global transportation, manufacturing, and labor markets have negatively impacted development, manufacturing, supply, distribution, and sales of our medicines. In addition to decreases in new prescriptions, changes in payer segment mix, and the increased use of patient affordability programs in the U.S., we have experienced, and may continue to experience if the COVID-19 pandemic undergoes resurgent or more severe waves, decreased demand as a result of lack of "normal" access and fewer in-person interactions by patients and our employees with healthcare professionals. 34 We also face risks and uncertainties related to our COVID-19 therapies, including heightened regulatory scrutiny of our manufacturing practices, quality assurance, and similar regulations, restrictions on administration that limit widespread and timely access to our therapies, and risks related to handling, return, and/or refund of product after delivery by us. The availability of superior or competitive therapies, including therapies that can be administered more easily, or preventative measures such as vaccines, coupled with the unpredictable nature of pandemics, have and could further negatively impact or eliminate demand for our COVID-19 therapies. Mutations or the spread of other variants of the coronavirus have in some cases impacted the effectiveness of our COVID-19 therapies, and may further render our therapies more or less effective or ineffective. The strain on global transportation, logistics, and labor markets caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and an increase in overall demand in our industry for certain materials resulting in changed buying patterns and constrained supply have had, and may continue to have, a number of impacts on our business, including increased costs to provide a consistent supply of our medicines where they are needed and potential disruptions in the supply of our medications. These factors may negatively affect our results of operations. It remains difficult to reasonably assess or predict the full extent of the ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on us. The degree to which the COVID-19 pandemic continues to affect us will depend on developments that are highly uncertain and beyond our knowledge or control. We are currently unable to predict the full extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic or any future pandemic, epidemic or similar public health threat will adversely impact our business and operations in the future. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors" for additional information on risk factors that could impact our business and operations. Financial Results The following table summarizes our key operating results: Year Ended December 31 Percent Change 2021 2020 Revenue $ 28,318.4 $ 24,539.8 15 Gross margin 21,005.6 19,056.5 10 Gross margin as a percent of revenue 74.2 % 77.7 % Operating expenses $ 13,457.5 $ 12,206.9 10 Acquired in-process research and development 874.9 660.4 32 Asset impairment, restructuring, and other special charges 316.1 131.2 NM Other—net, (income) expense 201.6 (1,171.9) NM Income before income taxes 6,155.5 7,229.9 (15) Income taxes 573.8 1,036.2 (45) Net income 5,581.7 6,193.7 (10) EPS 6.12 6.79 (10) NM - not meaningful Revenue increased in 2021 driven by increased volume and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates, partially offset by lower realized prices. Operating expenses, defined as the sum of research and development and marketing, selling, and administrative expenses, increased in 2021, driven primarily by higher development expenses for late-stage assets. The decreases in net income and EPS in 2021 were driven primarily by reduction in other-net, (income) expense and higher operating expenses, partially offset by higher gross margin. 35 The following highlighted items affect comparisons of our 2021 and 2020 financial results: 2021 Cost of Sales (See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements) • We recognized a net inventory impairment charge related to our COVID-19 antibodies of $339.7 million. As part of our response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and at the request of the U.S. and international governments, we invested in large-scale manufacturing of COVID-19 antibodies at risk, in order to ensure rapid access to patients around the world. As the COVID-19 pandemic evolved during 2021, we incurred a net inventory impairment charge primarily due to the combination of changes to current and forecasted demand from U.S. and international governments, including changes to our agreement with the U.S. government, and near-term expiry dates of COVID-19 antibodies. Acquired In-Process Research and Development (IPR&D) (Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements) • We recognized acquired IPR&D charges of $874.9 million related to business development transactions. Asset Impairment, Restructuring, and Other Special Charges (Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements) • We recognized charges of $316.1 million primarily related to an impairment of a contract-based intangible asset from our acquisition of Loxo Oncology, Inc. (Loxo), an intangible asset impairment resulting from the sale of the rights to Qbrexza ® , as well as acquisition and integration costs associated with the acquisition of Prevail Therapeutics Inc. (Prevail). Other-Net, (Income) Expense (Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements) • We recognized a debt extinguishment loss of $405.2 million related to the repurchase of debt. • We recognized $176.9 million of net investment gains on equity securities. 2020 Acquired IPR&D (Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements) • We recognized acquired IPR&D charges of $660.4 million related to business development transactions. Asset Impairment, Restructuring, and Other Special Charges (Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements) • We recognized charges of $131.2 million primarily related to severance costs incurred as a result of actions taken worldwide to reduce our cost structure. Other-Net, (Income) Expense (Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements) • We recognized $1.44 billion of net investment gains on equity securities. 36 Late-Stage Pipeline Our long-term success depends on our ability to continually discover or acquire, develop, and commercialize innovative new medicines. We currently have approximately 45 new medicine candidates in clinical development or under regulatory review, and a larger number of projects in the discovery phase. The following certain new molecular entities (NMEs) are currently in Phase II or Phase III clinical trials or have been submitted for regulatory review in the U.S., Europe, or Japan. The following table reflects the status of certain NMEs, including certain other developments since our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2021. Compound Indication Status Developments COVID-19 Antibodies Bebtelovimab (LY-CoV1404) COVID-19 Emergency Use Authorization The FDA granted EUA for certain high-risk patients recently diagnosed with mild-to-moderate COVID-19 in February 2022. Diabetes Tirzepatide Type 2 diabetes Submitted Submitted in the U.S. using a priority review voucher and in Europe and Japan in 2021. Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction Phase III Phase III trials are ongoing. Obesity Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis Phase II Phase II trial is ongoing. Basal Insulin-Fc Type 1 and 2 diabetes Phase II Phase II trials are ongoing. GGG Tri-Agonist Obesity Phase II Phase II trials are ongoing. Type 2 diabetes GLP-1R NPA Obesity Phase II Phase II trials are ongoing. Type 2 diabetes Immunology Lebrikizumab (1) Atopic dermatitis Phase III Granted FDA Fast Track designation (2) . Announced in 2021 that Phase III trials met primary and all key secondary endpoints. Phase III trials are ongoing. Mirikizumab Crohn's Disease Phase III Phase III trials are ongoing. Ulcerative colitis Announced in 2021 that Phase III trials met primary and all key secondary endpoints. CXCR1/2 Ligands Monoclonal Antibody Hidradenitis suppurativa Phase II Phase II trial is ongoing. IL-2 Conjugate Systemic lupus erythematosus Phase II Phase II trials are ongoing. Ulcerative colitis PD-1 MAB Agonist Rheumatoid arthritis Phase II Phase II trial is ongoing. 37 Compound Indication Status Developments Neuroscience Donanemab Early Alzheimer's disease Submission initiated Granted FDA Breakthrough Therapy designation (3) . Initiated a rolling submission in the U.S. for accelerated approval in 2021. Phase III trials are ongoing. Preclinical Alzheimer's disease Phase III Phase III trial is ongoing. Solanezumab Preclinical Alzheimer's disease Phase III Phase III trial is ongoing. Epiregulin/TGFα MAB Chronic pain Phase II Phase II trials are ongoing. GBA1 Gene Therapy (PR001) Parkinson's disease Phase II Acquired in the Prevail acquisition in 2021. Granted FDA Fast Track designation (2) . Phase II trials are ongoing. GRN Gene Therapy (PR006) Frontotemporal dementia Phase II O-glc-NAcase Alzheimer's disease Phase II Phase II trial initiated in the fourth quarter of 2021. PACAP38 Antibody Chronic pain Phase II Phase II trial is ongoing. SSTR4 Agonist Chronic pain Phase II Phase II trials are ongoing. TRPA1 Antagonist Pain Phase II Phase II trials are ongoing. Oncology Selpercatinib (Retevmo ® ) Lung cancer Approved (4) Phase III trials are ongoing. Thyroid cancer Sintilimab injection (5) Lung cancer Submitted In February 2022, the Oncologic Drugs Advisory Committee recommended that the FDA require additional clinical trials prior to a final regulatory decision. Pirtobrutinib (LOXO-305) Mantle cell lymphoma Submission initiated Initiated a rolling submission in the U.S. for accelerated approval in the fourth quarter of 2021. Phase II and Phase III trials are ongoing. Chronic lymphocytic leukemia Phase III Phase III trials are ongoing. B-cell malignancies Phase II Phase II trial is ongoing. Imlunestrant ER+HER2- metastatic breast cancer Phase III Phase III trial is ongoing. (1) In collaboration with Almirall, S.A. in Europe. (2) Fast Track designation is designed to expedite the development and review of new therapies to treat serious conditions and address unmet medical needs. (3) Breakthrough Therapy designation is designed to expedite the development and review of potential medicines that are intended to treat a serious condition where preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the treatment may demonstrate substantial improvement over available therapy on a clinically significant endpoint. (4) Continued approval may be contingent on verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory Phase III trials. (5) In collaboration with Innovent Biologics, Inc. 38 Our pipeline also contains several new indication line extension (NILEX) products. The following certain NILEX products for use in the indication described are currently in Phase II or Phase III clinical trials or have been submitted for regulatory review in the U.S., Europe, or Japan. The following table reflects the status of certain NILEX products, including certain other developments since our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2021: Compound Indication Status Developments Diabetes Empagliflozin (Jardiance ® ) (1) Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction Submitted Granted FDA Breakthrough Therapy designation (2) and FDA Fast Track designation (3) . Submitted in the U.S. and Europe in 2021 and in Japan in January 2022. The FDA granted priority review for adults with heart failure independent of left ventricular ejection fraction. Chronic kidney disease Phase III Granted FDA Fast Track designation (3) . Phase III trials are ongoing. Immunology Baricitinib (Olumiant ® ) COVID-19 Emergency Use Authorization (4) Submitted in the U.S. and the FDA granted priority review in January 2022. Alopecia areata Submitted Granted FDA Breakthrough Therapy designation (2) . Submitted in U.S., Europe and Japan in 2021. Systemic lupus erythematosus Discontinued Announced in January 2022 that, based on top-line efficacy results from Phase III trials,  we discontinued development. Oncology Abemaciclib (Verzenio ® ) HR+, HER2- Adjuvant breast cancer Approved Approved in the U.S. and Japan in the fourth quarter of 2021. Prostate cancer Phase III Phase III trial is ongoing. HR+, HER2+ Adjuvant breast cancer Discontinued Announced in January 2022 that we will discontinue the Phase III trial in response to the changing treatment landscape and global enrollment challenges. (1) In collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim. (2) Breakthrough Therapy designation is designed to expedite the development and review of potential medicines that are intended to treat a serious condition where preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the treatment may demonstrate substantial improvement over available therapy on a clinically significant endpoint. (3) Fast Track designation is designed to expedite the development and review of new therapies to treat serious conditions and address unmet medical needs. (4) The FDA granted EUA for treatment with or without remdesivir in hospitalized COVID-19 patients. There are many difficulties and uncertainties inherent in pharmaceutical research and development and the introduction of new products, as well as a high rate of failure inherent in new drug discovery and development. To bring a drug from the discovery phase to market can take over a decade and often costs in excess of $2 billion. Failure can occur at any point in the process, including in later stages after substantial investment. As a result, most funds invested in research programs will not generate financial returns. New product candidates that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or may have only limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, inability to obtain or maintain necessary regulatory approvals or payer reimbursement or coverage, limited scope of approved uses, label changes, changes in the relevant treatment standards or the availability of new or better competitive products, difficulty or excessive costs to manufacture, or infringement of the patents or intellectual property rights of others. Regulatory agencies establish high hurdles for the efficacy and safety of new products and indications. Delays and uncertainties in drug approval processes can result in delays in product launches and lost market opportunity. In addition, it can be very difficult to predict revenue growth rates of new products and indications. 39 We manage research and development spending across our portfolio of potential new medicines. A delay in, or termination of, any one project will not necessarily cause a significant change in our total research and development spending. Due to the risks and uncertainties involved in the research and development process, we cannot reliably estimate the nature, timing, and costs of the efforts necessary to complete the development of our research and development projects, nor can we reliably estimate the future potential revenue that will be generated from any successful research and development project. Each project represents only a portion of the overall pipeline, and none is individually material to our consolidated research and development expense. While we do accumulate certain research and development costs on a project level for internal reporting purposes, we must make significant cost estimations and allocations, some of which rely on data that are neither reproducible nor validated through accepted control mechanisms. Therefore, we do not have sufficiently reliable data to report on total research and development costs by project, by preclinical versus clinical spend, or by therapeutic category. Other Matters Patent Matters We depend on patents or other forms of intellectual property protection for most of our revenue, cash flows, and earnings. In 2021, our vitamin regimen patents for Alimta ® expired worldwide. Following the loss of patent exclusivity in major European countries and Japan, we faced, and remain exposed to, generic competition which has eroded revenue and is likely to continue to rapidly and severely erode revenue from current levels. In the U.S., we expect pediatric data exclusivity to provide us with protection through May 2022. However, we and Eagle Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Eagle) reached an agreement in December 2019 to settle all pending U.S. patent litigation, allowing Eagle a limited initial entry into the market with its product starting February 2022 (up to an approximate three-week supply) and subsequent unlimited entry starting April 2022. We expect that the entry of generic competition in the U.S. following the loss of exclusivity will cause a rapid and severe decline in revenue and will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and cash flows. See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for a more detailed account of the legal proceedings currently pending regarding, among others, our Alimta patents. Our compound patent for Humalog ® (insulin lispro) has expired in major markets. Global regulators have different legal pathways to approve similar versions of insulin lispro. A competitor has similar version of insulin lispro in the U.S. and in certain European markets. While it is difficult to estimate the severity of the impact of insulin lispro products entering the market, we do not expect and have not experienced a rapid and severe decline in revenue; however, we expect additional pricing pressure and some loss of market share that may continue over time. Our formulation and use patents for Forteo ® have expired in major markets. We expect further decline in revenue as a result of the entry of generic and biosimilar competition due to the loss of patent exclusivity in major markets. Our regulatory data and patent exclusivity for Cymbalta ® expired in Japan. Beginning in mid-2021, we have faced, and remain exposed to, generic competition which has eroded revenue and is likely to continue to rapidly and severely erode revenue from current levels. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates As a global company, we face foreign currency risk exposure from fluctuating currency exchange rates, primarily the U.S. dollar against the euro, Japanese yen, and Chinese yuan. While we seek to manage a portion of these exposures through hedging and other risk management techniques, significant fluctuations in currency rates can have a material impact, either positive or negative, on operating expenses. While there is uncertainty in the future movements in foreign exchange rates, fluctuations in these rates could adversely impact our future consolidated results of operations and cash flows. 40 Trends Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing, Reimbursement, and Access Global concern over access to and affordability of pharmaceutical products continues to drive regulatory and legislative debate, as well as worldwide cost containment efforts by governmental authorities. Such measures may include the use of mandated discounts, price reporting requirements, mandated reference prices, restrictive formularies, changes to available intellectual property protections, as well as other efforts. In addition, consolidation of private payors in the U.S. has significantly impacted the market for pharmaceuticals by increasing payor leverage in negotiating manufacturer price concessions and pharmacy reimbursement rates. Furthermore, restrictive or unfavorable pricing, coverage, or reimbursement determinations for our medicines or product candidates by governments, regulatory agencies, or private payers, such as the recently proposed Alzheimer’s Monoclonal Antibody national coverage determination, may adversely impact our business and financial results. We expect that these actions may intensify and could particularly affect certain products, such as insulin, as governments manage and emerge from the COVID-19 pandemic, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, we are engaged in litigation and investigations related to our 340B program that, if resolved adversely to us, could negatively impact our business and consolidated results of operations. It is not currently possible to predict the overall potential adverse impact to us or the general pharmaceutical industry of continued cost containment efforts worldwide. In addition, evolving regulatory priorities have intensified governmental scrutiny of our operations and our industry, including with respect to current Good Manufacturing Practices, quality assurance, and similar regulations, and increased focus on business combinations in our industry. Any regulatory issues concerning these matters could lead to regulatory and legal actions, product recalls and seizures, fines and penalties, interruption of production leading to product shortages, import bans or denials of import certifications, delays or denials in the approvals of new products or supplemental approvals of current products pending resolution of the issues, impediments to the completion of business combinations, and reputational harm, any of which would adversely affect our business. See Item 1, "Business - Regulations and Private Payer Actions Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing, Reimbursement, and Access" and Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Tax Matters We are subject to income taxes and various other taxes in the U.S. and in many foreign jurisdictions; therefore, changes in both domestic and international tax laws or regulations have affected and may affect our effective tax rate, results of operations, and cash flows. In 2017, the U.S. enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the 2017 Tax Act), which contains a provision that requires capitalization and amortization of research and development expenses for tax purposes starting in 2022. Previously, these expenses could be deducted in the year incurred. While this provision of the 2017 Tax Act is expected to have an immaterial impact on our consolidated results of operations, if it is not deferred or repealed by Congress, we expect that the implementation of this provision will increase our cash payments of income taxes by up to $1.50 billion in 2022 and subsequently decrease our cash payments of income taxes moderately over the five-year amortization period. The U.S. and countries around the world are actively considering and enacting tax law changes. Tax proposals introduced by Congress and the U.S. presidential administration contain significant changes, including increases to the tax rates at which both domestic and foreign income of U.S. companies would be taxed. In addition, tax authorities in the U.S. and other jurisdictions in which we do business routinely examine our tax returns and are intensifying their scrutiny and examinations of profit allocations among jurisdictions, which could adversely impact our future consolidated results of operations and cash flows. Further, actions taken with respect to tax-related matters by associations such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the European Commission could influence tax laws in countries in which we operate. 41 Acquisitions We opportunistically invest in external research and technologies that we believe complement and strengthen our own efforts. These investments can take many forms, including acquisitions, collaborations, investments, and licensing arrangements. We view our business development activity as a way to enhance our pipeline and strengthen our business. In January 2021, we acquired all shares of Prevail for a purchase price that included $22.50 per share in cash (or an aggregate of $747.4 million, net of cash acquired) plus one non-tradable contingent value right (CVR) per share. The CVR entitles Prevail stockholders up to an additional $4.00 per share in cash (or an aggregate of approximately $160 million) payable, subject to certain terms and conditions, upon the first regulatory approval of a Prevail product in one of the following countries: U.S., Japan, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Italy, or Spain. Under the terms of the agreement, we acquired potentially disease-modifying AAV9-based gene therapies for patients with neurodegenerative diseases. The acquisition establishes a new modality for drug discovery and development, extending our research efforts through the creation of a gene therapy program that is being anchored by Prevail's portfolio of assets. In February 2020, we acquired all shares of Dermira, Inc. for a purchase price of $849.3 million, net of cash acquired. Under the terms of the agreement, we acquired lebrikizumab, a novel, investigational, monoclonal antibody being evaluated for the treatment of moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis. Lebrikizumab was granted Fast Track designation from the FDA. We also acquired Qbrexza cloth, a medicated cloth for the topical treatment of primary axillary hyperhidrosis (uncontrolled excessive underarm sweating). In 2021, we sold the rights to Qbrexza. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the sale of the rights to Qbrexza. In February 2019, we acquired all shares of Loxo for a purchase price of $6.92 billion, net of cash acquired. Under the terms of the agreement, we acquired a pipeline of investigational medicines, including selpercatinib, an oral RET inhibitor, and LOXO-305 (pirtobrutinib), an oral BTK inhibitor. In the second quarter of 2020, the FDA approved selpercatinib (Retevmo) under its Accelerated Approval regulations and continued approval may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trials. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our recent acquisitions. 42 Operating Results—2021 Revenue The following table summarizes our revenue activity by region: Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 Percent Change U.S. $ 16,811.0 $ 14,229.3 18 Outside U.S. 11,507.4 10,310.5 12 Revenue $ 28,318.4 $ 24,539.8 15 The following are components of the change in revenue compared with the prior year: 2021 vs. 2020 U.S. Outside U.S. Consolidated Volume 19 % 13 % 16 % Price (1) % (4) % (2) % Foreign exchange rates — % 3 % 1 % Percent change 18 % 12 % 15 % Numbers may not add due to rounding. In the U.S the increase in volume in 2021 was primarily driven by COVID-19 antibodies, Trulicity ® , and Taltz ® . Outside the U.S. the increase in volume in 2021 was primarily driven by Trulicity, Olumiant, COVID-19 antibodies, Verzenio, and Taltz. The decrease in realized prices outside the U.S. was primarily driven by the price impact of the updated National Reimbursement Drug List formulary for certain products, largely Tyvyt ® , in China. 43 The following table summarizes our revenue activity in 2021 compared with 2020: Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 Product U.S. Outside U.S. Total Total Percent Change Trulicity $ 4,914.4 $ 1,557.6 $ 6,471.9 $ 5,068.1 28 Humalog (1) 1,320.7 1,132.3 2,453.0 2,625.9 (7) COVID-19 antibodies (2) 1,978.0 261.4 2,239.3 871.2 NM Taltz 1,542.4 670.4 2,212.8 1,788.5 24 Alimta 1,233.9 827.5 2,061.4 2,329.9 (12) Jardiance (3) 807.3 683.5 1,490.8 1,153.8 29 Verzenio 834.9 515.0 1,349.9 912.7 48 Humulin ® 832.9 389.6 1,222.6 1,259.6 (3) Olumiant (4) 324.1 791.0 1,115.1 638.9 75 Cyramza ® 358.1 674.8 1,033.0 1,032.6 — Basaglar ® 588.3 304.2 892.5 1,124.4 (21) Forteo 441.6 360.3 801.9 1,046.3 (23) Cialis ® 10.6 707.9 718.4 607.1 18 Cymbalta 38.7 542.8 581.5 767.7 (24) Emgality ® 434.5 142.7 577.2 362.9 59 Erbitux ® 481.8 66.4 548.3 536.4 2 Zyprexa ® 39.6 390.7 430.3 406.5 6 Tyvyt — 418.1 418.1 308.7 35 Trajenta ®(5) 82.1 290.4 372.5 358.5 4 Other products 547.1 780.8 1,327.9 1,340.1 (1) Revenue $ 16,811.0 $ 11,507.4 $ 28,318.4 $ 24,539.8 15 Numbers may not add due to rounding. NM - Not meaningful (1) Humalog revenue includes insulin lispro. (2) COVID-19 antibodies include sales for bamlanivimab administered alone as well as sales for bamlanivimab and etesevimab administered together and were made pursuant to EUAs or similar regulatory authorizations. (3) Jardiance revenue includes Glyxambi ® , Synjardy ® , and Trijardy ® XR. (4) Olumiant revenue includes sales for baricitinib, for treatment in hospitalized COVID-19 patients, that were made pursuant to EUA or similar regulatory authorizations. (5) Trajenta revenue includes Jentadueto ® . Revenue of Trulicity, a treatment for type 2 diabetes and to reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events in adult patients with type 2 diabetes and established cardiovascular disease or multiple cardiovascular risk factors, increased 28 percent in the U.S., driven by increased demand. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 26 percent, driven by increased volume and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates, partially offset by lower realized prices. Revenue of Humalog, an injectable human insulin analog for the treatment of diabetes, decreased 11 percent in the U.S., primarily driven by lower realized prices. Humalog's lower realized prices in the U.S. in 2021 were driven by higher contracted rebates and discounts and increased utilization in more highly-rebated government segments, partially offset by lower utilization in the 340B segment. Revenue outside the U.S. decreased 1 percent, driven by decreased volume and, to a lesser extent, lower realized prices, largely offset by the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Included in the revenue of Humalog in the U.S. are our own insulin lispro authorized generics. While it is difficult to estimate the severity of the impact of similar insulin lispro products entering the market, we do not expect and have not experienced a rapid and severe decline in revenue. However, due to the impact of competition and due to pricing pressure in the U.S. and some international markets, we expect some price decline and loss of market share to continue over time. 44 Revenue of COVID-19 antibodies, treatments for mild to moderate COVID-19 for higher-risk patients and for post-exposure prophylaxis in certain individuals for the prevention of SARS-CoV-2 infection, was $1.98 billion in the U.S. during the year ended December 31, 2021. Revenue outside the U.S. was $261.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2021. The availability of superior or competitive therapies, including therapies that can be administered more easily, or preventative measures, such as vaccines, coupled with the unpredictable nature of pandemics, have and could further negatively impact or eliminate demand for these COVID-19 antibodies. The FDA has revised, and may in the future revise, any EUA for our COVID-19 antibodies in response to the prevalence of variants against which our antibodies have varying degrees of efficacy. We expect that additional revenue from the sale of bamlanivimab and etesevimab after the first quarter of 2022 will be limited. Revenue of Taltz, a treatment for moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis, active psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, and active non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis, increased 20 percent in the U.S., driven by increased demand, partially offset by lower realized prices due to increased rebates to gain commercial access. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 34 percent, primarily driven by increased volume. Revenue of Alimta, a treatment for various cancers, decreased 2 percent in the U.S., driven by decreased volume, partially offset by higher realized prices. Revenue outside the U.S. decreased 22 percent, primarily driven by decreased volume due to the entry of generic competition in certain markets and, to a lesser extent, lower realized prices, partially offset by the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Following the loss of exclusivity in major European countries and Japan in June 2021, we faced, and remain exposed to, generic competition which has eroded revenue and is likely to continue to rapidly and severely erode revenue from current levels. In the U.S., we expect the limited entry of generic competition starting February 2022 and subsequent unlimited entry starting April 2022. We expect that the entry of generic competition following the loss of exclusivity in the U.S. will cause a rapid and severe decline in revenue. See "Executive Overview - Other Matters- Patent Matters" for additional information. Revenue of Jardiance, a treatment for type 2 diabetes, to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death in adult patients with type 2 diabetes and established cardiovascular disease, and to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death and hospitalization for heart failure in adults with heart failure and reduced ejection fraction, increased 30 percent in the U.S., primarily driven by increased demand. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 28 percent, primarily driven by increased volume. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding our collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim involving Jardiance. Revenue of Verzenio, a treatment for HR+, HER2- metastatic breast cancer and high risk early breast cancer, increased 35 percent in the U.S., driven by increased demand. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 75 percent, driven by increased volume. Revenue of Humulin, an injectable human insulin for the treatment of diabetes, decreased 4 percent in the U.S., driven by decreased demand and, to a lesser extent, lower realized prices. Revenue outside the U.S. decreased 1 percent, driven by decreased volume, largely offset by higher realized prices and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Revenue of Olumiant, a treatment for adults with moderately-to-severely active rheumatoid arthritis, moderate to severe atopic dermatitis, and of baricitinib, a treatment, with or without remdesivir, of hospitalized patients with COVID-19, increased $260.3 million in the U.S., driven by increased volume and, to a lesser extent, higher realized prices. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 38 percent, driven by increased volume and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates, partially offset by lower realized prices. Increased volume worldwide was partially driven by utilization of Olumiant for the treatment of hospitalized patients with COVID-19. Revenue of Cyramza, a treatment for various cancers, decreased 6 percent in the U.S., driven by decreased demand, partially offset by higher realized prices. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 4 percent, driven by increased volume, partially offset by lower realized prices. 45 Gross Margin, Costs, and Expenses Gross margin as a percent of revenue was 74.2 percent in 2021, a decrease of 3.5 percentage points compared with 2020, driven by higher sales of COVID-19 antibodies. Research and development expenses increased 15 percent to $7.03 billion in 2021, primarily driven by higher development expenses for late-stage assets. Marketing, selling, and administrative expenses increased 5 percent to $6.43 billion in 2021, primarily due to increased marketing costs to continue to drive growth for certain products, investment in preparation for new launches, and lower marketing activities in 2020 as a result of pandemic-related spending reductions. We recognized acquired IPR&D charges of $874.9 million and $660.4 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively, related to business development transactions. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. We recognized asset impairment, restructuring, and other special charges of $316.1 million in 2021. The charges were primarily related to an impairment of a contract-based intangible asset from our acquisition of Loxo, an intangible asset impairment resulting from the sale of the rights to Qbrexza, as well as acquisition and integration costs associated with the acquisition of Prevail. In 2020, we recognized $131.2 million of asset impairment, restructuring, and other special charges primarily related to severance costs incurred as a result of actions taken worldwide to reduce our cost structure. Other—net, (income) expense was expense of $201.6 million in 2021 compared to income of $1.17 billion in 2020, primarily driven by lower net investment gains on equity securities and a debt extinguishment loss of $405.2 million related to the repurchase of debt. Our effective tax rate was 9.3 percent in 2021, compared with an effective tax rate of 14.3 percent in 2020, primarily driven by the tax impacts of acquired IPR&D charges, lower net investment gains on equity securities, as well as a net discrete tax benefit. Operating Results—2020 For a discussion of our results of operations pertaining to 2020 and 2019 see Item 7, "