Management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition is intended to assist the reader in understanding and assessing significant changes and trends related to our results of operations and financial position. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." Certain statements in this Item 7 constitute forward-looking statements. Various risks and uncertainties, including those discussed in "Forward-Looking Statements" and Item 1A, "Risk Factors," may cause our actual results, financial position, and cash generated from operations to differ from these forward-looking statements. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW This section provides an overview of our financial results, late-stage pipeline developments, and other matters affecting our company and the pharmaceutical industry. Financial Results The following table summarizes certain financial information: Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2023 2022 Revenue $ 34,124.1 $ 28,541.4 20 Net income 5,240.4 6,244.8 (16) Earnings per share - diluted 5.80 6.90 (16) Revenue increased in 2023 driven by increased volume and higher realized prices. The increase in revenue in 2023 was primarily driven by sales of Mounjaro ® , Verzenio ® , and Jardiance ® , as well as the sales of the rights for the olanzapine portfolio, including Zyprexa ® , and for Baqsimi ® , partially offset by the absence of revenue from COVID-19 antibodies and lower sales of Alimta ® following the entry of multiple generics in the first half of 2022. Net income and earnings per share decreased in 2023, driven primarily by higher acquired in-process research and development (IPR&D) charges and increased research and development expenses, marketing, selling, and administrative expenses, and income taxes, partially offset by increased revenue. See "Results of Operations" for additional information. 40 Late-Stage Pipeline Our long-term success depends on our ability to continually discover or acquire, develop, and commercialize innovative medicines. We currently have approximately 50 new medicine candidates in clinical development or under regulatory review, and a larger number of projects in the discovery phase. The following select new molecular entities (NMEs) and new indication line extension (NILEX) products are currently in Phase II or Phase III clinical trials or have been submitted for regulatory review or have recently received regulatory approval in the United States (U.S.), European Union (EU), or Japan. The table reflects the status of these NMEs and NILEX products, including certain other developments, up to the time of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K: Compound Indication/Study Status Developments Diabetes, Obesity, and Other Cardiometabolic Diseases Empagliflozin (Jardiance) (1) Chronic kidney disease Approved Approved in the U.S. and the EU in 2023. Submitted in Japan in 2022. Tirzepatide (Mounjaro, Zepbound ® ) Obesity Approved Approved in the U.S. and the EU in 2023. Phase III trials are ongoing. Cardiovascular outcomes in type 2 diabetes Phase III Phase III trial is ongoing. Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction Phase III Phase III trial is ongoing. Morbidity and mortality in obesity Phase III Phase III trial is ongoing. Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) Phase III Granted U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Fast Track designation (2) . Phase III trial is ongoing. Higher doses Phase II Phase II trial initiated in 2023. Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis Phase II Announced in 2024 that a Phase II trial met its primary endpoint. Insulin Efsitora Alfa Type 1 and type 2 diabetes Phase III Phase III trials are ongoing. Orforglipron Obesity Phase III Phase III trials initiated in 2023. Type 2 diabetes Phase III Phase III trials initiated in 2023. Retatrutide Obesity, osteoarthritis, OSA Phase III Phase III trials initiated in 2023. Type 2 diabetes Phase II Phase II trial was completed. Bimagrumab Obesity Phase II Acquired in the acquisition of Versanis Bio, Inc. (Versanis) in 2023. Phase II trial is ongoing. Lepodisiran Cardiovascular disease Phase II Phase II trial is ongoing. Mazdutide Obesity Phase II Phase II trial initiated in 2023. Muvalaplin Cardiovascular disease Phase II Phase II trial is ongoing. Solbinsiran Cardiovascular disease Phase II Phase II trial is ongoing. Volenrelaxin Heart failure Phase II Phase II trial initiated in 2023. 41 Compound Indication/Study Status Developments Immunology Lebrikizumab (3) (Ebglyss ® ) Atopic dermatitis Approved Approved in the EU in 2023 and in Japan in 2024. Submitted in the U.S. in 2022. We received a complete response letter from the FDA in 2023. We anticipate regulatory action by the end of 2024. Phase III trials are ongoing. Mirikizumab Crohn's Disease Phase III Announced in 2023 that a Phase III trial met the co-primary and all major secondary endpoints compared to placebo. Phase III trials are ongoing. DC-806 Psoriasis Phase II Acquired in the acquisition of DICE Therapeutics, Inc. (DICE) in 2023. Phase II trial is ongoing. Eltrekibart Hidradenitis suppurativa Phase II Phase II trial is ongoing. KV1.3 Antagonist Psoriasis Phase II Phase II trial initiated in 2024. Ocadusertib (RIPK1 inhibitor) Rheumatoid arthritis Phase II Phase II trial initiated in 2023. Peresolimab Rheumatoid arthritis Phase II Phase II trial is ongoing. Ucenprubart Atopic dermatitis Phase II Phase II trial initiated in 2023. Neuroscience Donanemab Early Alzheimer's disease Submitted Submitted for approval in the U.S., the EU, and Japan in 2023. Granted FDA Breakthrough Therapy designation (4) . Phase III trials are ongoing. Preclinical Alzheimer's disease Phase III Phase III trial is ongoing. Remternetug Early Alzheimer's disease Phase III Phase III trial is ongoing. GBA1 Gene Therapy Gaucher disease Type 1 Phase II Phase II trial initiated in 2023. Parkinson's disease Phase II Granted FDA Fast Track designation (2) . Phase II trial is ongoing. GRN Gene Therapy Frontotemporal dementia Phase II Granted FDA Fast Track designation (2) . Phase II trial is ongoing. O-GlcNAcase Inh Alzheimer's disease Phase II Phase II trial is ongoing. OTOF Gene Therapy Hearing loss Phase II Phase II trial initiated in 2024. P2X7 Inhibitor Pain Phase II Phase II trials were completed. SSTR4 Agonist Pain Phase II Phase II trials are ongoing. 42 Compound Indication/Study Status Developments Oncology Pirtobrutinib (Jaypirca ® ) Chronic lymphocytic leukemia Approved (5) FDA granted accelerated approval (5) in the U.S. in 2023. Phase III trials are ongoing. Mantle cell lymphoma Approved (5) FDA granted accelerated approval (5) in the U.S. in 2023. Approved in the EU in 2023. Submitted in Japan in 2023. Phase III trial is ongoing. Imlunestrant Adjuvant breast cancer Phase III Phase III trial is ongoing. ER+HER2- metastatic breast cancer Phase III Phase III trial is ongoing. Olomorasib KRAS G12C-mutant NSCLC Phase II Phase II trial initiated in 2023. Abemaciclib Prostate cancer Discontinued In 2024, Phase III trials did not meet primary endpoints or were terminated for futility. (1) In collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim. (2) Fast Track designation is designed to facilitate the development and expedite the review of medicines to treat serious conditions and fill an unmet medical need. (3) In collaboration with Almirall, S.A. in Europe. (4) Breakthrough Therapy designation is designed to expedite the development and review of potential medicines that are intended to treat a serious condition where preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the treatment may demonstrate substantial improvement over available therapy on a clinically significant endpoint. (5) Continued approval may be contingent on verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory Phase III trials. There are many difficulties and uncertainties inherent in pharmaceutical research and development, the introduction of new products and indications, business development activities to enhance or refine or product pipeline, and commercialization of our products. There is a high rate of failure inherent in drug discovery and development. To bring a product from the discovery phase to market takes considerable time and entails significant cost. Failure can occur at any point in the process, including in later stages after substantial investment. As a result, most funds invested in research and development programs will not generate financial returns. New product candidates that appear promising in development or prior to being acquired may fail to reach the market or may have only limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, inability to obtain or maintain necessary regulatory approvals or payer reimbursement or coverage, failure to obtain placement on guidelines or recommendations published by third-party organizations that are commensurate with clinical data, the application of pricing controls, limited scope of approved uses, label changes, changes in the relevant treatment standards or the availability of newer, better, or more cost-effective competitive products, difficulty or excessive costs to manufacture, insufficient infrastructure to support detection, diagnostic or other requisites for treatment, ineffectiveness in reaching healthcare professionals, including digitally given the increase in virtual engagements, or infringement of the patents or intellectual property rights of others. We may also fail to allocate research and development resources efficiently, fail to pursue or invest sufficiently in product candidates or indications that may have been successful, or fail to optimally balance trial design, conduct, and speed to accomplish desired outcomes. Regulatory agencies establish high hurdles for the efficacy and safety of new products and indications. Delay, uncertainty, unpredictability, and inconsistency in drug approval processes across markets and agencies can result in delays in product launches, lost market opportunities, impairment of inventories, and other negative impacts. In addition, it can be very difficult to predict revenue growth rates of, or variability in demand for, new products and indications which in some cases leads to difficulty meeting product demand or, on the other hand, excess inventory and related financial charges. 43 We manage research and development spending across our portfolio of potential new medicines and indications. A delay in, or termination of, any one project will not necessarily cause a significant change in our total research and development spending. Due to the risks and uncertainties involved in the research and development process, we cannot reliably estimate the nature, timing, and costs of the efforts necessary to complete the development of our research and development projects, nor can we reliably estimate the future potential revenue that will be generated from any successful research and development project. Each project represents only a portion of the overall pipeline, and none is individually material to our consolidated research and development expense. While we do accumulate certain research and development costs on a project level for internal reporting purposes, we must make significant cost estimations and allocations, some of which rely on data that are neither reproducible nor validated through accepted control mechanisms. Therefore, we do not have sufficiently reliable data to report on total research and development costs by project, by preclinical versus clinical spend, or by therapeutic category. Other Matters Patent Matters We depend on patents or other forms of intellectual property protection for most of our revenue, cash flows, and earnings. See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of legal proceedings currently pending regarding certain of our patents. See Item 1, "Business—Patents, Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Rights" for additional discussion of the impacts of trends involving intellectual property on our business and results. Trends Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing, Reimbursement, and Access Reforms, including those that may stem from political initiatives, periods of uneven economic growth or downturns, or as a result of high inflation, the emergence or escalation of, and responses to, international tension and conflicts, or government budgeting priorities, are expected to continue to result in added pressure on pricing and reimbursement for our products. Global concern over access to and affordability of pharmaceutical products continues to drive regulatory and legislative debate and action, as well as worldwide cost containment efforts by governmental authorities. Such measures include the use of mandated discounts, price reporting requirements, mandated reference prices, restrictive formularies, changes to available intellectual property protections, as well as other efforts. In August 2022, the U.S. government enacted the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (IRA). Among other measures, the IRA requires the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to effectively set prices for certain single-source drugs and biologics reimbursed under Medicare Part B and Part D. Generally, these government prices apply nine years (for medicines approved under a New Drug Application) or thirteen years (for medicines approved under a Biologics License Application) following initial FDA approval and will be set at a price that is likely to represent a significant discount from existing average prices to wholesalers and direct purchasers. While the law specifies a ceiling price, it does not set a minimum or floor price. In August 2023, the HHS selected Jardiance, which is part of our collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim, as one of the first ten medicines subject to government-set prices effective in 2026. Given our product portfolio, we expect additional significant products will be selected in future years, which would have the effect of accelerating revenue erosion prior to expiry of exclusivities. The effect of reducing prices and reimbursement for certain of our products would significantly impact our business and consolidated results of operations. Other IRA provisions require drug manufacturers to provide rebates for Medicare Part B and Part D medicines under certain circumstances. Also, the Part D benefit redesign will replace the Part D Coverage Gap Discount Program with a new manufacturer discount program. Manufacturers that fail to comply with the IRA may be subject to various penalties, including civil monetary penalties, which could be significant. The IRA has and will meaningfully influence our business strategies and those of our competitors. In particular, the nine-year timeline to set prices for medicines approved under a new drug application reduces the attractiveness of investment in small molecule innovation. The IRA can cause changes to development approach and timing and investments at-risk. The full impact of the IRA on our business and the pharmaceutical industry, including the implications to us of a competitor's product being selected for price setting, remains uncertain. 44 Additional policies, regulations, legislation, or enforcement, including those proposed or pursued by the U.S. Congress, the U.S. executive branch, and regulatory authorities worldwide, could adversely impact our business and consolidated results of operations. Consolidation and integration of private payors and pharmacy benefit managers in the U.S. has also significantly impacted the market for pharmaceuticals by increasing payor leverage in negotiating manufacturer price or rebate concessions and pharmacy reimbursement rates. Furthermore, restrictive or unfavorable pricing, coverage, or reimbursement determinations for our medicines or product candidates by governments, regulatory agencies, courts, or private payers may adversely impact our business and consolidated results of operations. We expect that these actions may intensify and could particularly affect certain products, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, we are engaged in litigation and investigations related to our 340B program, access to insulin, pricing, product safety, and other matters that, if resolved adversely to us, could negatively impact our business and consolidated results of operations. It is not currently possible to predict the overall potential adverse impact to us or the general pharmaceutical industry of continued cost containment efforts worldwide. In addition, regulatory issues concerning compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, quality assurance, safety signals, evolving standards, and increased scrutiny around excipients and potential impurities such as nitrosamines, and similar regulations and standards (and comparable foreign regulations and standards) for our products in some cases lead to regulatory and legal actions, product recalls and seizures, fines and penalties, interruption of production leading to product shortages, import bans or denials of import certifications, inability to realize the benefit of capital expenditures, or delays or denials in new product approvals, line extensions or supplemental approvals of current products pending resolution of the issues, or other negative impacts, any of which result in reputational harm or adversely affect our business. Moreover, increased focus on business combinations across industries and jurisdictions can lead to impediments to the completion of business combinations. See Item 1, "Business—Regulations and Private Payer Actions Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing, Reimbursement, and Access," Item 1A, "Risk Factors," and Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Product Supply We have faced challenges, and expect to continue to face challenges, meeting strong demand for our incretin products. In the U.S., given the strong uptake of Mounjaro, the recent launch of Zepbound, and continuing demand for Trulicity ® , we have experienced intermittent delays in fulfilling certain orders for incretin products. Outside the U.S., we have implemented actions to manage demand amid tight supply, including measures to minimize impact to existing Trulicity patients. We have also progressed efforts to bring tirzepatide to patients via different delivery presentations outside the U.S., such as single-use vials and multi-use pens. We expect to continue to experience disruptions in our supply of incretin products and for demand and supply considerations to influence the timing of tirzepatide launches in new markets, if approved. We anticipate tight supplies of our incretin products will persist while additional manufacturing capacity is operationalized. We expect additional internal and contracted manufacturing capacity will become fully operational around the world in the next several years as part of our ongoing efforts to meet the significant demand for our incretin medicines. For example, in 2023 we began production at our Research Triangle Park site in North Carolina and expect to continue significant capacity expansion over time as we increase production at this site and others. Tax Matters We are subject to income taxes and various other taxes in the U.S. and in many foreign jurisdictions; therefore, changes in both domestic and international tax laws or regulations have affected and may affect our effective tax rate, results of operations, and cash flows. The U.S. and countries around the world are actively proposing and enacting tax law changes. Further, actions taken with respect to tax-related matters by associations such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the European Commission could influence tax laws in countries in which we operate. Tax authorities in the U.S. and other jurisdictions in which we do business routinely examine our tax returns and are expected to increase their scrutiny of cross-border tax issues. Changes to existing U.S. and foreign tax laws and increased scrutiny by tax authorities in the U.S. and other jurisdictions could adversely impact our future consolidated results of operations and cash flows. 45 In response to the OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (Framework), which set forth a two-pillar solution to reform the international tax framework, and the EU's adoption of Directive 2022/2523 (known as "Pillar Two") (Directive) within the EU to implement the Framework, multiple countries, both within and outside of the EU, have enacted legislation that provides for a minimum level of taxation of multinational companies. The Directive required EU member states to enact legislation effective for years beginning on or after December 31, 2023. For certain provisions within the Framework, the OECD published guidance during 2023 that extends the effective dates for enactment. While we expect an increase in future years’ tax expense as a result of the global minimum tax, we do not anticipate a material impact to our 2024 consolidated results of operations. Our assessment of the impact for 2024 and subsequent years could be affected by legislative guidance, future enactment of additional provisions within the Pillar Two framework, and U.S. tax changes scheduled to occur in 2026 as part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (2017 Tax Act). A bipartisan tax bill, the Tax Relief for American Families and Workers Act, was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives in January 2024. The bill contains certain business tax provisions including the retroactive repeal for 2022 and 2023 and deferral of the requirement to capitalize U.S. research and development expenses for tax purposes that was a provision enacted in the 2017 Tax Act. Uncertainty exists as to whether the bill will be enacted into law; however, if the bill is enacted as currently drafted, we would expect our effective tax rate for 2024 to be moderately higher, and a net discrete tax detriment in the quarter of enactment related to 2022 and 2023. In addition, we would expect a decrease in cash tax payments. Acquisitions We invest in external research and technologies that we believe complement and strengthen our own efforts. These investments can take many forms, including acquisitions, collaborations, investments, and licensing arrangements. We view our business development activity as a way to enhance or refine our pipeline and strengthen our business. For investments that were accounted for as asset acquisitions, we paid $3.94 billion in 2023 for acquired IPR&D primarily related to acquisitions of DICE, Versanis, Emergence Therapeutics AG (Emergence), and Mablink Biosciences SAS (Mablink). For investments that were accounted for as business combinations, we paid $1.04 billion in 2023 primarily related to the acquisition of POINT Biopharma Global Inc. (POINT). See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion regarding our recent acquisitions. For discussion of risks related to business development activities, see Item 1A, "Risk Factors—Pharmaceutical research and development is very costly and highly uncertain; we may not succeed in developing, licensing, or acquiring commercially successful products sufficient in number or value to replace revenues of products that have lost or will lose intellectual property protection or are displaced by competing products or therapies." Foreign Currency Exchange Rates As a global company, we face foreign currency risk exposure from fluctuating currency exchange rates, primarily the U.S. dollar against the euro, Japanese yen, and Chinese yuan. While we seek to manage a portion of these exposures through hedging and other risk management techniques, significant fluctuations in currency rates can have a material impact, either positive or negative, on our consolidated results of operations in any given period. There is uncertainty in the future movements in foreign currency exchange rates, and fluctuations in these rates could adversely impact our consolidated results of operations and cash flows. Other Factors Other factors have had, and may continue to have, an impact on our consolidated results of operations. These factors include cost and wage inflation, availability of adequate capacity in global transportation, supply chain and labor market complexities, international tension and conflicts, uneven economic growth or downturns or uncertainty, and an increase in overall demand in our industry for certain products and materials. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors" for additional information on risk factors that could impact our business and operations. 46 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Operating Results—2023 Revenue The following table summarizes our revenue activity by region: Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Percent Change U.S. $ 21,791.0 $ 18,190.0 20 Outside U.S. 12,333.1 10,351.3 19 Revenue $ 34,124.1 $ 28,541.4 20 Numbers may not add due to rounding. The following are components of the change in revenue compared with the prior year: 2023 vs. 2022 U.S. Outside U.S. Consolidated Volume 11 % 25 % 16 % Price 9 % (4) % 4 % Foreign exchange rates — % (1) % — % Percent change 20 % 19 % 20 % Numbers may not add due to rounding. In the U.S. the increase in volume in 2023 was primarily driven by Mounjaro, Verzenio, Jardiance, Trulicity, Taltz ® , and Zepbound and $579.0 million from the sale of the rights for Baqsimi, partially offset by the absence of revenue from COVID-19 antibodies and decreased volume from Alimta following the entry of multiple generics in the first half of 2022. In the U.S. the higher realized prices in 2023 were primarily driven by Mounjaro, due to decreased utilization of savings card programs as access continued to expand, partially offset by Trulicity, due to higher contracted rebates and unfavorable segment mix, as well as changes to estimates for rebates and discounts, and Humalog ® , primarily due to a one-time impact related to the implementation of list price decreases and unfavorable segment mix. Outside the U.S. the increase in volume in 2023 was primarily driven by $1.45 billion from the sale of the rights for the olanzapine portfolio, including Zyprexa, as well as increased volume for Verzenio and Jardiance. Outside the U.S. the lower realized prices in 2023 were primarily driven by a new supply arrangement associated with the sale of the rights for the olanzapine portfolio and lower realized prices from Trulicity, Verzenio, and Humalog. 47 The following table summarizes our revenue, including net product revenue and collaboration and other revenue, by product in 2023 compared with 2022: Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Percent Change Product U.S. Outside U.S. Total Total Trulicity $ 5,433.3 $ 1,699.2 $ 7,132.6 $ 7,439.7 (4) Mounjaro 4,834.2 328.9 5,163.1 482.5 NM Verzenio 2,509.0 1,354.3 3,863.4 2,483.5 56 Taltz 1,831.6 928.0 2,759.6 2,482.0 11 Jardiance (1) 1,600.4 1,144.2 2,744.7 2,066.0 33 Zyprexa (2) 79.4 1,615.4 1,694.8 336.9 NM Humalog (3) 863.2 800.2 1,663.3 2,060.6 (19) Cyramza ® 402.3 572.4 974.7 971.4 — Olumiant ® (4) 225.5 697.2 922.6 830.5 11 Humulin ® 610.1 242.0 852.1 1,019.4 (16) Basaglar ® (5) 443.1 285.2 728.3 760.4 (4) Emgality ® 482.2 196.0 678.3 650.9 4 Baqsimi 645.7 31.9 677.6 139.3 NM Erbitux ® 528.9 67.6 596.5 566.5 5 Forteo ® 335.5 197.7 533.2 613.1 (13) Cialis ® 26.1 355.3 381.5 587.3 (35) Alimta 72.9 144.6 217.5 927.7 (77) Zepbound 175.8 — 175.8 — NM COVID-19 antibodies (6) — — — 2,023.5 NM Other products 691.8 1,673.0 2,364.5 2,100.2 13 Revenue $ 21,791.0 $ 12,333.1 $ 34,124.1 $ 28,541.4 20 Numbers may not add due to rounding. NM - not meaningful (1) Jardiance revenue includes Glyxambi ® , Synjardy ® , and Trijardy ® XR. (2) Zyprexa revenue includes sale of the rights for the olanzapine portfolio. (3) Humalog revenue includes insulin lispro. (4) Olumiant revenue includes sales for baricitinib that were made pursuant to Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) or similar regulatory authorizations. (5) Basaglar revenue includes Rezvoglar ® . (6) COVID-19 antibodies include sales for bamlanivimab administered alone, for bamlanivimab and etesevimab administered together, and for bebtelovimab and were made pursuant to EUAs or similar regulatory authorizations. Revenue of Trulicity decreased 4 percent in the U.S., driven by lower realized prices due to higher contracted rebates and unfavorable segment mix, as well as changes to estimates for rebates and discounts, partially offset by increased demand. We have experienced and continue to expect intermittent delays fulfilling orders of Trulicity. These delays have impacted and are expected to continue to impact volume. Revenue outside the U.S. decreased 3 percent, primarily driven by lower realized prices, partially offset by increased volume. Volumes in international markets continue to be affected by actions we have taken to manage demand amid tight supply, including measures to minimize impact to existing patients. Revenue of Mounjaro in the U.S. in 2023 was $4.83 billion, compared to $366.6 million in 2022 , reflecting higher realized prices due to decreased utilization of savings card programs as access continued to expand and increased demand. We have experienced and continue to expect intermittent delays fulfilling orders of certain Mounjaro doses given significant demand, which has affected and is expected to continue to affect volume. Revenue of Verzenio increased 52 percent in the U.S., driven by increased demand, and, to a lesser extent, higher realized prices. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 63 percent, driven by increased demand, partially offset by lower realized prices and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. 48 Revenue of Taltz increased 6 percent in the U.S., driven by increased demand, partially offset by lower realized prices. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 23 percent, driven by increased volume, partially offset by lower realized prices. Revenue of Jardiance increased 34 percent in the U.S., primarily driven by increased demand. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 31 percent, primarily driven by increased volume. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding our collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim involving Jardiance. There was no worldwide revenue from COVID-19 antibodies in 2023, and we do not anticipate any future revenue from COVID-19 antibodies. Gross Margin, Costs, and Expenses The following table summarizes our gross margin, costs, and expenses: Year Ended December 31, Percent Change 2023 2022 Gross margin $ 27,041.9 $ 21,911.6 23 Gross margin as a percent of revenue 79.2 % 76.8 % Research and development $ 9,313.4 $ 7,190.8 30 Marketing, selling, and administrative 7,403.1 6,440.4 15 Acquired IPR&D 3,799.8 908.5 NM Asset impairment, restructuring, and other special charges 67.7 244.6 (72) Other—net, (income) expense (96.7) 320.9 NM Income taxes 1,314.2 561.6 NM Effective tax rate 20.1 % 8.3 % NM - not meaningful Gross margin as a percent of revenue in 2023 increased 2.4 percentage points compared with 2022, primarily driven by the absence of COVID-19 antibodies sales in 2023, higher realized prices, and the sales of the rights for the olanzapine portfolio and Baqsimi, partially offset by increased manufacturing expenses related to labor costs and investments in capacity expansion. Research and development expenses increased 30 percent in 2023, primarily driven by development expenses for late-stage assets and additional investments in early-stage research. Marketing, selling, and administrative expenses increased 15 percent in 2023, primarily driven by costs associated with launches of new products and indications, as well as compensation and benefits costs. Acquired IPR&D charges recognized in 2023 primarily related to acquisitions of DICE, Versanis, Emergence, and Mablink and from a business development transaction with Beam Therapeutics Inc. Acquired IPR&D charges recognized in 2022 included the buy-out of substantially all future obligations that were contingent upon the occurrence of certain events linked to the success of our mutant-selective PI3kα inhibitor and a purchase of a Priority Review Voucher. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Asset impairment, restructuring, and other special charges recognized in 2022 primarily related to an intangible asset impairment for GBA1 Gene Therapy due to changes in estimated launch timing. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Other—net, (income) expense included net investment losses on equity securities of $20.2 million and $410.7 million for the years ended 2023 and 2022, respectively. See Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Our effective tax rate was 20.1 percent in 2023, compared with an effective tax rate of 8.3 percent in 2022. The higher effective tax rate for 2023 was primarily driven by the tax impacts of non-deductible acquired IPR&D charges, the new Puerto Rico tax regime, and a lower net discrete tax benefit compared to 2022. 49 Operating Results—2022 For a discussion of our results of operations pertaining to 2022 and 2021 see Item 7, "