Management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition is intended to assist the reader in understanding and assessing significant changes and trends related to our company's results of operations and financial position. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." Certain statements in this Item 7 constitute forward-looking statements. Various risks and uncertainties, including those discussed in "Forward-Looking Statements" and Item 1A, "Risk Factors," may cause our actual results, financial position, and cash generated from operations to differ materially from these forward-looking statements. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW This section provides an overview of our financial results, late-stage pipeline developments, and other matters affecting our company and the pharmaceutical industry. Financial Results The following table summarizes our key operating results: Year Ended December 31 Percent Change 2022 2021 Revenue $ 28,541.4 $ 28,318.4 1 Gross margin 21,911.6 21,005.6 4 Gross margin as a percent of revenue 76.8 % 74.2 % Research and development $ 7,190.8 $ 6,930.7 4 Marketing, selling, and administrative 6,440.4 6,431.6 — Acquired in-process research and development (IPR&D) and development milestones 908.5 970.1 (6) Asset impairment, restructuring, and other special charges 244.6 316.1 (23) Other—net, (income) expense 320.9 201.6 59 Net income 6,244.8 5,581.7 12 Earnings per share - diluted 6.90 6.12 13 Revenue increased in 2022 driven by increased volume, largely offset by lower realized prices and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Research and development expenses increased in 2022, driven primarily by higher development expenses for late-stage assets, partially offset by lower development expenses for COVID-19 antibodies and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Marketing, selling, and administrative expenses in 2022 remained relatively flat compared to 2021 as increased costs associated with launches of new products and indications were offset by the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates. 37 The following highlighted items affect comparisons of our 2022 and 2021 financial results: 2022 Acquired IPR&D and Development Milestones (Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements) • We recognized $908.5 million of acquired IPR&D and development milestones that included the buy-out of substantially all future obligations that were contingent upon the occurrence of certain events linked to the success of our mutant-selective PI3kα inhibitor and a purchase of a Priority Review Voucher. Asset Impairment, Restructuring, and Other Special Charges (Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements) • We recognized charges of $244.6 million primarily related to an intangible asset impairment for GBA1 Gene Therapy (PR001) due to changes in estimated launch timing. Other-Net, (Income) Expense (Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements) • We recognized $410.7 million of net investment losses on equity securities. 2021 Cost of Sales (See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements) • We recognized a net inventory impairment charge related to our COVID-19 antibodies of $339.7 million. As part of our response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and at the request of the United States (U.S.) and international governments, we invested in large-scale manufacturing of COVID-19 antibodies at risk, in order to ensure rapid access to patients around the world. As the COVID-19 pandemic evolved during 2021, we incurred a net inventory impairment charge primarily due to the combination of changes to demand from U.S. and international governments, including changes to our agreement with the U.S. government, and near-term expiry dates of COVID-19 antibodies. Acquired IPR&D and Development Milestones (Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements) • We recognized $970.1 million of acquired IPR&D and development milestones that included charges resulting from business development transactions with Foghorn Therapeutics Inc. (Foghorn), Rigel Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Rigel), and Precision Biosciences, Inc. (Precision). Asset Impairment, Restructuring, and Other Special Charges (Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements) • We recognized charges of $316.1 million primarily related to an impairment of a contract-based intangible asset from our acquisition of Loxo Oncology, Inc. (Loxo), an intangible asset impairment resulting from the sale of the rights to Qbrexza ® , as well as acquisition and integration costs associated with the acquisition of Prevail Therapeutics Inc. (Prevail). Other-Net, (Income) Expense (Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements) • We recognized a debt extinguishment loss of $405.2 million related to the repurchase of debt. • We recognized $176.9 million of net investment gains on equity securities. 38 Late-Stage Pipeline Our long-term success depends on our ability to continually discover or acquire, develop, and commercialize innovative new medicines. We currently have approximately 45 new medicine candidates in clinical development or under regulatory review, and a larger number of projects in the discovery phase. The following certain new molecular entities (NMEs) are currently in Phase II or Phase III clinical trials or have been submitted for regulatory review or have received regulatory approval in the U.S., Europe, or Japan. The following table reflects the status of certain NMEs, including certain other developments, up to the time of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K: Compound Indication Status Developments Diabetes Basal Insulin-Fc Type 1 and 2 diabetes Phase III Phase III trials initiated in 2022 and 2023. ANGPTL3 siRNA Cardiovascular disease Phase II Phase II trial initiated in 2022. LP(a) Inhibitor Cardiovascular disease Phase II Phase II trial initiated in 2022. LP(a) siRNA Cardiovascular disease Phase II Phase II trial initiated in 2022. Orforglipron Obesity Phase II Phase II trials were recently completed. Type 2 diabetes Retatrutide Obesity Phase II Phase II trials were recently completed. Type 2 diabetes Immunology Lebrikizumab (1) Atopic dermatitis Submitted Submitted in the U.S. and Europe in 2022. Phase III trials are ongoing. Mirikizumab Ulcerative colitis Submitted Submitted in the U.S., Europe, and Japan in 2022. Crohn's Disease Phase III Phase III trials are ongoing. BTLA MAB Agonist Systemic lupus erythematosus Phase II Phase II trial initiated in 2022. CXCR1/2 Ligands Monoclonal Antibody Hidradenitis suppurativa Phase II Phase II trial is ongoing. Peresolimab Rheumatoid arthritis Phase II Phase II trial is ongoing. Rezpegaldesleukin Systemic lupus erythematosus Phase II Phase II trial is ongoing. 39 Compound Indication Status Developments Neuroscience Donanemab Early Alzheimer's disease Complete Response Letter Granted U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Breakthrough Therapy designation (2) . Submitted in the U.S. in 2022 under the accelerated approval pathway. In January 2023, the FDA issued a complete response letter for the accelerated approval submission. Phase III trials are ongoing. Preclinical Alzheimer's disease Phase III Phase III trial is ongoing. Remternetug Early Alzheimer's disease Phase III Phase III trial initiated in 2022. Solanezumab Preclinical Alzheimer's disease Phase III Phase III trial is ongoing. GBA1 Gene Therapy (PR001) Parkinson's disease Phase II Granted FDA Fast Track designation (3) . Phase II trial is ongoing. GRN Gene Therapy (PR006) Frontotemporal dementia Phase II Granted FDA Fast Track designation (3) . Phase II trial is ongoing. O-GlcNAcase Inh Alzheimer's disease Phase II Phase II trial is ongoing. P2X7 Inhibitor Pain Phase II Phase II trials initiated in 2022. SSTR4 Agonist Pain Phase II Phase II trials are ongoing. TRPA1 Antagonist Pain Phase II Phase II trials are ongoing. Oncology Pirtobrutinib (Jaypirca TM ) Mantle cell lymphoma Approved (4) FDA granted accelerated approval (4) in the U.S. in January 2023. Phase III trial is ongoing. Chronic lymphocytic leukemia Phase III Phase III trials are ongoing. B-cell malignancies Phase II Phase II trial is ongoing. Selpercatinib (Retevmo ® ) Lung cancer Approved (4) Phase III trials are ongoing. Thyroid cancer Approved (4) Phase III trial is ongoing. Imlunestrant Adjuvant Breast Cancer Phase III Phase III trial initiated in 2022. ER+HER2- metastatic breast cancer Phase III Phase III trial is ongoing. (1) In collaboration with Almirall, S.A. in Europe. (2) Breakthrough Therapy designation is designed to expedite the development and review of potential medicines that are intended to treat a serious condition where preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the treatment may demonstrate substantial improvement over available therapy on a clinically significant endpoint. (3) Fast Track designation is designed to facilitate the development and expedite the review of medicines to treat serious conditions and fill an unmet medical need. (4) Continued approval may be contingent on verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory Phase III trials. 40 Our pipeline also contains several new indication line extension (NILEX) products. The following certain NILEX products for use in the indication described are currently in Phase II or Phase III clinical trials or have been submitted for regulatory review or have received regulatory approval in the U.S., Europe, or Japan. The following table reflects the status of certain NILEX products, including certain other developments, up to the time of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K: Compound Indication Status Developments Diabetes Empagliflozin (Jardiance ® ) (1) Chronic kidney disease Submitted Granted FDA Fast Track designation (2) . Submitted in the U.S. and Europe in January 2023. Tirzepatide (Mounjaro ® ) Obesity Submission initiated Granted FDA Fast Track designation (2) in 2022. Initiated a rolling submission in the U.S. in 2022. Phase III trials are ongoing. Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction Phase III Phase III trials are ongoing. Obstructive sleep apnea Phase III Phase III trial initiated in 2022. Granted FDA Fast Track designation (2) in 2022. Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis Phase II Phase II trial is ongoing. Oncology Abemaciclib (Verzenio ® ) Prostate cancer Phase III Phase III trials are ongoing. (1) In collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim. (2) Fast Track designation is designed to facilitate the development and expedite the review of medicines to treat serious conditions and fill an unmet medical need. There are many difficulties and uncertainties inherent in pharmaceutical research and development and the introduction of new products, as well as a high rate of failure inherent in new drug discovery and development. To bring a drug from the discovery phase to market can take over a decade and often costs in excess of $2 billion. Failure can occur at any point in the process, including in later stages after substantial investment. As a result, most funds invested in research programs will not generate financial returns. New product candidates that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or may have only limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, inability to obtain or maintain necessary regulatory approvals or payer reimbursement or coverage, the application of pricing controls, limited scope of approved uses, label changes, changes in the relevant treatment standards or the availability of new or better competitive products, difficulty or excessive costs to manufacture, or infringement of the patents or intellectual property rights of others. Regulatory agencies establish high hurdles for the efficacy and safety of new products and indications. Delays, uncertainties, unpredictabilities, and inconsistencies in drug approval processes across markets and agencies can result in delays in product launches and lost market opportunity. In addition, it can be very difficult to predict revenue growth rates of or variability in demand for new products and indications. We manage research and development spending across our portfolio of potential new medicines. A delay in, or termination of, any one project will not necessarily cause a significant change in our total research and development spending. Due to the risks and uncertainties involved in the research and development process, we cannot reliably estimate the nature, timing, and costs of the efforts necessary to complete the development of our research and development projects, nor can we reliably estimate the future potential revenue that will be generated from any successful research and development project. Each project represents only a portion of the overall pipeline, and none is individually material to our consolidated research and development expense. While we do accumulate certain research and development costs on a project level for internal reporting purposes, we must make significant cost estimations and allocations, some of which rely on data that are neither reproducible nor validated through accepted control mechanisms. Therefore, we do not have sufficiently reliable data to report on total research and development costs by project, by preclinical versus clinical spend, or by therapeutic category. 41 Other Matters Patent Matters We depend on patents or other forms of intellectual property protection for most of our revenue, cash flows, and earnings. Following the expiration of patent exclusivity for Alimta ® in Europe and Japan in June 2021, we have faced generic competition that has rapidly and severely eroded revenue from prior levels, and we expect such competition will continue to erode revenues from current levels in these markets. In addition, as a result of the entry of multiple generics in the U.S. following the expiration of patent and pediatric exclusivity in the first half of 2022, we began facing, and expect to continue to face, generic competition that has rapidly and severely eroded revenue from prior levels, and we expect will continue to erode revenue from current levels. This decline in revenue will continue to impact period-over-period financial results comparisons, particularly during the first half of 2023. See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of legal proceedings currently pending regarding certain of our patents. Our compound patents for Humalog ® (insulin lispro) have expired in the U.S. and major international markets, and we have also introduced lower-priced versions of Humalog as part of our insulin access and affordability solutions. A competitor has a similar version of insulin lispro in the U.S. and in certain European markets. Due to the impact of competition and pricing pressure in the U.S. and certain international markets, we expect that lower revenue for Humalog due to realized price decline will continue over time. Trends Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing, Reimbursement, and Access Reforms, including those that may stem from periods of economic downturn or uncertainty, or as a result of high inflation, emergence or escalation of, and responses to, war or unrest (including the Russia-Ukraine war), or government budgeting priorities (including as exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic), may continue to result in added pressure on pricing and reimbursement for our products. Global concern over access to and affordability of pharmaceutical products continues to drive regulatory and legislative debate and action, as well as worldwide cost containment efforts by governmental authorities. Such measures include the use of mandated discounts, price reporting requirements, mandated reference prices, restrictive formularies, changes to available intellectual property protections, as well as other efforts. In August 2022, the U.S. government enacted the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (IRA). Among other measures, the IRA will require the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to effectively set prices for certain single-source drugs and biologics reimbursed under Medicare Part B and Part D. Generally, these government prices apply nine (medicines approved under a New Drug Application) or thirteen (medicines approved under a Biologics License Application) years following initial FDA approval and will be capped at a statutory ceiling price that is likely to represent a significant discount from average prices to wholesalers and direct purchasers. It is too soon to tell how the U.S. government will set these prices as the law specifies a ceiling price, but not a minimum or floor price. One or more of our significant products may be selected, which would have the effect of accelerating revenue erosion prior to patent expiry. The effect of reducing prices and reimbursement for certain of our products would significantly impact our business and consolidated results of operations. The establishment of payment limits or other restrictions by drug affordability review boards and other state level actors would similarly impact us. Other IRA provisions provide for rebate obligations on drug manufacturers that increase prices of Medicare Part B and Part D medicines at a rate greater than the rate of inflation and Part D benefit redesign that includes replacing the Part D coverage gap discount program with a new manufacturer discounting program. Manufacturers that fail to comply with the IRA may be subject to various penalties, including civil monetary penalties, which could be significant. The IRA takes effect progressively starting in 2023, with the first government-set prices effective in 2026. The IRA may meaningfully influence our business strategies and those of our competitors. In particular, the nine-year timeline to set prices for medicines approved under a new drug application may reduce the attractiveness of investment in small molecule innovation. The implications to us of a competitor's product being selected for price setting are also uncertain. Provisions of the IRA may be subject to legal challenges or other reformation, and the full impact of the IRA on our business and the pharmaceutical industry remains uncertain. 42 Additional policies, regulations, legislation, or enforcement, including those proposed and/or pursued by the U.S. Congress, the current U.S. presidential administration, and regulatory authorities worldwide, could adversely impact our business and consolidated results of operations. Consolidation and integration of private payors and pharmacy benefit managers in the U.S. has also significantly impacted the market for pharmaceuticals by increasing payor leverage in negotiating manufacturer price or rebate concessions and pharmacy reimbursement rates. Furthermore, restrictive or unfavorable pricing, coverage, or reimbursement determinations for our medicines or product candidates by governments, regulatory agencies, courts, or private payers, such as the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services' national coverage determination for monoclonal antibodies for the treatment of Alzheimer's Disease, may adversely impact our business and consolidated results of operations. We expect that these actions may intensify and could particularly affect certain products, such as insulin, as governments manage and emerge from the COVID-19 pandemic, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, we are engaged in litigation and investigations related to our 340B program and access to insulin that, if resolved adversely to us, could negatively impact our business and consolidated results of operations. It is not currently possible to predict the overall potential adverse impact to us or the general pharmaceutical industry of continued cost containment efforts worldwide. In addition, regulatory issues concerning compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, quality assurance, evolving standards, and increased scrutiny around excipients and potential impurities such as nitrosamines, and similar regulations and standards (and comparable foreign regulations and standards) for our products can lead to regulatory and legal actions, product recalls and seizures, fines and penalties, interruption of production leading to product shortages, import bans or denials of import certifications, delays or denials in new product approvals or line extensions or supplemental approvals of current products pending resolution of the issues, and reputational harm, any of which would adversely affect our business. Moreover, increased focus on business combinations across industries and jurisdictions can lead to impediments to the completion of business combinations. See Item 1, "Business—Regulations and Private Payer Actions Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing, Reimbursement, and Access" and Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Product Supply We have faced challenges, and expect to continue to face challenges, meeting strong demand for our incretin products, including due to the limited and fluctuating availability of competitor therapies. In the U.S., given very strong uptake of Mounjaro following its launch in the U.S. for type 2 diabetes in the second quarter of 2022, and as demand for Trulicity ® has remained strong, we have experienced intermittent delays in fulfilling certain U.S. orders for these products. Outside the U.S., we have implemented certain actions to minimize the impact on existing Trulicity patients, but we expect to continue to experience intermittent disruptions in our supply of Trulicity in international markets. We anticipate tight supplies of our incretin products will persist until additional manufacturing capacity is operationalized. We expect additional internal and contracted manufacturing capacity will become fully operational around the world in the next several years, with significant expansion in 2023, as part of our ongoing efforts to meet the significant demand for our incretin medicines. Tax Matters We are subject to income taxes and various other taxes in the U.S. and in many foreign jurisdictions; therefore, changes in both domestic and international tax laws or regulations have affected and may affect our effective tax rate, results of operations, and cash flows. In 2017, the U.S. enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the 2017 Tax Act), which contained a provision that requires capitalization and amortization of research and development expenses for tax purposes starting in 2022. Previously, these expenses could be deducted in the year incurred. The implementation of this provision increased our cash payments of income taxes by approximately $1.20 billion in 2022. While the implementation of this provision will continue to increase our cash payments of income taxes, the increase will moderately decrease from 2022 levels over the five-year amortization period. 43 The U.S. and countries around the world are actively proposing and enacting tax law changes. Further, actions taken with respect to tax-related matters by associations such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the European Commission could influence tax laws in countries in which we operate. Tax authorities in the U.S. and other jurisdictions in which we do business routinely examine our tax returns and are intensifying their scrutiny and examinations of profit allocations among jurisdictions. Changes to existing U.S. and foreign tax laws and increased scrutiny by tax authorities in the U.S. and other jurisdictions could adversely impact our future consolidated results of operations and cash flows. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates and Other Impacts As a global company, we face foreign currency risk exposure from fluctuating currency exchange rates, primarily the U.S. dollar against the euro, Japanese yen, and Chinese yuan. While we seek to manage a portion of these exposures through hedging and other risk management techniques, significant fluctuations in currency rates can have a material impact, either positive or negative, on our consolidated results of operations in any given period. During the year ended December 31, 2022, revenue was unfavorably impacted by 3 percent due to foreign exchange rates. While there is uncertainty in the future movements in foreign exchange rates, fluctuations in these rates have, and we currently expect in the near-term future will, adversely impact our consolidated results of operations and cash flows. In addition, cost inflation, the strain on global transportation, logistics, and labor markets (including as exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic and the emergence or escalation of, and responses to, war or unrest, including the Russia-Ukraine war), global economic downturns or uncertainty, and an increase in overall demand in our industry for certain products and materials have had, and may continue to have, a number of impacts on our business, including increased costs and disruptions in the supply of our medicines. Acquisitions We invest in external research and technologies that we believe complement and strengthen our own efforts. These investments can take many forms, including acquisitions, collaborations, investments, and licensing arrangements. We view our business development activity as a way to enhance our pipeline and strengthen our business. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion regarding our recent acquisitions. COVID-19 Pandemic As the COVID-19 pandemic evolves, we remain focused on protecting the health, safety, and well-being of our employees; supporting the medical system and our communities; and affordability of and access to our medicines. At the outset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we also focused on researching, developing, and supplying COVID-19 therapies, although we do not currently expect significant further revenue attributable to treatments for COVID-19. The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted and may continue to adversely impact our business and operations across markets to varying and fluctuating degrees, including as a result of cost inflation and strain on the global transportation, manufacturing, and labor markets, fewer in-person interactions among patients and healthcare providers and our employees with healthcare professionals in certain markets, pricing pressures, rebates, clawbacks, and other changes in reimbursement policies resulting from the financial strain of the COVID-19 pandemic on government-funded healthcare systems, and risks related to our COVID-19 therapies. The degree to which the COVID-19 pandemic could continue to affect us will depend on developments that are highly uncertain and beyond our knowledge or control. For additional information, see Item 1A, "Risk Factors—Risk Related to Our Business—Public health outbreaks, epidemics, or pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, have adversely impacted and may in the future adversely impact our business and operations." See Item 1A, "Risk Factors" for additional information on risk factors that could impact our business and operations. 44 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Operating Results—2022 Revenue The following table summarizes our revenue activity by region: Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 Percent Change U.S. $ 18,190.0 $ 16,811.0 8 Outside U.S. 10,351.3 11,507.4 (10) Revenue $ 28,541.4 $ 28,318.4 1 Numbers may not add due to rounding. The following are components of the change in revenue compared with the prior year: 2022 vs. 2021 U.S. Outside U.S. Consolidated Volume 11 % 9 % 10 % Price (3) % (10) % (6) % Foreign exchange rates — % (8) % (3) % Percent change 8 % (10) % 1 % Numbers may not add due to rounding. In the U.S. the increase in volume in 2022 was primarily driven by Trulicity, Verzenio, Jardiance, Mounjaro, and Taltz ® , partially offset by decreased volume for Alimta, following the entry of multiple generics in the first half of 2022. In the U.S. the decrease in realized prices was primarily driven by Humalog, due to a list price reduction of insulin lispro injection and unfavorable segment mix, and Trulicity and Basaglar ® , due to unfavorable segment mix and higher contracted rebates. In addition, the decrease in realized prices of Humalog was partially offset by changes to estimates for rebates and discounts in 2021. Outside the U.S. the increase in volume in 2022 was primarily driven by Verzenio, Trulicity, Jardiance, Tyvyt ® , and Taltz, partially offset by a decrease in volume due to generic competition for Alimta and Cymbalta ® and decreased utilization of COVID-19 antibodies. The decrease in realized prices outside the U.S. was primarily driven by the impact of government pricing in China from National Reimbursement Drug List (NRDL) formulary for certain products, particularly Tyvyt and Verzenio, and volume-based procurement (VBP) for Humalog. 45 The following table summarizes our revenue activity in 2022 compared with 2021: Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 Percent Change Product U.S. Outside U.S. Total Total Trulicity $ 5,688.8 $ 1,750.9 $ 7,439.7 $ 6,471.9 15 Verzenio 1,653.2 830.3 2,483.5 1,349.9 84 Taltz 1,724.6 757.4 2,482.0 2,212.8 12 Jardiance (1) 1,194.5 871.5 2,066.0 1,490.8 39 Humalog (2) 1,191.9 868.7 2,060.6 2,453.0 (16) COVID-19 antibodies (3) 2,008.9 14.7 2,023.5 2,239.3 (10) Humulin ® 730.2 289.2 1,019.4 1,222.6 (17) Cyramza ® 351.4 620.0 971.4 1,033.0 (6) Alimta 543.7 384.0 927.7 2,061.4 (55) Olumiant ®(4) 148.2 682.3 830.5 1,115.1 (26) Basaglar 470.7 289.7 760.4 892.5 (15) Emgality ® 462.8 188.1 650.9 577.2 13 Forteo ® 367.3 245.8 613.1 801.9 (24) Cialis ® 35.2 552.1 587.3 718.4 (18) Erbitux ® 500.1 66.4 566.5 548.3 3 Mounjaro 366.6 115.9 482.5 — NM Zyprexa ® 30.4 306.5 336.9 430.3 (22) Tyvyt — 293.3 293.3 418.1 (30) Cymbalta 33.7 249.6 283.3 581.5 (51) Other products 687.8 974.9 1,662.9 1,700.4 (2) Revenue $ 18,190.0 $ 10,351.3 $ 28,541.4 $ 28,318.4 1 Numbers may not add due to rounding. NM - Not meaningful (1) Jardiance revenue includes Glyxambi ® , Synjardy ® , and Trijardy ® XR. (2) Humalog revenue includes insulin lispro. (3) COVID-19 antibodies include sales for bamlanivimab administered alone, for bamlanivimab and etesevimab administered together, and for bebtelovimab and were made pursuant to Emergency Use Authorizations (EUAs) or similar regulatory authorizations. (4) Olumiant revenue includes sales for baricitinib that were made pursuant to EUA or similar regulatory authorizations. Revenue of Trulicity increased 16 percent in the U.S., driven by increased demand, partially offset by lower realized prices due to unfavorable segment mix and higher contracted rebates. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 12 percent, driven by increased volume, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates and, to a lesser extent, lower realized prices. We experienced intermittent delays in fulfilling certain U.S. Trulicity orders during the second half of 2022. Actions to manage strong demand across our incretin portfolio, including measures to minimize existing patient impact in international markets, also affected volume in 2022. Revenue of Verzenio increased 98 percent in the U.S., primarily driven by increased demand. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 61 percent, driven by increased demand, partially offset by lower realized prices primarily due to the impact of the NRDL formulary in China and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Revenue of Taltz increased 12 percent in the U.S., driven by increased demand, partially offset by lower realized prices. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 13 percent, driven by increased volume, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates and lower realized prices. Revenue of Jardiance increased 48 percent in the U.S., primarily driven by increased demand. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 28 percent, primarily driven by increased demand, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding our collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim involving Jardiance. 46 Revenue of Humalog decreased 10 percent in the U.S., primarily driven by lower realized prices due to a list price reduction of insulin lispro injection and unfavorable segment mix, partially offset by changes to estimates for rebates and discounts in 2021. Revenue outside the U.S. decreased 23 percent, primarily driven by lower realized prices due to the impact of VBP in China and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Due to the impact of competition and pricing pressure in the U.S. and certain international markets, we expect that lower revenue for Humalog due to realized price decline will continue over time. See "—Executive Overview—Other Matters—Patent Matters" for additional information. Revenue of COVID-19 antibodies was $2.01 billion in the U.S. during the year ended December 31, 2022, primarily due to bebtelovimab supplied to the U.S. government. COVID-19 antibodies are not currently authorized for emergency use in the U.S. We do not currently expect significant further revenue attributable to the treatment of COVID-19. Revenue of Alimta decreased 56 percent in the U.S., primarily driven by decreased demand due to the entry of multiple generics in the first half of 2022. Revenue outside the U.S. decreased 54 percent, primarily driven by decreased demand due to generic competition. Following the expiration of patent exclusivity for Alimta in Europe and Japan in June 2021, we have faced generic competition that has rapidly and severely eroded revenue from prior levels, and we expect such competition will continue to erode revenues from current levels in these markets. In addition, as a result of the entry of multiple generics in the U.S. following the expiration of patent and pediatric exclusivity in the first half of 2022, we began facing, and expect to continue to face, generic competition that has rapidly and severely eroded revenue from prior levels, and we expect will continue to erode revenue from current levels. See "—Executive Overview—Other Matters—Patent Matters" for additional information. 47 Gross Margin, Costs, and Expenses Gross margin as a percent of revenue was 76.8 percent in 2022, an increase of 2.6 percentage points compared with 2021, primarily driven by a net inventory impairment charge related to our COVID-19 antibodies recognized in 2021 and the unfavorable effect of foreign exchange rates on international inventories sold in 2021. Additionally, in 2022, favorable product mix, including the impact of lower sales of COVID-19 antibodies and Olumiant for the treatment of COVID-19, were offset by lower realized prices and increased expenses due to inflation and logistics costs. Research and development expenses increased 4 percent to $7.19 billion in 2022, driven primarily by higher development expenses for late-stage assets, partially offset by lower development expenses for COVID-19 antibodies and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Marketing, selling, and administrative expenses remained relatively flat at $6.44 billion in 2022, as increased costs associated with launches of new products and indications were offset by the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates. We have undertaken compensatory actions to improve retention and address wage inflation, which will increase compensation costs and impact our consolidated results of operations. We recognized acquired IPR&D and development milestones of $908.5 million in 2022 that included the buy-out of substantially all future obligations that were contingent upon the occurrence of certain events linked to the success of our mutant-selective PI3kα inhibitor and a purchase of a Priority Review Voucher. We recognized acquired IPR&D and development milestones of $970.1 million in 2021 that included charges resulting from business development transactions with Foghorn, Rigel, and Precision. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. We recognized asset impairment, restructuring, and other special charges of $244.6 million in 2022, primarily related to an intangible asset impairment for GBA1 Gene Therapy (PR001) due to changes in estimated launch timing. We recognized asset impairment, restructuring, and other special charges of $316.1 million in 2021, primarily related to an impairment of a contract-based intangible asset from our acquisition of Loxo, an intangible asset impairment resulting from the sale of the rights to Qbrexza, as well as acquisition and integration costs associated with the acquisition of Prevail. Other—net, (income) expense was expense of $320.9 million in 2022, primarily driven by net investment losses on equity securities. Other—net, (income) expense was expense of $201.6 million in 2021, primarily driven by a debt extinguishment loss of $405.2 million related to the repurchase of debt, partially offset by net investment gains on equity securities. Our effective tax rate was 8.3 percent in 2022, reflecting the favorable tax impact of the implementation of a provision in the 2017 Tax Act that requires capitalization and amortization of research and development expenses for tax purposes starting in 2022, partially offset by the tax impact of the mix of earnings in higher tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate was 9.3 percent in 2021, reflecting the favorable tax impacts of acquired IPR&D and development milestone charges, net investment gains on equity securities, and a net discrete tax benefit. Operating Results—2021 For a discussion of our results of operations pertaining to 2021 and 2020 see Item 7, "