Q4 2018 Earnings Call

Operator
Good day. My name is Shelby, and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like
to welcome everyone to the Medtronic Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All lines have
been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will
be a question-and-answer session. Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over Mr. `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President-Investor Relations, Vice President, Investor Relations.
Please go ahead, sir.
`Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President-Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you, Shelby. Good morning, and welcome to Medtronic's fourth quarter conference
call and webcast. During the next hour, Omar Ishrak, Medtronic Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer; and Karen Parkhill, Medtronic Chief Financial Officer, will provide comments on the results
of our fourth quarter and fiscal year 2018, which ended on April 27, 2018. After our prepared
remarks, we will be happy to take your questions.
First, a few logistical comments. Earlier this morning, we issued a press release containing our
financial statements and a revenue-by-division summary. We also issued an earnings presentation
that provides additional details on our performance and outlook. During this earnings call, many
of the statements made may be considered forward-looking statements and actual results may
differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. Additional information
concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ is contained in our periodic reports and
other filings that we make with the SEC, and we do not undertake to update any forward-looking
statement.In addition, the reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures are available on our website,
investorrelations.medtronic.com. References to quarterly results increasing or decreasing are in
comparison to the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, and references to annual results increasing
or decreasing are in comparison to fiscal year 2017. References to organic revenue growth
exclude the impact of material acquisitions, divestitures and currency. References to pro forma
exclude the impact of material divestitures.
Unless we say otherwise, quarterly and annual rates and ranges are given on a comparable
constant currency basis, which adjusts for material divestitures as well as the impact of foreign
currency. All of these adjustment details can be found in the reconciliation tables included with our
earnings press release. Finally, other than as noted, our EPS growth and guidance does not
include any charges or gains that would be reported as non-GAAP adjustments to earnings during
the fiscal year.
With that, I'm now pleased to turn the call over to Medtronic Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer, Omar Ishrak.
`Omar S. Ishrak, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Good morning, and thank you, Ryan, and thank you to everyone for joining us. I'm pleased to
announce that this morning we reported strong fourth quarter financial results. Revenues grew
6.5% organic, coming in 100 basis points above the high end of our guidance range. This marks
the second straight quarter of 6.5% organic top line growth, enabling us to more than overcome
a very tough first half of the year.
Q4 non-GAAP operating profit grew 8% pro forma and 9% adjusted for currency, while non-GAAP
diluted EPS grew 14% and 15%, respectively. The operating margin expanded 80 basis points pro
forma constant currency, and as we enter FY 2019, currency at current rates looks to be a tailwind
to both margins and earnings for the first time in years.
For the full fiscal year 2018, revenue of $30 billion grew 4.6% organically, with a further 40 basis
points from acquisitions. Non-GAAP diluted EPS grew 9% pro forma and 10% constant currency.
The second half of the year was particularly strong, overcoming several first-half challenges,
including an IT disruption, multiple hurricanes, fires in Santa Rosa and supply constraints in
Diabetes.
Despite all of this, we recovered well and came in at the high end of both the revenue and the
EPS guidance we established at the start of the year. We also continued to drive margin
expansion, reduced debt leverage and returned $4.3 billion to shareholders.
We made significant progress against each of our growth strategies. In therapy innovation, we
executed a number of meaningful product launches and advanced a pipeline of increasingly
groundbreaking medical technology, recreating new markets, disrupting existing markets and
leading in several of the fastest-growth markets in medtech.
In globalization, we continue to lead our industry in expanding access into markets around the
world, including delivering another year of double-digit growth in emerging markets. In the
economic value, we continue to develop new partnerships and business models to accelerate
adoption of our innovative therapies.
Our ability to overcome multiple challenges to deliver the level that we did in the second half of
the year reflects the dedication of our 86,000 employees around the world, each of whom makea difference to benefit patients and fulfill the Medtronic mission. In FY 2018, together with our
physician partners, we served over 71 million patients or more than two patients every second.
In the fourth quarter, each of our operating groups delivered strong results with mid-single-digit
revenue growth in CVG, MITG and RTG, and over 20% growth in Diabetes. Geographically, it was
a strong diversified performance, with 5.3% growth in the U.S. and 4.6% growth in non-U.S.
developed markets, including 4.4% growth in Western Europe and 5.5% growth in Japan. We also
had a strong finish to the year with 15.5% growth in emerging markets.
At the same time, we expanded our operating margin and delivered 290 basis points of
operating leverage. This helped EPS growth of 14% pro forma and 15% constant currency. As we
look to FY 2019 and beyond, we have increasing confidence in our ability to deliver operating
leverage and margin expansion as a result of our Enterprise Excellence Program, which is now
fully underway.
Looking now at our group results in the quarter, our Cardiac and Vascular Group grew 5.4%,
delivering sustained growth by leveraging the breadth of its products and services, as well as its
strong positions in important rapidly-expanding markets.
In Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure, we had a very good quarter in Pacing, with high-single-digit
growth driven by the continued rollout of our Micra Transcatheter Pacing System, as well as the
recent launch of the Azure next generation family of pacemakers. We also continue to see strong
growth in Infection Control, AF Solutions and our Mechanical Circulatory Support business.
Coronary & Structural Heart delivered impressive 12.8% growth, driven by the rollout of our
Resolute Onyx drug-eluting stent in the U.S. and Japan, as well as low-20s growth in the
transcatheter aortic valves. This was driven by continued strong global demand for our Evolut
PRO valve and expanded indications in the U.S., which has resulted in above-market levels of
growth for the past five quarters.
In addition, during this past quarter, we received approval for our global pivotal trial of Symplicity
Spyral, a new therapy for treatment-resistant hypertension. With its innovative, adaptive Bayesian
trial design, which leverages prior enrollments in our previously reported OFF MED clinical study
cohort, patient enrollment is now well underway. Positive results of our Symplicity Spyral ON MED
clinical trial were presented yesterday at the EuroPCR Meeting in Paris, validating the role this
therapy can have in patients with treatment-resistant hypertension as an adjunct to medical
therapy.
Our Minimally Invasive Therapies Group grew 4.8%, led by 5.9% growth in Surgical Innovations,
with strength in Advanced Stapling and Advanced Energy as we capitalized on the conversion of
surgical procedures from open to minimally invasive; our innovative products improving outcomes
and driving growth, including our Signia-powered surgical stapling system, which uses our Tri-
Staple 2.0 reloads, as well as our Valleylab FT10 energy platform and new iterations of our
LigaSure vessel sealing instruments.
Our Restorative Therapies Group grew 6.1% this quarter, its best quarter of organic growth since
we established the group eight years ago. This is despite the well-known challenges in the Spine
market and reflects strong execution and robust growth, in particular in our Brain and Pain
divisions.
In Brain Therapies, we are leading the development of the endovascular therapy market for the
treatment of ischemic stroke resulting in high-teens growth in Neurovascular. We also had a great
quarter in Neurosurgery with low-double digit growth reflecting strong demand for ourStealthStation S8 navigation system, the Mazor X robotic guidance system for spine surgery and
our Visualase MRI-guided laser ablation system.
In Pain Therapies, the turnaround is officially underway with back to back quarters of strong
growth. Our Spinal Cord Stimulation business grew mid-teens this quarter, including high-teens in
the U.S. We're seeing great acceptance of our new offerings in Spinal Cord Stim, including our
Intellis stimulator, our evolved workflow algorithm and our Snapshot reporting. This is a dramatic
turnaround for a business that declined in the mid-single digits in FY 2017 and low-double digits in
the first half of this year.
In Spine, we grew 1%, better than the global market, which we estimate is slightly declining. We're
seeing emerging strength in our differentiated Spine products and procedures, including high-
single digit growth in BMP and OLIF, strong double-digit growth in PRESTIGE LP Cervical Discs and
strong customer adoption of our new SOLERA VOYAGER 5.5/6.0 fixation system and ARTiC-L
3D-printed titanium cage.
In addition, when coupling our Spine revenue with the Spine enabling technologies that are
reported in our Neurosurgery business, our combined revenue grew 2.7%. We believe this is a
more relevant comparison of our Spine results against our competition and an indication that our
Surgical Synergy strategy is working and driving our overall growth in Spine procedures.
Diabetes had a very strong finish to the year, with low-20s growth, driven by U.S. patient demand
for our MiniMed 670G hybrid closed loop system. We now have over 70,000 trained active users
in our 670G system, and we continue to get positive feedback with real-world results in line with
our pivotal study data. Importantly, we have completed upgrades to our sensor manufacturing
lines and now have capacity to meet expected global demand going forward.
Outside the U.S., we continue to see strong demand for our 640G system. We experienced
another quarter of strong performance in Europe and recently received regulatory approval for
the 640G in Japan. All of this led to our IIM division growing in the mid-20s internationally.
Based on the strength of the 6 series system, IIM share grew sequentially to 70% of all durable
and consumable pumps globally. In addition, our sensor attachment rates continue to increase as
we shift our customer base from standalone pumps to sensor-augmented systems. As this
happens, our business is seeing an increasing revenue mix from CGM sensors, which creates a
strong consistent annuity stream for our Diabetes Group.
We're also excited about our entry into the $1 billion standalone CGM market with our Guardian
Connect system. As our sensor capacity increased, we ramped up our commercial efforts for this
product in Europe this quarter and expect to continue commercial expansion into the new fiscal
year.
In the U.S., we recently received FDA approval for Guardian Connect and intend to start our
broad launch in the first quarter. Guardian Connect is the only standalone sensor that transmits
directly to a smartphone. It features unique predictive alerts and in the U.S. will utilize Sugar.IQ,
which is based on the cognitive computing capability of IBM Watson to detect important patterns
and trends for people with diabetes.
Turning now to our globalization growth strategy, emerging markets, which represent 15% of our
revenue, grew 15.5%. It is important to point out that it is not just one market driving growth but
several and reflects our broad diversification. Latin America, the Middle East and Africa, Eastern
Europe and China all grew double digits in the fourth quarter.China, our largest emerging market, grew 12.7% in the fourth quarter and finished the year with
over $1.8 billion in revenue. This is a significant increase from the less than $0.5 billion of revenue
in the region when I joined Medtronic seven years ago. Our differentiated strategies of public and
private partnerships, optimizing the distribution channel and driving local manufacturing and R&D
are making a difference not only in China but in our emerging markets around the world. We're
investing to build strong leading businesses in emerging markets as we continue to collectively
represent the single largest opportunity in medtech.
Our remaining growth strategy, economic value, is an accelerator for therapy innovation and
globalization strategies. We continue to make progress in creating new value-based business
models that directly link our therapies to improving outcomes. With our direct related value-
based health care arrangements, we now have over 1,100 hospitals under contract, covering over
30% of our U.S. CRHF implantables revenue, helping to drive sequential market share gains in
ICDs and CRT. This is one of the reasons why our performance in CRHF has been better than the
Street was expecting six to nine months back. The other reason is innovation, where we lead the
development of several important and often disruptive technologies such as Micra.
Finally, I want you to know that across Medtronic, execution is our top priority. You've seen that in
our results in the past two quarters, in our resurgence following a string of challenges in the first
half of the year, and in our ongoing commitment to cost management that began by achieving
our Covidien cost synergies and is now being extended into our Enterprise Excellence initiative.
We know there's much work to be done, but we're excited and optimistic, as our direction is
clear, our pipeline is full and our team has never been stronger.
With that, let me ask Karen to now take you through a discussion of our fourth quarter financials.
Karen?
`Karen L. Parkhill, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Thank you, Omar. As mentioned, our fourth quarter revenue of $8.144 billion represented a 2.9%
increase as reported and organic growth of 6.5%. Foreign currency had a positive $315 million
impact on fourth quarter revenue. GAAP diluted earnings per share were $1.07. Non-GAAP
earnings per share were $1.42. After adjusting for the divestiture, non-GAAP diluted EPS grew 14%
pro forma and 15% constant currency.
The operating margin for the quarter was 30.2%, representing an 80-basis-point improvement
on a pro forma constant currency basis. Gross margin was down 50 basis points, reflecting our
sales mix in the quarter. The impact of mix on our gross margin this quarter was more than offset
by 150-basis-point improvement in SG&A on a pro forma constant currency basis, reflecting our
companywide initiatives on expense leverage.
Net other expense, which is included in our operating margin, was $188 million. This was slightly
higher than expected, primarily due to mark-to-market on some of our investments. Foreign
exchange in total had 160-basis-point negative impact on our operating margin in the quarter,
primarily due to the year-over-year change in currency gains and losses related to our hedging
program. But the good news is that based on current rates, we expect the currency headwind
that plagued us for several quarters on the operating margin, to turn into a tailwind in fiscal 2019
starting in the first quarter.
Our fourth quarter non-GAAP nominal tax rate was 14.9%, slightly better than expected, given
favorable IRS audit resolutions. Fourth quarter average daily shares outstanding on a non-GAAP
diluted basis were 1.366 billion shares. As expected, this was roughly flat sequentially. Combiningover the same period, our total payout ratio was 65% on non-GAAP net income and 118% on free
cash flow.
Free cash flow for fiscal 2018 was $4.7 billion, above our prior guidance range and after adjusting
for a $1.1 billion prepayment to the IRS related to our Puerto Rico tax litigation. While the litigation
is still in process, given our access to cash post tax reform, we elected to put as much of this
potential $1.5 billion liability as possible behind us. By prepaying, we were also able to stop the
accrual of significant interests.
In the quarter, we reduced debt by approximately $3 billion, allowing us now to focus on other
capital allocation priorities going forward. Given U.S. tax reforms, we will be continuing the
liquidation of some of our investments overseas. Note that this will negatively impact interest
income, but it will enable increasing access over the next several quarters to our formerly
trapped cash on our balance sheet. We intend to put this cash to work by investing in our
business and returning to our shareholders.
Now, looking at the picture ahead, for fiscal year 2019, we expect organic revenue growth to be
in the range of 4% to 4.5%. By business group, we expect CVG, MITG and RTG to grow 4% plus
or minus, with CVG likely on the minus side, given the anniversary of major product launches in
Coronary & Structural Heart; and MITG and RTG to be more in line with the 4%. We expect
Diabetes to grow in the low double digit, with a stronger first half off of low comparisons.
For the first quarter, we expect total company revenue to be consistent with our guidance for the
year. In addition to CVG, we expect MITG to be on the minus side of the full year, given more
difficult comparisons from endo stapling and capital sales, offset by more robust growth from
Diabetes with continued 670G strength.
Turning to margins, we expect operating margin expansion in fiscal year 2019 of approximately
50 basis points on a pro forma constant currency basis, driven by our Enterprise Excellence
initiative. For modeling purposes, we would assume a slight improvement in the first quarter, with
increasing improvement through the remainder of the fiscal year.
We expect our tax rate to be between 14% and 15%, roughly in line with our fiscal 2018 tax rate.
With respect to earnings, we expect fiscal year 2019 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share in the
range of $5.10 to $5.15. This implies EPS growth of 10% at the midpoint of the range.
For the quarter, we expect non-GAAP diluted EPS in the range of $1.10 to $1.12, off the fiscal 2018
base of $1.03. We recognize that the Street didn't have the full picture on first quarter
comparisons pro forma for the divestiture until we shared them last week in an 8-K. So hopefully,
that filing helped. Also keep in mind, we had a lower tax rate in the first quarter last year from
benefits not expected to repeat, creating a roughly $0.03 headwind in the first quarter.
Finally, on free cash flow, we expect $4.7 billion to $5.1 billion in fiscal year 2019. This excludes a
potential final $400 million payment to Puerto Rico related to our pending litigation that I
referenced earlier, the timing and outcome of which is uncertain. Over the next couple of years,
we expect to make significant progress in improving our free cash flow conversion as litigation
and tax payments are expected to diminish and we benefit from programs we have put in place
to improve working capital.
While the impact from currency is fluid, if recent exchange rates hold, our full year revenue would
be negatively affected by approximately $50 million to $150 million. Recall the time of our third
quarter earnings call, it was a $500 million positive impact. However, despite this $600 millionswing, FX is still a modest positive for fiscal 2019 margins, earnings and free cash flow because of
our hedging program.
If recent rates hold, we would expect a reported operating margin of 28.5% for the year and a
$0.05 tailwind to full year EPS. For the first quarter, if recent rates hold, revenue would be
positively affected by approximately $90 million to $130 million, operating margin would have a
slight benefit and EPS would have a $0.02 benefit.
Before I turn the call back to Omar, I would like to note that we plan to hold our Biennial
Institutional Investor and Analyst Day on Tuesday, June 5, in New York City. We intend to discuss
our long-term strategies and share our long-range plan at that time.
Now I will return the call back to Omar.
`Omar S. Ishrak, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, Karen. And to summarize, we have delivered two consecutive quarters of strong revenue
growth to finish our fiscal year. We also expanded our operating margin and delivered meaningful
EPS leverage. Looking ahead, we feel good about the growth opportunities in our markets and
our competitive position in these markets. We expect continued revenue growth and margin
expansion, and we're also focused on generating strong free cash flow conversion and making
the right investments to drive shareholder value. And, finally, execution is our top priority.
Before we turn to Q&A, we had the benefit of Mike Weinstein joining us earlier this month. Given
this recent transition, we thought it might be helpful for him to make some comments. So, Mike?
`Michael Weinstein, Senior Vice President, Strategy `
Certainly. Thanks, Omar. I'll make a few comments. I think for starters, I think it was a great
quarter. There is a lot of work to do, and I certainly don't want the Street to get out ahead of us,
but this was a good quarter. Six to nine months ago, when I was on the other side of this call, we,
on the sell side, were all worried about growth and the company's ability to execute in the face of
competition, competitors introducing MRI-compatible pacers and ICDs, deep brain stimulators,
insertable cardiac monitors, et cetera.
And now here we are six months later and Medtronic has delivered back-to-back quarters of
6.5% organic growth. Again, I don't want everybody to extrapolate from that and start modeling
6.5% going forward, but I do think it speaks to the breadth of the franchise and our growth
drivers moving in the right direction, which honestly the Street, myself included, underestimated
or missed six months back.
RTG, as you've noted, Omar, had its best quarter in years, growing 6% organic despite all the
challenges we're aware of in Spine market. Neurovascular grew high-teens, Neurosurgery grew
low-double digits, and the SCS, Pain Stim business has had a remarkable turnaround growing mid-
teens this quarter after a meaningful decline in the first half of this year. So that's all heading in
the right direction.
Diabetes, obviously, had a fantastic quarter, growing 20%-plus, well north of what the Street is
modeling and Guardian standalone hasn't launched yet in the U.S. and that's going to start this
quarter. So I could go on.
In fact, all four operating groups, CVG, RTG, MITG, and Diabetes did better than the Street was
modeling, but the good news is that it's not just the top line, margins are starting and Iby 80 basis points. The FX headwind to margins, which was severe this quarter at 160 basis
points, which we were all focused on three months ago, should go away as we head into FY 2019,
obviously, assuming current rates.
But there's a long ways to go, and I think the good news is that we all know that. As Omar said,
execution is the number one priority right now, and we're not going to let one or two good
quarters go to our heads. But I feel good that we're clearly heading in the right direction and the
Investor Meeting on the 5th will give us a chance to talk about it some more.
`Omar S. Ishrak, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Good. Thank you, Mike. Let's open the phone lines now for Q&A. In addition to Karen and Mike,
I've asked Mike Coyle, who's President of CVG; Bob White, President of MITG; Geoff Martha,
President of RTG; and Hooman Hakami, President of our Diabetes Group, to join us. We want to
try to get to as many questions as possible, so please help us by limiting yourselves to only one
question, and if necessary, a related follow-up. If you have additional questions, please contact
Ryan and our Investor Relations team after the call.
And with that, operator, first question, please.
Q&A
Operator
Your first question comes from `Bob Hopkins, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch of Bank of America.
Q - `Bob Hopkins, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thanks very much, and congratulations on a great finish to the fiscal year.
A - `Omar S. Ishrak, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, Bob.
Q - `Bob Hopkins, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Yeah, so very clear strength and great to see. So I have a quick question for Karen and then a
follow-up for Omar. Karen, to start with, on operating margins, it's obviously been a focus point
for investors. You delivered 80 basis points of underlying margin in Q4 and 20 basis points for
the full fiscal year and you're guiding to 50 for 2019. So I was wondering if you could just talk
about the 80 basis points of underlying improvement in Q4, which was a little shy of what you
were hoping for at the 100 basis points you talked about.
And then, more importantly, for fiscal 2019, can you talk about your goal of delivering 50 basis
points of underlying margin improvement, which is above the 20 basis points you did this year?
So what are the drivers of that? How much of that is from the restructuring? What gives you
confidence that you can do 50 next year when you did 20 this year? Thank you.
A - `Karen L. Parkhill, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yeah, no, thank you for the question, Bob. We were pleased with the operating margin
improvement in the fourth quarter of 80 basis points. Keep in mind that that was driven through
Covidien synergies that we are now benefiting from as well as the companywide focus on
expense leverage. And it was delivered mostly through improvement, noted 150-basis-pointBut going forward, we do expect to continue to drive operating margin improvement. We have a
companywide program around Enterprise Excellence, which is intended specifically to drive
margin improvement and also to help us offset pricing headwinds and continue to reinvest in our
company. That Enterprise Excellence Program is well structured, well underway, and we're
confident in our ability going forward to continue to drive this margin expansion. We'll talk more
about it at Investor Day as well.
Q - `Bob Hopkins, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. And then I did want to follow up with Omar on the emerging market growth because it
really seemed like a standout in the quarter. It drove over 2 points of growth in the quarter, so
maybe talk about the sustainability of that emerging market growth. Were there any one-time
things impacting emerging market growth in this quarter? And kind of what do you assume for
fiscal 2019 in terms of emerging market growth? Thank you.
A - `Omar S. Ishrak, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Well, thanks, Bob. Like I mentioned earlier, the story in our emerging markets is our diversification
and our presence in multiple geographies. While China is still the largest, we have significant
presence in the Middle East and Africa and Latin America. And in the fourth quarter, all of these
geographies grew sort of in the teens, the mid-teens. And so that helped a lot in the fourth
quarter performance.
Going forward, we certainly expect double digit growth in the emerging markets. That's in the
low-double digits, that's what we've been performing consistently over time. There was certainly
no one-time swing here in the fourth quarter. I think the diversification is playing out well for us
with at least three big sort of geographic collection of countries that are well diversified amongst
themselves.
So that's what gives us confidence that we can continue to do this, and above all the biggest
confidence that we have is that we've been delivering this for the past five years. So there's
nothing other than better performance to expect going forward as our strategies start to play
out.
Q - `Bob Hopkins, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Terrific. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from David Lewis of Morgan Stanley.
Q - `David Ryan Lewis, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Good morning. A couple of questions for Karen. Karen, just talking about the – want to start off
with growth. So you mentioned the first quarter growth guidance, you're sort of assuming is
comparable for your growth guidance for the remainder of the year. But the first quarter is also
the easiest comp of the year. And if you go back to fiscal 2018, the defining element of that year
was the first half was dramatically weaker than the second half. So, I guess, said more simply,
what drives the momentum improvement in the business across the remaining three quarters if
the first quarter is going to be comparable with the remainder of the year?
A - `Karen L. Parkhill, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `So I would remind everyone that our first quarter comes off the heels typically of a very strong
end to our fiscal year, and so the first quarter is typically not our most robust growth quarter. The
second quarter will be the quarter next year that comes off very low comparisons much more so
than the first quarter.
So we're confident in the guidance that we've given for the first quarter consistent with our
annual guidance of 4% to 4.5%, but I would remind folks that both for CVG and MITG in the first
quarter, we do expect both businesses to be on the minus side of that 4% with MITG having
difficult year-over-year comparisons from endo stapling and capital sales and CVG seeing the
anniversary of some major product launches last year.
Q - `David Ryan Lewis, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Okay. Very helpful, Karen. The second question was just on cash flow. I know improving cash flow
is a big focus for 2019 and beyond. I imagine it will be a focus for the Analyst Day in a couple of
weeks, but could you just kind of talk about for fiscal 2019, operating cash flow assumptions,
CapEx assumptions, free cash flow conversion, and maybe a little bit about some the executive
compensation changes that may be happening around free cash? Thanks so much.
A - `Karen L. Parkhill, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Thanks for the question, David. On free cash flow for FY 2019, we said that we expect it to be
between $4.7 billion and $5.1 billion. We have improved our conversion ratio. And honestly, we
expect to improve that conversion ratio going forward, specifically, over the next couple of years.
In terms of things that impact cash, on cash from operations, we expect that to grow in line with
earnings. On CapEx, we expect CapEx to be roughly flat year-over-year. We intend to spend a
little over $1 billion in CapEx, like we did this year. And we will have certain other payments related
to our restructuring program, some continued legal payments. But we do expect tax, specifically
when you include the $1.1 billion payment related to the Puerto Rico litigation, to decline
meaningfully. We will still have that potential $400 million payment to Puerto Rico. It's unclear
whether or not that payment will need to be made in fiscal 2019; it will be dependent on the
outcome of the litigation, but we will have that as well.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President-Investor Relations `
Thanks, David.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI of Evercore ISI.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Hey, guys. Congratulations on a nice quarter here. So maybe, Karen, just talking about the
guidance and the cash conversion rate, so for the EPS guidance, what kind of assumptions are we
making on capital deployment? And when you talk about cash conversions improving, what
should be a normalized cash conversion for this business? Can Medtronic go to 90% or north of
90% over the medium-term?
A - `Karen L. Parkhill, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
So on EPS, we are assuming this is organic. We, obviously, don't assume that we make any
acquisitions or divestitures. On tax, I did say that we expect 14% to 15% tax rate for the year. Andon our debt, we expect that to remain relatively stable now that we have completed the debt
paydown that we have talked about.
In terms of return to shareholders, we did announce recently that we expect to repurchase $1.2
billion in shares throughout the year. That was commensurate with us talking about some debt
tendering that we were doing.
In terms of a normal cash conversion, keep in mind that our medtech industry is typically around
the 80% conversion rate. And we expect to be improving to that range over the next couple of
years. We are very focused on it, and we expect particularly some of the one-time charges that
we've had over the past will be diminishing.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
No, that's extremely helpful. And maybe one for Omar. Medtronic has done a fantastic job on the
top line, right, and think the issue has always been for us maybe modeling some of the FX impact
in the moving parts. The prior Analyst Days, Omar, a lot of the focus was on innovation, top line,
what's happening with Medtronic, right? And when we think about the upcoming Analyst Day, is
there anything going to be different at this Analyst Day in terms of focus? Should we be
expecting any update on the robot or anything else that you want to highlight? Thank you.
A - `Omar S. Ishrak, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Well, I can assure you that technology and innovation will still be at the top of the agenda. That's
what we're most excited about. That's what fuels this company, and we've got many – our
pipeline is fuller than it's ever been and we're extremely excited about it and we'll be – I'm really
looking forward to sharing all of that with you at Investor Day.
But equally, we're laying out an Enterprise Excellence Program. And our focus on operating
margins, our focus on cash flow are elements that are serious and I expect that'll come through
at Analyst Day. So again, there's going to be no drop-off in our excitement around technology.
And if anything, it's increased, and you'll see exciting examples from all our groups. But I do want
to emphasize that the operating margin focus and our cash flow conversion focus driven by our
Enterprise Excellence Program will be clear as well.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Sorry, on the robot, should we be expecting any update on the robot?
A - `Omar S. Ishrak, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Well, look, robot's a major program for us, and obviously, we're going to talk about it.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Thank you, guys.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President-Investor Relations `
Thanks, Vijay. Next question, please?
Operator
Your next question comes from `Larry Biegelsen, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC of Wells Fargo.Q - `Larry Biegelsen, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Good morning. Thanks for taking the question. One on TAVR and one on just the new product
launches in fiscal 2019. So maybe for Mike Coyle, by our math, it looks like the worldwide TAVR
market did slow a bit in calendar Q1. Is that accurate? And what are you seeing in the market?
At PCR today, one of the presenters said that you would be presenting your low-risk data at ACC
in 2019. I just want to confirm that's accurate because that would be pretty impactful. And just
lastly, on TAVR, Mike, any expectations for the MEDCAC? Do you think it's more likely to expand,
keep the same, or decrease centers?
A - `Michael J. Coyle, Executive Vice President and Group President, Cardiac and Vascular Group `
So thanks for the question, Larry. In terms of the TAVR growth profile for the quarter, we would
peg TAVR growth at somewhere in the vicinity of the high teens, which, obviously, is a slowdown
from here. Two years ago it was mid-20s, for the fiscal year it was low-20s, but still that's very
strong growth given the size that that market has grown to. And for us, obviously, we've been
growing faster than that in the low-20s. So it's been an important growth driver for us, and we
expect it to continue to be an important growth driver for us.
In terms of pipeline, we're going to cover that at the Analyst Meeting next Tuesday, we will show
you what we have in terms of beyond the EnVea delivery system that is now rolling out in the
United States and into Europe. We'll talk about that pipeline in terms of both the duration and
then some the more significant platform investments that we're making in TAVR going forward,
not to mention what we're doing in mitral.
And then in terms of the MEDCAC, our position is a bit intermediate to what we hear coming
from the societies and then from some competitors in the sense that we believe that all –
currently, the current national coverage decision covers all of the indications for use for TAVR that
are approved. And we don't see constraints at the moment in terms of being able to meet
demand. We do think if what the societies are proposing is adopted that we could see upwards
of 35% of the centers now falling out of the ability to provide TAVR, which we think would be a
problem for the access to this life-saving technology.
And so our view would be to maintain the national coverage decision until there is an expanded
FDA approval for indications that are not covered by the NCD. And that would then give us time
to basically evaluate the question of are centers that are smaller and of lower volume actually
performing worse than those at high volume? And frankly, the data that we have seen to date
would not support a conclusion that we're seeing meaningfully worse results in those smaller
centers. So we think the NCD as it exists today is good. We support its continuation, and we think
it might be the right time to look at that maybe in a couple of years.
Q - `Larry Biegelsen, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Thanks, Mike. And, Omar, I know you have your Analyst Day, obviously, in a week or two. But just
to give us confidence in your guidance for fiscal 2019, what are the product launches that you're
most excited about for fiscal 2019? Thanks for taking the questions, guys.
A - `Omar S. Ishrak, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks. I'll just name a few, and, as you mentioned, we'll go through our overall pipeline in
greater depth. The Pain business, this turnaround in Pain is very significant, and we're extremely
excited about what we're seeing. And we're seeing that with the Intellis product, our Evolveworkflow and our Snapshot reporting. I think these are unique elements in that industry, and it's a
massive turnaround from as recently as the first half of this year and something we're getting a
lot of traction. So I think continued momentum in Pain is something that we will definitely see.
Diabetes is the other one. I mean, we're just starting there to get the full benefit of the 670G in
the U.S., and we're extremely excited about what we see. But equally, we've got penetration of
the 670G into global markets on the back of a 640G, which is already very successful. And then
the Guardian Connect is a whole big opportunity which I mentioned, which also is a big area for
us.
I think in CVG, you heard Mike talk about it, but there's many areas here. One that I don't know
the exact contribution to growth but I'm extremely excited about is the further evolution of the
Micra product, which is a revolutionary product for us and one that we're extremely proud about.
And the consistent growth that we've seen in surgical technologies within MITG will continue. We
have a rich pipeline of products, and they come out regularly. And that will be sustained into next
year. So we expect an exciting year full of new products, which will continue to fuel growth.
Q - `Larry Biegelsen, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Thanks for taking questions, guys.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Larry. Next question, Shelby?
Operator
Your next question comes from Robbie Marcus of JPMorgan.
Q - `Robbie J. Marcus, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Hi, and congrats on the good quarter.
A - `Omar S. Ishrak, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks.
Q - `Robbie J. Marcus, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Two of the businesses that stood out were Diabetes and Spinal Cord Stim. And, Omar, you
touched on this just briefly in the last question...
A - `Omar S. Ishrak, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah.
Q - `Robbie J. Marcus, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
...but you have new product launches there. Maybe you could give a little more color into what
you're seeing and the dynamics with the product launches? And how you think that's impacting
the market?
A - `Omar S. Ishrak, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer & Director `Sure. I'll let the two group leaders kind of briefly comment on that. So, Hooman, you want to go
with Diabetes first?
A - `Hooman C. Hakami, Executive Vice President & President-Diabetes Group `
Sure. Robbie, I think that the quarter was really strong. We had some great balanced
performance across businesses, across geographies. I'd say there were really two main drivers.
The first is strong global pump growth that we saw. And Omar just touched on this a second ago,
the first was just continued strong uptake of the 640G in markets outside the United States but in
particular Europe, and then we have seen continued strong performance out of the 670G in the
U.S. And this is really encouraging because, in many ways, we're just getting started here. So you
look at those dynamics. All of those things led to 6 points of share gain for us across both
consumable and durable pumps this past quarter, which we're, obviously, really excited about.
The second big driver for us was the pull-through of sensors. This is, as we sell more integrated
systems, we're seeing more sensor pull-through. So both the 640G, the 670G are driven by
sophisticated algorithms, where the pump and the sensor work together to keep a patient in
control. As we sell more of these systems, the more sensors we pull-through. So those two
dynamics were really the catalyst for us this quarter. And then looking forward we expect both of
these things to continue and for us starting to capitalize on a standalone CGM market that we're
just starting to get into.
A - `Omar S. Ishrak, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Okay. And, Geoff, you want to say a few words about Pain?
A - `Geoffrey Straub Martha, Executive Vice President & Group President-Restorative Therapies `
Yeah, sure, Robbie. Well, obviously, Intellis is off to a strong start for a couple of reasons: one, the
device itself. I mean, it's much, much smaller than the competition. It's a much faster, 3 to 4 times
faster recharge, very little battery fade over time, MR compatible, et cetera. And so there's some
real compelling differences there. And in addition, our Evolve workflow, which really drives the
outcome, has been, I believe, underappreciated. And these two things taken together get us
back in the game.
Regarding Evolve, we're still building credibility as we produce more robust data over time. We
just launched our Vectors trial, which is a prospective clinical trial testing multiple aspects of
Evolve. We're thinking – enrollment's underway and on schedule, and we anticipate the first
release of this data at NANS in January of 2019.
In addition, we published some other data from – we call it the Verdolin (46:57) data, from Dr.
Verdolin (47:00). We presented that recently at two scientific meetings and we got really strong
results. So this is an independent physician study, mirroring real world outcomes, and we had 83%
of the 114 patients – 114 patients had 75% pain reduction. So this is really good results. And after
three months we saw a similar result.
So we're seeing really strong data from Evolve, and that's going to continue to build over the
course of the year and I think help us access a whole new group of physicians and patients. So as
Omar indicated, we're really excited about the Pain Stim business and the strong market growth
and how we're positioned within it.
Q - `Robbie J. Marcus, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLCThanks. And a quick follow-up for Karen. With FX moving so much, maybe you could help us think
about how it might impact the gross margin and the other income line? And with higher interest
expense run rate, what that might be for next year? Thanks.
A - `Karen L. Parkhill, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Sure. So in terms of FX, with the recent movement over the last month in currency rates, we do
now expect a bit of a headwind for the full year from FX on revenue, and I mentioned between
$50 million to $150 million. But I also mentioned the good news is that we still expect a positive
impact from FX on our operating margin, on our EPS, and on our free cash flow. And the key
reason for that is our hedging program. Based on where rates are today, we do expect gains in
our hedging program that shows up in our net other expense line item and positively impacts our
operating margin. You had a second question, Robbie. Will you remind me that one?
Q - `Robbie J. Marcus, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Just the – how will FX impacts down the P&L and what interest expense might look like at the
higher run rate?
A - `Karen L. Parkhill, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Right. So on interest expense, obviously, interest expense – the interest rates have been
increasing, so we will have a modest impact from that on an interest expense perspective. On an
interest income perspective, I did mention that we are focused on continuing to liquidate our
overseas portfolio. And as we do that, we will have interest income coming down a little bit.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President-Investor Relations `
Thanks, Robbie. Take the next question, please?
Operator
Your next question comes from `Isaac Ro, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC of Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Isaac Ro, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Good morning, guys. Thank you. A question on the 2019 op margin expansion guidance that you
gave for that 50 basis points. If I think about your prior plan for that $3 billion in gross cost savings
through 2022, could you help us understand kind of what's embedded in the 2019 guidance for
margin expansion as it relates to that program, to be helpful to understand the pacing there and
the net effect.
A - `Karen L. Parkhill, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Sure. So when we gave our Enterprise Excellence – when we announced our Enterprise Excellence
Program and talked about the over $3 billion in savings and leverage that that would deliver
through 2022, we also said that we expected over $500 million to $700 million impact or positive
savings and leverage annually each year. That is now embedded into our forecast. So that
program is designed to offset pricing pressure, which we expect continued pricing pressure. It is
also intended to help ensure that we can continue to reinvest, particularly in R&D. And it is
intended to drive operating margin improvement and expansion. And for next year, I mentioned
we expect operating margin expansion of about 50 basis points pro forma constant currency.
Q - `Isaac Ro, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `Okay. Got it. And then maybe just a follow-up question on a couple products, specifically on SCS.
Omar, you called out the mid-teens growth there; I think a little bit better in the U.S., and just
trying to understand as we think about the sequential trend from here as Intellis ramps, you
expect that growth rate to accelerate on a year-on-year basis? Trying to figure out kind of what's
embedded there. Thank you.
A - `Omar S. Ishrak, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Geoff, do you want to take that?
A - `Geoffrey Straub Martha, Executive Vice President & Group President-Restorative Therapies `
Yeah, sure. Look, it's clearly off to a strong start. I'd caution you to not extrapolate continued
further growth in terms of market share until some of this data comes out. The data that I
mentioned a few minutes ago is going to take some time and that will, I think, drive incremental
growth but we do think it'll maintain. This is a sustainable growth driver, but in terms of
acceleration, we really, I think, need to provide more data in order to accelerate that growth rate.
But it is not a kind of a one-time blip. We do think this is going to sustain.
Q - `Isaac Ro, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President-Investor Relations `
Thanks, Isaac. Next question, please?
Operator
Your next question comes from Raj Denhoy of Jefferies.
Thank you. Anthony in for Raj. Maybe two product questions and then an operating margin
question. Just to clarify on 670G share gains, is that from prior MDI patients or existing
pump/CGM users? That's the first product question. The second would be on SPYRAL. You had
data out at EuroPCR. Maybe just a recap on why this program is different from the prior Symplicity
program and what the update on market opportunity is there.
And then on operating margin, can you clarify that mark-to-market gains and losses on securities;
how that could impact operating margin next year and if the company is contemplating shifting
that out of other income. Thanks.
A - `Omar S. Ishrak, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Hooman, you want to go first?
A - `Hooman C. Hakami, Executive Vice President & President-Diabetes Group `
Sure. So, Raj, with respect to the 670G, we are getting penetration of the 670G really across, I
would say, patient populations, certainly our own installed base, competitive conversions and
MDIs, so we are seeing all three. I think as you look forward, though, we do expect more
penetration within MDI because as the data comes in, and now we have as you heard from the
commentary, 70,000 trained patients, where the results are in line with the pivotal. As more of
this data comes through and as physicians see this data, I anticipate we'll see even a greater
penetration within MDI.A - `Omar S. Ishrak, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Mike, you want to take SPYRAL?
A - `Michael J. Coyle, Executive Vice President and Group President, Cardiac and Vascular Group `
Then as it relates to SPYRAL, there are a whole bunch of things different about the data that
were presented here, both the OFF MED that was shown back at the ESC last fall, as well as the
data shown yesterday at the PCR Meeting. For one thing, the device is different. The HTN-3 data,
we're studying the Flex devices in SPYRAL, which basically is targeting a different part of the
anatomy, going more distal in the renal artery, which is where we're seeing congregation of the
nerves that we're trying to denervate. So that has been an important contributor to the reliability
of the denervation.
Number two, the patient population is different. In the original study, we had mostly lone systolic
patients, older patients involved to a very extensive, if you will, hardening of the arteries, which
were less responsive to the treatment. And so that by moving to a patient population that is
actually a bit less sick, but has both systolic and diastolic hypertension, we've seen a much higher
response rate, which was shown in the HTN-3 data and obviously has now been validated here.
In addition, we're using ambulatory blood pressure measurement as the basis for the analysis,
which gets away from a lot of the white coat hypertension issues that were shown. But probably
the biggest difference here is that what become clear is that patients are not compliant to their
medications, and we showed the data yesterday that basically 40% to 50% of patients who say
they are taking medication are not taking their medication. We were able to validate that by
looking at not only urinalysis but also blood levels, and it's very clear that that was a huge
confounder to the original HTN-3 data, in that it creates a huge variability in the statistics.
And so by carefully factoring that out in our analysis, we were able to now show not only with the
OFF MED study that was shown, but now with the ON MED study that was shown yesterday that
we have not only statistically-significant but clinically-significant reductions in the blood pressure
levels. And so we are now rolling into the pivotal study using the adaptive Bayesian design, which
means we're already 35% through the enrollment phase of the study for the pivotal trial. So it's a
very exciting program for us and something that we spent a lot of years fixing and now we're
glad we're moving ahead with the pivotal trial.
A - `Omar S. Ishrak, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
That's good, Mike. And Karen, do you want to take the...
A - `Karen L. Parkhill, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
And on operating margin, yes, I did mention we had some mark-to-market losses in the quarter.
They were primarily related to the warrants that we own on Mazor, and yes we are planning to
shift mark-to-market gains and losses going forward into non-GAAP reporting.
Q - Operator
Thanks.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President-Investor Relations `
Thanks, Anthony.A - `Omar S. Ishrak, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President-Investor Relations `
Next question, Shelby?
Operator
Your next question comes from Bruce Nudell of SunTrust.
Q - `Bruce M. Nudell, Analyst, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc. `
Hi. Good morning. Thanks for taking my question. Omar, a question for you and then a couple
questions on products. So, firstly, just looking at the midpoint of top line guidance next year, it's
feeling like you're thinking developed markets for Medtronic will grow 2.5% to 3% and emerging
markets more 12% to 15%. Is that the right way to be thinking about it? And is that really the
slowdown in developed markets really just due to the product introduction timings?
A - `Omar S. Ishrak, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Emerging markets are in the double digits. And I think that's the way you should model it, I think
we've got confidence in that, and then the remainder is the developed markets. So I think if you
build a model out from that, that's the best way to do it. So we're pretty confident on the double-
digit emerging market as a baseline and then the swing will be in developed markets, which is
usually driven by innovation cycles.
Q - `Bruce M. Nudell, Analyst, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc. `
Okay. Thanks so much. And then, Geoff, just on the Spinal Cord Stimulation, what's the internal
confidence that the low kilohertz sub perception is really equivalent to 10 kilohertz and that
waveform optionality is also very important to having durable long-term pain relief?
A - `Geoffrey Straub Martha, Executive Vice President & Group President-Restorative Therapies `
Well, that's been our position and our data is proving that out that we believe that patients
benefit over time from the optionality between high-dose and low-dose energy, and we're going
to continue to do more, and that's really the heart of our Evolve Workflow, right? So one, just to
make it simple, one, having the flexibility to toggle between high-dose and low-dose, we think,
over time produces the best outcomes.
However, you need to provide physicians with a recipe for doing that so they can get consistent
outcomes and mitigate complex patient follow-up. And that's our Evolve Workflow. And we're
very confident in that, not just internally but you're seeing external confidence building. I
mentioned the Verdolin (58:55) data that we just talked about in a couple of scientific
conferences recently and then our Vectors trial that we'll be announcing the date on that in NANS
in 2019.
Q - `Bruce M. Nudell, Analyst, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc. `
And, Mike, my final question is SAPIEN 3 showed very good results extracted from the TVT
Registry in bicuspid patients. I'm pretty sure you guys have done the same sort of analysis, andcould you just say how CoreValve is looking in that registry amongst bicuspid patients that are, of
course, important once a low-risk label is garnered.
A - `Michael J. Coyle, Executive Vice President and Group President, Cardiac and Vascular Group `
Yeah, Bruce. I think we'll wait until we're prepared to show the data, but we're absolutely doing
that analysis as the basis for an approval for bicuspid. And, obviously, the rich data set at TVT is
going to provide us the basis for being able to see what the effect is. But we are very optimistic
about that analysis being supportive of seeing similar outcomes to what we see in the
immediate-risk and high-risk groups.
Q - `Bruce M. Nudell, Analyst, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc. `
Thanks so much.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President-Investor Relations `
Thanks, Bruce. Shelby, we'll take one more question, please.
Operator
Your final question comes from `Steven Lichtman, Analyst, Oppenheimer & Co., Inc. of Oppenheimer.
Q - `Steven Lichtman, Analyst, Oppenheimer & Co., Inc. `
Thank you. Hi, guys, just first question on Core Spine. As you mentioned during prepared
remarks, the recent soft patch here is well-known. Just wondering what your latest views on the
market are, maybe most recent thoughts on the drivers of the growth challenge. And do you
think we could see a pick-up? And if so, what would be the driver there?
A - `Michael J. Coyle, Executive Vice President and Group President, Cardiac and Vascular Group `
Well, first of all, I'd like to say, look, for Medtronic Spine, I'm pleased with our performance against
the softer market that you mentioned. We grew our Spine business, as reported, 1%, and then
when you combine that with our enabling technologies, which things like spine navigation and
robotics, we grew closer to 3%. So we believe this is definitely outpacing the competition.
Now, regarding softer market, I mean, look, what we're seeing is that historically the procedural
growth has outpaced the pricing pressure for maybe a net 2% to maybe even 3% global market
growth. But in the last couple of quarters, that procedure growth has softened, and it has not
outpaced the price declines, the price pressures. So you're seeing more of a flat to slightly down-
market. That's why I'm pretty excited about our performance, and that's been driven by the Spine
and the Core Spine and Biologics piece has been high single-digit growth in BMP and our lateral
approach called OLIF, strong double-digit growth with our PRESTIGE LP Cervical Discs.
And then we've got a number of new product launches that are just starting to take hold: our
SOLERA VOYAGER 5.5/6.0 fixation system, our ARTiC-L 3D-printed titanium cage. And then
coming up here shortly we've gotten an Infinity posterior cervical system coming to market. So
that's the whole speed-to-scale strategy of our Core Spine business. And then on top of that, our
navigation, robotics, power tools, nerve monitoring, all that together further integrating that and
helping physicians use these tools to improve both clinical and economic outcomes, we believe
that, combined with our Spine business, is going to be growing 3% plus going forward.And the final thing I'd say that's helping our Spine business maybe versus some others is our
global exposure. In China, for example, which is a big business for us, our Spine business is
growing 8%. So our OUS growth is stronger than our U.S. growth and pulling up the business. So
those three things, continued speed to scale of our product launches within Core Spine, enabling
technology, improving clinical and economic outcomes and really differentiating us and helping
our Core Spine business and then finally, the mix of OUS growth, particularly in emerging markets.
Those three things will help us grow faster than the market.
And in terms of predicting the market, that's hard to do. We don't think it's going to get much
weaker. We do think maybe a slight uptick. But it's very hard to predict that.
Q - `Steven Lichtman, Analyst, Oppenheimer & Co., Inc. `
Great. Thanks for that. And then just lastly, Karen, just a clarification on capital allocation in FY
2019, I mean, you're clear on the reduced interest income as you position the balance sheet
post-tax reform, but are you assuming any uses of that freed up cash, whether through
reinvestment in the business or enhance buybacks beyond the $1.2 billion that you previously
talked about?
A - `Karen L. Parkhill, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
No. At this stage, the liquidation of these assets properly will take some time, so we're not
necessarily anticipating any large change in capital allocation other than what we've already
communicated.
Q - `Steven Lichtman, Analyst, Oppenheimer & Co., Inc. `
Okay. Thanks, guys.
A - `Omar S. Ishrak, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Okay. So with that, thank you all very much for your questions, and on behalf of the entire
management team I'd like to thank you for your continued support and interest in Medtronic. We
look forward to discussing our long-range plan with you at our Investor Day a week-and-a-half
from now on Tuesday, June 5, and we also plan on holding our next earnings call, the Q1 earnings
call, on Tuesday, August 21. So thank you all very much.
Operator
This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.