Q4 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head of Investor Relations `
Good morning, and welcome to Medtronic's Fiscal Year 2021 Fourth Quarter Earnings Video
Webcast. I'm `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head of Investor Relations, Vice President and Head of Medtronic Investor Relations.
Before we start the prepared remarks, I'm going to share with you a few details to keep in mind
about today's webcast. Joining me today are Geoff Martha, Medtronic Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer; and Karen Parkhill, Medtronic Chief Financial Officer. Geoff and Karen will
provide comments on the results of our fourth quarter and fiscal year 2021, which ended on April
30th, 2021. After our prepared remarks, we'll take questions from the sell-side analysts that
cover the company. And today's event should last about an hour.
Earlier this morning, we issued a press release containing our financial statements and divisional
and geographic revenue summaries. We also posted an earnings presentation that provides
additional details on our performance. The presentation can be accessed from the link in our
earnings press release or on our website at investorrelations.medtronic.com.
As we mentioned last quarter, the fourth quarter marks the first time that we're using the new
nomenclature and reporting structure of our new operating model. For more information on
these changes, please see the relevant slides in our earnings presentation.
During today's webcast, many of the statements we make may be considered forward-looking
statements, and actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking
statement. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ iscontained in our periodic reports and other filings that we make with the SEC, and we do not
undertake to update any forward-looking statement.
Unless we say otherwise, all comparisons are on a year-over-year basis and revenue comparisons
are made on an organic basis. Fourth quarter organic revenue comparisons adjust only for foreign
currency as there were no acquisitions or divestitures made in the last four quarters that had a
significant impact on total company or individual segment quarterly revenue growth.
Full fiscal year, organic revenue comparisons exclude the impact of foreign currency, the benefits
in the first 12 months of our Titan Spine acquisition, and the benefit of the extra week in our first
quarter.
References to sequential improvement compared to the third quarter of fiscal '21 and are made
on an as-reported basis. All references to share gains or losses are on a revenue and calendar
quarter basis unless otherwise stated. Reconciliations of all non-GAAP financial measures can be
found in the attachment to our earnings press release or on our website at
investorrelations.medtronic.com. And finally, our EPS guidance does not include any charges or
gains that would be reported as non-GAAP adjustments to earnings during the fiscal year.
And with that, let's get started.
(Audio-Video Presentation)
`Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. We reported a strong quarter this morning.
The expectations that we set for Q4 on the last earnings call were seen by many in the financial
community as aggressive. Yet we executed and we delivered, beating street estimates on
revenue, margins and EPS. Most of our end markets are returning to near normal pre-COVID
growth. While some geographies are lagging due to COVID's persistence, momentum built
throughout the quarter, and we feel confident about the year ahead.
Karen will give you more color on our guidance later in this call. But the key takeaway is that we're
guiding above street estimates on the top line while simultaneously accelerating our investments
at the front end of major product launches in surgical robotics and renal denervation.
Now in robotics and renal denervation, we're investing in our marketing, customer service and
support capabilities to maximize these product launches. We're also investing in R&D broadly,
with meaningful programs across the company. As we talked about our Investor Day last year, we
have a packed pipeline across our businesses, with a number of meaningful opportunities. And
our top priority is to invest in our business and pipeline to take advantage of those opportunities.
As a result, we plan on increasing our R&D spend by more than 10% in FY '22, the biggest dollar
increase in R&D spend in our company's history, all while delivering strong EPS growth.
We're ultra-focused on accelerating our top line growth, and we're making incremental
investments to put us in a place to drive a sustainable, higher level of growth, than you've
historically come to expect from Medtronic.
Before I get into some details on the fourth quarter, I'd like to reflect on the past year, my first as
CEO. It's certainly been a difficult environment with the pandemic, but our organization has risen
to the challenge and achieved so much in such a short period of time and under unique
circumstances. Now, it's become cliche for companies to say that they're expecting to emerge
from the pandemic stronger as I've heard this phrase echoed from many of our competitors. Butcompany in our space that has done more to emerge from this pandemic stronger than
Medtronic. Whether it was investing in our employees, helping our customers and patients,
sustaining our R&D programs or changing our operating model, and putting in place a new
Medtronic mindset culture. This past year was transformational for us.
In fiscal 2021, customers eliminated the vast majority of their quarter end bulk purchases,
resulting in a more balanced order flow across the quarter. This has improved our predictability
and our pricing, made our business easier to manage, and reduced stress on our operations. This
past fiscal year, we also accelerated our tuck-in acquisitions, adding key technologies like AI
driven spine planning tools from Medicrea and market-leading smart pen technology from
Companion Medical among others. We also advanced our organic pipeline with more than 230
regulatory approvals in the U.S., Europe, Japan and China in FY '21.
FY '21 was also the year that we stepped up and helped our customers and communities during
the pandemic. As a leading manufacturer of high-acuity ventilators, we significantly increased our
production and open sourced our IP to allow others to produce our ventilators around the world.
We continue to support communities in need, most recently as a key member of the Global Task
Force on pandemic response, which was organized by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and
supported by the Business Roundtable. With the help of other task force members, we're
working to supply 1,000 ventilators to India. Medtronic and the Medtronic Foundation also just
announced an additional $3 million for COVID relief efforts in underserved areas of India, Brazil,
and the U.S. and other regions which brings our combined support of COVID-19 efforts to $56
million.
And in FY '21, we announced our goal of becoming carbon-neutral in our operations by the end of
the decade. We've set aggressive targets to reduce our environmental footprint, as we focus on
creating a sustainable future for our business, our communities and our planet. We've always had
a strong mission to guide this company, which includes integrating a strong corporate purpose
into our strategy and maintaining good citizenship. And this year, we've enhanced our corporate
culture to emphasize our commitment to being bold, more competitive and moving with greater
speed and decisiveness, which we believe will help drive the execution of our mission.
We're also focused on becoming a more diverse and inclusive organization, and I was very proud
that Medtronic was recognized earlier this month as number 11 on Diversity Inc's top 50 U.S.
companies for diversity, one of the biggest jumps by any company.
We know we have room to improve and we're striving to be a company that attracts, develops
and retains top talent from all gender and ethnic backgrounds. To sum up F '21, it was a year
marked by progress and accomplishments that will propel us into FY '22 with a stronger
foundation for growth and a greater ability to execute, deliver and exceed our own expectations.
We have momentum, energy and a pipeline that gives our team optimism about what we can
accomplish this year.
Now, let's turn to the fourth quarter results and start with a look at market share, as we've been
doing the last few earnings calls. We continue to gain share in an increasing number of our
businesses, driven by our differentiated product offerings. And we've put in place operating
mechanisms to ensure that we continue to drive this competitive culture across the organization.
Market share is one of the key metrics that we will hold our teams accountable to deliver in
evaluating performance. And in FY '22; it will be included as a metric in our annual incentive
compensation.While the impact of COVID on procedures, along with the timing of our quarter, does mask some
of the underlying market dynamics, we are seeing a growing trend of share gains for Medtronic.
Leading the list for share gains this quarter is one of our largest businesses, Cardiac Rhythm
Management, which has gained share over the past several quarters. We estimate that our CRM
business has gained 2 to 3 points year-over-year. And CRM is now at the highest share level in
more than a decade with strong gains from around the globe. Now these gains have been driven
by Micra, our leadless pacemaker, which grew 74% in Q4 and is now annualizing at nearly $400
million.
Micra is a great example of the innovation and disruption that we're driving at Medtronic. But it's
not just Micra generating our share gains, our Cobalt and Crome High Power devices are also
contributing, driving our CRTD product line to 74% growth in Q4.
In TAVR, our share was up over 1-point year-over-year and was stable sequentially. We reached an
all-time record of U.S. TAVR implants in the quarter.
Late last month, we announced interim results of our OPTIMIZE PRO study, which showed that our
new implant technique is resulting in single-digit pacemaker rates. In addition, last week at
EuroPCR, we announced very strong low risk data, which showed that the advantages of our
Evolut TAVR system are maintained over surgical valves at two years post-procedure. Importantly,
our data showed no convergence of the TAVR and SAVR curves for death or disabling stroke as
well as continued low valve thrombosis rates out to year two. This stands in contrast to our
competition's PARTNER III data. And we'll leverage this data with implanting physicians as we
continue to go on the offensive and win share in this important growth market.
In our gastrointestinal business, we estimate that we gain share both year-over-year and
sequentially. Our GI diagnostic product lines grew in the low 50s, driven by high 60s growth of
our PillCam. Last month, we received FDA clearance for our GI Genius module, which uses
artificial intelligence to assist physicians in detecting both precancerous and cancerous growth
during colonoscopies.
GI Genius can highlight lesions realtime and identify polyps that might otherwise go undetected
by the human eye, improving the quality of colonoscopies.
In our Cranial & Spinal technologies business, we estimate that we gained share in both spine and
neurosurgery, both year-over-year and sequentially. Our strategy of bringing a digital ecosystem
of enabling technology to spine procedures is working. We had record sales of our StealthStation
navigation systems, O-arm imaging systems, Midas Rex capital and Advanced Energy products.
And we estimate that our Mazor Robotics system continues to outpace our closest competitor.
In ENT, we estimate that our share is up over 1 point year-over-year. The ongoing launches of our
NIM Vital neuromonitoring system and StealthStation FlexENT navigation system, coupled with
share gains in disposable sinus blades, are driving our above-market performance. In Pelvic
Health, share gain continued with the momentum created by the launch of InterStim Micro and
the SureScan leads. Our sales growth outpaced tax audits in the calendar first quarter, and we did
this despite having a far larger sales base.
While the European sacral neuromodulation market remains sluggish due to COVID resurgence,
the U.S. market continues to accelerate.
Turning to neuromodulation. We estimate that we have gained about 1 point of Pain Stim share
year-over-year and even more sequentially. Our SCS product line grew 73% in Q4, and wecontinued to outpace the competition in the calendar first quarter.
The market continues to show strong enthusiasm for our DTM SCS therapy, which now carries a
superiority label from the FDA. And our strategy of going after competitive account conversions
is yielding great results.
Our DTM trial adoption remained robust and grew sequentially, a good leading indicator for
future growth in our Pain Stim business.
In Brain Modulation, while we estimate we lost a couple of points of share year-over-year, we
continue to gain sequential share on the back of the Percept PC launch. Percept has resulted in 10
points of new implant share gains in the U.S. since its launch last summer.
So, there are a number of businesses where we're gaining share, but there are still some
businesses where we've got some work to do.
In Cardiac Diagnostics, as we discussed last quarter, we continue to be supply constrained with
our new LINQ II system in Q4, as we ramp our unique wafer scale manufacturing. We estimate we
lost about 1 point sequentially and mid-single-digit share points year-over-year, primarily to
Boston Scientific.
We're working through the supply ramp-up and expect to have improved supply in the back half
of the fiscal year. In addition, we implemented a product ship hold on the LINQ II last week as we
analyze an issue.
In the meantime, customers are continuing to use our Reveal LINQ. Once we resolve the issue,
we're confident that the proven market leadership of Reveal LINQ and the competitive
differentiation of LINQ II will allow us to continue to win in this space.
In our Aortic business, we announced the voluntary recall of our Valiant Navion thoracic stent graft
system in February. We also announced that we would be working to ramp production of our
previous generation product, the Valiant Captivia, but that we would not be at full production until
September. The loss of Navion had a $35 million impact to revenue in Q4 and resulted in us
losing high-teens share in the thoracic stent graft market.
That said, our customers have expressed strong interest in using the Valiant Captivia product
when inventory is available. And looking ahead, we're estimating that the quarterly revenue
impact will decrease as we go through FY '22 from $30 million in Q1 to $50 million in Q4.
In Neurovascular, we estimate we lost a couple of points of share year-over-year, driven primarily
by new competitive flow diverters from Stryker and Terumo. That said, we saw our share stabilize
sequentially as we launched our Solitaire X 3-millimeter stent retriever in the U.S. and started the
limited launch of our pipeline vantage flow diverter in certain CE mark countries. We expect our
new products to drive sequential share gains going forward.
In Diabetes, we continue to execute on our turnaround strategy, growing 9% this quarter. This is
still below market and we estimate we lost about 5 points of share year-over-year. However, our
share was stable sequentially. Our new Minimed 770G and 780G insulin pumps are giving us
momentum, resulting in very strong double-digit global insulin pump growth.
Next, let's turn to our pipeline. We're launching a number of products across the company and
even more coming. We expect our robust pipeline to be the key driver of accelerating our top
line growth as we're at the front of some large opportunities to win share, create new marketsAnd as I noted earlier, we're continuing to fuel R&D investments, such that our pipeline can be a
continuous source of sustained revenue growth over the coming years.
Starting with Cardiovascular. One of our largest future drivers is renal denervation as we develop
our solution to go after the multibillion-dollar addressable market in hypertension. We're
expecting to present our ON-MED pivotal trial results later this year, likely at the TCT Conference
in November. And these results are likely to be one of the most highly anticipated events in
medtech this year.
In Cardiac Rhythm Management, we're planning to file for CE Mark for our disruptive
extravascular ICD technology this quarter. Let me repeat that. I said this quarter. And in our
Cardiac Ablation Solutions business, we're expecting a first-line therapy indication for our Arctic
Front cryoballoon in the U.S. this coming quarter. We also continue to make good progress on
bringing our disruptive pulsed field ablation system in the market with strong enrollment in our
PULSED AF pivotal trial.
In Structural Heart, we received FDA approval in Q4 for our Harmony transcatheter pulmonary
valve, the first-of-its-kind and a breakthrough treatment for patients with congenital heart
disease.
In TAVR, we received low-risk Shonin approval in Japan and are expecting reimbursement
approval later this fiscal year. We also expect the U.S. rollout of our next-generation TAVR valve,
the Evolut FX, later this calendar year, which will feature enhanced deliverability and ease of use.
Turning to our Medical Surgical portfolio. Another very important program is our Hugo robotic-
assisted surgery platform. At the end of March, we reported that we'd submitted Hugo for CE
Mark and U.S. IDE approval. Well, today, I'm happy to report that the FDA has granted the IDE
approval, and we're preparing to commence our expand Euro trial in the U.S. to study Hugo in
urologic procedures.
We also had our first revenue from Hugo placements at hospitals outside the U.S. in Q4. These
systems will collect clinical data to support regulatory approvals in the U.S. and around the world.
As you think about modeling the revenue from our Surgical Robotics business, we're expecting
$50 million to $100 million in FY '22, and that's likely to roughly double or triple in FY '23. We
expect soft tissue robotics to be a meaningful growth driver going forward, not just for med-surg,
but for overall Medtronic.
In our Neuroscience portfolio, we have some exciting near-term milestones coming in our
Neuromodulation business. We're expecting to launch our Vanta recharge-free spinal cord
stimulator in the first half of this fiscal year. This is a big opportunity for us to gain additional share
in Pain Stim, given our low share in the recharge-free portion of the market.
We're also on track to submit our ECAPs device to the FDA later this calendar year, which has the
potential to be a disruptive technology in the spinal cord stim space.
And in Brain Mod, we're expecting FDA approval for our SenSight directional lead later this
calendar year. This will close a key competitive gap and further differentiate our Percept PC
system, which I mentioned earlier, was already taken a lot of share in DBS.
And in Pelvic Health, we received IDE approval last month to start our Titan 1 feasibility study. This
trial will evaluate our implantable tibial system, a device that we think could substantially increaseour ability to serve overactive bladder patients, many of whom do not seek therapy or remain on
current therapy.
In Neurovascular, in addition to the Solitaire X 3-millimeter stent retriever and Pipeline Vantage
flow diverter that I mentioned earlier, we're rolling out five additional products this calendar year.
This includes meaningful innovation for the stroke market, like our Pipeline Shield Flow diverter in
the U.S. and RIST Radial Access system.
In Diabetes, we recently received CE Mark approval for our Zeus CGM sensor, which we'll be
marketing as the Guardian 4 sensor. The no calibration data that was used to support the CE
Mark approval will be presented next week at the virtual ATTD conference, and the abstract is
available on the ATTD website. We're pleased with the accuracy of Guardian 4, and that it has
now been labeled for dosing without fingersticks.
Starting this fall, Europeans will not only have access to the 780G with the highest reported time
and range of any insulin pump, but also our Guardian 4 sensor with no fingersticks required, and
our extended infusion set with an industry-leading seven-day wear. We think this is a highly
differentiated product offering and one that we can't wait to bring to other markets.
In the U.S., the 780G and Guardian 4 sensor are under active review with the FDA.
Finally, we're making progress on our Synergy sensor, which is disposable, easier to apply and
half the size of our current sensor. We intend to submit the sensor to the FDA in the first half of
the fiscal year, once we complete our manufacturing module.
I'll now turn it over to Karen to discuss our financial performance and guidance. Karen?
`Karen L. Parkhill, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Geoff. Our fourth quarter organic revenue increased 32%, and adjusted EPS increased
159%, significant growth as we anniversary the downturn we experienced at the start of the
pandemic last year.
Our end markets continue to recover from the impact of COVID. And we continue to execute on
our strategy and launch new products, resulting in a sequential revenue increase of 5% and
sequential adjusted EPS growth of 16%.
Our adjusted EPS was $0.08 better than consensus with $0.02 on higher operating profit and
$0.06 from a lower than estimated tax rate. Our recovery from the COVID resurgence in
December and January improved throughout the quarter as expected. March was stronger than
February, and April was stronger than March. We were particularly pleased with the strength of
the last several weeks of the quarter, which we believe sets us up nicely for the start of our new
fiscal year.
From a geographic standpoint, we had strong 47% growth in the United States. Outside of the
U.S., our developed markets grew 11% with continued pockets of COVID resurgence in parts of
Western Europe, Japan and Canada. Our emerging markets grew 41%, driven by China growth in
the low 90s.
Our adjusted margins continued to improve sequentially with 120 basis points on our gross
margin and 190 basis points on our operating margin. Our adjusted nominal tax rate was 9.6%,
better than initially estimated, given a favorable jurisdictional mix of profits, along with certain
onetime benefits.We've said throughout this past year that the actions we're taking during the pandemic do not
only support our employees and our customers, but also continue investing, would impact our
free cash flow. That said, we're pleased that we generated $4.9 billion of free cash flow,
converting 81% of our non-GAAP earnings into cash, just above our long-term conversion target
of 80%.
During the quarter, we repaid in full a JPY300 billion term loan that was issued earlier in the fiscal
year. And our year-end cash position remains above $10.5 billion. You can be assured that despite
the pandemic, Medtronic continues to be in a strong financial position to drive our long-term
strategies.
Reflecting the confidence that we and our Board have in the future growth of this company, this
morning, we announced that we are increasing our dividend by 9%. We are an S&P dividend
aristocrat, having increased our dividend now for 44 years, and the dividend is an important part
of the total return we generate for our shareholders. We also restarted our share repurchase
program in the fourth quarter with a focus on covering dilution from our stock-based
compensation.
Now turning to our guidance. We're confident in the continuing procedure recovery around the
globe and the resilience of our end markets and as a result, today, reinstate giving formal
guidance.
We expect strong organic revenue growth acceleration in fiscal '22 to 9%, plus or minus, 1 point
above current Street consensus. And while the impact of currency is fluid, if recent exchange
rates hold, foreign currency would have a positive impact on full year revenue of $400 million to
$500 million.
By segment, we expect Cardiovascular and Neuroscience to grow 10% to 11%; Medical Surgical to
grow 6% to 7%; and Diabetes to grow 3% to 4%, all on an organic basis.
You'll remember that last year, we had an extra week in our fiscal calendar, and these growth
rates have not been adjusted for that extra week given the offset that we had from customer
bulk purchases. As a result, we do not intend to adjust our organic growth in fiscal '22 for the
extra week in fiscal '21.
In the first quarter, we're comfortable with Street consensus on revenue, which implies organic
growth of 17% to 18% and a currency tailwind between $200 million and $250 million at recent
rates.
By segment, we expect Cardiovascular to grow 14% to 15%, Medical Surgical to grow 18% to 19%,
Neuroscience to grow 25% to 26% and Diabetes to be flat.
With so many big opportunities in front of us, we're prioritizing R&D and commercial investments
with growth above and beyond what you would see in a normal year, and we're allocating this
capital across our businesses to our best opportunities.
As you know, two of our largest opportunities are surgical robotics and renal denervation. We're
purposely making significant investments in them to ensure we fully capitalize on the multibillion-
dollar opportunities ahead.
Just to give you a sense, when you combine the fact that it's early in the revenue cycle of these
two programs with our heavy investment, we are planning for an operating loss of approximately$400 million next fiscal year from these combined programs. Yet, it is important to note that even
with these kind of investments, we're still expecting operating margin expansion.
This is the power of Medtronic's business model, that we can simultaneously make large-scale
investments in some of the most important future technology areas in med-tech, cover the
dilution and deliver strong profitability and returns for our shareholders.
On the bottom line, we expect non-GAAP diluted EPS in the range of $5.60 to $5.75 in fiscal '22,
which includes a benefit of $0.10 to $0.15 from currency at recent rates. For the first quarter, we
expect EPS of $1.31 to $1.34, above current Street consensus of $1.29 to $1.31. And first quarter EPS
would include a currency tailwind of about $0.03 at recent rates.
Before I hand it back over to Geoff, I'd like to take a moment to recognize all of the employees
across Medtronic who scaled mountains this year, leaning in to deliver a great year under difficult
circumstances. I'm proud to be part of such a terrific team, and I couldn't be more excited about
the opportunities ahead of us.
Back to you, Geoff.
`Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Thank you, Karen. Now, I'd like to close by emphasizing, that there's a lot of energy here at
Medtronic, and our momentum is building. You're seeing us perform better than our competition.
We've executed in the short term, and we're investing for the long-term. We've accomplished a
lot in FY '21, and this is a good start. But our expectations are higher. What will truly differentiate
us is accelerating and delivering sustained revenue growth at or above our markets, not just over
a year or two, but over the next decade. We have incredible programs in our development
pipeline with robust expected financial returns.
We're developing the next generation of medical devices that incorporate technologies like
artificial intelligence, big data and miniaturized electronics. These programs have the potential to
truly change the future of medicine. When we look at the opportunities ahead of us and how we
expect to translate these into strong returns for our shareholders, the future is bright.
And finally, to our 90,000 employees around the world, thank you for everything that you've
accomplished this past year. I'm sure they would agree with me when I say if there's one thing
you should take away from today's call is that at Medtronic, we're just getting started.
With that, let's now move to Q&A. We will try to get to as many analysts as possible, so we ask
that you limit yourself to one question. If you have additional questions, you can reach out to Ryan
and the Investor Relations team after the call. By the way, it's worth noting that the IR Magazine
recently recognized our Investor Relations as the best of all companies in the United States, an
award we are very proud to receive, as it was the result of voting from hundreds of investors and
analysts. And we look forward to continuing to provide you with transparent communication and a
high level of service.
With that, Francesca, can you please give the instructions for asking a question?
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)(Operator Instructions) Lastly, please be advised that this Q&A session is being recorded.
For today's session, Geoff Martha and Karen Parkhill are joined by `Sean Salmon, Executive Vice President and President, Diabetes Operating Unit and President,, EVP and
President of the Cardiovascular Portfolio and the Diabetes operating unit; `Bob White, Executive Vice President and President, Medical Surgical Portfolio, EVP and
President of the Medical Surgical portfolio; and Brett Wall, EVP and President of the Neuroscience
Portfolio. We will pause for a minute to assemble the queue.
We'll take the first question from `Bob Hopkins, Bank of America Merrill Lynch at BofA Securities. Bob, please go ahead.
Q - `Bob Hopkins, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. Thanks, and good morning. And just to make sure the technology is working okay, can you
hear me this morning?
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, we can hear you, Bob.
Q - `Bob Hopkins, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. Thanks, Geoff. Appreciate the opportunity to ask the question and congrats on the
momentum. I guess, for my one question, given that it's such an important topic, Geoff, and
you're such a major player around the globe, and I'm sure investors would love to hear a little
more detail on just what you're seeing currently with the recovery in surgical procedures and what
you saw over the course of the quarter, specifically, are things continuing to improve here early in
fiscal Q1? And are you now seeing year-over-year growth above pre-COVID revenue levels
currently?
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks for the question, Bob. I mean, the way we look at this is by geography and then by
product line or therapy. But I'll start with the answer. Overall, we're nearing a full recovery. And
we're seeing with each month of the quarter, every month was better than the prior month, and
that continued to improve and accelerate into May, largely driven by the U.S. market. I mean, once
we hit that vaccine -- vaccination inflection point, I know a couple of months ago, people were
worried that it wasn't moving fast enough, then we hit an inflection point and things really opened
up. And so, in the U.S. where -- depending what therapy you want to look at anywhere from 85%
to over 100% of pre-COVID levels, and like I said, every month got better.
And then you got to look around the world. China is pretty much back to normal totally. And
Europe being our second biggest, Western Europe, if you look at that as one market, that is
lagging behind the U.S. But look, we're confident that when you have a healthcare system like
they have with that kind of infrastructure, once they get the vaccinations going, it will hit that same
inflection point in the United States and open up, but as you know, they're a couple of months
behind.
The harder one to peg down is the emerging markets. I mean, places like India, where the virus is
still raging, Southeast, other parts of Southeast Asia, Latin America, they don't have the same
infrastructure even when they get the vaccine and there's a lot of people, so there's a lot of
vaccines that you need to get there. So that's a harder one to pin down. But overall as a
company, like I said, we're nearing a full recovery despite the emerging market piece, really
driven by the acceleration of the United States. And like I said, we expect Europe to come not too
far behind.Q - `Bob Hopkins, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Any thoughts on Japan?
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Japan, it was doing pretty well, and then it slowed down a bit and is starting to come back. But
like many of the developed market, it slowed down in that December-January timeframe, but it is
starting to come back for us as well.
Q - `Bob Hopkins, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thank you very much.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Bob. Let's go to the next question please, Francesca.
Operator
We'll take the next question from Robbie Marcus from JPMorgan. Robbie, please go ahead.
Q - `Robert Marcus, JPMorgan `
Great. I'll add my congrats on the quarter. So, Karen, maybe for you, there's a lot to unpack here
in the guide and it's great to see revenues come in above the Street, offset a little on EPS. I was
hoping you could give a bit more color to what's assumed in there in terms of any bolus of
recovery patients over the balance of the year? Anything you could give us on top and bottom
line cadence throughout the recovery through the year? And just how we think about operating
margin versus some of the below the line items would be great? Thanks.
A - `Karen L. Parkhill, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Robbie. So, in terms of revenue, clearly, we're seeing a strong end to our fiscal year and
that's continuing into the first quarter and we expect that momentum to continue. So, from a
revenue perspective, we expect increasing revenue growth on a two-year stack basis throughout
the year.
In terms of bolus of revenues, we just expected to be steady, steady increase. In terms of
operating margin, we expect an operating margin expansion this year, even with our significant
increase in investment, particularly against the Robot and RDN, and that's what's driving a guide
in line with Street expectations. Hopefully, that's helpful.
Q - `Robert Marcus, JPMorgan `
Yeah. Maybe just a quick follow-up there on operating margin because there's a lot of room in
improvement. Is something like in the 28% to 28.5% range the right place to be?
A - `Karen L. Parkhill, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I would say you can expect a few points, roughly a little bit over 3 points of improvement in
the year. And so, we're driving that expansion at the same time that we're driving important
investment.
Q - `Robert Marcus, JPMorgan `Great. Thanks a lot.
A - `Karen L. Parkhill, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Robbie. Let's go to the next question please, Francesca.
Operator
We'll take the next question from `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI from Evercore ISI. Vijay, go ahead please.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI `
Thanks, guys, for taking my question. Geoff, congrats on a solid print here. I did have one
question on Surgical Robotics. Actually, it's a two-parter. One, the $50 million to $100 million
expectation and perhaps doubling or tripling, what's -- I guess, can you talk about the
assumptions behind the wide range? Is that a timing related and perhaps when you might get the
approvals in major markets?
And then related to that, when you -- I think you guys called out $400 million of operating losses,
right? With the revenue of $50 million to $100 million, I think that implies perhaps a $1 billion of
step up on the OpEx side. Where is that spend going? And then how should we think about
profitability on these new initiatives? Thank you.
A - `Karen L. Parkhill, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Vijay, I might start by saying that the $400 million of operating losses that we shared with you is
both the Robot and RDN combined, it's not just the Robot. And in terms of our assumptions
behind the $50 million to $100 million, you can expect it to accelerate into the year, particularly in
the back half in the fourth quarter. And we're pleased to be launching this Robot. And we're really
excited about the prospects beyond this fiscal year into FY '23 where we said that it should
double or perhaps even triple.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI `
Sorry. In that spend, perhaps can you clarify how much of that is R&D versus a buildout of the
commercial organization?
A - `Karen L. Parkhill, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I'm going to let `Bob White, Executive Vice President and President, Medical Surgical Portfolio comment too, but you can expect it's a lot. We're going to
continue in R&D spending, and we're going to be building out sales force and customer service
and support as well.
A - `Bob White, Executive Vice President and President, Medical Surgical Portfolio `
Yeah. That's right, Karen. That spend is really built as we now commercialize the Robot. And as
I've talked about in the past, Vijay, we've got a really exciting product pipeline across those four
vectors in innovation: instrumentation, data and analytics, visualization, and of course, the Robotic
system as well.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI `Thanks, guys.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Vijay. Next question please, Francesca.
Operator
We will take the next question from `Joanne Wuensch, Citigroup from Citi. Joanne, please go ahead.
Q - `Joanne Wuensch, Citigroup `
Can you hear me okay?
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, we can Joanne.
Q - `Joanne Wuensch, Citigroup `
Wonderful. I'd like to spend just a couple of minutes on diabetes. There's two major medical
meetings coming up, ATTD and ADA, and you're launching Guardian Sensor 4 and the smart
insulin pen outside the United States. So, it's sort of a multipart question. But first of all, what
should we be expecting at these two meetings? As it relates to the sensor, could you give us
some of the parameters? I know zero calibrations, but I'm curious on MARD. And the, lastly, how
do you look to price these products as you bring them first outside the United States and then
into the United States? Thanks.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, Joanne. Maybe I'll have Sean answer those questions.
A - `Sean Salmon, Executive Vice President and President, Diabetes Operating Unit and President, `
Okay. Thanks, Joanne. Yes. So, we've got a lot of coming out next week at ATTD. You pointed to
the sensor data which will be released. There's the abstract available on the website right now,
which includes the MARD numbers. We also have information coming out in the 780G experience,
which I'd point you to, to look at the first 4,000 patients of real-world experience are being
launched there. We'll have additional smart pen data coming out at the ADA meeting.
But in terms of your specific question on MARD, that's really not a great metric to look at. There's
sort of an overall average of how the difference is looking across the full range of the sensor. But
what you really want to know is, when your blood sugar is high or when it's low, is your sensor
accurate? And those data are really accurate, and you'll see that in the presentation.
And the other thing that's important is the trending. Is the blood sugar reliably being going up or
down? And that's really what matters. So kind of like A1C is a big average over time for glycemic
control and time and range replace that metric. Really, the accuracy at the right places in the
range is what's important, and you'll see that in the day that's being presented.
In terms of pricing, there's no plan to change the pricing between what we've done with Guardian
Sensor 3 or Guardian Sensor 4 in any market.
Q - `Joanne Wuensch, Citigroup `Thank you.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Joanne. Next question please, Francesca.
Operator
Okay. The next question from `Chris Pasquale, Guggenheim Securities at Guggenheim Securities. Chris, please go ahead.
Q - `Chris Pasquale, Guggenheim Securities `
Hey, can you hear me okay?
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, we can hear you just fine, Chris.
Q - `Chris Pasquale, Guggenheim Securities `
Great. I wanted to follow up on the diabetes business. 3% to 4% growth coming off of the year in
which sales were flat, doesn't imply a ton of progress on the turnaround at FY '22. I'm curious
whether that guidance really assumes any contribution from 780G and Zeus in the United States?
And maybe tied into that, just your latest expectations on the timing of potential FDA approvals
for those products?
A - `Karen L. Parkhill, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Chris, I'll take the first part, and I'm going to let Sean comment on the second part. But one
thing to keep in mind with our diabetes guide is that we purposely did not adjust for the extra
week across the whole company that we had last year, because the reduction in bulk purchases
offset it. But that reduction in bulk purchases did not affect our diabetes business. So really, we
need to look at it with the loss of the extra week that is indeed affecting them and that loss of
the extra week is about a 150 basis points on the year. So hopefully, that's helpful.
A - `Sean Salmon, Executive Vice President and President, Diabetes Operating Unit and President, `
Yeah. Just to build on what Karen said, we also had a bit of a comparable issue within some
international markets where there was some stockpiling of the consumables that get used, so
that's a little bit of year-on-year comparison. But the bigger effect for us is that the installed base
in the last six months, so those coming out of warranty in the last six months was just higher than
what we're going to see in the first half of the fiscal year. So just getting a difference how many
patients come out and at what time.
And certainly, the new product flows you mentioned 780 and Zeus for the U.S. would be the most
important for us to continue to move both patients from the installed base as well as those new
patients, those coming out of MDI or competitors. I don't have an update on the timing, we're in
active review as Geoff said on the filing. And we -- the reviewer that's working with us is the same
one that reviewed the 770 device. So we think that familiarity is going to be helpful, but there's no
update on timing at this point.
Q - `Chris Pasquale, Guggenheim Securities `
Thanks.A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Just -- it's good to see though the pipeline is starting to show up here. I mean, we're
looking forward to get to the U.S., but 780G, the new sensor, the extended wear infusion set, it's
a pretty powerful combination and we're seeing great clinical results and great patient feedback,
and I think you'll see that in the data that comes out. And it's a good leading indicator of what
we're going to see in the United States when it gets here.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head of Investor Relations `
Okay. Thanks, Chris. Let's go to the next question please, Francesca.
Operator
Okay. The next question from `Larry Biegelsen, Wells Fargo Securities LLC from Wells Fargo Securities. Larry, please go ahead.
Q - `Larry Biegelsen, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Good morning. Thanks for taking the question. One -- just one for Sean, on renal denervation. So
Sean, for the On-Med data, TCT, is the pilot data good proxy? And I think with the Off-Med, we
saw a little degradation in the efficacy. Would you expect the same here? And can you have
reimbursement? How should we think about the ramp given the uncertainty around
reimbursement? I think we all understand it's a big opportunity. You guys are really excited about
it. But how do we think about -- is it something that could be a slow ramp because
reimbursement may not be in place upon approval? Thanks for taking the question.
A - `Sean Salmon, Executive Vice President and President, Diabetes Operating Unit and President, `
Yeah. Thanks, Larry. I think there's a good proxy for that pilot study, it sort of informed our
decision should we continue on and is this worth studying. So, I think that magnitude of benefit
could be there. But you're right to point out that when you get into more centers, more patient
and physician variables, things can move around a little bit. So, we'll see what that looks like. But
we're confident that the trial is designed properly to get us the right answer.
But reimbursement is certainly the hurdle. We do have CE Mark, we have approval in a lot of
countries, but getting that paid for is going to be important. And in the United States, we're
awaiting eagerly the proposed rule on MCIT to allow four years of coverage as we develop
further evidence upon approval. Now that doesn't cover payment. We still have work to do there.
We still have to go payer by payer, because a lot of the patients will fall into the non-Medicare
bucket of patients. But we've been working that for a number of years frankly to make sure that
we have the right evidence to satisfy their needs, which really frankly drove the need for an On-
Med trial to begin with. But yeah, we got a lot of work ahead of us, but we're very excited about
the opportunity, and it's getting closer and closer.
Q - `Larry Biegelsen, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Thanks, Sean.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Larry. Next question please, Francesca.
OperatorOkay. The next question from `Rick Wise, Stifel Nicolaus from Stifel. Rick, please go ahead.
Q - `Rick Wise, Stifel Nicolaus `
Good morning, everybody. I guess, I have a question that maybe is for both Geoff and Karen. It's
about cash. And maybe talk about your cash generation potential in the year ahead, and your
thoughts about some of the key drivers there. But maybe Geoff, you could expand on your
thoughts about the use of cash in the sense that, I mean, you all indicated that you're buying back
stock to offset dilution. You've raised the dividend. So that sort of leaves M&A. Is the year ahead
going to be a year of more intense M&A activity? You have so much going on internally. Is this a
priority? And maybe any color about, how you're thinking about your priorities as you look ahead?
Thank you.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Thanks. Thanks for the question, Rick. In terms of like our priorities, our priorities are
investing in growth. And today, we announced the largest increase in R&D in our history, and it's
because we're seeing these large market opportunities with clear patient need where Medtronic
has a right to win. And so, we're looking at those holistically, investing organically in R&D, but also
other growth investments like we talked about ahead of some certain product launches like
Guardian and the Robot. So, we're investing in sales and marketing, and other related growth
investments.
But inorganic still is a priority. We did a number of deals last year, tuck-in deals, and I'd say tuck-ins
are still the focus, and those tuck-in deals could be up to several billion dollars. I mean, the ones
we did over the last 18 months have been smaller than that. But I wouldn't mistake size for
impact. Some of these ones like Medicrea, which is the AI planning tool and outcomes tracking
tool for spine, is a real nice piece of the puzzle for our spine strategy. And a couple questions
here on the call today about our smart pen, the Companion Medical. So, these are impactful
deals, and we look to continue those. And so, it's still a priority, and over and above -- over
buybacks, and we'll see how the year plays out. It's tough to predict, right? We're going to remain
disciplined here.
But I think theme I'd walk away with is that we're committed to investing in growth, both
organically, inorganically, and doing what it takes to do that and still deliver on the EPS growth
expectations that we set out. And so that's what the team is focused on and you're seeing the
benefits of that.
I don't know Karen, if you want to --?
A - `Karen L. Parkhill, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I would just add, Rick, your first question on cash generation in the years ahead. Clearly, we
are focused on driving strong conversion of our non-GAAP EPS into cash. And we've said we've
targeted greater than 80% conversion rate. That doesn't change. So we remain focused on
delivering that. And we are also growing cash along with our earnings, and your -- we're focused
on driving continued working capital productivity in our days sales outstanding, our days payable,
our inventory. So, you can expect us to continue to have this keen focus on cash flow and driving
strong results from it.
Q - `Rick Wise, Stifel Nicolaus `
Thank you very much.A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Rick. Next question please, Francesca?
Operator
We'll take the next question from Matt Miksic from Credit Suisse. Matt, please go ahead.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Matt, you there?
Q - `Matthew Miksic, Credit Suisse
Hi. Can you hear me okay?
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Now, we can. How are you doing, Matt?
Q - `Matthew Miksic, Credit Suisse
Great. I'm well. Thanks. Thanks so much for taking the question. So one on your Robotic Surgery
programs, if I could. First part, if you could maybe just talk a little bit about how some of the
pandemic conditions around the world are affecting your progress so far, how you're thinking
about fiscal '22, and some of the range that you've put out there in that $50 million to $100
million?
And then secondly, there has been this, what feels like a bit of an inflection point in terms of
Robotic Surgery momentum and placement throughout the back-end of last year and the first
part of this year. I'm just wondering how, yeah, if you could describe your -- how you compare the
fourth quarter to the third quarter and how the cadence feels in terms of new placements and
pull-through in your current programs --?
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Okay. Yeah. I was going to ask you to clarify, because we said Robotics, I wasn't sure. So, on
the spine side, look, Matt, I know you followed this for years, the strategy of surrounding the
spine procedure and preceding the spine procedure and following up the spine procedure with
enabling technology from surgical planning to navigation, interoperative imaging, the Robot, this
is paying off. I mean, we had record sales last quarter of our capital equipment tied to spine
procedures and continue to outpace the competition on the robotic sales.
But more than anything, okay, more important than all of that is the surgeon feedback that we're
getting has hit an inflection point. They are now talking about the outcomes that they're getting
from this. It's the planning, the precision of the planning to get the right alignment plan in there,
and then the accuracy of executing to that plan with NAV and the robot and then the ability to
follow it up and access images in the PAC system through Medicrea to come back and retrain or
continue to evolve our algorithms. And also show surgeons are you really getting that alignment
that you thought. This is coming together. And we -- I think we're separating ourselves from the
pack and really, really getting closer to what our ultimate goal here is to transform spine surgery
from the art that it is today to a science and then demonstrate it with outcomes. So that is
something we're very excited.Like you mentioned, the momentum, the momentum -- the lagging -- the momentum from the
enabling technology, like I said, record sales, and it's because the buzz is out there from
surgeons starting to talk about the results they're getting from using this. And people that were
sitting on the sidelines are jumping in and the bus is moving. The train's left the station on this
one. And the feedback from our field, again, a lagging indicator, is palpable, the energy.
So, we're feeling really good about spine and robotics. And then the lessons that we've learned
from spine, we are spending a lot of time, our Spine team, and Brett Wall, working with Bob
White and Megan Rosengarten on the soft tissue. I think a lot of those lessons learned. I mean,
the markets aren't the same, they are different, but there are some lessons learned, and there
are some synergies there that we will incorporate into our Hugo soft tissue robot launch.
Q - `Matthew Miksic, Credit Suisse
Thanks so much.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Matt. Next question please, Francesca.
Operator
We'll take the next question from `Jayson Bedford, Raymond James from Raymond James. Jayson, please go
ahead.
Q - `Jayson Bedford, Raymond James `
Good morning. I just wanted to get back, Karen, to the operating margin commentary. It looks like
you did just under 24% in fiscal '21. I think you mentioned you're expecting a little over 300 bps in
fiscal '22. So, is the anticipation that op margin in '22 is going to be around 27%?
A - `Karen L. Parkhill, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So, 27%, 27.5%, in that range for the year. But keep in mind that our op margin should
improve as we go through the year. And so, by the end of the year, we expect it to be above that
28%.
Q - `Jayson Bedford, Raymond James `
Okay. Just any commentary on gross margin?
A - `Karen L. Parkhill, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Gross margin, we also expect a sequential improvement, about 0.5 point of sequential
improvement in the gross margin through the year.
Q - `Jayson Bedford, Raymond James `
Thank you.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Jayson. Next question please, Francesca.
OperatorWe'll take the next question from Danielle Antalffy from SVB Leerink. Danielle, please go ahead.
Q - Danielle Antalffy from SVB Leerink `
Hey. Good morning, everyone. Thanks so much for taking the question. Geoff, I just wanted to
follow-up on a comment you made earlier regarding, it depends on the business line as to the
recovery. Where are the business lines that are lagging? And sort of when are you expecting
those business lines to get back to full recovery relative to some that have already gotten there?
Thanks so much.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, in the -- I'd say in the United States, even the ones that are lagging, I would expect them to
get back to a full recovery in our fiscal Q1. And the ones that are lagging are the more elective
areas like ENT, our GI business, our endovenous business. And it is -- all those businesses that I
mentioned, we talked in the commentary about ENT and GI gaining share. So, it's not a
competitive thing. It really is a COVID issue. And in the United States, we expect those to get
back in our fiscal Q1. And then we talked about before, Europe is lagging by a few months, and
emerging markets is hard to predict. But it comes down to the elective nature. There's a
spectrum. Maybe stroke, and on one end, not very elective, at least from my perspective. And on
the other end, you have some of these ones I just mentioned, like ENT, GI, endovenous. Hope
that answers your question, Danielle. We might have lost her.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Danielle. We'll take one more question, please, Francesca.
Operator
Okay. We'll take the last question from `Steve Lichtman, Oppenheimer from Oppenheimer. Steve, please go
ahead.
Q - `Steve Lichtman, Oppenheimer `
Thank you. Good morning. Geoff, I was wondering if you could talk about the benefits you're
seeing from the more decentralized operating structure now, now when you're in? Is it delivering
what you had hoped? Any comments on the changes you're seeing on the ground would be
helpful. And just to clarify, FY '22 will be the first year that market share will be included in
compensation? Thanks.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. The answer to your last question is yes, that FY '22 will be the first year. We need to work on
how to measure this over the course of FY '21 precisely enough to put it in comp.
So, in terms of the operating model, I'd say, look, the dust is still settling a bit. But we're definitely
past, I'd say, the most difficult part, and I'm excited about where we're headed. We've got
increased role clarity and accountability across the org in this new decentralized model. And
people are now looking forward and focused on their key metrics. So, like for our operating units,
it's this innovation pipeline, it's their market growth, it's their market share, as we just talked
about. And this market share, one, is liberating for us because instead of comparing ourselves to
ourselves, we're comparing ourselves to the market with the clear expectation to grow at or
above the market. That clarifies a lot.For our regions, things like strategic account growth over and above what we're getting in the
traditional med-tech model of selling to the specialist physician and focused on those patients.
But in addition to that, the strategic account growth. For our Executive Committee, right, for the
people on this call, measurements around capital allocation to the high-growth segments,
portfolio management, all in a focus to increase our overall company weighted average market
growth rate, right?
So -- and then finally, I'd say there's lots of excitement, more than I would have thought maybe
even about the culture changes, this thing we're calling the Medtronic mindset that has these -- it
really works alongside our mission. Medtronic is known for a mission-driven company. We always
want to be known for that. That's kind of our ROI, if you will. But adding these things like acting
boldly, competing to win, move with speeding decisiveness, delivering results the right way,
adding these into the mix alongside our mission has generated a lot of energy, and it's kind of
taken off organically inside the company. And so, I'd say, overall, really happy with where it's
going, and we're starting to see the results of this.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head of Investor Relations `
Okay. Thanks, Steve. Geoff, please go ahead with your closing remarks.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. All right. Well, thanks everybody for the questions, and we really appreciate your support
and your continued interest in Medtronic. And we hope you'll join us for our Q1 earnings webcast,
which we anticipate holding on August 24th, where we'll update you on our progress. And so,
with that, again, thanks for tuning in today, and please stay healthy and safe, and have a great
rest of your day.