Q4 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head-Investor Relations `
Good morning. I'm `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head-Investor Relations, Vice President and Head of Medtronic, Investor Relations.
And I appreciate that you're joining us today for Medtronic's Fiscal Year 2022 Fourth-quarter
earnings Video Webcast. Before we go inside to hear prepared remarks, I'll share a few details
about today's webcast joining me, are Geoff Martha, Medtronic Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer; and `Karen Parkhill, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Medtronic Chief Financial Officer. Geoff and Karen will provide
comments on the results of our fourth quarter and fiscal year 2022, which ended on April 29,
2022 and our outlook for fiscal year '23 after our prepared remarks, our portfolio Executive VPs
will join us and we'll take questions from the sell-side analysts that cover the company.
Today's program should last about an hour. Earlier this morning, we issued a press release
containing our financial statements, and divisional and geographic revenue summary. We also
posted an earnings presentation that provides additional details on our performance. The
presentation can be accessed in our earnings press release or on our website at
investorrelations.medtronic.com.
During today's program. Many of the statements we make, may be considered forward-looking
statements and actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking
statement. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ is
contained in our periodic reports and other filings that we make with the SEC and we do not
undertake to update any forward-looking statements. Unless we say otherwise, all comparisons
are on a year-over-year basis and revenue comparisons are made on an organic basis, which this
quarter, includes only adjustments for foreign currency as there were no acquisitions or
divestitures made in the last four quarters, that had a significant impact on total company or
individual segment quarterly revenue growth.
References to sequential revenue changes compared to the third quarter of fiscal '22 and are
made on an as reported basis, and all references to share gains or losses refer to revenue share
in the first calendar quarter of 2022, compared to the first calendar quarter of 2021, unlessotherwise stated. Reconciliations of all non-GAAP financial measures can be found in our earnings
press release or on our website at investorrelations.medtronic.com.
And finally, our EPS guidance does not include any charges or gains that would be reported as
non-GAAP adjustments to earnings during the fiscal year.
With that, let's head into the studio and get started.
`Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. This morning we reported our Q4 results.
Now there were parts of the quarter that played out as anticipated and there were also some
unexpected challenges, more than I would have liked, which caused us to come up short of our
expectations.
As we anticipated, procedure volumes in most of our markets reached pre-COVID levels by the
end of the quarter. We also executed and delivered on recent product launches. However, we
faced challenges related to supply chain in China that impacted some of our businesses and
were the largest contributors to our shortfall.
Now I'll get into more detail on these challenges shortly, but you should take away that we
understand the root causes and we are well down the path to addressing them. And to be
prudent, however, we've assumed that these challenges will persist for the next quarter or two in
the guidance that Karen is going to walk you through shortly.
So let's focus on what happened this quarter. The shortfall to our revenue guidance was primarily
due to two factors: China, where the extended COVID lockdowns affected our results in the
quarter; particularly in April, and global supply chain challenges. Over the past few quarters,
global supply chain challenges have impacted many of our businesses. And as they arise, our
teams have worked quickly to resolve them and prior to this quarter, we had largely mitigated
their financial impact.
However, this quarter, one of our largest businesses, Surgical Innovations, was adversely affected
by certain raw material shortages, and this resulted in large back orders and caused our SI
revenue to come in well below our expectations. Several of our other businesses also faced
supply challenges in the quarter, but to a lesser extent.
Now we're down the path of improving our supply chain capabilities and we're leveraging the
expertise that Greg Smith, our new Global Ops and Supply Chain leader brings from the retail,
consumer products and automotive industries. Greg and his team are making progress
addressing the areas we can improve, including the management and resiliency of our critical
suppliers and manufacturing network. The recent stress of these global supply chain issues has
further illuminated the need for the enhancements. We have a new global structure in place that
consolidates the operations and supply chain functions, which were previously fragmented
throughout the organization.
Now, this is a big move for us. And there is still a lot of work to be done, but I am confident we will
come out of this with a more resilient end-to-end global supply chain that we believe will be a
competitive advantage in our industry.
While some of our Q4 challenges will persist in the near term, we expect strong improvement in
the back half of our fiscal year and we remain focused on delivering our long-term strategies.We've made significant changes over the past two years to position the company for accelerated
and sustained innovation-driven growth. Our pipeline is robust and continues to advance, with a
number of upcoming catalysts and fast-growing MedTech markets.
We are committed to creating strong returns for our shareholders and we're making progress
with our enhanced portfolio management and our capital allocation processes. We're investing in
future growth drivers, while at the same time returning capital, primarily through a meaningful and
growing dividend, which we just increased again today by 8%.
Regarding Portfolio Management, we are continuing to advance the robust process we began
talking about earlier this year. And within that, and as a smaller initial step, we're pleased to
announce that we've reached an agreement where we will contribute our Renal Care Solutions
business into a new company, which we will jointly own with DaVita. And in return, we'll receive up
to $400 million in value from them and we expect this transaction will close in calendar 2023.
The new company is going to develop a broad suite of novel kidney care solutions, including
home-based products. I'm excited about this for a couple of reasons. First, this business is going
to have the focus that it needs. Second, DaVita is a global leader in Kidney Care and will be a
great partner to commercialize and scale this innovative technology. And finally, both Medtronic
and DaVita will participate in the expected upside.
Now turning to market share. Product availability affected our performance in the quarter, with our
overall company share down about a half a point. On the bright side, even with our challenges
half of our businesses held or gained share, and as you know, market share is an important metric
for us at Medtronic, as it is a driver of our annual variable compensation along with revenue
growth, profit and free cash flow.
Well, I won't go through market share business by business in the interest of time, we'll be happy
to take questions in Q&A.
Now let's cover our product pipeline, where we're advancing several meaningful technologies
that can create new markets, disrupt existing ones and accelerate the growth profile of
Medtronic. We made great strides with organic pipeline in fiscal '22, conducting over 300 clinical
trials and receiving over 200 regulatory approvals in the U.S., Europe, Japan and China.
Our recent product launches are starting to make an impact across our businesses. And as we
look ahead, we have increasing visibility to upcoming catalysts in the back half of the calendar
year, that we expect will help accelerate our growth as we go through fiscal '23 and beyond.
Starting with our Cardiovascular portfolio and Cardiac Rhythm Management, recently launched
leadless pacemakers, including our Micra AV in Japan and Micra VR in China, led to above-market
growth again, this quarter. We just received approval for Micra AV in China earlier this month and
we expect geographic expansion to continue to drive strong Micra growth.
In ICDs, we're preparing to disrupt the single-chamber market with our Aurora Extravascular ICD.
We continue to drive towards CE mark approval for Aurora later this calendar year and U.S.
approval next year. With Micra and EV ICD, we expect continued strength in CRM.
In Cardiac Ablation Solutions, we've been selling a number of technologies to increase our impact
in the $8 billion EP ablation market, building on our leadership in cryoablation.
We're continuing the rollout of our DiamondTemp RF system, an exclusive cryoablation first line
indication for paroxysmal AF. We're advancing our pulsed field select anatomical pulsed fieldablation system, having fully enrolled our global pivotal trial. We're also expecting to fill
competitive gaps in cardiac ablation with our recent announcements to add a differentiated
mapping and navigation system, and left heart access portfolio, including a transseptal access
system that can perform both mechanical and RF crossings.
In renal denervation, data from our SPYRAL HTN-ON MED pilot study were presented last month
at ACC and simultaneously published in the Lancet. These data demonstrated durable and
clinically significant blood pressure reductions through three years. And last week, additional data
were presented at EuroPCR, which showed those receiving RDN spend significantly more time in
target blood pressure range, adding to our robust body of evidence.
In Q4, we also announced that we completed enrollment in the full cohort of patients in the ON
MED study, which we expect to complete the six month follow-up in the second half of this
calendar year. We'll then look to present the data and submit for FDA approval as ON MED is the
final piece of our submission.
In Structural Heart, differentiated durability data for our TAVR valves were presented as a late-
breaker at ACC last month. The data showed that our TAVR platform is the only one TAVR[ph]
performed surgical valves and durability at five years as measured by SVD or Structural Valve
Deterioration. And less SVD was associated with better clinical outcomes, including mortality and
heart failure hospitalization.
Additionally, durability data were presented from a separate U.K. registry. The first to look at
TAVR data past 10 years. And it showed CoreValve had one third the rate of structural valve
deterioration compared to SAPIEN and SAPIEN XT, data at EuroPCR last week, reinforced our
excellent clinical outcomes with our customer Cusp Overlap implant technique, including one day
hospital discharge, single digit pacemaker rates and the absence of moderate or severe PVL.
In the quarter, we also continued to launch Evolut Pro+ in Europe and began the launch of Evolut
Pro in China, our first entry into this large and under-penetrated market. In the U.S., we're planning
to start the limited market release of our next generation TAVR valve, Evolut FX, here in our first
fiscal quarter and move into full market release later in the fiscal year.
We're also looking to expand our TAVR indications. We had first enrollment earlier this month in
our EXPAND TAVR II pivotal trial, evaluate our TAVR platform in patients with moderate
symptomatic aortic stenosis.
Overall, TAVR represents a large growth driver for Medtronic, as we expect this roughly $5.5
billion market to exceed $7 billion within the next three years and reached $10 billion in the next
five years.
Moving to our med-surg portfolio and surgical robotics, we remain focused on the limited market
release of our Hugo robot while we scale production. We completed Hugo installations in
Denmark, France and Italy. We also continue to increase our installed base of Touch Surgery
Enterprise, our AI-powered surgical video analytics platform.
In our patient monitoring business, we just received FDA clearance earlier this month for next
generation Nellcor OxySoft pulse ox sensor. Now this sensor includes a special silicone adhesive
designed to protect fragile skin while enhancing adherence. Its low profile and brighter LEDs
improve accuracy and responsiveness for the most challenging neonatal and adult critical care
patients.Now turning to our neuroscience portfolio and our cranial and spinal technologies business. We're
seeing strong adoption of our unit AI-enabled surgical planning platform with a mid 30s
sequential growth in our U.S. user base. The ongoing launch of our catalyst expandable titanium
interbody system and the rollout of our enabling technologies continues to differentiate us in
spine.
Customer demand for capital equipment remained strong. We had record quarters for our Mazor
robotic system and StealthStation navigation system. In neuromodulation, we're building our
commercial teams and have started the initial launch of our Intellis and Vanta spinal cord
stimulators to treat diabetic peripheral neuropathy.
We believe DPN is one of the largest opportunities in MedTech and we expect the market to
reach $300 million by FY '26, with an annual total addressable market of up to $2 billion. And
we're also excited about our inceptive ECAPs closed-loop spinal cord stimulator, which we
submitted to the FDA late last calendar year, we expect inceptive's closed-loop therapy, which
optimizes pain relief for patients to revolutionize the SCS market.
In brain modulation, our ongoing launch of the Percept PC neurostimulator and SenSight
directional leads is driving new implant share in both Europe and the U.S. And this is the only
system that can stimulate & sense brain signals.
In Pelvic Health, we received FDA approval of our next-gen InterStim recharge-free device,
InterStim X and that was happened in the fourth quarter. InterStim X features our proprietary fifth
generation battery chemistry that provides 10 to 15 years of battery life, without the need to
recharge.
And in ENT, we announced earlier this month, that we completed the acquisition of Intersect ENT,
and we're excited to add their attractive, high growth, complementary products into our existing
business. We believe we can grow Intersect's products in the double digits over the next several
years, as we expand use of both, the PROPEL and SINUVA sinus implants globally.
In diabetes, our MiniMed 780G insulin pump, combined with our Guardian 4 sensor continues to
be extremely well received in markets where it's available. Now this system has a very positive
user experience, with no finger sticks and more time in range. This is due to its near real-time
basal insulin and auto correction boluses every five minutes to address underestimated counts
and occasional mis-meal doses, very strong data on 780G and Guardian 4 were presented at
ATTD last month, showing improved timing range with less user interaction. Additional datasets
on this differentiated system will be shared at ADA next month.
And we also announced that Germany and France began reimbursement of our system in the
quarter, which helped drive high teen sequential international growth in Diabetes. And in the U.S.,
we made substantial progress in meeting our observation and warning letter commitments and
continue to have regular communication with the FDA.
In our CGM pipeline, we expect to submit our next generation sensor, Simplera for CE Mark and
FDA approval this summer.
In addition, we're advancing multiple NextGen sensor and pump programs, including patch
pumps. We're making considerable investments in our Diabetes pipeline with line of sight to
restoring strong growth in this business over the coming years.
And with that, I'll turn it over to Karen to discuss our fourth quarter financial performance and our
new guidance for the next fiscal year. Karen?`Karen Parkhill, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Geoff. Our fourth-quarter organic revenue increased 1.4%, below our guidance and
consensus. Compared to consensus about 15% of the difference can be attributed to China,
given recent COVID shutdowns and slowing distributor purchases in spine, ahead of a potential
national volume based tender.
About 10% of the difference is a result of changes in foreign exchange rates over the course of
the quarter, and the remaining difference, and the largest driver is due to supply chain issues that
Geoff discussed. Despite revenue coming in roughly $350 million less than we expected, we
reduced the impact that this would have had on our bottom line, resulting in EPS of $1.52, $0.04
below our guidance range.
From a geographic perspective, our U.S. revenue decline 2%, non-U.S. developed markets grew
4% and our emerging markets grew 7%. Within emerging markets, China declined 10%, given the
impact of the COVID lockdowns. But we had very strong growth in many other emerging
markets, including high-teens growth in Eastern Europe, low '20s growth in Latin America, low
'30s growth in the Middle East and Africa and mid-30s growth in South Asia. In fact, excluding
China, emerging markets grew in the low 20s.
Turning to our margins, our fourth quarter adjusted gross margin improved by 30 basis points
year-over-year, driven by product mix with lower sales of ventilators and higher sales of products
like Micra. While we were impacted by inflation with increased freight expense, it's worth noting
that the full impact from inflation on raw material and direct labor costs will be realized over the
next couple of quarters, as our inventory rolls off our balance sheet negatively affecting our gross
margin.
Moving down the P&L, we also drove additional and continued improvement in our adjusted
operating margin, which increased by 40 basis points, excluding the benefit from currency. We
also ended the year with free cash flow at $6 billion, representing year-over-year growth of 22%
and meeting our goal of 80% conversion from adjusted net income. Our balance sheet remains
strong and we continue to allocate our capital to investments that we expect will generate solid
future growth and shareholder returns.
We're investing heavily in R&D with programs especially targeted for faster-growing MedTech
markets or where we have an opportunity to create new markets. We're also using our balance
sheet to complement our innovation-driven growth strategy, with tuck-in M&A, utilizing our very
active capital committee process that was developed as part of our new operating model.
In fiscal '22, we announced four acquisitions, totaling over $2.1 billion in total consideration. As
Geoff mentioned, we closed our acquisition of Intersect ENT earlier this month, and also
announced our intent to acquire a left-heart access portfolio last month.
At the same time, we're investing in promising early stage ventures to keep our fingers on the
pulse of new products and technologies incubated by companies that one day could become
future acquisitions. We're also actively providing strong return to our shareholders, returning $5.5
billion in fiscal '22, through our dividend and net share repurchase. And this morning, we
announced that we're increasing our dividend by 8%, reflecting the confidence we and our Board
have in our financial strength and future earnings power.
We are an S&P dividend aristocrat, having increased our dividend for 45 years now. And our
dividend is an important component of the total return we generate for our shareholders. This
past year, we paid $3.4 billion in dividends and we're supplementing that through opportunisticshare repurchase, particularly in periods where we see share price dislocation. In fact, we
repurchased over $2.5 billion of our stock in fiscal '22, including $1.4 billion in the fourth quarter.
Now, turning to our guidance and starting with revenue, we continue to expect our recent
launches and product pipeline to make a difference in many of our businesses, and Geoff
covered many of them earlier. We expect organic revenue growth in fiscal '23 of 45%. While the
impact of currency is fluid, if recent exchange rates hold, foreign currency would have a negative
impact on full-year revenue of $1 to $1.1 billion.
By segment, we expect Cardiovascular to grow 5.5% to 6.5%, Medical-Surgical to grow 3.5% to
4.5%, Neuroscience to grow 5% to 6% and Diabetes to decline 6% to 7%, all on an organic basis.
While we are hopeful that we can receive approval for 780G and guardian 4 sensor in the United
States, we've elected not to include it in our guidance.
In the first quarter, we would have you model, organic revenue to decline in the range of 4.5% to
5.5%, which conservatively assumes no near-term improvement in our supply chain and no major
change to underlying fundamentals. Assuming recent exchange rates hold, the first quarter would
have a currency headwind between $350 and $400 million. By segment, we expect
Cardiovascular to decline 1% to 2%, Medical-Surgical to decline 7.5% to 8.5%, Neuroscience to be
down 5% to 6% and Diabetes down 8% to 10%, all on an organic basis.
Moving down the P&, I provided early color for fiscal '23 on the last quarterly earnings call, where I
talked about the expected impact of inflation, wages, acquisition dilution and foreign exchange
headwinds. These still hold, but we've also seen environmental changes since late February.
Inflation and foreign exchange rates have become larger headwinds, and we're now factoring in
continued supply chain challenges early in the year. Inflation and FX pressures also create near-
term challenges on our margins, although we continue to look for opportunities to offset them.
At the same time, we continue to prioritize our long-term investments in organic R&D, with a
focus on large opportunities in future growth markets, like renal denervation, robotics, diabetic
peripheral neuropathy and transcatheter mitral valves. Taking this all into account, on the bottom
line, we expect non-GAAP diluted EPS in the range of $5.53 to $5.65 in fiscal '23, which includes
an unfavorable impact of $0.20 to $0.25 from currency at recent rates. For the first quarter, we
expect EPS of $1.10 to $1.14, including an FX headwind of about $0.05 at current rates.
Before I send it back to Geoff. I want to thank our employees around the globe, who are working
hard to overcome the macro challenges we face. Thanks for all you do to fulfill our mission every
day. Back to you, Geoff.
`Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Karen. While we spent a lot of time covering the fourth quarter, it's worth briefly
reflecting on what we've accomplished in fiscal '22. It's certainly been a difficult environment and
our organization has enacted big changes in such a short period of time and under unique
circumstances to better position the company.
It was our first full year in the new operating model and with our enhanced Medtronic mindset of
acting boldly, competing to win, moving with speed and decisiveness fostering belonging and
delivering results the right way. We've also made strides to becoming a more diverse and
inclusive organization, and I was very proud that Medtronic was recognized earlier this month as
number 10 on DiversityInc's Top 50 U.S. companies for diversity.Even with that, we are committed to improving through innovative programs to attract develop
and retain top talent from all gender and ethnic backgrounds. Along those lines, we've made
notable hires in fiscal '22. Recruiting great talent from healthcare technology industry and beyond.
While we've implemented a number of changes, this past year has been choppier than I would
have liked, with some of our growth drivers being pushed out and the impact from the pandemic,
quality challenges and supply chain affecting our results.
But we have a clear direction, a clear direction where we're headed as we transform the
Company. Let's start with the top line, we remain laser-focused on accelerating the growth
through robust capital allocation and portfolio management. You're seeing our efforts to enhance
our future growth through greater investment in organic R&D, as well as portfolio moves. We've
already spoken of the organic growth catalysts in front of us, many coming later this fiscal year.
We're also executing a healthy cadence of tuck-in acquisitions in faster growing markets and
we're focused on reducing our footprint in lower growth and lower margin businesses. We
continue to work on additional portfolio moves, with the goal of creating a portfolio where we
have distinct expertise, synergies across the company, and ultimately, higher growth and higher
margins.
And to aid this effort, we've assembled a dedicated team that is a 100% focused on our
integrations and divestitures at the same time, we have the opportunity to improve our global
supply chain and operations by centralizing these activities, allowing us to leverage our scale,
invest in new technology and ensure we have world-class supply chain experts responsible for
our global operations. And this isn't something new that we're just starting now, although recent
challenges have given us a greater sense of urgency, we've been on this journey for over a year.
And while it will take time, I fully expect our efforts to drive lower cost and lead to consistent and
reliable quality along with greater product availability, all on a sustainable basis.
Now, well beyond healthcare, our world is facing a lot of economic uncertainty, with questions
around inflation, global supply chain challenges and continued impacts from the pandemic in a
potential recession. But our business, the business of healthcare, and the delivery of essential
lifesaving technology is something that continues in good times and uncertain times like these,
and demand for our products continues to increase with the aging and growing of our global
population.
When you look at healthcare technology, Medtronic is uniquely situated; particularly, in these
uncertain times, given our diversified businesses with leading market positions in growth markets,
a robust product pipeline, solid free cash flow, strong balance sheet and a very attractive and
growing dividend to add to our return to shareholders We have near-term challenges that we are
overcoming and the opportunities in healthcare technology and that Medtronic are immense. We
are fully focused on continuing on our transformation journey and making our opportunities a
reality, as we alleviate pain, restore health and extend life for millions of people around the world.
Finally, I want to thank our exceptional Medtronic employees. I get to see the outcome of their
efforts to fulfill our mission everyday, it's inspiring. In addition, their willingness to lean into our
new operating model and embrace our new culture have been key to the ongoing transformation
of the company.
I also want to thank our partners in healthcare, the frontline workers who are at that final step
ensuring patients get our therapies, and are dedicating their lives day in and day out. Their
incredible efforts to continue care delivery and get us all through the pandemic will be noted as
one of the great accomplishments in history.Now, let's move to Q&A. We're going to try to get as many analysts as possible, so we ask that
you limit yourself to just one question, and only if needed, a related follow-up. If you have
additional questions, you can reach out to Ryan and the investor relations team after the call.
With that, Brad, can you please give the instructions for asking a question.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator instructions)
Please be advised that this Q&A session is being recorded.
For today's session, Geoff, Karen and Ryan are joined by `Sean Salmon, Executive Vice President and President of the Cardiovascular Portfolio, EVP & President of the
Cardiovascular portfolio and former Head of the Diabetes Operating Unit; `Bob White, EVP and President, Medical Surgical Portfolio, EVP and
President of the Medical Surgical Portfolio and Brett Wall EVP and President of the Neuroscience
Portfolio.
We'll pause for a few seconds to assemble the queue.
We'll take the first question from `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI at Evercore ISI. Vijay, please go ahead.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Hi guys. Thanks for taking my question. Geoff, and Karen, maybe -- I had a two-part question, I'll
ask (inaudible). What -- when I look at that 4 o 5 organic guide for fiscal '23, perhaps it came in
slightly better than expected, can you talk about some specific assumptions around (inaudible)
supply chain -- there were some backorders, is there some contribution from supply chain
backorders? Any further disruptions from supply chain, what are you assuming for Diabetes,
Robotics, and China BBP, is something that investors have asked. And Geoff, related to that, I
think, if I take a step back, the Medtronic (inaudible) mid-singles (inaudible) high-singles earnings,
consistency is something that people have questioned. We've had some moving parts over the
years, as you look at all the changes that have happened, maybe talk about what gives you the
confidence, that this consistency of mid-singles on the top and high-singles on the BPS line,
should be something that investors should look forward to?
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Well, let me -- thanks for the question Vijay. Maybe, I'll take the second part of that question
and Karen can take the first part, of the details behind the 4% to 5% for FY '23. But on the
second part, in terms of the confidence of getting back to -- getting to that constant mid-single
digit currency topline, and high-single digit, the EPS growth or double digit total return to
shareholders.
I do think that we're putting the right things in place.
So first of all, just over the next, -- Karen can detail this, but over the next year, you'll see the
acute backorder issues that we faced in Q4., those abate over the next quarter or so, and we can
get into the details of that. In addition, we're definitely (inaudible) a lot of things that hurt us in FY
'22. Like exiting the LVAD business, the Navion recall, some tough comps on our ventilator
business form the height of the pandemic, so these things abate over -- these things go away
over the course of the fiscal year, starting now actually, and then finally, we have a lot of growth
catalyst, we've talked about and I could go though that -- there's a long list, I went through a lotof it in the commentary, but it's much broader than the Hugo or Soft Tissue Robot, and RDN[ph].
Those are big ones but there's a lot of other ones as well. And then, so that, those things kick in
in the second half of this year and they get even bigger in FY '24, and then, finally, we've got
some portfolio moves that over the next year or so, I think -- we'll that's -- that'll add to this. So,
that's how we get from where we are to, back to that -- the numbers that you quoted.
And then, the second part of your question gets to kind of the confidence and the consistency
and I'd say there are two things, one is having a -- this robust pipeline spread across all of our
businesses and we've been working hard over the last couple of years to double down on our
innovation, putting more into R&D, the new operating model that we have the 20 operating units,
we have clear visibility into their end markets, their competition. People are getting evaluated on
their pipeline and we're putting more into R&D; and as well as some meaningful tuck-in
acquisitions, like we just mentioned, Intersect ENT closing and in the Cardiac Ablation Solutions
space or the Afib space, the Affera acquisition. These are meaningful ads.
So that gives us diversity and more growth on the top line, but the piece that we really have been
focusing on over the last year and is important for our future, in terms of consistency is the global
operations and supply chain changes that we made. You know, these are coming into this role,
myself and the team identified this as a opportunity for us.
Brought in Greg Smith, as we mentioned in the commentary, over a year ago and really already
centralized our supply chain. Our global ops and supply chain was really set up for a different era,
a past era and we had to make those changes; and unfortunately,they haven't fully taken hold
yet, they need more time to mature. We would like to have this -- those moves done earlier, it
definitely would have helped in Q4 because the supply chain issues came out us fast and hard,
and especially in the back half of the quarter, more supplier decommits and we've ever seen.
But the good news is that we're not just getting started on this transformation of supply chain, I'd
hate to be starting it now, in the middle of this environment. We're well down the path, and you
know -- to building in that resiliency. We've made these moves, and we're confident that these
changes will give us that resiliency that we need and that dependability.
So the combination of the innovation, plus some portfolio moves and just a more resilient global
ops and supply chain, that's how we're confident that we get to the LR, the long range forecast
that we talked about of consistent mid-single digits, t hat 5% plus, including the plus and the high-
single digit EPS when you add that in the dividend, which is a double-digit return.
But in terms of -- I hope I answered that question, Karen, can add to it, but in terms of the FY '23
guide and the details below that, I'll turn that over to Karen.
A - `Karen Parkhill, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, thanks, quest -- Vijay for the question. And I'd love to take this in pieces, because I want to
walk you through Q1 and then also talk about the full year because we expect improvement each
quarter as we move through the year.
So just starting with Q1, given our recent challenges, we've elected to take a conservative
approach with our Q1 guide. We're assuming underlying fundamentals are pretty similar to last
quarter to Q4 and we've built in some conservatism in the supply chain. If you look at the year-
over-year, view it's influenced by COVID and so to remove that noise, I think it's really good to
look at it on a COVID comp adjusted basis. And when you do that, our guide really just implies a
slight deceleration from Q4 to Q1. That's not out of line with what we've seen historically; and
again, I would just emphasize that we've included conservatism due to the supply chain.Some puts and takes that we've got in Q1 in addition to the supply chain impact that we factored
in, we've also assumed some incremental pressure in spine in China, ahead of a potential
national -- a volume-based purchasing tender. And Geoff already mentioned, on the plus side we
anniversary some of our headwinds, like the Navion recall and the LVAD shutdown.
If I move beyond Q1, and then into the full-year guide of the 4.5%, I mentioned, we do expect
improvement as we progress through the quarters, with our back half much better than our first
half, but I'd also talk about the puts and takes that we've got on the full year. We talked about
and the fact that we continue to actively work with the FDA on the Diabetes warning letter, but
for conservatism, we've elected not to assume the approval of the 780 G in this guidance. And
also it's manageable, but we've got volume-based pricing in China that we believe will have a
bigger impact in this fiscal year primarily in spine.
And at the same time, Geoff talked about -- and we have a number of positives as we think
about FY '23.
First, we've got headwinds that are going to go away, the LVAD business, the Navion recall, the
reduced ventilator sales that Geoff mentioned, and then we also had some volume-based pricing
on drug-eluting stents in China, that we'll anniversary. And combined, all of those headwinds had
200 basis point impact in FY '22.
Second, we expect these supply chain challenges to improve starting in Q2. And obviously,
continuing to improve from there.
And then thirdly, our year-over-year comps get easier particularly in the back half.
And then lastly, we've got a number of really important product launches throughout the year.
And just to name a few of them, we've got Evolut FX, we've got ECAPs, we've got diabetic
painful neuropathy and again, I'm just naming a few. So I hope that's helpful and shows what our
guidance implies as we move throughout the year.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
That's helpful color. Thanks guys.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head-Investor Relations `
Thanks, Vijay. Next question, Brad?
Operator
The next question comes from `Travis Steed, Analyst, Bank of America at Bank of America. Travis. Please go ahead.
Q - `Travis Steed, Analyst, Bank of America `
Hey, good morning guys. Thanks for taking the question. I'll ask a two-part one as well. I guess
first, on the elective procedure recovery, curious how May is shaping up versus April, kind of
around the world, both in the U.S.and China as well? And then the second part was going back to
some of the supply chain issues, the impact this quarter is a little bit worse than some of your
peers.
I don't know if things got a lot worse if April or there was something specific what surgical
Innovations, I just want to make sure we have the confidence that that's going to start to improve
here in the next quarter or two?A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure, I'll take the second one first, the supply chain issues. Yeah. They did look, they did - no one
is more disappointed about our Q4 miss that I am mean, and we got -- we believe we have -- we
understand the root cause of that miss and it really started hitting us in the second half of Q4 and
I'd say 75% of the miss is due to -- of the $340 million, $350 million miss is due to supply chain.
15%, and I'll get into that in a second, maybe about 15% is due to the China lockdown and then
maybe another 10% is FX getting worse, Karen, can talk about that.
But -- and the miss, the supply chain miss, it hit us across a number of businesses, but it was
definitely the most pronounced in our Surgical Innovations business. And it was, three things: It
was semiconductors, which is affecting everybody, that affected a number of businesses, but
particularly in our SI business. It also was resins, a particular resin that we use in our energy
business and SI[ph] has been a major source of -- a problem for us; and then packaging, our
trade packaging, there was a catastrophic explosion in our supply chain.
And so, those two -- last two ones, the packaging and the resins were the biggest issues, the
biggest supplier decommits. And I'd say the biggest surprise and most of that was SI. We see this
getting better over the next -- the SI ones -- overall, for the company, we see the supply chain
issues getting -- abating over the next quarter or two. The SI issues, probably it will take more
than a quarter or so. We'll put it on the two -- the first half of the year to get through those issues,
we've factored all that into our guidance. I mentioned China, we have, remember we have April,
this really hit us in April, we have April in our Q4, that represented roughly about $60 million of
the shortfall, combination of the COVID lockdown and Karen mentioned some of the volume-
based procurement. So other than China, our emerging markets, as Karen mentioned the
commentary, grew 20%, China was actually down 10% or more and the rest of the emerging
markets grew 20%.
And so these -- like I said, these acute issues, I mentioned in the commentary and one of my
answers were, we're down the path of remaking our global ops and supply chain to provide that
resiliency that we just haven't had; and we started that over a year ago, centralizing the function
and bringing in some -- building a very strong leadership team under Greg, bringing in new
people from different industries, investing in all kinds of -- whether it'd be tools and technology
and operating mechanisms for this, and I know, I'm confident we're going down the right path
there and glad that we started when we did, I wish we would have started even earlier but -- so
the long term, building those fundamentals will take some time, but the acute issues that hit our
numbers will go away or get better over the next quarter or two.
I'll turn it over to Karen to answer the first part of the question.
A - `Karen Parkhill, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Travis. Thank you. So just in terms of the month of May, it's still early and we're obviously
focused on managing through some supply issues that we've gotten some of our businesses. So
the numbers are a little cloudy, but -- but when we look at our operating units that are not
impacted by supply issues just through the first three weeks of May, we're trending largely in line
with where we were first quarter last year. And I would note that elective procedures for the most
part, were back to pre-COVID levels for us last quarter.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head-Investor Relations `
Thanks, Travis. Take the next question, Brad.Operator
The next question comes from `Larry Biegelsen, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities with Wells Fargo Securities. Larry. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Larry Biegelsen, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities `
Hey, good morning. Thanks for taking the question. Just Jeff on the kidney company news today,
it should we expect more like this or could there be more significant and just kind of remind us of
what the overarching goals are? And Bob, maybe on Hugo, just help us understand what the
expectations are for fiscal '23, the status of the the supply constraints and the pre-ops setup
there, you know, when you expect to start the U.S. pivotal trial? Thanks so much, guys.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Nice to hear from you, Larry. Thanks for the question. On the Renal Care Solutions joint
venture with DaVita, this is what I'd characterize as a smaller initial step in terms of our portfolio
management work, that work continues and we do anticipate that there could be more portfolio
moves over the course of FY '22 I'm not going to comment on the size of those, but I'd
characterize this is as a smaller initial step. It's been under consideration for a while and I guess in
the commentary, I am excited about this. This technology that we've been working on for years, I
think DaVita, this joint venture will bring more focus to that, that finishing up the development and
then and I think obviously, DaVita is a leader in kidney care and it'll be a great partner as we
commercialize and scale this innovative technology. They bring a lot to the table there and I think
we bring a lot to the table on the technology side, and looking forward to it.
But as we move forward, I don't know that -- I'm not, the other portfolio moves would be JVs or
anything like that, for this one, this one just made the most sense. We think there's a lot of upside
in this technology and the way we structured this deal, both DaVita and Medtronic will share in
that -- that upside, so looking forward to that.
In terms of the goals of the portfolio work, they remain unchanged. Our north star is durable
growth -- durable growth without taking a step back on margins and free cash flow. We just want
a higher level of growth. And so we want to remake the portfolio for a higher (inaudible) and
more consistency in growth. So that's the goal.
And I think the other -- the secondary goal would be just to simplify the company a bit. So that's --
those are the goals. That's where we're headed. More to come.
A - `Bob White, EVP and President, Medical Surgical Portfolio `
Thanks, Jeff and Larry good to hear from you. Thanks for the question. Let me provide you a
good update on Hugo.
So we're still in limited market release, we're making good progress on the supply chain issues.
We're currently in eight countries. We've had a number of installs this past quarter, in France and
Italy, and Denmark. We did receive regulatory approval in Brazil and Saudi Arabia; and you'll recall,
this followed Canada and Australia. We've begun general surgery cases in Panama, in Chile, in
India, and now we've done procedures across urology, gynecology and general surgery, including
our first bariatric case, which was a nice milestone.
The second part of your question was relating to the IDE, we expect to begin the IDE relatively
soon. We're working closely to train the site personnel and gain IRB approval. So we'll certainlykeep you posted on that, but hopefully, that helps on a good thorough update for where we
stand on Hugo.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head-Investor Relations `
Thanks, Larry. Next question please, Brad?
Operator
The next question comes from `Shagun Singh, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets, RBC Capital Markets. Shagan Please go ahead.
Q - `Shagun Singh, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Thank you so much for taking the question. I was just wondering if you can give us an update on
your portfolio management initiatives? What are you assuming for Hugo sales in your FY '23
guidance. Can you elaborate on the magnitude of China BBP impact in FY '23? And lastly, if you
can just comment on the capital environment, we've heard some puts and takes, Q1 has been a
little soft, just what your outlook is for the full year? Thank you for taking the questions.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. All right. We got some good music there for a second, but I'll start an maybe, there was a
couple of others -- there's a list there, so maybe Karen can help me out, but I'll stop on -- I'll start
on the Hugo one. We have quoted Hugo numbers for FY '23, but I'll just say we expect a strong
ramp, the order book is really strong. You heard Bob just give an update about all the countries
we've got approvals in and the different type of procedures that we're now doing, various types
of procedures including general surgery procedures and so we're moving up the food chain
there.
So, really gained a lot of confidence that we have something in Hugo and we see a nice ramp in
FY '23, but we haven't quoted exact numbers.
In terms of the capital environment, capital for us in Q4 was a bright spot and a lot of our capital
that we sell are tied -- directly tied to specific revenue producing procedures, profitable
procedures. I think that helps and we had record record numbers in the neuroscience space in
our spine business, we had record number of sales of our SealthStation navigation, O-arm and
Mazors, that capital equipment is at record highs for us -- and really excited as we place those --
we sell those -- that capital equipment, that's just further building out our ecosystem, which is our
differentiating strength in the spine business and portrays optimism for the future of that
business.
I'll turn it over to Karen for the other parts.
A - `Karen Parkhill, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Geoff. The other two, you had a question on portfolio management, which I know Jeff
shared when he answered Larry's question, so I'll cover China BBP. With BBP, we've been dealing
with variety of regional and national tenders already. And just from a national expected -- we
expect the government to continue to focus on the top 10 medical device products by public
insurance spending. So we've been through stents already and some of our other industry
players have gone through large joints and we see two more potential tenders on that list, but
we've got exposure spine and surgical stapling, and I talked about the fact that we expect spine
to impact this fiscal year. And to likely happen in the second quarter but ahead of tenders,
distributors do pull back on their purchases. So we've built that into our first quarter guide as well.Just to remind you, though, our gross exposure for both spine and stapling in China somewhere
between 1% to 1.5% of our total company revenue. So it is small and based on what we
experienced with the Coronary tender, we do believe there could be offsets to the ultimate net
impact number, because we have pull-through of other product lines and we'll be working on
those.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head-Investor Relations `
Thanks Karen. Let's go to the next question please Brad.
Operator
Yeah. The next question comes from `Josh Jennings, Cowen and Company of Cowen and Company. Josh, please go
ahead.
Q - `Josh Jennings, Cowen and Company `
Hi, good morning. Thanks for taking the questions. I wanted to ask on Diabetes US[ph] Pump, I
know there is so a lot of moving parts, but just with the further deceleration in fiscal 4Q, hoping
you could share some insight in terms of why you think that's occurring? Is the warning letter in
place and tainting[ph] endocrinologist prescription patterns or patient sentiment, are there, you
are seeing incremental renewal pressure? Just wanted to get a better sense and then how you
see that U.S. pump business trending over the course of the year?
And then, any other incremental details you can share just on interactions with the FDA. And I
know you pulled that out of your guidance for fiscal '23, any 780 G or Guardian 4 approvals, but
what gives you hope that you could still see those approvals occur in this fiscal year? Thanks for
taking the questions.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Josh. For the questions, I will turn it over to Sean here in a second. Although he has
officially moved on from that role to focus exclusively on our cardiology portfolio. But we have him
on the call answering the Diabetes questions this quarter.
And I'll just say a few words about (inaudible) Laura, she joined the company here a couple of
weeks ago and has taken over our diabetes business unit and we couldn't be -- we're really
excited about how she's already diving right in, (inaudible) ATDD and she'll be at some other
upcoming Diabetes meetings that you'll get to see her, and she will be on our next -- our next
earnings call too, to field these questions. And she is getting settled in, and she's moving her
family out to our Northbridge California site and we're really excited, you'll get a chance to hear
from her shortly.
In the meantime, I'm going to field this question to Sean. So Sean, can you answer the question
that Josh post?
A - `Sean Salmon, Executive Vice President and President of the Cardiovascular Portfolio `
Yeah, sure, Josh. Thanks for the question. So the dynamics on the revenue side of things are
really all about the competitiveness in the United States. We grew sequentially quarter-on-quarter
in EMEA by 20%, high 20s and that's really based on the strong demand for that combination of
780 and Guardian 4 sensor, which is now in 40 different countries. So everywhere we go, it's
really picked up a lot of steam.This past quarter that was driven by favorable reimbursement. We had no reimbursement in
either France or Germany. We picked up that reimbursement, that really helped us drive that
continued growth. So within the U.S., the dynamic is obviously, -- people waiting for the new
technology to come before prescribing it for new patient or some patients not wanting to wait
for it and moving on to competitive therapies.
With regard to the warning letter progression, that's really, as Karen said, we did certainly leave
that out of the guidance, I think that's prudent the most important thing we have to do is to
improve and sustainably improve the quality system, which was outlined in those items that were
in the 43 and the subsequent warning letter.
And we've made excellent progress against those commitments for more than 80% of the way
through fulfilling all those commitments. And it's also important to know that 780 and Guardian 4
sensor are under active review at the FDA right now. And we don't want to get ahead of the FDA
or timing or predictions, that's really the reason for the conservatism, but suffice to say there is
huge interest from patients the technology continues to prove itself in real-world applications and
you just see the numbers going up for both revenue as well as the data we shared the recent
ATTD meeting, plus coming up at ADA.
It's a really robust solution, a unique solution where we're getting kids to timing range that has
never been seen before. And that's during the day, overnight and of course it's worked great for
adults to the highest timing range yet reported. So we're very confident that when we get the
solution out, we'll turn the boat around, but yeah, I think for conservatism, because we can't
predict it, that's what's in the guidance.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head-Investor Relations `
Okay. Thanks Josh. Next question please, Brad?
Operator
The next question comes from `Joanne Wuensch, Analyst, Citi at Citi. Joanne. Please go ahead.
Q - `Joanne Wuensch, Analyst, Citi `
Hi, how are you this morning?
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Good, Joanne. Good to hear from you.
Q - `Joanne Wuensch, Analyst, Citi `
So when I take a look at your guidance, you've got what, in your words or is a pretty conservative
first quarter and then it ramps pretty aggressively throughout the remainder of the year. I know
you don't like to give quarterly guidance, but just to sort of level set us so that we're not resetting
the quarters as we go along, talk us through how you ramp and what improves and if you're
going to sort of give a classic like X percent in the first quarter, Y in the second quarter, et cetera,
that would be really helpful just to sort of build out from here.
A - `Karen Parkhill, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, thanks. Joanne, for the question. I'm going to not give specific guidance for the other
quarters, but I will let you know that we've got these things that anniversary through the quarter.So ventilator sales was up and down in the quarter and I know Ryan can take you in the after call
about those changes that happen in ventilator sales. And then obviously, we expect our biggest
supply challenges this quarter and starting to improve in the second quarter.
So think about a ramp of revenue growth just getting better and better every quarter. And by the
time you get to the back half, our year-over-year comps obviously get easier and particularly in
the fourth quarter, particularly in med-surg, given the fourth quarter that we had, so think of
strongest growth obviously, in the fourth quarter as you ramp and that is in line with how we think
about our product launches to going through the year.
We've got some product launches that are helping us earlier in the year and then more that will
ramp as we, as we go through the year. So I know that Ryan can easily take you through some
more of the detail, too.
Q - `Joanne Wuensch, Analyst, Citi `
Okay. And then for my second question renal denervation, you've completed the enrollment of
the last piece of the puzzle. It sounds like data won't be presented in the fall, but we may get
data in the spring, are you thinking FDA approval mid next year, calendar year?
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Sean, you will take that one?
A - `Sean Salmon, Executive Vice President and President of the Cardiovascular Portfolio `
Yeah, Joanne, we will file for last piece of the PMA, which is that last bit of data when we have it
and that would dictate the timing for the review (inaudible) It's important to note that we've done
module PMA, so every other part of this device characterization of manufacturing modules has
already been reviewed and closed, so it's really this last piece a it that would go into the review.
Q - `Joanne Wuensch, Analyst, Citi `
Excellent. Thank you and have a great day.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Joanne.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Joanne. We have time for one more question.
Operator
Our final question comes from `Pito Chickering, Analyst, Deutsche Bank, Deutsche Bank. Pito. Please go ahead
Pito. Are you on mute?
Q - `Pito Chickering, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Yeah, there we go. Can you guys hear me now?
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `Q - `Pito Chickering, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Great. thanks for taking my questions here. The question is for -- is sort of is gort of quite hard to
answer, but I'll ask it anyway, we've heard the US hospitals are beginning to defer procedures
due to the lack of contrast dyes applies for interventional cardiology, any chance you can let us
know what you're seeing, hearing, what you're assuming or in the first-quarter guidance and what
if any impact there is from outside the U.S. due to shortages from GE?
A - `Karen Parkhill, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Pito for that question. So contrast dye is, we believe it's a transient issue it's mostly
contained to the U.S., it is something that we're closely watching because it can impact our
Cardiovascular neurosciences portfolios. But we do expect it to resolve within the quarter just
based on what we're hearing, many health systems in the United States have already instituted
conservation measures and we're working with them to see how we can help support them
through thoughtful allocation.
But at this stage. We've built our view of it into the guidance for the first quarter and we do
believe it's a transient issue getting better after the first quarter.
Q - `Pito Chickering, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Quick follow-up on the transaction with DaVita today. What was the organic growth rate of Renal
Care Solutions and kind of what is the strategic value, do you guys foresee DaVita adding to the
portfolio? Thanks so much.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I'll answer it. Thanks for the question, Pito I will answer the second part of it, the strategic
value. I mean, look, I think we both -- the transaction revolves around a big piece of the value
creation, it'll be us bringing some innovative home dialysis technologies to the market -- that it --
the inherent in that technology is something that we picked up from other businesses and
Medtronic and the IP around it, and know-how and we're building that into home dialysis
technologies, there will be a couple of different products. It drive up access, it lowers cost and
there's a better patient experience and we bring that to the table. But you know, just -- even just
in the United States context, the dialysis market, it's pretty unique and the go-to market the
channel is not something that we have any kind of synergies with, and so DaVita brings one that
channel that access to these customers and they have a lot of, obviously, there are a leader in
kidney care, so they bring a lot of clinical expertise as well.
So I think it really is regarding the the home dialysis technology, it is one plus one definitely equals
more than two here and we're excited about it. We think it's going to have a big impact and the
way, like I said before, the way we structured it we, we get to share in the upside with DaVita.
In terms of the other question, the organics
A - `Karen Parkhill, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
That's about the growth in Renal Care, Pito and it was low single digits for us last fiscal year. It is
lower growth, lower margin business for us
Q - `Pito Chickering, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Okay.A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head-Investor Relations `
Thanks, Pito. Geoff, Please go ahead with your closing remarks.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Thanks, Ryan. Okay. Well, thanks for the questions, everyone and as usual, we appreciate
your support and your continued interest in Medtronic. And look, I realize there's a lot to sort
through here, including the the macro issues of supply chain and China that surprised us this
quarter, but as we've talked about, we have conservatively factored these into our guidance
going forward.
But I think more importantly, I hope you see that there is a clear direction a clear direction of
travel. For the Company, where we're headed. And it gets back to some of the questions earlier
like Vijay posed, in terms of us getting to that mid single-digit, that 5% plus and the double-digit
shareholder returns on a consistent basis.
You know the things that we're doing the new operating model that's driving more innovation-
driven growth, the capital allocation and portfolio management to reposition our portfolio for
higher growth; and finally, the the global operations and supply chain changes that we've been
working on to provide that resiliency and provide that consistency that we need. These are the
right things to do. I'm confident, I mean the macro environment has made it choppier to execute
on these things, but we're heading in the right direction. We're making the right moves and just
again, this will -- this will benefit the company and we have to get to where we need to go. So
we're looking forward to update you on the progress on our Q1 earnings program, which we
anticipate (inaudible) on August 23rd and so with that, thanks again for tuning in today and please
stay healthy and safe, and have a great rest of your day.