Q4 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head, Investor Relations `
Good morning. I'm `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head, Investor Relations, Vice President and Head of Medtronic Investor Relations.
Welcome to Minnesota, land of 10,000 lakes. I appreciate that you're joining us today for
Medtronic's Fiscal Year 2023 Fourth Quarter Earnings Video Webcast.
Before we go inside to hear our prepared remarks, I'll share a few details about today's webcast.
Joining me are Geoff Martha, Medtronic Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and `Karen Parkhill, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, IT & Enterprise Excellence,
Medtronic Chief Financial Officer. Geoff and Karen will provide comments on the results of our
fourth quarter and fiscal year 2023, which ended on April 28, 2023, and our outlook for fiscal year
'24. After our prepared remarks, the Executive VPs from each of our four segments will join us,
and we'll take questions from the sell-side analysts that cover the company.
Today's program should last about an hour.
Earlier this morning, we issued a press release containing our financial statements and divisional
and geographic revenue summaries. We also posted an earnings presentation that provides
additional details on our performance. The presentation can be accessed in our earnings press
release or on our website at investorrelations.medtronic.com.
During today's program, many of the statements we make may be considered forward-looking
statements and actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking
statement. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ iscontained in our periodic reports and other filings that we make with the SEC and we do not
undertake to update any forward-looking statement.
Unless we say otherwise, all comparisons are on a year-over-year basis and revenue comparisons
are made on an organic basis, which excludes four things: one, the impact of foreign currency;
two, revenue from our Q1 acquisition of Intersect ENT; three, fourth quarter revenue in the current
and prior year from our divestiture of our renal care solutions business; and four, a one-time
contribution from an intellectual property agreement.
References to sequential revenue changes compared to the third quarter of fiscal '23 and are
made on an as-reported basis. And all references to share gains or losses refer to revenue share
in the first calendar quarter of 2023, compared to the first calendar quarter of 2022 unless
otherwise stated.
Reconciliations of all non-GAAP financial measures can be found in our earnings press release or
on our website at investorrelations.medtronic.com. And finally, our EPS guidance does not include
any charges or gains that would be reported as non-GAAP adjustments to earnings during the
fiscal year.
With that, let's head into the studio and hear about the quarter.
`Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Hello everyone and thank you for joining us today.
We had a strong finish to our fiscal year with our fourth quarter top and bottom-line results
coming in ahead of expectations. Our accelerating organic revenue growth was broad-based with
mid single-digit organic growth in Cardiovascular, Neuroscience, and Medical Surgical, and
double-digit growth in our Diabetes business in Western Europe, where we're selling our latest
generation of products.
Now, across the company, our growth was driven by procedure volume recovery, supply
improvements, and innovative product introductions. And despite continued margin pressures
from macroeconomic factors like inflation and foreign exchange, we delivered adjusted earnings
growth this quarter. And we reduced costs while also continuing to invest heavily in R&D to drive
future growth. We're confident in delivering durable revenue growth in the year ahead as our
recent revenue headwinds dissipate and we drive execution across our businesses.
So, let's turn to the details of our Q4 results. Our growth in the quarter started with a strong
foundation from our largest businesses, Cardiac Rhythm, Surgical, and Spine plus ENT. These
businesses have durable established leadership positions. And combined, they made up half of
our revenue and grew 5% organic.
CRM grew 5% and one share in the quarter as we continue to see robust double-digit growth in
our Micra leadless pacemaker franchise. Earlier this month, we received FDA approval for our
next generation leadless pacemakers, Micra AV2 and VR2, which extend the battery life by 40%
to a projected 16 and 17 years, respectively. And in high power, we released data on our
enhanced EV-ICD algorithm last weekend at HRS, and we're preparing to launch our Aurora
extravascular ICD later this year.
In Surgical Innovations, we grew 4% or 8% when you exclude China, given the provincial stapling
VVP impacts in the quarter. Surgical procedures continue to recover, and we regained share on
supply improvements. Our Advanced Energy products in particular benefited from improvingthe cordless Soni 7. Now Cranial & Spinal Technologies continue to deliver solid growth as well,
growing 5% including 6% growth in U.S. Core Spine.
Look, we're seeing success from our market-leading ecosystem of able -- enabling technology
and the associated pull-through of our best in class spinal implants. From our AI enabled surgical
planning platform, to our patient-specific spine implants to our imaging, navigation and robotic
technologies. Spine surgeons around the world are increasingly attracted to our differentiated
and innovative solutions.
So, it was a solid quarter for our largest businesses. We also had a strong Q4 in our businesses
that compete in high secular growth med-tech markets. All combined, these businesses made up
about 20% of our revenue and grew high single-digits organically. And we're feeding these
businesses with the investments that they need. And as they grow, we expect them to become a
larger part of our revenue mix and drive our durable growth going forward.
So, starting with Neurovascular, which is now annualizing at over $1.3 billion, we grew 13%. We saw
broad strength across the business in both ischemic and hemorrhage stroke with double-digit
growth in several categories, including aspiration and flow diversion.
Stroke is the number two cause of death globally; and combined with low therapy penetration,
we see a large opportunity for Neurovascular to make a difference in the treatment of stroke,
driving meaningful growth with strong margins for years to come.
In Structural Heart, we grew 9% organic. We're seeing improvements in the TAVR space,
especially in the latter part of our quarter post-spring holidays. We won TAVR share in the U.S. on
the strength of Evolut FX, which combines industry-leading durability with enhanced and
predictable valve deployment. In Japan, our Structural Heart business grew low double-digits,
driven by the mid-quarter launch of Evolut FX.
Next, in cardiac ablation solutions, we grew 5% and made significant advances in our pipeline
during the quarter. In March, the impressive results of our landmark PULSED AF pivotal trial,
studying our single-shot PulseSelect PFA catheter, were presented as a late breaker at ACC and
published in the journal, Circulation. The trial had strong efficacy and safety results in both
persistent and paroxysmal patients. We filed our PMA with the FDA, and we expect to be one of
the first companies with a PFA catheter in the U.S. market.
We also received CE Mark in March for our Affera mapping and ablation system, including our
Sphere-9 catheter, and we began our limited market release. Sphere-9 can perform both PFA
and RF ablation, as well as high density mapping, all from the same catheter. So, with our Sphere-
9 focal catheter and our PulseSelect single shot catheter, we have the full breadth of PFA catheter
technology.
From PFA to our Affera map NAV system to our leading Arctic Front cryo solution and AcQCross
transseptal access system, we're assembling a leading ecosystem of technologies. And we're
poised to become a much more meaningful player in the fast growing $8 billion EP ablation
space.
In surgical robotics, we continue to have positive momentum with the rollout of our differentiated
Hugo robotic system in international markets. And we're making progress bringing Hugo to the
U.S. as we execute our Expand URO pivotal trial.
We also saw meaningful acceleration in sales of our Touch Surgery Enterprise Solution, which is
the first AI-powered surgical video and analytics platform for the operating room. With Hugo andTouch Surgery, we're bringing innovative solutions to surgeons around the world. And given the
low penetration of robotic surgery and our strong position as a global leader in the surgical
space, we expect to deliver meaningful growth over the coming years.
And in Diabetes, it was a big quarter for us. As our warning letter was lifted and we received FDA
approval of our MiniMed 780G system with the Guardian 4 sensor. These products drove double-
digit growth in Western Europe, and we're very excited to begin shipping them to U.S. consumers
next week. We expect our U.S. Diabetes growth to ramp over time as our existing customers
come up for renewal, and as consumers switch to Medtronic.
Healthcare professionals and people living with diabetes are really going to appreciate the
innovation we're delivering, particularly the advanced meal detection technology. And just this
morning, we announced our intent to acquire EOFlow, the manufacturer of the EOPatch, a
tubeless, wearable, and fully disposable insulin delivery device.
The EOPatch is already available in Europe, South Korea, and the UAE. And this will accelerate our
speed to market in the fast-growing patch pump space with a product that has demonstrated
manufacturability. In addition, upon close, we'll work quickly to integrate our clinically proven meal
detection technology algorithm, which is in the MiniMed 780G system, into the EOPatch and seek
marketing authorization.
Look, we have not blinked when it comes to Diabetes, and we're shifting to offense as we
continue to invest heavily in assembling our ecosystem of durable pumps, smart pens, patch
pumps, sensors, algorithms, and customer service.
With multiple programs under development, having this ecosystem is really important, because
we believe the market will move from CGM first to automated insulin delivery. And we are well
positioned for that trend. We look forward to updating all of you on these growth opportunities at
our Diabetes Analyst and Investor Briefing next month at ADA.
Now turning to our synergistic businesses; there were several strong performances in the quarter.
Our aortic business grew in the mid-20s as product availability and AAA share improved. Cardiac
surgery had a great quarter, growing 8% with strength and perfusion and cannula sales. Cardiac
diagnostics had a high single-digit growth on the continued adoption of our differentiated AI-
enabled linked to insertable cardiac monitor. And earlier this month, our link to AI technology,
which we call AccuRhythm AI was awarded the 2023 MedTech Breakthrough Award for the best
new technology solution in monitoring.
Our GI business grew 16% on procedure volume recovery and continued strong adoption of GI
Genius, another one of our AI-enabled products. GI Genius uses AI during colonoscopies to help
physicians detect polyps.
We also announced a strategic collaboration in the quarter with NVIDIA and Cosmo
Pharmaceuticals to allow third-party developers to train and validate AI models that can eventually
run as apps on the GI Genius platform. We're excited about the potentially game-changing
solutions this could offer for GI physicians and their patients.
Now, before I go to Karen, I want to note that we continue to focus on the transformation of
Medtronic as we reduce complexity, enhance our capabilities, drive efficiency, and improve
portfolio management and capital allocation, all with the goal of positioning the company for
delivering durable growth. And the progress we're making is beginning to show up in our financial
results.I shared with you last quarter that we were planning for significant cost reductions. We began to
execute those plans last month, which included reductions in our global workforce. Well, these
are never easy decisions, and I am mindful of the personal impact across our teams. These
actions were necessary and are allowing us to increase our investments and innovation. They also
help us to mitigate the inflationary and foreign exchange impacts on our profitability.
Look, we're making progress enhancing our global operations, supply chain, and quality systems,
which is all yielding results, and we continue to advance our active portfolio management
processes. We closed on the divestiture of our renal care solutions business during the quarter,
and we continue to work on the separation path for our Patient Monitoring and Respiratory
Interventions businesses. Now, there's still work to be done, but we're making progress setting
up the company to deliver durable growth and strong returns.
With that, I'll turn it over to Karen to discuss our financial performance and give guidance for fiscal
'24.
Karen?
`Karen Parkhill, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, IT & Enterprise Excellence `
Thanks, Geoff.
Our fourth quarter organic revenue increased 5.6%, ahead of expectations, and our non-GAAP
EPS of $1.57 grew 3%, was at the upper end of our guidance range, and exceeded consensus.
Looking at our revenue by geography, our international markets remain strong. Non-U.S.
developed markets and Western Europe grew 8%. And Japan returned to growth, following the
COVID impacts last quarter, growing 5%.
Emerging markets, which make up 17% of our revenue, returned a double-digit growth in the
quarter, growing 11%. China also delivered growth of 3% as procedures recovered from prior
lockdowns and the impact to our growth from volume-based procurement improved.
We had strong growth in many other markets, including low-30s growth in Southeast Asia, low-
20s growth in the Middle East and Africa, mid-teens growth in Eastern Europe, and low double-
digit growth in Latin America.
Turning to margins, our adjusted gross margin was relatively stable sequentially, but declined
year-over-year due to inflation and a 1 percentage point impact from currency. As I've noted in
prior quarters, the impact to our gross margin from inflationary pressures is delayed by two to
three quarters, because our incurred manufacturing variances first go onto our balance sheet,
and then move into our P&L as inventory is sold. While the magnitude of these variances has
begun to ease slightly, they do remain high; and as a result, we continue to expect pressure on
our gross margins over the coming quarters.
Despite that pressure, we drove a 350 basis point sequential improvement in our adjusted
operating margin. And on a constant currency basis, our operating margin improved 50 basis
points year-over-year as we drove expense reduction, including reduced incentive compensation.
Below the operating profit line, our adjusted nominal tax rate was 15.8%, that was above our
expectations from incremental taxes owed on the IP agreement that Ryan mentioned upfront,
along with our jurisdictional mix of profits in the quarter.
Our balance sheet remains strong. We continue to direct capital toward investment in future
growth opportunities, along with returning a minimum of 50% of free cash flow to ourshareholders. We're identifying high return organic R&D opportunities, and driving efficiencies
across our business to free up capital to invest in them.
We also continue to evaluate opportunities to supplement our organic investments with tuck-in
acquisitions, to accelerate our long-term weighted average market growth rate. At the same
time, you should expect us to be disciplined with a focus on maintaining or growing our returns on
invested capital over the long term.
We know our shareholders place strong value in our ability to return capital. In fiscal '23, we
returned $4 billion through dividends and share purchases. And just this morning, we announced
that we are increasing our dividend for the 46 consecutive year, reflecting the Board's confidence
in our balance sheet and our future earnings power.
Now turning to guidance; we've delivered a couple of back-to-back quarters of mid-single-digit
growth, growing 5% in the back half of the fiscal year, with 5.6% in the fourth quarter. We're
encouraged with the procedure recovery in many of our markets. Our product availability is
improving. We like our competitive position across our businesses, and we have many new,
innovative products coming to market.
At this point, we're setting our fiscal '24 organic revenue guidance at 4% to 4.5%. And given it's
the start of the year, we think it's prudent for you to model at the lower end of that range. This
guidance excludes the impact of foreign currency and revenue from our new other segment, and
I direct you to the guidance slide in our earnings presentation for additional details.
In the first quarter, we're guiding to the high end of our annual range, with organic revenue
growth of 4.5%, which suggests a sequential performance in line with what we have seen
historically from our fourth quarter to our first quarter.
By segment, there are puts and takes on each one, but they are all roughly aligned to the
corporate average for both the first quarter and the year with the exception of Diabetes, which
we expect will start the year growing below the corporate average and ramp through the year
with the U.S. launch of 780G.
While the impact of currency is fluid, based on rates at the beginning of May, foreign currency
would have a positive impact on full year revenue of $110 million to $210 million, including an
unfavorable impact of $50 million to $100 million in the first quarter.
Moving down the P&L, I've been sharing for several quarters now that macroeconomic factors like
inflation, foreign currency, and to a lesser extent, interest and tax rates would impact our earnings
power in fiscal '24. And we're continuing to prioritize investments in R&D. In fact, when we
exclude the separation of our renal care business, we expect R&D to grow above revenue, as
we've signaled for a while now. At the same time, and as Geoff mentioned, we've been
executing our cost-reduction plans across the company to lessen the impact of these macro
factors on our earnings.
Taking all this into account, we expect continued pressure on our margins, and are guiding fiscal
'24 non-GAAP diluted EPS in the range of $5 to $5.10. The range includes an unfavorable impact
of roughly 6% from foreign currency, based on rates at the beginning of May, and driven by the
large benefit last year from our hedging program that we don't expect will repeat this year.
On a constant currency basis, our EPS guidance implies low single-digit growth this year. For the
first quarter, we expect EPS of $1.10 to $1.12, excluding the approximate 8% impact from foreigncurrency based on rates at the beginning of May. This would imply constant currency growth of
5% to 7%.
To close, I want to recognize our outstanding employees around the world, who have been
helping to drive significant change to transform our company. And they have done this while
keeping the Medtronic mission front and center. Thank you for everything you do to make our
company stronger and to always put patients first.
Back to you, Geoff.
`Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Thank you, Karen.
Now, before we go to analyst questions, I'll close with a few thoughts. It was a good quarter with
our broad-based growth. Our Surgical Innovations business is back to mid-single-digit growth,
tied to the improvement in our supply. And importantly, surgeon commitment to our
differentiated products remains strong. We continue to see growth in Neurovascular and
Structural Heart, and we're nearing an inflection point in both Diabetes and Cardiac Ablation
Solutions, and both businesses have an arsenal of technologies in their pipeline.
At the same time, we're seeing durable growth across our other businesses and importantly no
business is losing momentum. Behind the scenes, as I've shared with you since becoming CEO,
we're really been pushing a comprehensive transformation to set up Medtronic to deliver durable
growth and create value for our shareholders.
Now it hasn't been a straight line. Some of that's market factors and some of that's been on us,
but we've made progress and you're starting to see this in our results. We've been making the
necessary improvements to ensure long-term durability of our growth. We're investing in our key
capabilities like global operations, IT, quality and supply chain to turn our scale into an advantage.
We're picking the markets, where we're doubling down and redirecting investments to our most
important R&D programs and we're shaping the portfolio, adding tuck-ins and divesting non-core
assets. All of these actions are establishing the strong foundation that will allow us to drive
sustainable and consistent growth.
Now there's still work to be done, but we are on the right path. And we're confident in the
choices that we've made, and continue to make. We're executing, and you're starting to see this
all come together with our steady improvement.
Finally, I'd like to join, Karen, in expressing my sincere gratitude for our employees around the
world. You've played a huge role in creating some of the world's most meaningful healthcare
innovations, and improving the lives of millions of people every year. Thank you. Thank you for all
that you do to serve our Medtronic mission every day. And I am confident, that our best days are
ahead of us.
Now let's move to Q&A, where we're going to try to get to as many analysts as possible. So, we
ask you to limit yourself to just one question, and only if needed a related follow-up. If you have
additional questions, you can reach out to Ryan and the Investor Relations team after the call.
With that, Brad, can you please give the instructions for asking a question?
Questions And AnswersOperator
(Question And Answer)
(Operator Instructions) Lastly, please be advised that this Q&A session is being recorded.
For today's session, Geoff, Karen, and Ryan are joined by `Que Dallara, Executive Vice President & President Diabetes Operating Unit, EVP and President of the
Diabetes Operating Unit; `Sean Salmon, Executive Vice President & President Cardiovascular Portfolio, EVP and President of the Cardiovascular Portfolio; Brett
Wall, EVP and President of the Neuroscience Portfolio; and `Bob White, Executive Vice President & President Diabetes Operating Unit, EVP and President of the
Medical Surgical Portfolio. We'll pause for a few seconds to assemble the queue.
We'll take the first question from Robbie Marcus at J.P. Morgan. Robbie, please go ahead.
Q - `Robert Marcus, J.P. Morgan `
Oh, great. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for taking the questions.
Maybe first question, Geoff and Karen, you can give us a little more color on the guidance here.
You're starting off at 4% to 4.5% organic, but want us at the low end of the range, it's a little bit
below your long-range goal of 5% organic sales growth, and then a declining EPS for the year. So,
maybe just walk us through how you ended up at that range? Why are we starting at the bottom?
And how do you plan to return to EPS growth?
A - `Karen Parkhill, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, IT & Enterprise Excellence `
Thanks so much for the question, Robbie.
When we were thinking through our guidance for the fiscal year, we thought it was prudent to
start the year with guidance that sets us up for success. Geoff talked about it. We have a lot going
on at Medtronic and we're intensely focused on delivering on our commitments that we -- and
while doing so while we continue to transform the company.
We have puts and takes as we always do on the year, but there are no new issues from a growth
perspective in FY '24. When we look at our geographies, China remains a drag from lingering
VVP, but that's improving over last year. And we're really encouraged by our second half '23
performance of 5%.
And as we look early in May, we see good momentum. Our supply chain continues to improve.
Our markets continue to recover. You know, we've got a pipeline that we're really excited about,
and it's weighted toward the latter half of the fiscal year. We've got 780G in the U.S.
We've got the full suite of cardiac ablation with Affera. We've got our robot continuing to ramp,
and we've got Ardian that's hopefully coming to market too. You know, so we don't have any new
material risk to call out. We feel really good about the coming year.
You know, on EPS, we've highlighted for the past few quarters that we've got significant
headwinds to EPS growth that includes mid-single-digit inflation, that's impacting our gross
margins. I talked about currency of approximately 6%, as a headwind and interest in taxes around
1%. So, when you combine all of these factors, there are a double-digit headwind to EPS growth.
But our guidance is just a mid single-digit decline. So, we've driven significant savings that allow us
to protect and fund important R&D and help offset those savings just like we've talked about.
As we think about our long range plan, we've got work to do to improve the bottom line. And
that's going to be impacted by gross margin, which is obviously impacted by inflation andcurrency. But over time, we expect our gross margin to stabilize and then improve. And that's
going to be one of the key things that will help drive our bottom line into the future. But longer-
term, our goals have not changed. We're just going to take it one year at a time.
Q - `Robert Marcus, J.P. Morgan `
Great. And maybe just a quick a follow-up. Karen, you have a pretty big divergence between first
half comps and second half comps. How do you want us to think about the growth rates and
more importantly, the exit rate for next year at the low end of the guidance to start? Thanks.
A - `Karen Parkhill, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, IT & Enterprise Excellence `
Yes. So, Robbie, the comps are easier in the first half, but our pipeline's weighted toward the
back half. And so, when we take all that together, you can think about Q2 through Q4 growth
rates all being on about the lower end of our full-year guidance. That's how we're thinking about
it right now.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head, Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you, Robbie. We'll take the next question, please, Brad.
Operator
We'll take the next question from `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI at Evercore ISI. Vijay, please go ahead.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI `
Hey, guys. Congrats on the nice executions here, and thanks for taking my question.
Karen, maybe first one for you or perhaps Geoff; can you talk about the cadence of procedures
here? You know, how the Q has shaped out? I think some of your peers noted a strong start to
the year, and perhaps a slowdown exiting the Q. I'm just curious on what kind of trends you saw
to around 4Q?
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Sure, Vijay. Thanks for the question. Good to talk to you.
Well, yes, for procedure volume was a tailwind for us, relative to prior quarters. I mean, Europe in
particular recovered well, and was out in front. U.S. lagged a little bit, but it began to accelerate in
April and May. So, like I said, Western Europe, high single-digit growth, and staffing issues
improving and beyond that better product availability resulted in a strong back half of the Q4 for
us in Western Europe, but clearly staffing issues getting better.
Emerging markets grew 11%, mid-teens if you exclude China, and then Japan was mid-single
digits. So, we're seeing around the world a strong pickup. Like I said, U.S. lagged, but we saw a
strong April and into May a pickup there. So, that's how I'd characterize the procedures.
If you kind of look at it beyond geography, if you look at it maybe by therapy or product area for
us, surgical and GI procedures and med-surg as well as TAVR procedures and some more
elective procedures like pain stem picked up, I think due to improved staffing.
CRM was notable with good initial implant growth and for Medtronic specifically coming out of a
replacement headwind. Maybe one outlier might be coronary still behind in procedure volume
recovery, but that's how I look at it by geography and by therapy area. Overall, we're pleasedwith -- all this, like I said, overall pleased with the acceleration and all this is kind of confirmed with
what we are seeing in April and even into May.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI `
Understood. No, that's helpful comment, Geoff. And maybe one related on the fiscal '24
guidance. I think on EPS, Karen has been pretty clear on some of the headwinds Medtronic is
facing, but my question was more on top-line. You have utilization improving, your point, Surgical
Innovation. I think supply chain is getting better, comps aren't easy. Diabetes, I think, the
approvals in upside surprise versus our prior assumptions. Pulse they have, I think, that's going to
be incremental. So, when you look at these other challenge, right, why is 4% to 4.5% perhaps the
right range, Geoff? Are there any headwinds? I think challenge is 50 to 100 basis points. Anything
else that we're not aware of, or is this more perhaps being conservative and prudent perhaps?
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, I'm going to let Karen answer that one.
A - `Karen Parkhill, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, IT & Enterprise Excellence `
Yes. So I think, Vijay, just as we talked about it, we just think that 4% to 4.5% for the full-year is a
good starting point. You know, we have no new risks to call out. You know, you named a lot of the
great things that are happening in tailwinds, but for us, it's only Q1, and we just think it's a good
place to start.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI `
Understood. Thanks, guys.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head, Investor Relations `
Appreciate the question, Vijay. Thanks. Brad, we'll take the next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from `Larry Biegelsen, Wells Fargo at Wells Fargo. Larry, please go ahead.
Q - `Larry Biegelsen, Wells Fargo `
Hey. Good morning. Thanks for taking the question, and congrats on the strong finish to the fiscal
year here.
Yes, I'd like to ask about, excuse me, the EOFlow acquisition, specifically the timelines for Q -- the
timelines for an AID system in the U.S. and Europe. And I thought we saw that a competitor
wanted injunction in Germany recently. So, what made you comfortable with the IP? And I'd love
to hear at a high level, any thoughts on how this product's differentiated?
And just maybe for Karen, maybe any update on the Patient Monitoring spin? You know, I think
people are interested to know how you're going to use the proceeds to offset dilution. We've
seen media reports and you're potentially selling the business and depending on the tax basis
and the use of proceeds that could be dilutive as well. So, how should we be thinking about this?
Thank you.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `Thanks, Larry, for the questions. I think I think I'll turn it over to Que to answer the EOFlow
questions.
A - `Que Dallara, Executive Vice President & President Diabetes Operating Unit `
Good morning. We're very excited about the EOFlow acquisition. As you know, we're very familiar
with the technologies in the patch space as well as the manufacturing challenges there. From a
strategic perspective, we are the only integrated player in the diabetes technological space with
both CGM, our algorithms, as well as dosing systems, and very well positioned for AID.
So, our portfolio is very holistic, we want to meet patients where they are, and this acquisition
accelerates the introduction of an AID patch into the market, and we expect to be the next to
market with a differentiated product. So, our intention is to combine EOFlow's device with the
new detection algorithm that you see today in the semi G-system along with our next generation
sensor and expect that to be a very differentiated offering that's next to market.
In terms of the -- so I think that addresses the product differentiation in time. In terms of the IP, as
you know, I think it's been disclosed previously that we have a covenant not to sue with Insulet.
So, we're very confident about our IP position, and this is a very differentiated device with
Medtronic's algorithms and sensor technology. So, we're very confident in the product
differentiation in the market.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I'd just build on Que's comments. In terms of beyond just the product, just the trend here of
going from CGM first to AID - automated instance delivery, and with our differentiated algorithms
there with the meal detection technology, we believe this is big. We're seeing it in outside the
U.S. with 780G.
And we want to have that same technology across a host of insulin delivery devices, whether it
be a pen -- a smart pen, a pump system and a patch. So, this adds to that armamentarium and
we're excited about it. And Que's brought a lot of, just better execution of the business as well.
So, that also helps our confidence in doing a deal like this. So, looking forward to the future for
our Diabetes business.
I'll have Karen answer the question around the Patient Monitoring and Respiratory Interventions
separation.
A - `Karen Parkhill, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, IT & Enterprise Excellence `
Yes. Thanks for that question, Vijay.
We continue to work on the separation of Patient Monitoring and Respiratory Interventions. And
when we announced the separation last year, we said that a spin sets a high bar, because it
minimizes the tax leakage, and it allows our shareholders to participate in what we believe is
going to be a significant value-creation opportunity.
We also said we would consider alternatives, and the sale was possible. Because we do believe
that this new code could be an attractive asset to many parties, but we also said that the spin bar
is really high, because it's got attractive attributes for it.
And any divergence from the spin path would really need to provide a greater value creation
opportunity. But whatever course we take will be in the best interest of our shareholders. Youknow, how we manage dilution on this will ultimately be determined by the potential transaction
and you know, we'll provide details as we have them at a later date.
Q - `Larry Biegelsen, Wells Fargo `
Thank you.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Larry.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head, Investor Relations `
Thanks Larry. Appreciate the questions. Just reminder to the analyst to please stick to one
question, and one follow up if needed.
Brad, we'll go to the next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from `Matt Miksic, Barclays at Barclays. Matt, please go ahead.
Q - `Matt Miksic, Barclays `
Hi. Can you hear me okay?
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head, Investor Relations `
Yes. We can, Matt.
Q - `Matt Miksic, Barclays `
Oh, great. Thank you. So -- and thanks for taking the questions, and congrats on a nice finish to
the year and kind of navigating through the resetting of the bar here for fiscal '24. I just wanted to
-- given we came out of HRS last weekend, and there was a fair amount of news flow and
presentations for Medtronic, obviously, the big, the main topic of the meeting was PFA, as I think
everyone knows.
I know you expect to be one of the first to the U.S. market. If you could talk maybe a little bit more
about how you expect to the timeline for that is as specific as you can, and then how you expect
to sort of navigate this perceived pressure on the single shot market. And I've just one follow-up
if I might.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Yes, well, thanks for that, Matt.
It is exciting for the industry, and we believe we're well-positioned in those tailwinds you just
mentioned. So, it is good to see, and I'm going to ask Sean to answer the specific questions
around PFA and how we're positioned there.
A - `Sean Salmon, Executive Vice President & President Cardiovascular Portfolio `
Yes, Matt. We really like our position. As you know, we've obtained CE Mark for our point-by-point
solution in Europe, and we just filed the PMA for our single shot product in United States, andpersistent AF trial in December, so we expect that that one-year endpoint will be reached mid of
this fiscal year.
In terms of how we see the shift, obviously, we've got 85% of the market to play in point by
point, and we have the other segment that we've been really strong in with cryo at 15%. And I
think as we initially launched into Europe, that's a much bigger opportunity for us as we go to
point by point solutions. And when we come to United States, being among the first in PFA
solutions, and all of those are going to be anatomical or single shot, I think will garner interest
from that 85% of the market that really wants to get to PFA, and they don't need to do that.
So, I think while you have the potential for some erosion of your base in anatomical, you also have
the attraction of having the very first PFA offering coming in for anatomical solutions that will pull
interest from 95% pool. And of course, when we launch Affera globally, we'll have the opportunity
to play in a bigger swimming pool, so. Yes, I think the, the concerns about cannibalization, I think,
are overblown, frankly. There's far more greenfield for us than, I think, people are appreciating.
Q - `Matt Miksic, Barclays `
That's super helpful. And then just one quick follow-up to Larry's question on Diabetes; congrats
again on the warning letter and the pump approval and Guardian sensor approval, but Simplera is
intriguing. I think a lot of folks are wondering, what are your thoughts on timing and what we see
potentially some data from that platform, given that can move you kind of more to the forefront
of sort of sensor technology. Thanks.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Matt.
A - `Que Dallara, Executive Vice President & President Diabetes Operating Unit `
Thanks.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Go ahead. So, Simplera is definitely a jump forward. I'll have Que jump in and answer that.
A - `Que Dallara, Executive Vice President & President Diabetes Operating Unit `
Thanks, Geoff. We're very excited about Simplera. It's an all-in-one disposable sensor. It's half the
size of a Guardian 4 sensor, no finger sticks and a two-step insertion process, compared to our
current sensor technology.
As you know, we've submitted to CE Mark last year, last summer, and also to the FDA earlier this
year. We hope that -- obviously, we've got to go through the regulatory process, but we're
anticipating that this fiscal year, we should be able to get approval. So, that's the best we have in
terms of timing.
Q - `Matt Miksic, Barclays `
Thank you.
A - `Que Dallara, Executive Vice President & President Diabetes Operating Unit `
Thanks, Matt.A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Matt, for the questions. We'll take the next questions, please, Brad.
Operator
The next question comes from `Travis Steed, Bank of America Global Research at BofA Global Research. Travis, please go ahead.
Q - `Travis Steed, Bank of America Global Research `
Hey. Can you hear me okay?
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, we can, Travis. Good to hear from you.
Q - `Travis Steed, Bank of America Global Research `
All right, great.
Maybe, Karen, if you could talk about some of the cost-saving stuff that you built into this 5 to 510
EPS growth, and we'd estimated like $0.50 offset from the cost-saving side, and then some of
the R&D investments, just a little bit more color on some of the puts and takes, and what you
have built in on the EPS guide.
And then on FY '25 EPS, should we think about that as more of a transition back to the 8% plus or
just kind of early comments on how to think about the out year EPS?
A - `Karen Parkhill, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, IT & Enterprise Excellence `
Yes. Thanks for those questions, Travis.
On our cost savings, we said that we are driving significant cost savings. We're not disclosing the
exact amount, but just to give you a sense. I mentioned we have mid-single digit inflation on our
gross margins. We have currency impact of approximately 6%, and we have interest in tax of
around 1%. And all those combined are a double digit headwind to EPS. But our guidance is just a
mid single digit decline. So, the savings are significant, and obviously, they allow us to protect and
fund important R&D innovation.
You know, when we talk -- when we think about R&D, we've said all along that our goal is to
protect and to grow, align with revenue or above revenue when we can. And if we look at this
coming fiscal year and we strip away the investment that we had in R&D and RCS in our renal care
business that we're separating, our revenue is growing, our R&D expense, we expect it to grow
higher than revenue. So, we did protect it, it is important to us.
And then on FY '25, we're just starting FY '24. So, we're not ready to really talk about FY '25. But I
mentioned that these last 18 months have been really busy for us. We've been strengthening our
core with new people and new structures. We've been understanding our investment needs.
We've been driving portfolio moves, we've been cutting expenses, we've been managing
through our own setbacks. And the transformation that we've been driving amidst all of this is
starting to have an impact on our results. You've seen us already move back to mid single digit
growth on the top line. And we're intensely focused on delivering on our FY '24 commitments
and driving a lasting turnaround at Medtronic. That's our priority right now.Longer term, our goals have not changed. We're focused on that durable mid single digit
revenue growth. We have continued work to do to stabilize, and then improve our gross margins.
But we have both the plans and the work in place to do that. And ultimately, we're committed to
driving a strong and leveraged P&L. But we're going to take this one year at a time, because
that's just where we are right now. So, I hope that gives you some context.
Q - `Travis Steed, Bank of America Global Research `
Super helpful.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
And just one final -- getting back to Karen's earlier -- the answer -- earlier part of the answer on
the cost actions. I think, we're focused on striking the right balance as she mentioned between
kind of offsetting or mitigating some of the headwinds out there that affect EPS with the durability
of a revenue growth. Think about reinvestment in some of the top areas in MedTech, right?
Diabetes, robotics, electro-EP for PFA. So, these are exciting opportunities. We just got to
balance mitigating some of these headwinds with making sure that we're making the right
investments, and she walked through the R&D growth to make sure that our revenue is durable.
Q - `Travis Steed, Bank of America Global Research `
That's super helpful. A quick follow-up on the EOFlow; I know they had a pipeline for a seven-day
patch, and they had CGM in their pipeline too. Is that something you're going to keep, just a quick
update on that? And then I did want to ask about TAVR, mid-single-digit growth in the quarter,
just taking share. Maybe just an update on the overall TAVR market and the trends that you're
seeing there would be helpful as well. Thank you.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Que, you want to take the EOFlow question?
A - `Que Dallara, Executive Vice President & President Diabetes Operating Unit `
Yes. And look, our plans right now to integrate our meal detection technology algorithm as well
as our next generation Simplera sensor to bring an AID patch into the market, we think it's
important for patient choice. And we want to do that as soon as possible. And we can't really
comment any further on additional pipeline details at this point.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Que. Sean, quick response on the TAVR question?
A - `Sean Salmon, Executive Vice President & President Cardiovascular Portfolio `
Sure, Travis. So, the market's getting better and better, I'd say. We saw really nice recovery within
Europe, procedures coming back, particularly in France and Germany, really strong recovery there.
And the United States started out sluggish in the quarter, had a little bumpy ride from spring
break.
As you know, there's a lot of consolidated volumes, so little bits of that matter. But we exited the
quarter really strong. We tracked something called implant rates, just our number of cases we
supported, and we're seeing really good recovery trends, which we think will continue throughthe year. But right now, low -- I'd say low double to high-single digits is about what the
fundamentals are for the underlying market.
Q - `Travis Steed, Bank of America Global Research `
Perfect. Thank you.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Travis.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head, Investor Relations `
Yes, appreciate the questions, Travis. Just reminder to the analysts: one question and one
related thought if needed.
Brad, next question, please.
Operator
Yes. The next question comes from Matt OBrien at Piper Sandler Companies. Matt, please go
ahead.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Hey, Matty, there we got a little bit of feedback.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head, Investor Relations `
Yes, I think we've got a problem with your audio, Matt. We'll check that and we'll come back to
you.
Can you take the next question, please, Brad?
Operator
The next question comes from `Pito Chickering, Deutsche Bank at Deutsche Bank. Peter, please go ahead.
Q - `Pito Chickering, Deutsche Bank `
Hey. Good morning, guys. Can you talk about PFA adoption trends in Europe, specifically the
interplay between PFA growth, PFA pricing versus losses from cryo market share? So, we put it all
together, I guess how was European inflation growing for you guys?
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Sean, do you want to take that one?
A - `Sean Salmon, Executive Vice President & President Cardiovascular Portfolio `
Yes, we've done well. I mean, it's early, early innings for our PFA offerings. You know, we're just
really trying to scale up both training and operations for that; so, a little too early to comment on
that. I'd say, there's been really continued underlying growth. Just ablation in general continues to
grow of all flavors. But of course, PFA will grow the fastest. We'll keep you apprised as to how
that's going. We're seeing really good, strong trends, though, within Europe and overall. It's a
very robust market.Q - `Pito Chickering, Deutsche Bank `
Okay. And then, so a quick follow-up here on the last TAVR question: You're talking about low-
double, high-single digits in the marketplace. What do you guys assume within your market share
for 2024?
A - `Sean Salmon, Executive Vice President & President Cardiovascular Portfolio `
I don't think we're giving share guidance, Pito, but we think we're in good shape with the
momentum we have with FX and we look to launch the FX into Europe in the back half of the
year. So, that's actually we've done well in United States, we've done well in Japan. The product is
excellent and being well received.
Q - `Pito Chickering, Deutsche Bank `
Great. Thanks so much.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Pito. Next question, please, Brad.
Operator
Yes. The next question comes from `Matt Taylor, Jeffries at Jefferies. Matt, please go ahead.
Q - `Matt Taylor, Jeffries `
Hi. Sorry. Thanks for taking the question. Can you hear me --
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head, Investor Relations `
Matt, are you there?
Q - `Matt Taylor, Jeffries `
Yes. Can you hear me okay?
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, we can now. Yes, we can, Matt.
Q - `Matt Taylor, Jeffries `
Okay, great. I think I was just on mute. Okay.
I was hoping you could talk a little bit more about EOFlow. I was just reading that release, and it
talks about 1% dilution to earnings for the first few years and neutral to accretive thereafter. So, I
guess I was hoping maybe you could touch on the run rate of the business today, and how you
assume that ramps revenue-wise over the next couple of years? What are some of the
assumptions that go into that dilution assumption for the first couple of years, and what are some
of the key guideposts that we should be looking for out of that business as you acquire it?
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Well. The business, I could say, Matt, is -- it's new, and the revenue is pretty small right now, andA - `Karen Parkhill, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, IT & Enterprise Excellence `
Yes. So, the key here is to integrate this patch pump with our algorithm. And so, we'll be
spending on that, and that's what drives the dilution. That's the key for the first few years.
And Que, you want to talk about run rate from there?
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Any -- and any milestones that you might want to look for.
A - `Que Dallara, Executive Vice President & President Diabetes Operating Unit `
I think the critical milestone to watch out for is really some development work to integrate our
algorithm. We have that already as part of the 780G system. We're obviously going through our
sensor approvals today, so that will be available. So, there's a bit of development work, not a lot.
EOFlow has proven manufacturability at scale. The manufacturing exists. And so, it is relatively
straightforward integration and an approval process to get that to market.
Once that AID patch system is available and marked with our next-generation CGM, we think --
obviously, we go through the commercialization and launch process, but we believe it's a very
strong offering and second to market with this wearable disposable patch solution.
Q - `Matt Taylor, Jeffries `
Great. Thanks for the feedback. Appreciate that.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Matt. Next question, please, Brad.
Operator
The next question comes from `Rich Newitter, Truist at Truist. Rich, please go ahead.
Q - `Rich Newitter, Truist `
-- hear me?
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head, Investor Relations `
Yes, Rich. How are you?
Q - `Rich Newitter, Truist `
Hi. Can you hear me?
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, we can. Can you hear us? Rich?
Q - `Rich Newitter, Truist `
Can you hear me?
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head, Investor Relations `Yes. Yes, I don't know. Maybe we might have some connection issues with Rich. We'll go to the
next question, and come back to it.
Operator
The next question comes from `Shagun Singh, RBC Capital Markets at RBC Capital Markets. Shagun, please go ahead.
Q - `Shagun Singh, RBC Capital Markets `
Great. Can you hear me okay?
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
Q - `Shagun Singh, RBC Capital Markets `
Okay. Perfect.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
We can --
Q - `Shagun Singh, RBC Capital Markets `
Quick one on China, I was wondering if you can talk a little bit about your outlook for that
business. There seems to be some initial talk of COVID cases. You know, how concerned are you
at this point? And if it does become something larger than anticipated, what areas of impact are
you worried about?
And then secondly, I just wanted to get your thoughts on M&A, it's encouraging to see you call
out and something on the M&A front this quarter. And I think you previously indicated that you
would hold off for about 12 to 18 months until the separation has been announced to be more
active on that front. Has anything changed? And perhaps you can just talk about your appetite for
M&A deal size and areas you may be interested in. Thank you for taking the questions.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Well, thanks for those questions. I'll start with the China one, and then get to the M&A.
On China, yes, we've heard about the -- some of the COVID, I wouldn't call it an outbreak, but
signs of COVID in China. We haven't felt any impact of that at this point. And in talking to some of
our healthcare or some of our customers, they're not at this point too worried about it, but we're
going to watch that closely.
In terms of our overall view on China, I was just there and looked at -- the economy's back, the
healthcare procedures are back. Obviously, we're still working through volume-based
procurement, but it's going to be the largest healthcare market in the world, and it's an area that
we're investing in. And as we talked about before, this volume-based procurement, we believe
by the end, as we exit this next fiscal year -- as we exit this FY '24, we believe we'll have been
through that reset from volume-based purchases and procurement rather, and then grow from
there and get back to that double-digit growth.
And we've adjusted by taking out some costs in China. Now that the business is more contracted,
it's allowed us to take out some sales and marketing costs. And so, it's still a profitable businessfor us that we'll get back to that double-digit growth.
Obviously, we're going to have to watch the geopolitics here between the two countries, but it's
encouraging some of the more recent conversations the two countries are having. And we spent
a lot of time on this in China with the U.S. Government and are optimistic that this will continue to
be a good market for us.
In terms of M&A, yes, obviously, the EOFlow acquisition looks like one of our -- it is one of our
traditional tuck-in type of deals in a high-growth growth area that we have a strong position in.
You asked about, and that we still have a lot of appetite for those type of deals. I would say we
are focusing on those deals that we believe are going to have a bigger impact on Medtronic.
Deals like the Intersect ENT deal, deals like -- ENT, deals like the Affera deal, in our AFib business
for PFA that had mapping and navigation, and some PFA technology. And this EOFlow fits right
into that kind of mold, bringing a patch technology to our Diabetes business.
In terms of divestitures, I would say nothing's changed. I mean we just completed the dialysis joint
venture with DaVita, so we're excited about that and closed that officially and that's off and
running called Mozarc is the new company's name. And we're working through, as Karen walked
you through, the Patient Monitoring and Respiratory Interventions separation, which is a large
body of work. And in terms of those type of large-scale divestitures, we're -- the analysis and the
thought process continues to look at our portfolio and see where opportunities are. But we're
pretty focused right now executing on that one from an execution standpoint.
And as you look forward, our appetite is, our focus is still these tuck-in deals along and think of
the three examples I gave and that kind of sizes. It could be a little bigger than that, a little
smaller, those are the focus areas. If something bigger comes along, we'd look at it, but it's not
what we're hunting for, if you will.
So, I hope that answers your question on M&A. I don't know, Karen, if you have anything to add or
I covered it.
A - `Karen Parkhill, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, IT & Enterprise Excellence `
You covered it well.
Q - `Shagun Singh, RBC Capital Markets `
Thank you so much.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Great.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head, Investor Relations `
Thanks for the questions, Shagun. Brad, why don't we try to go back to Rich if we can, and then
we'll take a final two questions?
Operator
The next question comes from `Rich Newitter, Truist at Truist Securities. Rich, please go ahead.
Q - `Rich Newitter, Truist `
Hi. Thanks for coming back to me. I apologize for the issues there.So, maybe just wanted to start off with spine. I know that you guys really have seen a nice
turnaround there in the last year or so. Can you talk a little bit about the trends you're seeing
there? Any potential disruption that may be emerging, leading up to potential competitor M&A
between Globus and NuVasive? And then what's going on the capital front with Mazor? I'd love to
hear kind of any updates on that and some of the capital in that business. Thanks.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Thanks for the question, Rich. I'm going to turn it over to Brett in a second and talk about
the details of capital and some of the other spine trends. But I'll just start with one is, we've seen
this trend, and I don't know if I'd call it disruptive. It's been moving for a number of years now.
This trend of the value proposition being in the industry, centering around enabling technology,
navigation, imaging, robotics, powered instruments, AI-based surgical planning and bringing that
all together. We brought that all together in our ecosystem called Able. You are now seeing the
impact of that in the marketplace, and you're seeing what it's doing to the marketplace around
consolidation.
I mean, this is where the business is heading, the industry's heading. And it takes a lot of
technology prowess, and it takes a lot of balance sheet to do this. And it's having a big impact on
consolidation that you're seeing. And as we move forward, we're really excited about our
position. But Brett's been overseeing this business for a number of years now and has a -- and I'll
let him talk about more detail on the value proposition and also get into the capital dynamic.
A - `Brett Wall, Senior Vice President & Chief Quality Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Geoff and Rich. Thanks for the question. When we look at overall Core Spine, some
really good trends there. We're seeing procedures getting back to normal, which is extremely
helpful. We've had now multiple quarters of expansion in Core Spine, which reflects the
development, as Geoff mentioned, a broad-based ecosystem in the capital environment. And
that ecosystem that we've put together is taking the procedure and changing the procedure with
robotics, navigation, imaging, power surgical tools, AI surgical planning. It is the broadest, most
extensive, most complete, most comprehensive system in the world of spine today.
And what you'll see with competitors, I think you mentioned one transaction that is -- that the two
organizations are in the middle of are trying to actually put these teams together. And we're
seeing that transformation in spine and more consolidation. If we look at capital in and of itself,
we have an exceptionally strong capital footprint across the entire world.
What we've seen with capital is continued good growth with capital, but we've also seen now in
the United States a bit of a transition. That transition is into earn-out or at least agreements.
We've seen a higher preponderance of that as we've been in the last few quarters, given some
of the current situations across the current economic situations.
The good news about that is we're getting those sockets. We're converting that into an earnout
type of situation, where we get implants on top of the socket. And then we've also seen globally
very strong performance in our hardware. So, this capital component is critical to the business. It's
also critical to the growth, and I think we're just seeing that with some of the other consolidations.
But the Medtronic footprint here is extensive, strong, and very capable.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
All right. Thanks, Rich.A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Rich. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question comes from `Joanne Wuensch, Citi, Citi. Joanne, please go ahead.
Q - `Joanne Wuensch, Citi `
Good morning. And a nice way to end the year, and start the next. Briefly, my memory is that you
had two patch pump products in development. Are those going to be shutdown or are those also
continuing along?
And I'll ask my second question. Hugo; could you sort of give us an update on where the launch is
outside the United States? And should we be thinking about this as number of robots in the field
or amount of revenue that it generates for the total Medtronic family? Thank you.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Thanks, Joanne. Two great questions. Que, do you want to take the patch question?
A - `Que Dallara, Executive Vice President & President Diabetes Operating Unit `
Yes. We have a complementary organic program. If anything, we're stepping on the gas. On that
program, that continues. It's complementary with next generation features that we're not
prepared to go to at this point for competitive reasons. But that program will help expand our
market access, including Type 2 -- the Type 2 market.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Just real quick before I turn it over to Bob to talk about Hugo, I just think, just to reemphasize
what Que just said there, is that we've never -- although our business hasn't performed well over
the years, the last couple of years, we've never lost faith in our technology.
And now with the better execution that Que and her new leadership team were bringing, we are
putting our foot on the gas and doubling down on this business. And the patch segment is an
important segment. So, we feel good about having multiple shots on goal there. So, that's all I'll
say on Diabetes.
And `Bob White, Executive Vice President & President Diabetes Operating Unit, you want to talk about Hugo?
A - `Bob White, Executive Vice President & President Diabetes Operating Unit `
Yes. Thanks, Geoff. And thanks, Joanne, for the question. So, we really like our momentum.
Remembering, Joanne, as you know that less than 5% of procedures that could be done
robotically assisted are actually done that way. So, a tremendous market development
opportunity.
And importantly, every quarter, we sell and install more Hugo systems than we did the prior
quarter. And the modularity and the interoperability Hugo system with our leading surgical
franchises is really being recognized by our customers, and it's really about the ecosystem.
So, in response to your question, I would look at both, right? We look at the number of robots,for Medtronic overall. So, we liked our position, we like our feedback, and we're excited about
our opportunity ahead of us.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head, Investor Relations `
Okay. Thanks, Bob. Thanks, Joanna, for the questions. And Brad, we'll go to the final question.
Thank you.
Operator
Our final question comes from `Anthony Petrone, Mizuho Americas at Mizuho Securities. Anthony, please go ahead.
Q - `Anthony Petrone, Mizuho Americas `
Thank you. Can you hear me okay?
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, Anthony.
Q - `Anthony Petrone, Mizuho Americas `
Okay.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Happy belated birthday, by the way.
Q - `Anthony Petrone, Mizuho Americas `
Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.
Couple of questions here; one just on the volume picture, underlying volumes: is there anything
you could share on April and May in particular? You have about 5.5% organic growth, 4% to 4.5%
is the briefed guidance. So, maybe just a little bit of color on underlying volumes? Certainly, in 1Q,
it did seem like we had favorable comps, but an underlying improvement in many markets. So,
just your comments on underlying volumes. And then, in the 4% to 4.5%, is there anything of note
just on 780G? How much of that is baked into the guidance? Thanks, again.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I might ask Sean to comment on the underlying volumes in a second, because we see it
across cardiology a lot. But I would just say, Anthony, that the underlying volume is definitely
getting stronger and accelerated for us through our Q1 into April and May. And as I mentioned
earlier, we've been seeing strong growth out of Western Europe for quite some time, and then
Japan came in. And all throughout this, the last quarter we saw strong growth in emerging
markets. U.S. has lagged, but has picked up. And I think some of it, we're seeing some of that
pickup in particular, in surgical procedures in our surgical business, but also across a couple of
different cardiovascular procedure lines. I don't know, Sean, if you have any comments on that.
A - `Sean Salmon, Executive Vice President & President Cardiovascular Portfolio `
Yes, Geoff. You said it well. We saw a really nice recovery in Europe in particular, as I mentioned
before, across the board in our procedures. In the U.S., we saw cardiac surgery was kind of a
leading indicator that really grew well in the United States for procedure volume. And throughoutthe quarter we saw improving -- improvement, including coronary stents, which has been
curiously below the pre-COVID levels for a long time now. So, we saw that come up to about
95% of the pre-COVID levels for the back half of the year, or back half of the quarter.
So, look, I'm encouraged, May looks strong, we're moving into a better procedure space for sure,
globally. And it was also impressive to see how fast China snapped back after both the shutdown
and the COVID stuff that had happened, and the New Year it happened. So, I think all the trends
are looking up globally, and I think the U.S. is the place we're most encouraged by as we see the
recovery of procedure volumes in cardiology. We saw that with large joints, of course, and I think
we're starting to see it in cardiology too now, which is encouraging.
Q - `Anthony Petrone, Mizuho Americas `
Okay.
A - `Karen Parkhill, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, IT & Enterprise Excellence `
And Anthony, on your question on the annual guidance and anything of note on 780G, we expect
Diabetes to return to good growth in this fiscal year. And we noted that we expect it to begin the
year below the corporate average, but obviously ramp throughout the year as we bring the 780G
to more and more patients in the United States, and the consumable revenue off of that comes
with it.
Q - `Anthony Petrone, Mizuho Americas `
Very helpful. Thank you.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head, Investor Relations `
Yes. Thanks, Anthony.
Geoff, please go ahead with your closing remarks.
A - `Geoffrey S. Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Thanks, Ryan. All right. Well, okay, everyone, thanks for the questions. As usual, we really
appreciate your support and continued interest in Medtronic.
And as I mentioned earlier, we'll be coming to you from ADA on June 25, with an update on our
Diabetes business. And we hope you'll join us for our Q1 earnings broadcast, which we anticipate
holding on Tuesday, August 22, where we'll update you on our progress across the company.
With that, thanks for spending time with us today, and have a great rest of your day.