Q4 2025 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head Investor Relations `
Good morning. I'm `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head Investor Relations, Vice President and Head of Medtronic Investor Relations,
and I appreciate that you're joining us for our Fiscal '25 Fourth Quarter Video Earnings Webcast.
Before we go inside to hear our prepared remarks, I'll share a few details about today's webcast.
Joining me are `Geoff Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and `Thierry Pieton, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Chief
Financial Officer. Geoff and Thierry will provide comments on the results of our fourth quarter,
which ended on April 25, 2025, and our outlook for fiscal year '26. After our prepared remarks,
the executive VPs from each of our four segments will join us and we'll take questions from the
sell-side analysts that cover the company. Today's program should last between 60 and 90
minutes.
Earlier this morning, we issued a press release containing our financial statements, divisional and
geographic revenue summaries, and non-GAAP reconciliations. We also posted an earnings
presentation that provides additional details on our performance. The presentation can be
accessed in our earnings press release or on our website at investorrelations.medtronic.com.
During today's program, many of the statements we make may be considered forward-looking
statements, and actual results may differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking
statement. Additional information concerning factors that could cause our actual results to differ is
contained with our periodic reports and other filings that we make with the SEC, and we do not
undertake to update any forward-looking statement.
Unless we say otherwise, all comparisons are on a year-over-year basis, and revenue
comparisons are made on an organic basis, which excludes the impact of foreign currency and
fourth quarter revenue in the current and prior year reported as other. References to sequentialrevenue changes compared to the third quarter of fiscal '25 and are made on an as-reported
basis. All share references are on a revenue and year-over-year basis and compare our fourth
fiscal quarter to our competitor's first calendar quarter.
Reconciliations of all non-GAAP financial measures can be found in our earnings press release or
on our website at investorrelations.medtronic.com. And finally, our EPS guidance does not include
any charges or gains that would be reported as non-GAAP adjustments to earnings during the
fiscal year.
With that, let's head into the studio and hear about the quarter and our outlook for fiscal '26.
`Geoff Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Hello, everyone, and thanks for joining us today. As you can see in our Q4 results released this
morning, we had a strong finish to our fiscal year, growing 5.4%. Our growth drivers are having an
impact and are still building momentum. And we've proven to you that our growth is durable, as
we've now delivered mid-single-digit revenue growth for two and a half years.
Our Cardiovascular growth accelerated, as forecasted, growing 8% on broad strength across the
portfolio, including nearly 30% growth in CAS. We also delivered double-digit growth in
Neuromodulation and Diabetes, and high single-digit U.S. growth in Cranial & Spinal Technologies.
Two of our businesses, CAS and ENT, reached important milestones, entering the $1 billion annual
revenue club, alongside 10 of our other businesses. And we've had a number of important clinical
and regulatory updates during the quarter, as we continue to advance our pipeline.
Operationally, we translated our revenue growth into leveraged earnings, with high single-digit
operating profit and low double-digit EPS growth.
Coupled with our Q3 results, we delivered a very strong 9% EPS growth in the back half of the
year. And for the full year, we delivered at the upper end of the commitments that we laid out a
year ago.
We shared with you this morning our view on the potential impact from tariffs, which we have
included in our newly issued guidance. Thierry will walk you through this later in the broadcast, but
you can see from the significant amount that we've already been able to offset, that we are
extremely focused on mitigating actions.
You also see from our guidance that the underlying fundamentals of the business are strong, and
they're getting stronger.
We had also announced this morning that we have decided to separate our diabetes business as
we continue to execute on our active portfolio management. Look, we see this as a win for both
diabetes and for Medtronic, and I'm going to touch upon this a bit later.
So we have several details to cover today, and let's start with our Q4 performance highlights.
Starting first with the cardiovascular portfolio, innovation drove broad-based growth in the
quarter, which accelerated to 8%. We delivered double-digit growth in cardiac ablation solutions,
structural heart, and cardiac surgery, and high single-digit growth in cardiac rhythm management.
Cardiac ablation solutions growth accelerated, as forecasted, to nearly 30%, with high 30s
growth in the U.S. and low 20s in international markets.
Our portfolio of pulse field ablation products, the broadest in the space, continues to drive rapid
growth around the world. We're opening up new accounts as our supply continues to quicklyincrease, and demand for our Affera, PFA products is extremely high. This quarter, I spent a lot of
time talking to EPs, and we're hearing great feedback. Physicians are saying that our Sphere-9
focal catheter is the most desired PFA catheter on the market, and we're seeing large centers
switch to Medtronic.
EPs appreciate the efficiency that comes from fewer catheter exchanges, given that Sphere-9 can
do mapping, PFA, and RF ablation all from the same catheter. Now, across our PFA platforms,
customers appreciate their ease of use, their precision, durable efficacy, and, of course, the
safety.
Now, if there's a PFA catheter that is driving even more customer excitement than Sphere-9, it's
our next-gen Affera Sphere-360 single-shot catheter. Sphere-360 is an integrated mapping and
ablation catheter where the entire lattice tip delivers pulse field energy, so the EP doesn't have to
rotate the catheter.
One-year data for Sphere-360 was presented last month at the HRS meeting, which showed
excellent efficacy, durability, and safety, as well as very fast procedure times. We plan to start our
U.S. pivotal trial for 360 later this calendar year.
So our CAS business has a lot of momentum, and its contribution to total company growth
continues to increase, including 70 basis points this quarter, and we expect CAS's growth rate to
accelerate again next quarter. The business reached $1 billion in revenue in FY '25, and we have
near-term line of sight to doubling that as we continue to enter new accounts globally with Affera
and with PulseSelect.
With the cardiac ablation space now at roughly $10 billion and growing double digits, this is a huge
growth opportunity for Medtronic, and our focus is to be the leader in this space.
Next, our Cardiac Rhythm Management business had a very strong quarter, growing 7% with high
single-digit growth in both defibrillation solutions and cardiac pacing therapies. With defib
solutions, we're seeing strong customer adoption of our Aurora EV-ICD with its revenue doubling
year-over-year as we're taking meaningful share from the incumbent. We are seeing our
customers placing larger and faster repeat orders for Aurora.
Now in pacing, we continue to have strong growth in leadless pacing and conduction system
pacing. Our micro leadless pacemaker had strong 17% growth and our 3830 conduction system
pacing lead grew 19%. In Structural Heart, we grew 10%. With strong growth of our Evolut TAVR
platform in the U.S., Japan, and emerging markets, we continue to differentiate Evolut with
positive clinical evidence. Our five-year low-risk data was presented at ACC during the quarter,
showing outstanding valve performance for Evolut. And our two-year data from our head-to-head
SMART trial was presented at CRT, showing continued superior performance versus the leading
competitor's valve. The SMART data and FX+ launch continue to have an impact.
To give you just a few examples, a large non-profit system in the upper Midwest that does over
200 TAVR implants a year recently reviewed their own patient data and found that SMART was
consistent with their outcomes. Better valve performance with Evolut. And as a result, we went
from a low single-digit share to Evolut being their valve of choice.
Another example would be an East Coast academic center that implants about 200 valves a year
and whose physicians participated in the competitor's first balloon expandable TAVR trials.
Well, now they've moved from using the competitor's valve almost exclusively to using our Evolut
valves in a majority of their patients.Now, I could keep going with such examples. The point is that our data, our technology, and our
sales execution are having a significant impact, giving us confidence that we can continue to grow
structural heart at or above the market.
In hypertension, we continue to ramp our market development activities for our Symplicity blood
pressure procedure as we await reimbursement coverage from CMS. CMS has indicated that
they will finalize the NCD on or before October 11 and ahead of this, they will issue a draft on or
before July 13. Many large healthcare systems are establishing outpatient Symplicity service lines
today so that they're prepared to rapidly scale to meet the large demand. And we're right there
with them. We're hiring market development managers, clinical specialists, and healthcare
economics managers to supplement our existing coronary sales force.
So we expect Symplicity revenue to meaningfully ramp when it's covered. And just like PFA, over
time it will become an important contributor to overall Medtronic growth.
Nearly half of U.S. adults have hypertension, and one in four of those with hypertension don't
have their blood pressure under control, despite the broad availability of numerous generic
drugs. Look, the opportunity here is massive, and we will be the leader in addressing this large,
unmet need.
Now turning to the Neuroscience portfolio. Our Cranial & Spinal Technologies business grew mid-
single-digits, including 7% growth in the United States as we continue to win share.
We've changed the basis of competition in spine to one where enabling technology drives spine
implant decisions. And our differentiated AiBLE spine ecosystem, including AI-driven preop
planning software, imaging, robotics, navigation, and powered surgical instruments, has by far the
largest installed base with over 10,000 capital units, well ahead of our competition.
Now this is important, because when a customer upgrades one of our pieces of capital, they're
not just upgrading one product, they're upgrading to the full AiBLE ecosystem. So you don't go
just from O-arm to new O-arm, or navigation to new nav, or robot to new robot, you go from one
of these pieces of equipment to the entire AiBLE ecosystem.
AiBLE is not only appealing to spine surgeons around the world, it's also attracting the
competition's best sales reps and distributors to join Medtronic. Some of the world's leading
spine and neurosurgery centers, including large, iconic teaching institutions, are moving to
Medtronic. And combined with the investments we're prioritizing to even further enhance the
AiBLE ecosystem, we expect our strength in CST to continue.
Another business that continues to win share is neuromodulation, which grew 10%. Our closed-
loop sensing technology is driving strong growth in both pain stim and brain mod. In pain stim, we
grew 12%, including 15% growth in the U.S. on the continued strength of our Inceptiv Closed-Loop
Spinal Cord Stimulator. We continue to win share, and have now reached the number one global
position in SCS.
Inceptiv is changing patients' lives, as they no longer have to adjust their therapy throughout the
day, and they aren't having to come back to the doctor's office to have their device settings
changed. So Inceptiv is reducing burden for the patient and for the physician.
In brain modulation, we grew mid-single-digits, including 9% growth in international markets on
the continued adoption of our BrainSense adaptive DBS for people with Parkinson's. Look, this is a
groundbreaking technology. A fully closed-loop brain-computer interface that automaticallyprovides personalized, real-time therapy based on brain activity feedback. In the U.S., we
received FDA approval for BrainSense during the quarter.
Now, following stories on adaptive DBS technology on Good Morning America, the BBC, and
several other media outlets, we are seeing patients now proactively talking to their doctors and
requesting adaptive devices.
The early results are very exciting, and we're now entering full market release in the U.S. and
Europe, with Japan launching next month. So in Neuromod, we have near-term growth drivers,
we're the category leader, and we're well-positioned to capture the future innovations that are
coming.
Now, turning to our medical surgical portfolio and our surgical business, which improved and grew
2%.
We continue to drive strong growth in emerging markets and Advanced Energy. Our market-
leading LigaSure vessel sealing technology continues to attract strong surge in adoption, resulting
in our 11th straight quarter of winning share in Advanced Energy.
Now, we expect our surgical growth to improve over time as we expand and launch our Hugo
soft-tissue robotic platform. Hugo continues to reach important milestones. Like last quarter, we
filed with the U.S. FDA for a urologic indication. And the pivotal data from the urology trial, which
met its primary safety and effectiveness endpoints, was presented last month at AUA. We expect
to follow our urology indication in the U.S. with hernia and benign GYN indications. And we will
begin enrollment in our GYN oncology trial in the coming months. We also continue to expand
instrumentation, having conducted our first cases with LigaSure on Hugo this past quarter. We're
expanding Hugo's installed base and are now in 30 countries around the world. And we continue
to see strong increases in Hugo procedure volumes and utilization.
In surgical, we are also driving impressive expansion in our AI-powered touch surgery ecosystem.
Touch surgery is a foundational intelligence technology used across both robotic and
laparoscopic surgery. And we're leading the industry in establishing this digital surgical ecosystem
globally.
We see our growing digital footprint as a long-term strategic advantage for our surgical business,
and this will apply to other businesses across Medtronic over time.
Finally, in diabetes, we grew 12%, our sixth quarter in a row of double-digit growth. The growth
was broad-based with strength in pumps, CGM, and consumables. We continue to grow our
MiniMed 780G installed base in both the U.S. and international markets. People with diabetes are
attracted to 780G's highest time and range of any commercial AID system, giving them the ability
to achieve more control with less burden.
In Europe, the launch of our Simplera Sync sensor is driving strong mid-teen CGM growth.
Simplera is half the size and much easier to apply than our previous sensor. Now in the U.S., we
received FDA approval for Simplera Sync just last month, and expect to begin the launch this fall.
Regarding our Abbott-based sensor, back-end integration and development work is progressing
well. We submitted our interoperable pump and controller for FDA clearance, which paves the
way for bringing our AID system with this sensor to the market. We also submitted to the FDA for
a 780G label expansion, including for Type 2 diabetes and rapid-acting insulins. And looking
ahead, we expect to submit for our 8-series next-generation pump, the MiniMed Flex, by the end
of the fiscal year.So as you can see, we've significantly turned around our diabetes business, and it's very well-
positioned. And this morning, we announced our plan to separate diabetes into a standalone
public company with a capital market separation through our preferred path of an IPO split. This is
a win for both companies. For Medtronic, our portfolio becomes more focused on high-margin
growth markets, like PFA and renal denervation. At the same time, the independent new
diabetes company will be a scaled leader, and the only diabetes company to commercialize a
complete ecosystem to address intensive insulin management.
Today's announcement marks a significant milestone in our ongoing active portfolio management
efforts, an important lever to delivering on our long-term strategic and financial objectives. Look,
there's a clear strategic rationale for diabetes to be a standalone company. Diabetes is
predominantly B2C, whereas Medtronic, our businesses are predominantly B2B. We sell different
types of products to different types of customers.
Medtronic's commercial, manufacturing, and technology platform synergies are less applicable to
the diabetes business, given their distinct customer, go-to-market, and supply chain
infrastructure.
For Medtronic, we will continue to have leading franchises and attractive MedTech markets. And
this separation shifts and simplifies our portfolio to have even more intense focus on our highest
margin growth drivers. These growth drivers are already building momentum, and this increased
focus will ensure that they reach their full revenue growth potential. Our portfolio also shifts to
higher profitability, allowing us to pick up both margin and earnings. And the shift increases our
exposure to markets where we demonstrate our strongest core capabilities and have scale and
synergy benefits, which importantly, lowers the overall risk profile of the company.
Now, taken all together, we'll be in a great position to continue delivering mid-single-digit or
higher organic revenue growth, as well as accelerating our earnings leverage. So our direction of
travel here is clear. This is about greater focus on the significant opportunities in high-margin
growth markets where we are well-positioned, and we believe that this will result in a win for
Medtronic. Look, I'm also excited about what the future holds for the diabetes business.
And now I'd like `Que Dallara, Executive Vice President & Diabetes Operating Unit President, who will become the CEO of the new diabetes company, to share
some of her thoughts. Que joined Medtronic in 2022 and has been instrumental in turning the
diabetes business into what it is today. She's an inspirational, transformative leader who is also
strategic and pragmatic. Her impressive track record in driving growth and innovation has set the
diabetes business on a path to continued success, ensuring the needs of people with diabetes
are met around the globe. So over to you, Que.
`Que Dallara, Executive Vice President & Diabetes Operating Unit President `
Thanks, Geoff. I want to start by thanking you for your leadership and vision. Your decision a few
years ago to double down on the diabetes business and significantly increase investment has
positioned us well, setting us up to generate significant returns for stakeholders. We wouldn't be
where we are without your unwavering support. I'm very excited to be leading this large-scale,
direct-to-consumer diabetes business. We have over 8,000 employees in two global
manufacturing facilities and a lot of innovation in the works. Our innovations are driven by the
desire to improve outcomes while reducing burden. And as an independent company, we will
have a shareholder base that is aligned to our business and financial profile. This will enable more
focused investment in innovation, as well as manufacturing scale and automation, positioning us
for success in automated insulin delivery and smart MDI, while also driving margin expansion over
time.Our $2.8 billion diabetes business has strong momentum in a large $16 billion global addressable
market. We've delivered double-digit growth now for six consecutive quarters, along with several
recent product approvals and the strategic partnership that we have established with Abbott
Diabetes Care. And we have a deep pipeline, as we've been investing in CGM options, insulin
delivery options such as a pen, patch, and durable pump, a fully automated algorithm, and a
unified digital customer experience. This full ecosystem not only enables people with diabetes to
have a seamless transition between therapies without changing companies, but it also allows
them to achieve better control with less burden.
And finally, I want to thank and celebrate the dedication of our diabetes team. Their passion and
perseverance is transforming diabetes care to give people the freedom to forget about
diabetes and live their best lives. Back to you, Geoff.
`Geoff Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Que. I couldn't agree more. Next, I'm going to turn it over to Thierry to share some
additional transaction and financial information on the diabetes separation, as well as take you
through a deeper look at our Q4 financial performance and our guidance for the coming year. But
before I do that, I want to officially welcome Thierry to his first earnings call with Medtronic. He is
now in his 12th week and has already hit the ground running, including playing a critical role in
preparing for today's announcement. Thierry is a proven, experienced CFO, having most recently
been in the automotive industry where he created significant value for shareholders by increasing
margins, earnings power, and free cash flow.
His extensive experience with M&A, divestitures, and forming innovative partnerships is proving
to be highly relevant to work here at Medtronic. His presence is already having a significant
impact on our organization. He's brought forward many new ideas on how we can further invest in
innovation, accelerating R&D while also driving operating leverage, and he brings with it the
expertise to ensure we get it done. It's great having you on board, Thierry.
`Thierry Pieton, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you for the warm welcome, Geoff. This is certainly an exciting time to join Medtronic. I've
had the pleasure of visiting many of our facilities and meeting our employees and also starting to
meet with many of you in the investment community.
A common question from many of you has been, why did I come to Medtronic? For me,
healthcare is a special industry given the connections to patients, and I've always wanted to
return since working in healthcare earlier in my career.
In addition to the sector, there were two specific things that stood out about Medtronic. First, I
saw an opportunity to apply my background to enhance the operations of the company. And
second, Medtronic has a few large, exciting growth opportunities that don't come around very
often, and the company is at an inflection point. I'm energized by the opportunities for durable
growth and value creation that are ahead of us, and I'm really looking forward to hopefully making
a difference here.
Now let's cover our plan to separate the diabetes business, which represented about 8% of our
revenue and 4% of our segment operating profit in fiscal year '25. We intend to separate
diabetes through a series of capital market transactions.
Our preferred path involves two steps. First, we plan to execute an IPO of up to 20% of the
diabetes business. The proceeds are expected to appropriately capitalize the new diabetescompany and provide the ability to retire Medtronic shares. Second, we intend to execute a
spinoff where Medtronic will exchange our remaining new diabetes company shares for
Medtronic shares from willing shareholders. We plan to retire those shares, resulting in a lower
Medtronic share count. We're targeting completion of the entire separation within 18 months, and
taking this preferred path should result in a tax-free impact to Medtronic shareholders for U.S.
Federal income tax purposes.
From a financial standpoint, there are several benefits to Medtronic. Diabetes has lower gross
margins and operating margins than overall Medtronic. So upon full separation, we're expecting
our adjusted gross and operating margins to improve by approximately 50 basis points and 100
basis points, respectively. Given the share retirement, this separation is expected to be
immediately accretive to Medtronic EPS upon completion. We don't expect any change to our
dividend policy. So financially, there are some clear short-term financial benefits, but the most
important aspect is what Geoff mentioned earlier. This separation will allow us to increase our
growth accretive investments in our core businesses where margins are structurally higher. This is
all about capital allocation and creating the conditions to fuel our future growth. So clearly, this
separation will be beneficial for both Medtronic and the new diabetes company, unlocking both
strategic value and shareholder value.
With that, let's now come back to Medtronic overall and recap our Q4 results. As Geoff
mentioned earlier, Q4 revenue of $8.9 billion grew 5.4% organic. On the bottom line, adjusted
EPS was $1.62, up 11%. Both revenue and EPS were ahead of expectations, driven by
outperformances in CRM, Structural Heart & Aortic, Diabetes, and Neuromod, among others,
along with better than expected interest and tax expenses. Our revenue growth was broad-
based from a geographic perspective. We grew 5% in the U.S., our strongest quarterly U.S.
growth in 15 quarters, as we accelerated on the strength of new technology.
Japan grew high single-digits, and Western Europe and emerging markets grew mid-single-digits
with strength in India, Southeast Asia, and Eastern Europe. Moving down the P&L, our adjusted
gross margin was 65.1%, down 70 basis points year-over-year, as a result of mix from diabetes
and CAS, as well as foreign exchange. Our gross margin was actually unchanged on a constant
currency basis. On the positive side, we continue to see the benefit of increased pricing, in
particular in areas where we introduced new products, such as Neuromod, CRM, and Structural
Heart, and we continue to improve our ability to offset FX with price in emerging markets. This
quarter again, the savings from our COGS efficiency programs more than offset the impact of
inflation.
Our Medtronic performance system, which we implemented across our manufacturing network,
resulted in high single-digit improvement in labor efficiency. We insourced three of our distribution
centers to drive cost savings and further improve supply. Finally, we were able to significantly
reduce our scrap and obsolescence charges. With SG&A, we drove significant leverage,
particularly with G&A, while at the same time increasing investment in R&D, more to come on that
later. The net of this was leverage on our adjusted op profit line, which grew 7.6% or $175 million.
Our adjusted operating margin was 27.8%, an increase of 90 basis points or 200 basis points on
a constant currency basis.
Below the operating profit line, our adjusted tax rate of 16% was better than expected due to
favorability in our actual jurisdictional mix of profits for the year, which also resulted in a modest
pickup from prior quarters. All in all, as stated in Q4, we delivered EPS of $1.62, up 11% and 16% at
constant currency. This was a strong close to the year, where in fiscal year '25, we grew revenue
5% organic and EPS 6% or 10% on a constant currency basis. From a capital allocation perspective,
we returned $6.3 billion to shareholders in '25 through share repurchases and through ourdividend. And this morning, we announced that we're increasing our dividend for the 48th
consecutive year.
Now, let's move to our '26 guidance. We've now delivered mid-single-digit organic revenue
growth for 10 quarters in a row, and we expect this to continue through fiscal year '26 with an
increasing contribution from our key growth drivers. We expect organic revenue growth of
approximately 5% in fiscal year '26, including 4.5% to 5% growth in Q1.
Based on recent FX rates, we would expect a tailwind from FX of 0 to $100 million in the total
year, with a roughly neutral impact in Q1.
Moving down the P&L, I'll first talk about our underlying business, excluding the impact of tariffs.
Like we saw in the fourth quarter, we expect continued mix headwinds within gross margin from
CAS and diabetes, with an increasing impact from diabetes as we are early in the manufacturing
ramp of the Simplera sensor. We will continue to drive pricing discipline, in particular on the back
of new product introduction and to cover FX. We will also accelerate our COGS efficiency
programs to significantly outpace inflation.
Given my background, this will be a key area of focus for me, together with our businesses and
Greg Smith and our global supply chain team.
In fiscal year '26, we will significantly increase investment in our growth drivers to maximize future
growth. For the first time in four years, we're planning to grow R&D faster than revenue. We will
also invest in sales and marketing. These investments will be deliberately focused on areas like
cardiac ablation, as well as in surgical robotics and RDN, as we prepare for scaling the U.S.
launches of our Hugo robot and Symplicity hypertension procedure.
On the flip side, we do expect to drive significant leverage with G&A expenses. The net of this
will be an operating profit line that grows materially faster than revenue.
Below the op profit line, we're expecting increases in both interest and tax expense, which
combined results in a 300 basis points impact on EPS growth.
On the interest, this is driven by the fact that any debt we refinance will likely be at higher rates,
given the current higher interest environment, whereas the pressure on the tax side derives
primarily from the effects of Pillar 2.
This leads to our expectation for approximately 4% EPS growth in fiscal year '26, excluding the
impact of tariffs, and foreign exchange is a neutral impact to fiscal '26 at recent rates. For Q1, we
would expect EPS in the range of $1.22 to $1.24, which includes minimal expected impact from
tariffs and a 1% to 2% headwind from foreign exchange at recent rates. Next, I'll share with you
our thinking on tariffs, which we laid out in our earnings presentation this morning. We've built our
expectations based on two potential scenarios. The low end of the potential impact assumes that
the current bilateral U.S.-China tariffs that are in place during the 90-day pause remain throughout
fiscal year '26, while the high end assumes that they resume at the higher levels following the 90-
day pause.
Through focused efforts from teams across Medtronic, we already have visibility to offsetting a
good portion of this headwind, and we have high confidence in our ability to execute additional
mitigation efforts. As a result, we forecast a net tariff impact to COGS in fiscal year '26 of
approximately $200 million to $350 million. From a quarterly breakout, we would expect minimal
impact in Q1, as I mentioned earlier, and then approximately 10% in the second quarter, and
approximately 30% and 60% in Q3 and Q4, respectively. All that said, it's highly likely that theimpact from tariffs will change, and we'll keep you updated periodically as we go through the
year. So combining our underlying performance with our current tariffs expectations, we would
have you model fiscal year '26 EPS in the range of $5.50 to $5.60. We've shown you that we can
deliver high single-digit EPS growth as we did with the 9% growth in the back half of fiscal year
'25. As we look beyond next year to fiscal year '27, we expect to return to high single-digit EPS
growth upon the diabetes separation, driven by several factors, including strong revenue growth
and further underpinned by FX tailwind at recent rates and the margin and share retirement
benefits of the separation. Geoff, back to you.
`Geoff Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Thank you, Thierry. Now before we go to Q&A, I'll make a few closing remarks. Starting with
that we had a strong close to the fiscal year, with two and a half years of mid-single-digit revenue
growth that is now also translating into strong operating profit and EPS leverage. We have
durable growth drivers that are taking hold, and we also have clear line of sight to improving
growth drivers in other businesses. For example, Peripheral Vascular, where we're working with
Contego Medical in the carotid market. And we will soon enter the peripheral thrombectomy
segment as well.
In pelvic health, we are working to open a large new market when our revolutionary Tibial
stimulation device is approved. And as for Hugo, procedures and utilization are growing. And the
cadence of key milestones is accelerating.
We're also working aggressively to manage external factors that are impacting our '26 guide. And
as Thierry pointed out, we'll be back to high single-digit EPS growth in '27.
So as I assess the overall business, the underlying fundamentals are strong, and they are getting
stronger. We've been working on a number of changes to the company, and those changes are
making a difference. We streamlined the operating model and implemented performance-driven
incentives. We brought in outside leadership with accretive skill sets, which are enhancing
execution and improving operating rigor.
We prioritized investments in groundbreaking innovation that are now paying off and accelerating
company growth. We centralized global operations, supply chain, and quality, resulting in
improved KPIs. And we're adding a performance culture to this mission-minded company and
transforming our portfolio. And today's diabetes announcement accelerates our speed of travel
to higher profitable growth, aligned around our core strengths, giving all of our stakeholders
increased conviction in our ability to deliver.
I want to thank our employees around the world who are listening today. You've truly embraced
our and culture, our culture of driving both our Medtronic mission and performance. This is directly
leading to our strong financial outperformance. And it's making a difference for the millions of
people around the world that depend on Medtronic to alleviate pain, restore health, and extend
life.
We've made a lot of progress this past year, and your efforts have laid the groundwork for the
inflection point that we're now entering. And I couldn't be more excited about what we're going
to accomplish here in the new fiscal year. So thank you for your dedication and service.
Finally, as you may have seen in our earnings press release this morning, `Sean Salmon, Executive Vice President & President Cardiovascular Portfolio is moving
on, and this will be his last earnings call with us after more than 20 years of service to Medtronic.
Sean has been responsible for leading a number of our successes. He leaves a legacy of having
developed strong, capable leaders in our cardiovascular businesses, as well as a robusttechnology pipeline, both of which are responsible for driving the CV growth acceleration you
saw this quarter. Sean departs with our cardiovascular portfolio in a leading position.
To lead CV going forward, we're promoting Skip Kiil. You've seen Skip's impact in driving above-
market growth in our cranial & spinal technologies business, and he had success in other parts of
MedTech prior to joining Medtronic. Skip will augment our deep CV leadership team with his
strategic mindset, broad global expertise, strong customer focus, and demonstrated track record
of developing new markets and driving commercial success. So I want to thank Sean for his
service, and we're looking forward to Skip leading our continued success in cardiovascular.
So with that, let's move to Q&A, where we're going to try to get to as many analysts as possible.
So we ask that you limit yourself to just one question, and only if needed, a related follow-up. If
you have additional questions, you can reach out to Ryan and the investor relations team after
the call. Wynn [ph], can you please give the instructions for asking a question?
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
(Operator Instructions) For today's session, Geoff, Thierry, and Ryan are joined by `Que Dallara, Executive Vice President & Diabetes Operating Unit President,
EVP and President of Diabetes; Mike Marinaro, EVP and President of the Medical Surgical Portfolio;
`Sean Salmon, Executive Vice President & President Cardiovascular Portfolio, EVP and President of the Cardiovascular Portfolio; and `Brett Wall, Executive Vice President and President of the Neuroscience Portfolio, EVP and President
of the Neuroscience Portfolio. We'll pause for a few seconds to assemble the queue.
Q - `Travis Steed, Bank of America Global Research `
Hello.
A - `Thierry Pieton, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Hello.
Q - `Travis Steed, Bank of America Global Research `
Oh, hey, this is Travis. I didn't hear anything. So thanks for taking the question. I wanted to ask on -
- congrats -- first of all, congrats on all the good news this morning. I wanted to ask on the
guidance philosophy with the new CFO. And it's confident to put out the 5% no range. What's
being assumed on the pipeline on the revenue side? And then I wanted to ask on the 4% EPS
growth ex tariffs. Curious how you're thinking about what you kind of built in on conservatism on
some of the below the line items there. And if it's possible to offset some of the headwinds over
the course of the year, if the revenue comes in better. And then on FY '27, the high single-digit
EPS growth, maybe talk about the framework and the visibility to be able to go ahead and kind of
give that two years ahead that you can kind of get to the high single-digit EPS growth in FY '27.
A - `Thierry Pieton, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
We're not hearing anything, if someone's responding.
Q - `Travis Steed, Bank of America Global Research `
They said I had the first question.Q - `Larry Biegelsen, Wells Fargo `
I think all our mics are open, Travis. It's Larry.
Q - `Travis Steed, Bank of America Global Research `
Okay.
Q - `Larry Biegelsen, Wells Fargo `
It's a good question.
Q - `Danielle Antalffy, UBS `
It's a great question.
Q - `Larry Biegelsen, Wells Fargo `
Yes. This is all mindfulness minute. Just relax.
Q - `Travis Steed, Bank of America Global Research `
Waiting for the answer.
Q - `Danielle Antalffy, UBS `
Good morning, everyone. This is Danielle. I have an answer for you. Just kidding.
Q - `Larry Biegelsen, Wells Fargo `
Danielle, your mic is live. Everyone can hear you.
Q - `Danielle Antalffy, UBS `
Well, so is yours, Larry.
Q - `Larry Biegelsen, Wells Fargo `
How do you know it was Larry?
Q - `Danielle Antalffy, UBS `
Because you have a very distinct voice, Larry.
A - `Que Dallara, Executive Vice President & Diabetes Operating Unit President `
Guys. This is all being taped and everyone can hear it.
Q - `Travis Steed, Bank of America Global Research `
Can we log off and log on?
Q - `Larry Biegelsen, Wells Fargo `
No, let them fix it. No. It should be up. It says go again.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head Investor Relations `All right. You should be up. Go ahead.
A - `Geoff Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Travis, can you hear me now?
Q - `Larry Biegelsen, Wells Fargo `
Yes, go ahead.
Q - `Travis Steed, Bank of America Global Research `
All right. Hey, I got --
A - `Geoff Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Travis, are you there?
Q - `Travis Steed, Bank of America Global Research `
I can. Can you hear me?
A - `Geoff Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Yes. So we got your question. Sorry about that. There was some sort of connection issue
here. But I got your question. I'm going to. First of all, good question, as Danielle pointed out. And
I will take the first part of it and then and then hand it to Thierry to go through the earning stuff.
But on the growth side, look, we're very bullish on the growth drivers. Even in the markets that
we're in and the growth drivers that we have.
So like even in Q4, our markets grew 7%, even without diabetes. And we've got strong positions
in these markets. And we see growth from our big three portfolios to be mid single, and then
some. We're running the company, at a higher expectations than we're guiding here. Just some
examples. I mean, you see our CV business accelerating to 8% with nearly 30% growth in CAS,
which added, that just -- that alone added 70 basis points to the company growth. And that's
without RDN, I mean, RDN will start ramping through '26.
You got neuroscience with double-digit growth and Neuromod and -- and look, CST, what can I
say? I mean, it's just separating itself from the pack. And we've got Tibial coming in pelvic health.
And so, we've got some growth drivers there. And of course, in surgical, Hugo, as we talked
about the commentaries, building momentum, and we'll start to have a more of a meaningful
impact on Med Surg next year, and then beyond that on the company. So we're bullish about the
markets and we're in the positions we have in those markets and our growth potential. So that's,
what's baked into the next year's guide and going into '27. I mean, we're at the early stages of
these growth drivers with more to come.
On the earnings, I'll turn it over to Thierry. Anything else you want to add on the growth?
A - `Thierry Pieton, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
No, thanks. I think Geoff, you were pretty complete on the growth. So we feel comfortable that
we've got a good opportunity from, a growth perspective. From a profitability standpoint, what
the construction has as you may have seen in the details that we've given in the commentary is
actually still getting a lot -- quite a bit of leverage before tariffs at the operating profit level. So we-- we've got a construction that has operating profit that's growing around 7%, so significantly in
excess of revenue.
And that's despite making a significant investment for the future of the business here. And I
mentioned that in the commentary for the first time in four years, we actually have a plan that has
R&D growing quicker than revenue and that's even with revenue up 5%. So our R&D spend
should be increasing around $200 million next year, which is about 7% versus the 5% growth rate.
Despite that, we have significant leverage at the op profit level.
And then to your point, we've got a couple of pressure points below the line. One is around the
tax rate and that's primarily driven by Pillar 2. And so our tax rate should go from about 16.7% this
year to about 18% next year. And then as I -- as we refinance our debt in a higher interest rate
type of environment that also puts some pressure. So we lose about 300 basis points between
the op profit level and the net.
On the opportunity to do better. Hey, look, we're, first of all, operationally, we're, as usual, going
to drive the teams to a higher number than this whether it's from a growth perspective or from a
margin standpoint. On the margin side, given my background, this is going to be a key area of
focus for me. And my initial view is that there is some opportunity from a cost perspective. I think
that the supply chain team with Greg has kicked off a lot of very positive initiatives and we're
starting to see the results and I think there's more to come. So I'll be focusing on that deeply.
And then on the below the line items, sure, on the tax front, we'll keep working it. Some of the
increase between '25 and '26 is due to the temporary safe harbors that we've got in Pillar 2. And
there is uncertainty in terms of our ability to qualify for some of those safe harbors going into
next year. And we'll do everything we can to secure being able to capture that opportunity. So,
sure, we'll be working on it. So, look, we've tried to give a guidance that's all in and we'll work
from there.
Q - `Travis Steed, Bank of America Global Research `
That's helpful. And just a quick follow-up.
A - `Thierry Pieton, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
You also had a part of the question on '27, sorry, I wanted to address your -- the '27 part of the
question. Hey, look, as Geoff mentioned, the growth is not a one-off thing in '25 or in Q4 '25, it's
going to carry into '26. And some of the new products that are carrying this are going to carry us
well into '27.
So, Geoff mentioned CAS and RDN and Tibial that will start having a small impact towards the
end of '26 and will carry into '27. So, first, we expect to continue to have good growth into '27,
and that's regardless of the separation of the diabetes business. Just to give you some clarity on
that, diabetes drives about 40 basis points of our growth. So, we're comfortable we could still
achieve the mid-single-digit growth even after the diabetes separation.
We'll continue to drive the cost out initiatives as I mentioned earlier. FX should start turning into a
small or a headwind towards the end of '26 and into '27. And the last item I wanted to mention is,
we'll probably talk about it more in detail in the rest of the conversation, but the deal that we're --
the structure that we're taking on the diabetes deal actually provides us the opportunity to retire
some shares. So, this will be immediately accretive to our EPS and help strengthen the
construction to get back to a high single-digit growth into '27.A - `Geoff Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
One clarification there on FX -- on the FX, it flips to a tailwind.
A - `Thierry Pieton, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Did I say headwind. Yes, sorry. Tailwind. Tailwind. Sorry.
A - `Geoff Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
You have tax on your mind. That's headwind. But FX flips to a tailwind.
Q - `Travis Steed, Bank of America Global Research `
Is the --
A - `Thierry Pieton, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks for the question, Travis.
Q - `Travis Steed, Bank of America Global Research `
Yes.
A - `Thierry Pieton, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Go ahead.
Q - `Travis Steed, Bank of America Global Research `
I was going to ask, is the 7% operating profit including or excluding tariffs? Is there an extra week
this year? And then why is there a diabetes EPS headwind this year if it's 18 months away? Those
are just a few quickies.
A - `Thierry Pieton, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
So yes, so the 7% is excluding the impact of tariffs. And the impact of tariffs, again, as you
probably saw in the commentary, it's $200 million to $350 million of cost at the cost of goods
sold level. So from an impact on the op profit growth, I guess it's something between 2.2 points
and 3.2 points depending on the outcome on China.
And then the pressure on diabetes, I think it's primarily driven by the rollout of Simplera. So it's
the launch of this product. And as we grow it, the cost is going to go down. But initially, it does put
quite a bit of pressure on our margin rates to the tune of about 60 basis points at the GM level,
which will translate into the earnings. And again, that will get better as the manufacturing ramps
up.
Q - `Travis Steed, Bank of America Global Research `
Helpful. Thanks a lot.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head Investor Relations `
Okay. Thanks, Travis. Let's take the next question, please, Wynn.We'll take the next question from Robbie Marcus at JPMorgan.
Q - `Robert Marcus, JP Morgan `
Great. Good morning, everyone, and Thierry, welcome. Maybe a question for you, and I'll just
have one. You said you'll be back to high single-digit EPS growth in fiscal year '27. That's with
assuming currency remains the same and favorable, and you execute the diabetes spin and
resulting share buyback, which aren't really quite sustainable in nature. So without those benefits
which are kind of one-time, would fiscal '27 EPS still grow high single-digits? Thanks.
A - `Thierry Pieton, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Hey, look, I want to insist on the fundamentals here, and, I think the first thing to look at, if you
think about the construction for '27, is to come back to the performance that we're showing for
Q4 here and for the second half of the year, and this is with no FX tailwind and with diabetes in
the portfolio. We just delivered a quarter that's up 5.4% organically on revenue that has operating
margin up 90 basis points versus which is 200 basis points if you actually exclude FX. And we've
got EPS that's up 11%, which is really 15.8% if you exclude EPS. That earnings growth is actually 9%
in the second half of the year. So, that's the fundamentals of the business that we're trying to
build on.
Now, back to '27. As I said, we were looking at a growth rate that should continue to be positive
with all the momentum that Geoff mentioned. We're going to continue driving the leverage on
the cost side. And so, here you see some signs of improvement that are pretty significant from
an operating profit perspective. And we're going to continue to work on that. FX, we're just
assuming that it's flat. So we're not assuming that it improves where the tailwind that I mentioned
on '27 is just the effect of the carryover of the goodness that we'll have based on the current FX
rate. And then you're right, there should be some accretion that comes from diabetes from the
separation. And that's going to help. But the target that we have for the teams is to deliver on
the framework regardless of the transaction.
Q - `Robert Marcus, JP Morgan `
Great. Thanks, Thierry. Appreciate it.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head Investor Relations `
Thank you, Robbie. Take the next question, please, Wynn.
Operator
We'll take the next question from `Larry Biegelsen, Wells Fargo from Wells Fargo.
Q - `Larry Biegelsen, Wells Fargo `
Good morning. Thanks for taking the question. So, Geoff, I wanted to focus on the decision to
spin diabetes. I guess a couple of questions. One, did you consider, breaking Medtronic up into
four separate businesses? One could argue that the remaining three businesses have scale on
their own and have different customers and capital allocation requirements. So why not go further
in breaking up the company? And, the pushback you think you're going to get on diabetes is that
it's growing above Medtronic's corporate average. So why spin it off if your focus is on
accelerating top-line growth? Thank you.
A - `Geoff Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `Well, look, yes, it's a good question, Larry, like why diabetes? Why now? So first of all, on the
diabetes business, like I said earlier, we believe this is a win-win for both diabetes and Medtronic.
On diabetes, we're well down the path of a turnaround. It's ready to stand alone. We think it's
well suited for the public markets. This move is going to ensure that they get really both the
funding and the focus the franchise needs to reach its full potential.
As much as as we're sitting here today, much progress as we've made, talk about six quarters in
a row of double digits, and there's more to come here. The product pipeline is very robust.
We've submitted several files to the FDA for approvals on multiple products here in the last
couple of months. And we believe with this focus and funding, the business will be a top-tier
diabetes franchise well into the future. And then for Medtronic, though, it allows us to focus more
on our high-margin growth drivers that we just walked through. Like I just mentioned, we're --
even without diabetes, we're in great markets. 7% growth last quarter, stable. And these are
higher-margin sectors for us. And this accelerates our speed of travel to these high-margin
growth areas. And it's aligned around our core strengths of the company, not technology
strengths as well as our go-to-market channel to healthcare systems.
So we think it's a win-win. It's going to create shareholder value short and long-term. And Thierry
walked through the accretive nature of the deal, accretive to our EPS, our operating margin and
gross margin. And I think I don't want to speculate, but I think the diabetes business is probably
worth more outside the company than in. And then, back to Robbie's point, I mean, yes, it'll
provide a kind of a one-time step up in margins. But the whole idea at Thierry's point is that we're
growing them from there and getting to that, you saw a little bit of that in the last two quarters.
And we're going to continue to do that once we get through some of these below-the-line
issues.
But, that's it. The rest of the company, we believe, I said, are -- you're right, they do have scale.
We think it's better together. There's a lot of synergies and we've got really robust growth drivers
across all three of those portfolios of businesses.
Q - `Larry Biegelsen, Wells Fargo `
All right. Thanks so much.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head Investor Relations `
Thank you, Larry. Next question, please Wynn.
Operator
We'll take the next question from `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI from Evercore.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI `
Hey, guys, thanks for taking my question. Geoff and Thierry, maybe one sort of on the earnings
and margins kind of question. If you look at the guidance, a 4% EPS growth, ex tariff rate, Q1, I
think it's implied as like flattish earnings growth. Why is earnings growth backend loaded? Is this a
mix impact on margins? I think Q4 gross margins came in below. Was there a product mix issue?
And Geoff, sort of when you look at the earnings algorithm, can you commit to EPS growing
above revenues, irrespective of the FX environment? Thank you.
A - `Geoff Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thierry, do you want to take the first part there?A - `Thierry Pieton, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. Look, I think the question is why is the construction backend loaded? I think in the first
quarter, a couple of things I would say. First, it's always a bit lower from a revenue perspective
than the fourth quarter and the rest of the year. So that generates lower absorption from the
factories, et cetera. So we typically have a dip between the first quarter and the rest of the year.
The second element, which I think is important this year is, as I mentioned previously, we're
investing in the growth areas, both in R&D for cardiovascular, for CAS, for RDN, and also in sales
and marketing to make sure that we capture the opportunities of growth that are provided by
these areas.
And so in Q4, what you're going to see is a bit of that investment ahead of the return from a
growth perspective. The growth in Q4 is slightly lower than the average of the year. We're looking
at roughly 4.5% growth versus the 5% on the full year. So we're invested ahead and investing
ahead and we'll reap the benefits of that towards the second half. And the final element is,
there's a little bit of FX headwind into the first quarter that will turn into a tailwind towards the rest
of the year. So that kind of explains why we have better performance towards the back end.
A - `Geoff Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
And your question on the leveraged P&L, leveraged EPS growth, regardless of FX, I think that was
your question. So first, just getting to Thierry's point, just one more point is, I don't think it's as
backend loaded as last year, but we did end up hitting, I remember a year ago, we put out
guidance that had the back half of the year growing quite a bit. And there was some skepticism
from the fall. We did end up hitting on the higher end of that guidance across the board. I just
want to point that out.
But to your other more strategic question, the answer is yes. FX over the years, as you guys have
always dogged us a bit. And yes, we believe and the economists that we're talking to, which is
quite as many, is that the FX is going to be a tailwind for us for the next couple of years. That
being said, what we're doing here is underlying in the operations of the company is creating
natural hedges and lowering our exposure to FX through a number of different areas, including
something we've already really made a lot of progress on is dynamic pricing in countries that are
serial, where the currencies are devaluating on a consistent basis.
And that has had a pretty -- a fairly meaningful impact, positive impact for us. But in addition to
that, and expanding that to other countries around the world, paying our teams on kind of actual
FX basis, we are, making some structural changes that just lower our overall exposure to FX. And
then you combine it with our hedging program. I think it's a good formula, but we've got to --
we're putting in place natural hedges. So the answer is yes.
A - `Thierry Pieton, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
I just wanted to give us some incremental color, maybe to give visibility on the gross margin side.
What we're seeing in Q4 and what we'll see for a part of '26, is really two things that are
offsetting each other. We do have a negative impact coming from mix, and that's about 80 basis
points. And it's a combination of CAS and diabetes. And that mix impact is offset by the progress
that we're making from a pricing and from a cost standpoint, right? The progress we're making
on pricing and cost, that's going to carry forward. And I'm going to be focusing on what I can do
to help accelerate that.
The mix effect on CAS and diabetes. So look, the diabetes part, I guess, will be addressedimpact on mix actually translates into good news at the operating profit level, number one.
Number two, some of it is driven by the fact that right now, a lot of the growth is done on the
capital equipment sales. So we're shipping capital equipment first, and the catheters will come
after. So the fact that the mix within CAS is towards the capital equipment is actually good news
for the future. Because as we increase the catheter sales, that's going to alleviate a big portion of
that mix effect.
So the dynamic you should see is the mix getting better and the cost initiatives hopefully
accelerating. So I hope that gives some additional color on why we should be able to continue to
leverage.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI `
Very helpful. Thank you.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head Investor Relations `
Thank you, Vijay. Next question, Wynn.
Operator
We'll take the next question from `Joanne Weunsch, Citi from Citi.
Q - `Joanne Weunsch, Citi
Good morning. And congratulations on all the news this morning. I want to pivot here a little bit to
these products. And I was curious about your commentary regarding the preparation that you and
you're seeing hospitals do for renal denervation and reimbursement. And if you could just sort of
share a little bit more about what you're seeing, that would be fabulous. Thank you.
A - `Geoff Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Maybe I'll call on Sean for that one.
A - `Sean Salmon, Executive Vice President & President Cardiovascular Portfolio `
Yes, certainly. Joanne, thanks for the question. So as you imagine, our focus has been about
opening centers that are getting ready to take on this new service line. And that involves making
sure that we train physicians how to do the procedure, of course, and educate them on coding
and billing for the current fee-for-service Medicare patients.
In addition to that, of course, with the NCD in the frame, that's going to open up a lot of patients.
And really, it's about focusing as they build a service line, making sure they are able to work the
patients up, rule out secondary causes of the disease, and then get them appropriately to the
cath lab for renal denervation, which they perform safely. There's a lot of enthusiasm, as you can
imagine, from customers who are looking for new service lines to grow their practices and absorb
their cath labs. So it's really about that. It's training, education, and support for their programs as
they build that up. Now, upon getting reimbursement, there's more to do to activate patients
more directly. And we will channel those patients to a physician finder in geographies where
patients can then find their way to the treatment.
And as you probably recall from the clinical trials, a large proportion of our patients were self-
referred by using social media tools. So it's a very efficient way to recruit patients to the effort.But of course, we want to do that when all the reimbursement barriers come down. And that's
what we're hopeful for and as we move forward into the NCD.
Q - `Joanne Weunsch, Citi
Thank you. And if I could do a follow-up, the -- how do you think about this revenue ramping? You
sort of paralleled it to PFA adoption, and I just want to sort of set -- get expectations set of how
to think about that. Thank you.
A - `Sean Salmon, Executive Vice President & President Cardiovascular Portfolio `
Yes, Joanne, I think that's a very different thing, right? So PFA is replacing an incumbent
procedure. That is faster, safer procedure that appears to have just excellent efficacy. It's really a
pretty easy switch. It's not so difficult to train on our tools and techniques for that. This is a little bit
more involved, of course, because there are other reasons why people have high blood
pressure. You have to sort those causes out to get patients into the service line. So it's a longer
ramp, but it's a long annuity. This is a massive patient population, as you know, and be able to
build that practice. I think you've got to think about this as one of those really important, durable
growth drivers for the company that will set us up well for a lot of success for a long time.
Q - `Joanne Weunsch, Citi
Thank you.
A - `Geoff Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, just to build on that point, Joanne, to build on that point that Sean's making, the larger health
systems around the country, I mean, not just the larger ones, but a lot of them are really
proactively calling us for partnerships around hypertension, building these clinics, a lot of them
virtual, some not, and establishing these patient pathways with us, jointly investing. So it's -- this is
going to be a big one for us for a long time. And we're -- and of course, we're going to continue
to invest in the innovation around this too.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head Investor Relations `
Thank you, Joanne. Next question, please.
Operator
We'll take the next question from `Matt Taylor, Jefferies at Jefferies.
Q - `Matt Taylor, Jefferies `
Hi, thanks for taking the question. I was wondering actually if you could expand on some of the
pipeline ideas that you had for diabetes and about their differentiation and timelines, if you can.
A - `Geoff Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. I will hand that one off to Que.
A - `Que Dallara, Executive Vice President & Diabetes Operating Unit President `
Yes, thanks for the question. So I'll start with a recent approval of Simplera Sync in the U.S. We're
ramping that. We're going to be launching that in a limited fashion in the fall. And in Europe, that
product has already launched commercially. And just to give you an idea of the volume rampversus last year, we expect to ramp our volume at least 5x what we did last year. So we have not
really begun to see the potential of Simplera on the business yet.
Then we have submitted for an ACE Pump and iAGC algorithm to FDA in April. So we're ready to
launch that, working very well with Abbott to make that happen. And we're ready to launch soon
after we receive clearance on that. And then, so that's our CGM option. It's going to address a lot
of the Achilles' heel of our current CGM lineup.
And then we also have multiple insulin options. We have InPen in market today, our next
generation durable pump, we expect to submit by the end of this fiscal year. And then following,
the patch will follow after that. And what you can see in the lineup is significant improvement to
our form factor. That's feedback we've been given. And so that makes it more wearable with all
these pumps having phone control, which is a feature a lot of our customers have asked for.
And then in addition to that, we have our third generation closed-loop algorithm that we believe
will be a very exciting development in terms of burden reduction while driving the clinical
outcomes that people expect from us.
So when you look at the total ecosystem, I would say a couple of things. One, the form factors
are completely upgraded. Not only that, we've completely re-architected the software, including
the algorithm that drives everything. And then you can see the wearability of the entire system.
And it's not talked about in the product itself, but when you think about the burden of diabetes
management, there is something very attractive in burden reduction that patients have to only
deal with one company, especially when things go wrong. And so our customer, our tech support
and our customer service, not just for patients, but also physicians, is also a differentiator.
Q - `Matt Taylor, Jefferies `
Great. Thank you very much.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head Investor Relations `
Okay. Thanks, Matt. Wynn, we have time probably for three more.
Operator
Okay. We'll take the next question from `Matt Miksic, Barclays at Barclays.
Q - `Matt Miksic, Barclays `
Hey, thanks so much for taking the question, and congrats on the strong finish here. And just to
make sure, I understand the operating line growth, 7%, with about 300 basis points getting you
back to 4% EPS growth for the full year. And that's inclusive of all the investments that you're
talking about. That's inclusive of the sort of gross margin headwinds around investments and so
on, just to be crystal clear. Is that right?
A - `Thierry Pieton, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, that's correct, but it's before the tariffs impact, right? Just to be clear.
Q - `Matt Miksic, Barclays `
Yes, of course.And again, the tariffs impact are about 2.2 points to 3.2 points on that.
Q - `Matt Miksic, Barclays `
Right. And so, congrats on that leverage. I mean, I just take a minute to, I know what it's been,
difficult getting growth of EPS above sales with other headwinds and so on. So getting that
operating line growing. So, then on tariffs, you mentioned high confidence in getting to the
mitigations you've described, opportunity to take those further. And then just maybe if I could drill
down a bit on the spine business, just to get a sense of, above market performance, where if we
were to sort of like for like spine growth, comparing to your pure play peers, where do you see
your growth? Where do you see the market? Any color you could provide on that would be great
as well. Thanks so much.
A - `Geoff Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Yes. So, first of all, thanks for acknowledging the op profit growth. We did, like I said, 8% in
Q4, and the guidance of next year is 7%. And if you take out the diabetes, that's a -- that would
go 8%. So, we built that muscle, and that's going to continue. In terms of the spine business,
again, the markets, I would say the demand is there. The markets have been stable, and
technology is the differentiator here. And it's pretty extreme. If you go back over the last couple
of years, you're seeing a number of our competitors tap out because of the investment and
expertise it takes to build out the capital equipment, enabling technology strategy around this.
And we've got a big lead here. Like I said in the commentary, the dynamic that we're seeing, by
us taking this portfolio of enabling technology and integrating the workflow, we've gone from a
product story to a solution story. We branded AiBLE, AI-enabled technology. And so, as our
customers are upgrading, they're upgrading from a product to a broader ecosystem, so it's not a
linear upgrade. It's more algorithmic. And that's giving us -- and that's a durable advantage. And
so we're seeing the market growth as stable. And we're seeing our competitive advantage
growing. You've seen a bunch of our competitors tap out. Like I said, you see our like probably
primary competitor this quarter put up some results that, we'll see where it goes from here. But
there's a pretty big difference between us and them this past quarter and we'll see where it
goes from here. But we're feeling good about spine and it's something that Brett's been, highly
involved with and leading along with Skip. I mean, Brett, would you like to comment on this?
A - `Brett Wall, Executive Vice President and President of the Neuroscience Portfolio `
Yes, sure, Geoff and Matt, thanks for the question. And we're just seeing, as Geoff said, good,
stable demand and the ecosystem is driving that. And if you look at our enabling technology
growth this last quarter, it remains very attractive, very strong. And we just see that stability
continuing. It's an attractor for not only customers. We know we're seeing a large scale, important
academic centers come to Medtronic for this, and we're also getting very good response from
other sales reps and other individuals that want to join Medtronic. So we're comfortable with how
this is moving forward.
A - `Geoff Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
So I just think, I'm glad you asked the question, Matt, because we talk a lot about PFA and RDN
and robotics, but part of our -- a key part of our growth story is the rest of the company. And we
talked about CST or spine business, CRM, high single-digit quarter there, strong growth from
leadless conduction system pacing, EV-ICD. Again, these are durable growth drivers for us that
are going to go out. So -- and then the other thing we mentioned in the commentary, some of
the slower growing parts of the company we have plans for, like peripheral vascular as we enterthe carotid space with Contego and enter through an organic program into thrombectomy, taking
some technology from a neurovascular business to get into that space. And then, we've got
things like public health, which will I think it's going to surprise people with the growth there once
we launch this Tibial system. We think that's going to be very disruptive and we don't see a real
answer from our competitors.
So, the rest -- the growth story is pretty broad at the company. It's not just the lightning bolts of
PFA and RDN. So thanks for the question.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head Investor Relations `
Thanks, Matt. Two more questions, please Wynn.
Operator
We'll take the next question from `Danielle Antalffy, UBS from UBS.
Q - `Danielle Antalffy, UBS `
Hey, good morning, guys. Thanks so much for squeezing me in here and I'll echo everyone's
congrats on all the news this morning. Just a quick question to clarify on some of the commentary
around PFA. Obviously, a really important growth driver. I think you talked about reaching $2 billion
in sales. So, essentially, just about doubling. I'm just curious how to think about the ramp from, just
over a $1 billion to $2 billion in that CAS business. I mean, is that something that, based on your
commentary, I mean, it seems like that's more near-term versus long-term. But anything you can
add there as far as how we think about getting from that $1 billion to $2 billion? I mean, one of
your competitors that was first to market here, or close to, I mean, you guys came to market
about the same time. So, sorry about that. But they ramped pretty quickly. So, just curious if you
could give any more color there.
A - `Geoff Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. No, they did. They ramped really quickly. And I think, we feel very good about our product
portfolio here in PFA. And what we're seeing right now is just an incredible demand for Affera.
And the capital -- we've got to get those capital systems out there, which we're doing. You get
these high-volume centers, they get one. And like I said, I spent the last couple of weeks, I'd say
80% of my time or so has been on PFA, just going to Heart Rhythm Society meeting. And then a
trip to the Northeast United States, just meeting with the leading centers. And the dynamic we're
hearing is to get the one Affera system, and then they -- then there's fighting over that system
amongst the different EPs of these systems. And they're -- now they're getting their second
Affera system.
And then we're -- then the catheter sales build from that. Again, it's not a -- once you get the
installed base, it's not linear. And the systems are getting this technology. They're not being held
back by capital constraints. And if that is an issue, we have opportunities here through contracting
to eliminate that friction. And then our supply chain has really ramped, right? This was -- we
bought Affera, it's a super innovative technology. But then we had to spend quite a bit of time
innovating the manufacturing process. That wasn't really designed in with the acquisition. So that's
up and running, and we're scaling that, and we're really happy with that.
And then you've got a nice robust demand -- a robust pipeline. Like I said in the commentary, the
only thing that's more exciting than our Sphere-9 catheter out there right now is the Sphere-360.
And that goes right at the heart of the competition, right at them. And then we've gotPulseSelect, which is not under any kind of supply constraints. And it gives centers around the
world an option and a way to blend the pricing as well. So especially in the global areas where the
resources aren't as much, you've got Pulse, it's a very good system, high quality, very safe, and
it's not priced where the Affera is. And so, what I would say is that we strongly believe in doubling
the business. We didn't put a specific timeframe on it, but it's not far off, I mean, it's not far off.
So, I'd say it's more near-term, the next couple of, maybe, I don't know if it'll exactly happen in
the fiscal year, but, we're in that ballpark and really excited about it.
Q - `Danielle Antalffy, UBS `
That's so helpful. Thank you so much.
A - `Ryan Weispfenning, Vice President and Head Investor Relations `
Thank you, Danielle. Now let's take the last question, please, Wynn.
Operator
Our last question comes from `Shagun Singh, RBC Capital Markets at RBC.
Q - `Shagun Singh, RBC Capital Markets `
Great. Thank you so much. So, a couple of follow-ups on the CAS business. Impressive growth.
Can you talk about the mix of cryo? It seems like it's becoming less and less of a headwind. Any
color on pricing there? And then on RDN, any updated thoughts on what patient subset you think
you could get coverage for? Thank you for taking the questions.
A - `Geoff Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Sean, do you want to take the first part of this one?
A - `Sean Salmon, Executive Vice President & President Cardiovascular Portfolio `
Yes, sure. Thanks, Shagun. So, first of all, on CAS, cryo will become less and less a part of the mix,
but I think that rate of decline will slow, and then that'll really aid in the growth of that business
going forward. It's still a really valued tool, and particularly in places that don't use general
anesthesia and are more cost-constrained, it really is holding up very, very well. So I think it hits
kind of a near mid year, and it'll stay there, and then we'll have growth on top of that.
Now with regard to your question on what we're expecting for coverage for the population of
patients, I think what I'd just say is, I will front-run the CMS decision-makers here, but what we've
been presenting to them is, what is the evidence, and what are the guidelines of professional
societies saying? And, those really track pretty closely. So to meet the standard of reasonable
and necessary for CMS, I think it's going to be very close to what we've studied and what's being
recommended by the guidelines. And that would be patients that both aren't able to control their
blood pressure despite lifestyle and medications, but also those patients that are unable to take
medications due to side effects and such.
So I think relatively broad, we'll find out soon enough in July, but I think just following that
evidence and expert opinion and the commentary that was collected in the public commentary
period will lead to that decision.
Q - `Shagun Singh, RBC Capital Markets `Got it. If I could just squeeze in one last one, just your strategy around portfolio management. I
think, Geoff, at some point you had indicated that you are committed to areas where you can
build an ecosystem, and diabetes was one of those areas, you're now looking to separate that.
Just how should we think about your portfolio management strategy going forward? Thank you
for taking the questions.
A - `Geoff Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. I mean, look, we've been -- as I said before, it's a continuous process. We've been at it.
We're going to stay at it. Diabetes isn't an end. We exited ventilation for different reasons. We
exited ventilation, we exited our heart, our LVAD business, we exited dialysis, and now diabetes.
And it really comes down to where do we have these secular growth opportunities along with a
financial profile, like higher margins that works for us, where we have core strengths. And those
four, they're different degrees, but I think there's other stuff inside the company that is a higher
degree of higher margin growth and aligned around our core synergies and capabilities. And
that's what's really driving it.
And so we like where we are. Like I mentioned before, we're in high growth markets. But we'll
continue looking at the portfolio. I want this to be both additions and subtractions. We want to do
more deals. I think the fundamentals of the company are the best I've seen in my nearly 14 years
here. And so we are -- the markets that we're in, the technology that we have, our operational --
how we're executing operationally, and we're at a point now where I would like to turn up the
heat on some tuck-in M&A to support these strong market positions. So that's part of the
portfolio piece. And then on the divestiture side, I just talked through that. And it's an ongoing
process. On that note, just seeing some of the chatter back and forth here on the diabetes deal. I
do want to clarify the mechanics of it a bit and how this transaction would work, because it is
unique and has unique benefits for Medtronic. So, Thierry, could you just hit on that before we --
A - `Thierry Pieton, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. Yes. Thanks, Geoff. So look, the preferred path that we've laid out really has two steps. The
first step is, we do an IPO of up to 20% of the shares of the new diabetes company. And what
that does is it enables us to raise capital to make sure that the new diabetes company is fully
capitalized. Those proceeds will also cover the costs that are relative to executing the deal
overall. And it will -- in our projections, it will enable potentially to have some of the proceeds go
to Medtronic to potentially apply our capital allocation typical policy.
So it provides an opportunity to do a buyback in the first phase. Then there's a second phase,
which would -- should occur, I guess, roughly six months after the first phase. And that -- in that
second phase, we do a split. And what that means is, we -- post the lockup period, we give an
opportunity for Medtronic shareholders, some of which will have entered the stock to participate
to the fit, we give them the option either to keep the Medtronic stock or to swap for stock in the
shares in the new diabetes company. So the result of that is that it will reduce the share count of
Medtronic on a permanent basis. So this is the accretive effect that it will have on EPS. So it's not a
one-off buyback. I want to be clear, it's a permanent retirement of the shares corresponding to
something probably around 80% of the shares of the new diabetes company.
So all this should be a tax-free transaction for U.S. Federal income taxes. And the goal is to get
everything done within the next 18 months, which means that we will fully consolidate the
diabetes business through 2026 and see the impacts of the deconsolidation and the EPS
accretion primarily in 2027.A - `Geoff Martha, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Right. And that one-time EPS bump, we're not looking at that. We see it for what it is. It's a one-
time bump and we're going to apply our algorithm on top of that and grow that EPS year-over-
year, like we talked about as part of our algorithm. And then additionally, the other benefit, it
does reduce -- with the retired shares, does reduce the cash burden on the dividend liability. So
that's another benefit of it. So it's a unique structure. It's a unique deal. It's a unique structure. And
that's why I say it's a win-win.
So with that, look, sorry for the little technical challenge at the beginning of a call. Thanks for your
patience on that. Thanks for going the extra half hour plus and all the great questions and
engagement. I'm sure there'll be a lot of conversation throughout the day. There's a lot of news,
a lot of good news, I think. We're like I said, I'm as excited about the setup as I've ever been and
we're at the early stages of it.
So thanks for all the questions and to all those who joined today, we appreciate your support and
the continued interest in Medtronic. And we hope that you'll join our Q1 earnings broadcast, which
we anticipate holding on Tuesday, August 19, where we'll continue to update you on all the
progress here. So with that, thanks for spending time with us today and have a great rest of your
day.