Q4 2017 Earnings Call

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Q4 2017 Earnings Call. At
this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer
session instructions will be given at that time. [Operation Instructions] And as a reminder, this
conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host, Mr. Dave Ricks. Please go ahead, sir.
`David A. Ricks, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Good morning. Thank you for joining us for Eli Lilly and Company's fourth quarter 2017 earnings
call. I'm Dave Ricks, Lilly's Chairman and CEO.Joining me on today's call are Josh Smiley, our CFO; Dr. Jan Lundberg, President of Lilly Research
Labs; Enrique Conterno, President of Lilly Diabetes and Lilly USA; Dr. Sue Mahony, President of Lilly
Oncology; `Christi Shaw, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Bio-Medicines, President of Lilly Bio-Medicines; and Jeff Simmons, President of Our
Elanco Animal Health business. We're also joined by Kristina Wright, Chris Ogden, Kevin Hearne,
and Phil Johnson of the IR team.
During this call, we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements based on our
current expectations. Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of factors,
including those listed on slide three and those outlined in our latest forms 10-K and 10-Q filed
with the SEC. The information we provide about our products and pipeline is for the benefit of
the investment community only. It is not intended to be promotional and it is not sufficient for
prescribing decisions.
We closed 2017 with another strong quarter, delivering 7% revenue growth, 20% operating
income growth and important pipeline progress. Worldwide revenue growth was once again
driven by our new pharmaceutical products. In addition, we continue to expand our margins.
Excluding the effect of FX on international inventory sold, gross margin as a percent of revenue
increased by roughly 130 basis points, and total expense as a percent of revenue declined by
over 340 basis points to 52.8%.
We made progress advancing our pipeline. The FDA approved and we launched Taltz for active
psoriatic arthritis in the U.S. The European Commission approved Taltz for active psoriatic arthritis
in the EU. And the FDA accepted our submissions for galcanezumab for migraine prevention as
well as the resubmission of baricitinib for rheumatoid arthritis.
On the clinical front, we initiated a Phase 3 clinical program for baricitinib in atopic dermatitis. We
announced that Cyramza did not show an overall survival benefit in first-line gastric cancer and we
initiated clinical work on the Connected Diabetes Ecosystem. Including in trials, we evaluate our
automated insulin delivery system as well as development and clinical work on our connected
insulin pen technology.
In terms of capital deployment, we announced an 8% increase in the dividend, reflecting our
confidence in the continued growth prospects of the company, and we repurchased $100 million
of stock. We closed 2017 with strong momentum and we are well positioned to achieve our
strategic deliverables in 2018 and beyond.
Slide 5 contains more details on these events as well as other key events since our October
earnings call. I would also note that our analysis of strategic alternatives for Elanco is proceeding
well. We are on track to communicate our decision on our Q2 earnings call in July. This quarter,
we've included a few additional backup slides on Elanco where you'll see that recent product
launches delivered $40 million of revenue in Q4 and $144 million for the year.
We are proud that in January, a leading industry publication announced that Galliprant, a first-in-
class anti-inflammatory treatment for canine osteoarthritis pain, was named 2017's Best
Companion Animal Product, and Clynav, a DNA vaccine for Atlantic salmon, took the top honors
as the Best Food Animal Product.
New product launch momentum continued as Elanco's R&D organization achieved important
milestones in January, with Galliprant receiving EU marketing authorization, and Credelio, which
protects dogs against fleas and ticks, receiving approval in the United States as well as Canada.
We continue to execute on our Elanco business model changes in Q4, including exploring options
for the rbST business, exiting select U.S. distribution agreements and taking steps to reduce ourFinally, the biggest news affecting Lilly since our last call is U.S. tax reform. We're pleased that
Congress and the administration enacted tax reform that places U.S.-based companies on a
more level playing field with our foreign-based competitors. This reform will allow U.S. companies,
like Lilly, to be more competitive in the global race for innovation.
For U.S.-headquartered multinational companies, this reform does come with an entry cost
through the one-time repatriation toll tax. But it's a net positive as it will enable us access our
global cash and will lower our 2018 effective tax rates.
Now I'll turn the call over to Josh to discuss the impact and implications of U.S. tax reform, review
our Q4 and full year results, and provide an update on our financial guidance for 2018.
`Joshua L. Smiley, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President `
Thanks, Dave. On slide 6, we outlined the financial impact to Lilly. And as stated in our press
release, we recognized an estimated charge of $1.9 billion in the fourth quarter related to U.S. tax
reform. This charge is comprised of the toll tax assessed on overseas cash and earnings, which
totaled approximately $3.6 billion, partially offset by the changes in deferred taxes resulting from
the transition to a U.S. territorial tax system, including the remeasurement of deferred taxes from
35% to 21%.
The other financial impact to Lilly is the effect of our ongoing tax rate. Based on our initial
assessment, we expect U.S. tax reform to lower our 2018 effective tax rate by roughly 350 basis
points from our prior guidance of approximately 21.5% to about 18%. The effective tax rate for
2018 reflects to the benefits of the lower U.S. corporate income tax rate, partially offset by other
provisions of the new tax law. Our revised 2018 tax rate guidance is subject to change as we
further interpret the new law and as subsequent regulations and guidance are issued.
In total, across both our U.S. and international operations, we estimate that we have now utilized
more than $9 billion of cash and investments that won't be required for day-to-day operation.
Essentially, all of this amount is held in US dollars and we do not anticipate any issues in obtaining
rapid access to these funds. We do not intend to hold this $9 billion in cash and investments for
the long-term. Over the course of 2018 and into 2019, we'll deploy this cash thoughtfully across
our capital allocation priorities.
First, we'll fund our existing marketed products and pipeline including capital investments in line
with our current strategy. Next, we'll invest in business development to bolster our future growth
prospects, and then we'll return cash to shareholders via increases to the dividend and share
buybacks. While tax reform does provide ready access to additional funds, it does not alter our
business development priorities.
We'll continue to look for opportunities to augment our pipeline and to bolster our commercial
presence in core therapeutic areas of diabetes, oncology, immunology, neurodegeneration and
pain. This could come via in-licensing or acquisition. As we stated previously, much of our efforts
will be focused on clinical stage assets pre proof-of-concept.
Since the new tax legislation in the U.S. reduces our reliance on debt to fund U.S. cash needs, we
will adjust our cash and debt levels going forward. In the near term, we'll use roughly $2 billion of
our repatriated cash to reduce our gross debt level.
Finally, we expect to conduct some level of share repurchases under our existing authorization
which still has $2 billion remaining. Hopefully, this gives you a better understanding of the impact
of tax reform and how we intend to use our global cash.Now let's move to our financial results. Slide 7 summarizes our presentation of GAAP results and
non-GAAP measures, while slide 8 provides a summary of our GAAP results. I'll focus my
comments on our non-GAAP adjusted measures to provide the insights into the underlying trends
in our business, so please refer to today's press release for a detailed description of the year-on-
year changes in our fourth quarter GAAP results.
Looking at the non-GAAP measures on slide 9, you'll see the revenue increase of 7% that Dave
mentioned earlier. Gross margin as a percent of revenue decreased to 76.5%. This decrease was
primarily driven by the effect of foreign exchange rates on international inventory sold and
product mix, partially offset by manufacturing efficiencies and higher realized prices.
Excluding the effect of FX on international inventory sold, gross margin as a percent of revenue
increased roughly 130 basis points. Total operating expense remained essentially flat with
marketing, selling and administrative expense decreasing 1% and R&D expense increasing 2%. As
a percent of revenue, total OpEx declined by over 340 basis points compared to Q4 2016.
Other income and expense was income of $55 million this quarter compared to income of $16
million in last year's quarter due primarily to higher net gain on sales of investments. Our tax rate
was 20.2%, an increase of 230 basis points compared with the same quarter last year, driven
primarily by a lower net discrete tax benefit this quarter compared to Q4 2016.
At the bottom-line, net income increased 19% and earnings per share increased 20%. We
achieved this significant earnings growth by delivering high single-digit revenue growth while
significantly reducing our OpEx ratio, creating positive leverage again this quarter.
Slide 10 details the same non-GAAP measures for the full year, while slide 11 provides a
reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS. You'll find additional details on these
adjustments on slides 25 and 26.
Moving to slide 12, let's take a look at the effect of price, rate and volume on revenue growth.
The effect of foreign exchange was minimal this quarter. Excluding a slight tailwind from FX, our
worldwide revenue growth on a performance basis was 6%, and was primarily driven by volume
growth of 4%. It's worth noting that in our human pharma business, each major geography drove
volume growth again this quarter.
By geography, you'll notice that U.S. pharma revenue increased 9%, driven by both price and
volume. Trulicity, Basaglar and Taltz were the main drivers of this growth, offset partially by the
recent losses of exclusivity for Strattera, Effient and Axiron, and a decline in volume for Cialis.
U.S. price growth in the fourth quarter was favorably impacted by an adjustment for rebates and
discounts, primarily related to lower Medicaid utilization across the portfolio. For U.S. pharma, it's
also worth noting that when normalizing for the recent LOEs of Strattera, Effient and Axiron,
revenue grew by approximately 20% driven by our new products.
Moving to Europe, pharma revenue grew 9% excluding FX, driven entirely by volume, despite the
loss of exclusivity for Cialis and headwinds on Alimta due to competitive pressures, pricing and
generic erosion in certain countries. Excluding Cialis and Alimta, the rest of our European pharma
revenue grew 22% on a performance basis driven by our new product launch portfolio: Trulicity,
Olumiant, Taltz, Jardiance and Lartruvo.
In Japan, despite the entry of generic Zyprexa last June, pharma revenue increased 9%,
excluding FX, led by Cymbalta, Trulicity and Cyramza. Our pharma revenue in the rest of the
world increased 5% on a performance basis this quarter, led by Trulicity, Humalog and Forteo.Turning to animal health, excluding the impact of FX, worldwide revenue decreased 7% driven by
volume. Food animal revenue declined by 10% driven primarily by market access headwinds for
Posilac and competitive pressures for Optaflexx, while companion animal revenue was essentially
flat.
On a performance basis, excluding the BI U.S. vaccines acquisition, our animal health revenue
decreased 11% with companion animal revenue down 16%, driven primarily by a reduction in U.S.
distributor inventory levels as well as competitive pressures in parasiticides. Slide 13 outlines the
same information for our full year results.
Now let's take a look at the drivers of our worldwide volume growth on slide 14. In total, our new
products comprised of Trulicity, Taltz, Basaglar, Lartruvo, Jardiance, Cyramza, Olumiant, Verzenio
and Portrazza were the engine of our worldwide volume growth. You can see that these products
drove 12.1 percentage points of volume growth. The loss of exclusivity of Cymbalta, Strattera,
Effient, Axiron, Zyprexa and EVISTA provided a drag of 540 basis points, while Cialis and animal
health accounted for 170 basis points and 120 basis points of volume decline, respectively.
Slide 15 provides a view of our new product uptake. In total, these brands generated over $1.4
billion in revenue this quarter and represented nearly 23% of our total worldwide revenue, up
from 12% in Q4 2016.
Moving on to slide 16. As mentioned earlier, changes in foreign exchange rates had a minimal
effect on our Q4 2017 revenue growth. Similarly, FX had no meaningful impact on our operating
expense growth. FX did, however, have a large effect on cost of sales growth and consequently
on operating income and EPS growth. For example, growth in non-GAAP EPS was 20% including
the effect of FX, while it was 32% in constant currency terms. This is largely consistent with the
29% growth for the full year 2017.
Turning to our 2018 financial guidance on slide 17. You will see that we've updated our guidance to
reflect the estimated impact of U.S. tax reform. This affects our estimated GAAP and non-GAAP
tax rates and earnings per share while all other line items remain unchanged. Our revised GAAP
and non-GAAP 2018 tax rates are both approximately 18%, while our revised GAAP EPS range is
$4.39 to $4.49, and our revised non-GAAP EPS range is $4.81 to $4.91.
I would note the estimated impact of U.S. tax reform on our tax rate and earnings per share
guidance is subject to change as we further interpret the new tax law and as subsequent
regulations and guidance are issued. Also in recent weeks, we have seen the dollar weaken
substantially. If sustained, this weakness would increase the dollar value of our foreign revenue
expenses, but due to the effect of FX on international inventories sold would likely have only a
modest impact on EPS. I will monitor FX movements over the course of Q1 and, if appropriate,
update our line item guidance on our April call.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Dave to review the pipeline and key future events.
`David A. Ricks, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Josh. Slide 18 shows select NMEs as of January 24. Movements since our last earnings call
include the initiation of Phase 2 testing for our D1 potentiator for dementia and our N3pG
monoclonal antibody for Alzheimer's disease, both as monotherapy as well as in combination
with an oral BACE inhibitor. Phase 1 starts for an IDO1 inhibitor for cancer and IL-33 for
immunology, and for the automated insulin system I mentioned earlier as well as the termination
of one Phase 1 oncology molecule.Our select NILEX pipeline shown on slide 19 reflects the initiation of the Phase 3 program for
baricitinib in atopic dermatitis, and also attrition for ramucirumab for first line gastric cancer, and
abemaciclib for squamous non-small cell lung cancer.
Turning to slide 20, you can see the considerable progress we made on the key events we have
projected for 2017, while slide 21 highlights our expected key events for 2018, which we covered
on our 2018 guidance call in December. In addition to noting the approval of Taltz for psoriatic
arthritis, you will see that we've added an event for the expected date of disclosure of the
KEYNOTE-189 study, based on Merck's recent press release announcing the positive results of
the Phase 3 study for Alimta in combination with KEYTRUDA.
2018 will be an important year with potential Phase 3 initiations and data read-outs for several
promising new molecules and line extensions, as well as we expect regulatory actions for
galcanezumab, baricitinib and abemaciclib.
Before we go to the Q& A session, let me briefly sum up the progress we made in 2017 and our
priorities moving forward. In 2017, new products delivered nearly 20% of our total revenue, up
from just 9% in 2016. Our growing portfolio of new medicines drove strong 8% top line growth
for the full year. We achieved these results while maintaining relatively flat operating expenses,
driving operating margin improvement of more than 450 basis points, excluding FX.
We are in the early stages of a growth period driven by revenue from our recently launched
products. The potential of our pipeline remains strong with new medicines in development for
immunology, oncology, diabetes and neurodegeneration, complemented by a deep, late-stage
pain portfolio, as well as additional indications for many recently launched products.
Moving into 2018, we remain focused on launching with excellence and replenishing our pipeline
while continuing to deliver bottom line growth and operating margin improvement.
This concludes our prepared remarks. Now I'll turn the call over to Phil Johnson to moderate the
Q&A session.
`Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great, thank you, Dave. We would like to take questions from as many callers as possible, so we
do ask that you limit your questions to two or to a single question with two parts. Kingson, if you
could please provide the instructions for the Q&A session. And we are ready to get started.
Q&A
Operator
Certainly. One moment for the first question. We will go to `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC with Cowen. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Hello. Thank you so much. Two questions. Do you anticipate an FDA adcom for baricitinib by, say,
midyear? And can you give us reassurance that there is not any safety issue beyond DVT that will
be a subject of discussion? So that's the first question?
Second one, is, over the last, say, two to three decades, Lilly always had one to two big potential
products in the pipeline that investors could focus on. This would appear less a dimension of Lilly
today. You probably disagree, so please tell us what $1 billion -plus opportunities you have in themid-stage pipeline, so not including lanabecestat, galcanezumab, tanezumab or lasmiditan.
Thanks so much.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great, Steve, thank you for the question. So Christi if you'll take the question on whether or not
we'd expect an FDA adcom for baricitinib and if there's any additional safety issues beyond DVT
that we think might be addressed should such an adcom be held. And then maybe Dave and Jan
could like to comment on mid-stage pipeline assets that you are excited about. Christi?
A - `Christi Shaw, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Bio-Medicines `
Sure. Hi, Steve. As we said before, we do expect the FDA to have an advisory committee, but the
timing of that is up to the FDA and they'll make that publicly known. We won't be commenting on
a date before they do. And in terms of other safety, we really don't anticipate other major safety
questions and issues in regard to the adcom and the resubmission.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great, thank you, Christi. Dave, Jan?
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Jan, you want to start.
A - `Jan M. Lundberg, Executive Vice President, Science and Technology, and President, Lilly `
Okay. I can start. Let us start and look at the two new Phase 2 programs that we see. Clearly, we
are dependent on more clinical data, but we already have some clinical data from Phase 1b in
bolstered Z1 potentiator for dementia, which is an interesting molecule that could enhance
cognition but potentially also somnolence, and in Parkinson's disease, also motor function.
The N3pG program, is as you probably remember, a plaque-removing antibody. And we have
optimized the dosing regimen since it has some immunogenicity and we are putting that now into
larger Phase 2 trials. And we are combining it also with an oral BACE inhibitor which we know that
will shut off the production of amyloid-beta.
In fact, now, in Alzheimer's, we are trying to get positive data, if at all, doable in Phase 2 in
hundreds of patients, not in thousands of patients in Phase 3, and we are addressing early
disease. We really want to have a more homogeneous patient population, which has been one of
the problems. And we are using our imaging tools both for amyloid and Taltz to make that
happen. And we are also trying then to hit the target in a maximal way, so by not only removing
amyloid but stopping the production.
The other agent I want to emphasize is a potential agent with more powerful body weight-
lowering effects than the current GLP-1, and that is the GIP, GLP-1 co-agonist. And we have seen
some interesting data in Phase 1 in healthy volunteers and now we want to see them in a larger
Phase 2 study, how much can these actually reduce body weight and at the same time have a
powerful blood glucose-lowering effect.
I also believe that our IL-23 molecule, mirikizumab, has a variety of options for immunological
indications, including then IBD, ulcerative colitis where we have potential to be first-in-class. But
it's also an interesting option for psoriasis and potentially other indications.A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Okay. Do you have anything to add or...?
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
I don't. It's exactly what I would have said.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Excellent. Thank you. Kingson, if we can go to the next caller please?
Operator
Certainly. We'll go to the line of Andrew Baum with Citi. Please go ahead.
Q - `Andrew S. Baum, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Thank you. A couple of questions, first, for, I guess, Enrique and Sue. Since your ascension to
CEO, Dave, we've been expecting a external move on oncology given Levi is joining the
company. There has been more deals but nothing substantive.
Were we wrong in to assume that there was intent to commit capital and balance sheet to
accelerating your rebuild in oncology, particularly in IO? Or if you could just share with us what are
the barriers, be it valuation or other which may have delayed such activity? That's the first
question.
The second question for Enrique. We have expressed a fair degree of excitement on the
commercial potential of the SGLT2 plus, including Jardiance. Perhaps you could give us your
perception of where the class could go and what are the barriers to overcome and what catalyst
we should be attuned to pending cardiovascular clinical trial data, diminishing safety concerns and
other in order to get us there. Thank you.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great. Andrew, thank you for the questions, Dave, if you'd like to comment on the external
business development strategy for oncology franchise, and then Enrique the question on the
potential going forward for the SGLT2 class. Dave?
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Sure, well, I guess, at a top level, Andrew, I would say your assumptions about our ambition to
use balance sheet capacity as well as income statement capacity to grow our oncology business
aren't wrong. We very much plan to do that. We are adding talent, as you noted, and we are
looking at many, many opportunities there.
Of course, we are bounded by pricing and value, which is something we're committed to make
sure we're not doing deals just to build strategic holes in the pipeline but that make sense for our
investors over the long-term. And I think we also want to think carefully about our strategy in
oncology in what can complement existing assets and add to what we're doing versus just de
novo efforts to enter a space.
So given the price points in oncology, we are careful about our work, but I think it would be
reasonable to expect a busy year in business development for oncology for Lilly. Whether thosetranslate into deals that's a competitive process we'll work through that, but I don't think
directionally your assumptions are wrong.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Thanks, Dave. Enrique?
A - `Enrique A. Conterno, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Diabetes and Lilly USA `
Sure. So I continue to be quite bullish on Jardiance and I think the frame should be much more
Jardiance than the SGLT2 class. When we look at the SGLT2 class, we do see a number of
headwinds, in particular, because of the updated label for INVOKANA. That has been a headwind
for the class, but we need to look at Jardiance's growth and overall progression when we look at
its use as a much better predictor for that to be a catalyst for the overall SGLT2 class.
Clearly, we are focused today on Type 2 diabetes but we do have trials for heart failure and
chronic kidney disease. When it comes to Type 2 diabetes, some of the challenges that we had
have been some of those headwinds that I just referred to for what was the leader of the class.
We do like the fact that there's going to be increased promotion by having some additional
competitors enter the class. I think that actually is going to be helpful to Jardiance.
And finally, just being able to make cardio protection a much higher priority for all physicians
beyond A1C when they're thinking about patients with Type 2 diabetes. So we are encouraged by
the progress that we continue to see, but much more progress is needed.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great. Thank you, Enrique. Kingson, if we can go to the next caller, please.
Operator
Certainly. And next, we'll go to the line of `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Leerink Partners LLC with Leerink. Please go ahead.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Leerink Partners LLC `
Thanks for the question. So, just a couple quick ones. First off, can you guys – I guess I'm a little
confused by the capital allocation discussion. So I guess I'll ask this one in two parts. You guys are
reducing your debt to the tune of $2 billion, and yet it would seem like – maybe you can just
explain the capital allocation decision there and the need to reduce the debt given your net cash
position. So it's a little bit confusing in that regard if you're moving forward with other potential
deal considerations. So I'm just trying to get a sense of the discipline there.
And the second part of that same question is, has the board already reviewed the capital
allocation dynamics and decision points, or is that coming on a go-forward basis in the wake of
tax reform. So you can move on debt immediately, but other capital allocation decisions and
priorities are under review. Thanks.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great. Seamus, thank you for the questions on capital allocation, Josh, this is right up your alley.
A - `Joshua L. Smiley, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President `Okay. Thanks, Seamus. First as it relates to our overall position, we're in a very slight net cash
position right now. But as I mentioned in the comments, we're going to work that down over time.
So we expect over time to be in a net debt position for sure.
I think as it relates specifically to the $2 billion, we have about $13.5 billion of debt. And to work
that down by $2 billion is really to get at our target of 2.5 times EBITDA for our leverage ratio.
Now, the reason we do that, Seamus, is really just to give us the capacity to make investments
when we see shareholder value opportunities, accretion opportunities ahead of us. So, of course,
last year we raised – without the new tax reform legislation, we raised debt in the U.S. and actually
increased it. So now what we'll do here is to try to get back to our 2.5 times leverage ratio. And
again, that's not a long-term target. That's just where we like to start.
And then to your question about the board, I mean, we've been very clear, I think, for the last few
years about our capital allocation priorities and as I mentioned, we have $9 billion of cash we now
have free access to that we didn't in the past. And we'll work through that cash on a pretty
methodical basis, and you should expect to see, again, investments in the business. You should
expect to see business development, as Dave mentioned, and you will see dividend increases
and share buybacks over time.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great. Thanks, Josh. Kingson, next caller, please.
Operator
Certainly. And we'll go to the line of John Boris with SunTrust. Go ahead, please.
Q - `John T. Boris, Analyst, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc. `
Thanks for taking the questions. First question on diabetes, sequentially it seems as though there
was a higher degree of discounting and rebating going on, so some noise there. Can you maybe
just give us some insights into that?
And then a question for you, Dave, I think Lilly has a self-insurance model with some pretty high
drug utilization. How do you anticipate – at least, from your expense of having a self-insurance
model, how do you anticipate the administration is going to go about lowering drug pricing?
Certainly, it seems as though there's a lot of value trap within the system in discounts and
rebates, but how would you go about unleashing some of that and getting it back into the hands
of employer groups and more importantly, into patients? Thanks.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great. John, thank you for the question. So Enrique, if you'll comment on insights into what's
going on with diabetes rebating here in the U.S. And then, Dave, obviously, to talk about some of
the drug pricing dynamics and how that might be addressed going forward. Enrique?
A - `Enrique A. Conterno, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Diabetes and Lilly USA `
Yes, so we continue to see pressure on pricing across all of our diabetes products. When we look
at our Q4 result, I think there was pressure from a rebating perspective on the instrument
portfolio, so both Humalog and Basaglar in particular. But we are being extremely disciplined and
we like our overall prospects and the access that we basically have with all of our top brands. We
believe that Trulicity, for example, is extremely well positioned for 2018 and so is Jardiance.A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great. Thank you, Enrique. Dave?
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, John. Well, I think you're right to point out what's the connection between Lilly's
actions as a provider of health care benefits to employees as well as our policy positions. We try
to make them as similar as we can. Of course, we do self-insure, we own a financial risk for our
beneficiaries in our programs.
And I think there's two things that we do that, I think, stand out from the market. One is we have
no bias in our health insurance programs for our employees toward medications, whereas in the
general marketplace, on average, patients pay four times out-of-pocket for medications and
other health services. So we think that bias should go away. You can actually make a good
argument that medications should have bias for them because of the efficiency of prescription
drugs versus other parts of the health care system, but we've eliminated that.
The other thing which is new for us is rebate pass-through. We've executed for our employee
population a pass-through rebate program. We are calling for that through pharma and directly
from the government because CMS has a unique role as a market maker here, and particular in
the Part D program. So we would like to see rebate pass-through for Part D beneficiaries.
As you know, the rebate levels probably across all pharma are something like 30% to 40%. That
could have an immediate and very positive impact on seniors who are struggling to cover their
doughnut-hole exposed prescriptions and we think this is a good idea that the administration
should act on immediately.
I would expect a busy year regulatory wise in Washington as they look to introduce market
mechanisms and lower cost of the pharmacy counter for patients. And we're for both of those
things, so we will partner closely with the administration to try to make positive progress in the
pro innovation way that actually affects patients' pocket books.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Thanks, Dave. Kingson, we can go to the next caller.
Operator
Certainly. And we'll go to the line of `Tim Anderson, Managing Director, Global Pharmaceuticals Equity Research, Sanford C. with Bernstein. Please go ahead.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Managing Director, Global Pharmaceuticals Equity Research, Sanford C. `
Thank you. A couple of questions. An occasional barricade with Trulicity has been your REWIND
cardiovascular outcomes trial, and then it's higher risk because it studies the healthier population
so the bar it is showing a benefit could, in principle, be higher. Can we play out the scenario
whereby this trial does indeed fail to show a benefit in 2018? In your view, would that have a
materially negative impact on the commercial future of Trulicity, either in U.S. or Europe? And if
not, why not?
And then second question is on oral GLP-1. Your program and your initiatives are much earlier than
Novo's, with nearing the conclusion of multiple Phase 3 trials. I'm wondering why there is such a
disparity in timelines. Does Novo have a unique technology that Lilly's had difficulty replicating? Or
what's the reason exactly?A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great, Tim, thank you for the questions. So, for you, Enrique on potential impacts if REWIND will
be negative, and then our efforts on the oral GLP-1 and the timing of those.
A - `Enrique A. Conterno, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Diabetes and Lilly USA `
So clearly, there are a number of cardiovascular trials that are reading out this year. REWIND, but
also we have trials for linagliptin in CAROLINA and CARMELINA that are reading out. Lilly has quite
a bit of experience when it comes to designing cardiovascular trials in the diabetes space. So we
feel good about how we designed the trial. And we are – continue to be optimistic about our
result.
I really don't want to speculate about what a negative trial would be. That's clearly not where our
case is. Clearly, as we think about future diabetes therapies, having a cardiovascular outcome
benefit is going to be increasingly important.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
And on the oral GLP-1?
A - `Enrique A. Conterno, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Diabetes and Lilly USA `
And so we are highly interested in this space and working on pursuing oral GLP-1. And as we think
about progressing to the clinical phase, I think the hurdle that we basically have is one of getting
the right bioavailability for our product in order to make sure that we can make this commercially
successful on a worldwide basis.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great. Do you want to add anything, Jan, or?
A - `Jan M. Lundberg, Executive Vice President, Science and Technology, and President, Lilly `
Yeah, if we look at high level, the oral absorption of peptides is hindered by a lot of natural
mechanism. And we assume that the Novo product only has 1% or 2% bioavailability, which means
that you lose most of the substance. And the dilemma also remains here about the need for
having fasting and not eating for some time after you take this drug because then you have food
interaction. So it is really a suboptimal oral agent. And I think it would be so much better to have a
more traditional small molecule for this receptor.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Thank you, Jan. Kingson, if we can go to the next caller, please?
Operator
Certainly. We'll go to the line of `Jami Rubin, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC with Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.
Q - `Jami Rubin, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Hi. Just staying along the lines of Trulicity and potential changes to that market. Obviously,
Ozempic will be launched very shortly if it hasn't already. What sort of changes do you expect to
Trulicity's market share as a result of Ozempic, plus the fact that Victoza now has a CV claim asAnd then you touched upon your oral GLP-1 but, obviously, we know we're going to see a lot of
oral semaglutide trials readout in 2018. And while there are concerns about the food effects and
nausea, if the oral sema data are successful and essentially replicate Phase 2, what impact, if any,
do you see oral sema having on your overall diabetes franchise including GLP-1s? Thanks very
much.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Thanks for the questions, Jami. So back to you Enrique on Trulicity impact that you might expect
from Ozempic and the Victoza CV label update. And then thoughts on the potential impact to our
franchises if oral semaglutide is successful on Phase 3?
A - `Enrique A. Conterno, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Diabetes and Lilly USA `
So we seem to be very pleased with the performance of Trulicity. Trulicity had significant
sequential quarter-on-quarter growth. Our market share for the last week is now over 40% for
the first time, so we've seen continued gains in overall share despite the fact that the, yes,
Victoza has an indication for a benefit when it comes to CV events.
One of the big premises that we think about is really how underutilized the GLP-1 class is today.
When we look at, in the U.S., for example, GLP-1s are about 30% of the basal insulin utilization. So
we think there is huge room for expansion and we believe that Trulicity is going to benefit from
that.
We are extremely well-prepared for semaglutide's launch. I feel good about the experience that
we're providing patients. We believe that experience will be unmatched. So we do think that we
will be able to compete very effectively. We don't provide any type of share forecast for any of
our products.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
And in terms of the oral semaglutide, how that might affect the dynamics within the various
franchises that we have?
A - `Enrique A. Conterno, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Diabetes and Lilly USA `
Yeah. So, first, I think it's extremely important, I think, you made some reference to this, is that we
look at the Phase 3 trials and whether it's going to be some of these trade-offs between efficacy,
the side effects profile. And the other thing you also have to realize is this product going to
perform given that it may require some strict adherence when it comes to fasting and water
intake and so forth. So we need to see more data.
Novo has explicitly expressed this desire to price this product comparable to injectables GLP-1,
but it's going to position the products very early in the treatment, continue to compete with
some of the other orals. So, we need to see how that is going to work and given that today,
SGLT2s and we look at the value proposition of Jardiance, for example, which is going to be
difficult for that product to match. So at the end of the day how will payers view a much different
price point for an oral GLP-1. So there's a lot of speculation. We need to see more data before we
can provide a more educated sense of how successful the product could be and the impact on
the rest of the diabetes market.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great. Thanks, Enrique. Kingson, next caller please.Operator
Certainly, we'll go to the line of `Chris Schott, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC with JPMorgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Chris Schott, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Great. Just two questions on Taltz, if I could. One, can you just elaborate a little bit more on the
opportunity for Taltz in psoriatic arthritis? I think one of your competitors has highlighted this as
maybe equal magnitude of opportunity to the original psoriasis kind of label. Just interested in
how you're thinking about that market as we look at the launch in 2018.
And the second question on Taltz is about the pricing dynamics in 2018. I think we had a couple of
data points about this being a more competitive pricing environment than we've seen in the past.
I'm just interested in your thoughts on how pricing is going to shake out for this market as we
think about this year and longer-term. Thanks very much.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Thank you, Chris. So, Christi, if you can you talk about the opportunity that we see in psoriatic
arthritis and the sort of pricing dynamics as we head into this year?
A - `Christi Shaw, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Bio-Medicines `
Absolutely. So we're very excited about the launch of Taltz in psoriatic arthritis. It's already
approved in Japan, approved in the U.S. in December, and January in Europe. And the marker for
psoriatic arthritis opportunity would be to look at COSENTYX. Only less than 40% of the scripts
for COSENTYX are actually in the dermatology office. So we believe this is a really large
opportunity in addition to the ankylosing spondylitis. And we expect that our uptake will be very
similar to COSENTYX in TSA as we were in psoriasis.
So that market, we think, will be very large. And we think we're competitive. We're the only IL-17
that has in our label structure data as well as patients who have not responded well to TNFs. And
so being very competitive, the rheumatologists like the data and they also like the PASI 100 score.
So, we do think that that will be a great market for us. And remember, we're not going to the
same customer. We're going to a entirely new office in the rheumatology.
And then in terms of pricing with Taltz this year versus last year and how that relates to access,
our access this year will be very similar to last year. From a competitive dynamics, this is the
marketplace where, unlike other areas, we actually have a lot of patients that continually turn over.
And so as you see with the uptake of Taltz at launch and continuing, we don't believe that that will
be an issue for us to get access to patients.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Thanks, Christi. Kingson, if we can go to the next caller.
Operator
Certainly, we'll go to the line of David Risinger with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `David R. Risinger, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Thanks so much. So I have three questions. The first is I'm hoping that you can frame the animal
health revenue growth prospects in coming quarters. Obviously, the business was down in thefourth quarter. You expect it to flatten out and then return to growth. But if you could help us with
our modeling in the next quarter or two, that would be helpful. And also as part of the
commentary, if you could just remind us what the top two to three new product revenue drivers
are in animal health. The second question is, could you comment on the timing of Phase 2
Alzheimer's readout with cognitive efficacy data? And then third, do you expect the tax rate to
decline beyond 2018 as you optimize your tax structuring? Thank you.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great. David, thank you for the question. So Jeff, we'll go to you for animal health growth
prospects in the coming quarters and some of the key new product drivers. Josh, I'm actually
going to go to you then next, if you don't mind, for our tax rate beyond 2018. An then Jan, if
you'd like to comment on timing for some of the Phase 2 readouts in the Alzheimer's space. Jeff?
A - `Jeffrey N. Simmons, Senior Vice President and President, Elanco Animal Health `
Yeah. A few things, David, is the – kind of at a higher-level on animal health, I would say that our
Q4 results were consistent with our expectations we set in guidance in December. We specifically
said then that we expect 2018 revenues to be flat to slightly increasing versus 2017.
Another note I would make is fourth quarter revenue decreased 7% excluding FX, but – and this
was driven by volume. But, importantly, we're starting to see a return to price growth in the
market. And we increased 1% in the fourth quarter.
So, when you look to growth and look to modeling, I would say this, again, 2017, clean food and
competition. We underestimated the impact of that. That's what's impacted and driven our
results and some competitive pressures in the companion animal market.
So for 2018 specifically, we forecast revenue growth to be flat to slightly up. We expect 2018 to
be the year of kind of a transition as we continue to evolve our product mix against headwinds.
We see slightly negative growth in the first half of 2018 primarily from the continuing impact of
clean food. However, the second half of the year, we expect our eight launches, and I'll touch on
those here, will drive top line growth. So within the portfolio, we expect low to mid-single-digit
growth in companion animals, offset by a low to single-digit decline in food animals.
As Dave noted, I think, we will see Galliprant continue to grow. We're seeing close to 30%
quarter-on-quarter growth in the canine pain market. We're up to 12% market share. We see that
being a key growth driver. I would combine that with last year's launch of Interceptor Plus and the
share that we've taken from HEARTGARD would be another big driver from our business.
And then we continue to see our companion animal parasiticide broader portfolio, Credelio, our
first tick flea launch, that is going on this quarter in all three major markets, Japan, Europe and the
U.S. So Credelio would be the third. And then on the food animal side, we continue to see our
vaccine portfolio that we acquired from Lohmann and Salmonella with vaccines being a key
growth driver as well. So hopefully that gives you a little guidance on our food and companion
animal business, first half, second half of the year. And again, I would emphasize flat to slightly
growing in 2018.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great. Thanks, Jeff. Josh?
A - `Joshua L. Smiley, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President `On tax rate, first, for 2018, as we mentioned, we are estimating about 18%, which is about a 350-
basis point improvement from the prior outlook. Like every other company that's reported or will,
I think first we have been caveat that by saying that's based on our interpretation and read today
of the law, it's very complex. We're still waiting for future guidance and regulations from the IRS.
But based on that assessment, we think 18% is sustainable and we will certainly look through
planning to take advantage of the incentives that are built into the law to bring that down over
time.
So we'll look – a lot of work still to go there, but certainly assume a sustainable 18% and then
opportunities to bring that down over time.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Okay, great. Thank you, Josh. Jan?
A - `Jan M. Lundberg, Executive Vice President, Science and Technology, and President, Lilly `
Yeah. In relation to dementia studies, then the symptomatic one is in Parkinson's dementia and
that has a readout mid-2019. The N3pG program will take somewhat longer, since there is 18
months treatments there, so in about two years.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great. Thank you, Jan. Kingson, we can go to the next caller, please.
Operator
Certainly. We'll go to the line of `Gregg Gilbert, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
Q - `Gregg Gilbert, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Thank you. First, in diabetes, lots of focus on GLP-1, obviously, but Enrique, was curious what you
thought the impact might be, if any, when Merck enters with some combo products or at least a
combo of DPP-4 SGLT2? And kind of what have you learned in the marketplace about the
market's willingness to use that kind of combo? And what are you expecting from Merck given
that they haven't launched something into the space in a while and how that might affect you?
And secondly, Dave, lots of guesswork around what you would buy, what you will buy, what you
could buy, when it would happen. But hard for you to answer that. But what could you say about
how the pace and focus of BD – how that has changed since you took over? Are there specific
things you can point to like changes in the team, changes in priority, changes in the team focus, et
cetera, sort of predicting what you're going to do next? Thanks.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Thank you, Gregg. So Enrique, if you can comment on the potential impact of another DPP-4
SGLT2 combo coming in. And then Dave, any changes in our approach to BD since you have
taken over as CEO. Enrique?
A - `Enrique A. Conterno, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Diabetes and Lilly USA `
Very good. So as I mentioned, we view additional competitors coming into the SGLT2 class,
paradoxically, as a positive because we believe it's going to be an important catalyst for growth
and it's going to help the class but also given Jardiance's strong position, we would likely be theSo your question was specific to the combo of ertugliflozin with the DPP-4. I can't comment on
Merck's strategy, but the – when we look at current practices from physicians prescribing diabetes
products, they prefer not to prescribe fixed dose combinations. We do have that experience with
Glyxambi, so we view that as a long-term proposition for Merck.
Now, we don't know exactly what their strategy is but clearly, for that product, first of all to be
successful, they're going to have to establish the benefit of ertugliflozin. So we are, of course –
prepare the – we have a number of competitors entering the diabetes space but I feel very good
in terms of where each one of our brands stands today in terms of the benefit that it provides.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Thank you, Enrique. Dave?
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks Gregg for the question. And of course we can't comment on things that haven't
happened yet. We do have ambition to step up our game in BD. And as such, we've undertaken a
series of things to investigate why have we done a bit less through time; where has that occurred
in the pipeline space. I think I've been pretty clear through the last year about our ambition in the
Phase 1, Phase 2, so pre proof-of-concept earlier clinical assets is the main target. And that's not
just because we decided that. It's because that's where Lilly is relatively underrepresented and
there's a lot more to go after at price points, which we think are attractive.
We have done some specific things in the company. One public thing which people know about is
the realignments of the business development function nested within our Lilly Research Labs, our
R&D organization. I think that's an important change if not psychologically, as we shift our attitude
toward this becoming a core part of innovation in our company along with strengthening our own
labs. We have also increased resources both human and allocating balance sheet and income
statement capacity or yet to be done deals, so that that's not a friction as we look at bringing
things in.
And the final thing I would say is we have core metrics now we're looking at in terms of number
of prospects we are evaluating, so that we have enough substrate to then execute the right
deals across. What hasn't changed is the discipline we're going to undertake to make sure these
are not just "strategic" without the financial support, but they check all the boxes. The enhance
our therapeutic strategies, they can produce, have a good shot of producing strong value for
shareholders through time, and they fit what we know to do so we can execute once we do bring
them in.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great. Thank you, Dave. Kingson, next caller please?
Operator
Certainly. We'll go to the line of `Umer Raffat, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC with Evercore. Please go ahead.
Q - `Umer Raffat, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC `
Hi guys. Thanks so much for taking my question. First, if I may, can you please give us some color
into any DVT death seen with baricitinib perhaps on visibility to how many and the consequence
and what happened?Secondly, I know you mentioned in passing, but would love to get your thoughts on real-world
usage of the carefully calibrated pre and post-dose fasting periods seen with oral sema and the
specific water volumes, like how does that play out in real-world setting based on all the diabetes
experience you guys have and the concomitant meds?
And then finally, on NGF, my question is from a commercial setting, how do you seek to manage
concomitant NSAID usage to mitigate the Type 2 RPO risk when concomitant NSAID is taken?
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
All right, Umer. Great. Thank you very much for the questions; let me summarize. So I'm going to
start out with Enrique actually with that second question on how we see some of the oral sema
dosing potential issues playing out in the real world.
And then Christi, the other two would be for you. Any information we can share on things we've
related to DVT deaths with baricitinib in our clinical trial program. And then how we intend to
manage concomitant NSAID use as we would go to market in the future with tanezumab.
Enrique?
A - `Enrique A. Conterno, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Diabetes and Lilly USA `
That is a question probably better for Novo than for us. But as a frame, anything that introduces
complexity in the lives of people with diabetes has a number of headwinds, so we look to
basically develop products so that can be appear simply that offer a number of benefits. And that
is a mantra about how we think about development of products.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great. Thank you, Enrique. Christi?
A - `Christi Shaw, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Bio-Medicines `
Sure. So, of note, there were two reported deaths for patients with events of pulmonary
embolism in the clinical trial program. One death occurred in the baricitinib group after 523 days
after the first dose. And 1 death occurred in the methotrexate group after 224 days of
methotrexate treatment.
Of note, as we have resubmitted and disclosed more data on our resubmission to the FDA, one
of the things that we look at is the largest pool that we have of patients exposed to baricitinib. So
all of our clinical trials and also the extension study, we found that in the 2 milligrams, the
incidence of DVT and PE were 0.5%, and in the 4 milligrams it was 0.5% as well. And remember,
that's a background rate in RA of 0.3% to 0.8%, so well within the background rate of RA. So
that's part of our resubmission package, as well as the Phase 2 clinical trials in atopic derma, we
don't see any as well.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
And then in terms of utilization of concomitant NSAIDs with tanezumab, and how that's being
managed in the clinical trials and how we might envision that playing out upon commercialization.
A - `Christi Shaw, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Bio-Medicines `
So we did exclude concomitant use of NSAID in our trials, chronic use. And we'll see what the
label looks like once the data comes out and once the FDA approves it, and then what the labellooks like. And then we'll be able to, in the future, be able to tell you how we'll commercialize it.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great. Thank you, Christi. Kingson, if we can go to the next caller?
Operator
Certainly. We'll go to the line of `Marc Goodman, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC with UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Marc Goodman, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Yes. Good morning. Just a couple of product questions. Trajenta looked very strange in the fourth
quarter here in the U.S. I was wondering if you could just give us a flavor of what happened there.
And then second, on Trulicity, obviously, ramping up nicely in the U.S. I'm just curious if there was
anything strange with respect to pricing or inventory in the quarter. Was that just that completely
clean quarter relative to the previous four quarters, so just we can understand the ramp? And
then you mentioned a little bit on Basaglar before but maybe you could also just talk to the past
couple of quarters so we can really get a better understanding what the underlying pricing is of
this product, including all the rebates. Thank you.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great. Mark, thank you for the questions. Enrique, all for you. If you'd like to comment on some of
the U. S. dynamics we're seeing for Trajenta, Trulicity and Basaglar.
A - `Enrique A. Conterno, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Diabetes and Lilly USA `
Very good. So let me start with Trajenta. We did have a unfavorable impact due to our changes in
estimates for rebates and discounts for the quarter, in the case of Trajenta, roughly $10 million as
it relates to Lilly revenue. You may recall that in Q3 of 2017, so last quarter, we actually had a
favorable adjustment. So sequentially, it does look like an anomaly.
You asked about Basaglar. We do see very strong sequential growth for Basaglar, 24%, TRX
quarter-on-quarter. We do have high rebates. Part of this is basically a channel accrual when it
comes to – given the expected increased utilization in Part D starting January 1. And by the way,
we've seen excellent uptake. When we look at Basaglar today, at the first few weeks, we are now
basically capturing about 25% of the new patients in the basal insulin class. So, excited about the
growth prospects.
And then when we look at Trulicity, there were some buying, roughly about $25 million when it
comes to inventories. Outside of that, we do see a lot of movement when it comes to gross to
net and so forth. But what I will say when we look at our diabetes products is to look at them
really more over time and trying to get a complete picture by looking at rolling quarters. But we
are, once again, excited about the sequential growth that Trulicity is having.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great. Thank you, Enrique. Kingson, next caller.
Operator
Certainly. We'll go to the line of `Geoff Meacham, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. with Barclays. Please go ahead.Q - `Geoff Meacham, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Morning. Thanks for the question, guys. Dave, I know you're still on the Elanco strategic review,
but how does the tax policy or the new product launches change your view of its internal value?
Or is it still about its margin contribution?
And then a couple of product questions. One, for Forteo, good 4Q trends for a late cycle
product, just help us with an insight for 4Q and then going forward. And then on abemaciclib, how
does the recent pricing action we saw with Ibrance in Europe impact either your opportunity or
your investment there? Thank you.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great. Geoff, thank you for the question. So Dave, we'll start with you on question of some of the
impacts of tax policy and some other factors on our Elanco decision making process. Sue, if I can
then go to you to talk about some of the recent announcements that were made on pricing or
competitor product in the CDK 4/6 space in Europe. And then Christi on the Forteo question here
in the U.S. Dave?
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks for your question. On Elanco, more or less, since we announced the strategic
review in October, the basic assumptions and the way we're conducting the analysis haven't
really changed. Of course, tax makes everything a little bit more valuable and that's been
contemporized in our thinking.
Elanco, I think, there's a two-part story. One is innovation on the top line and I think we've
commented on that this quarter. I think there has been great progress and both the introduction
of new products as well as approvals recently. That's a piece of this that we are factoring going
forward is a growing company in animal health.
And then the margin expansion is a significant opportunity for animal health and one that the
team is very focused on, so all those things are true. I think the analysis, of course, then must ask
what's the most valuable path forward for Lilly shareholders to hold, to spend, to partner in some
other way and that's still ongoing. But more or less, the direction of those assumptions is the
same as when we started this, and that's good news as we continue to work through that project.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great. Thanks, Dave. Sue?
A - `Susan Mahony, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Oncology `
Yeah I can't comment on Pfizer's announcement. What I can say is we are ready for our launch in
Europe. We submitted last year in Europe and in Japan. And we are hopefully expecting approval
in both those geographies later this year. We are prepared for launch and we are prepared for
appropriate access and reimbursement for patients where there is a considerable unmet need in
Europe.
Just an update on the U.S., the uptake so far has been very promising. We feel really good about
the performance to-date, and that is based on the MONARCH 1 and MONARCH 2 population.
That's about 30% of the patients available, and we are anticipating approval in the first half of this
year based on the MONARCH 3, so that's the first line indication. Again, the performance looksgood so far. And we feel very confident in the U.S. performance as well as the opportunity in
Europe and Japan.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great. Thank you, Sue. Christi?
A - `Christi Shaw, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Bio-Medicines `
So Our U.S. sales in Forteo in Q4 grew 32% versus the Q3 of 13%. So thank you for the question
because there were some unique dynamics in Q4. One was we benefited from the net price
adjustments, rebates and discounts related to Medicaid, whereas in most quarters, the rebates
and discounts lower the realized benefit from those price increases. And the second thing was
that in terms of the volume acceleration, we had a wholesaler buy-ins that led to an increase in
the volume for Q4.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Thank you, Christi. Kingson, if we can go to the next caller please?
Operator
The next question comes from the line of Jason Gerberry with Bank of America. Please go ahead.
Q - `Jason M. Gerberry, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hi good morning and thanks for taking my questions. Just two for me. Firstly, on Alimta, your
thoughts or expectations if you were to lose the patent suit with the alternative salt form, the
505(b)(2) generic, just curious your thoughts on sort of what type of market share you think a low
cost alternative salt form could capture in the oncology setting? I don't know if you have any
analogs but with the trial starting tomorrow, I'm just curious of your thoughts there?
And then my second question on the diabetes front. Obviously, conversion of sulfonylurea to
higher cost brands have been kind of a value driver in this space more broadly. And just trying to
get a little bit of a sense for the CAROLINA study. If that study were positive, do you mainly see
that as something that drives more conversion to DPP-4? Or do you see that as a broader
catalyst depending upon the cardiovascular profile for SUs to other proprietary classes like SGLT2
or GLP-1? Thanks.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great. Thank you for the questions. So sue, if you can provide some thoughts on the potential
impact if we were to lose the alternate salt form case that's starting soon. And then, Enrique,
your thoughts on if CAROLINA is positive, how that might affect both DPP-4 potentially and SGLT2
utilization. Sue?
A - `Susan Mahony, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Oncology `
Yeah. With regard to the Alimta patent term, as you said, we got the alternative salt form hearing
yet this week in the District Court of Indiana. And we feel really confident with regards to our case
here and we believe that we can continue to defend this patent and feel very confident in our
opportunity to do that.
Clearly, in a case that didn't happen, we would look at revised guidance. But at this point in time,later this year, we think we have a great opportunity to really continue to consolidate Alimta as a
standard of care in first-line setting and to be the preferred chemo in combination with IO.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Thank you, Sue. Enrique?
A - `Enrique A. Conterno, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Diabetes and Lilly USA `
So SUs still represent about 20% of the overall oral diabetes market. As a class, as a share of the
market, that is declining, and has been declining over time, clearly, a positive CAROLINA trial will
significantly accelerate that. My view is that most classes will basically benefit. It will not be limited
to DPP-4s and Trajenta in particular, but we will also see acceleration of both the SGLT2s, in
particular Jardiance and the GLP-1 class.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great. Thank you, Enrique. Kingson, now we will go to next caller.
Operator
Certainly. We'll go to the line of Vamil Divan with Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.
Q - `Vamil K. Divan, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Hi, guys. Thank you so much for taking my question. I had a question about these new co-pay
accumulator programs that we're hearing more about. Some plans where the co-pay support
manufacturers provide does not count towards an individual's deductible? Just wondering if you
could comment on what you're seeing around this issue. And is there anything you think Lilly or
other pharma companies can do to offset the pressure, especially wondering about specialty
drugs like Taltz with that question.
And second one on your CGRP, I'm just curious if you can share a little more in terms of the
commercial presentation of that product in terms of the needle gauge, the device, some of the
ways that you're trying to differentiate the product from some of your competitors in terms of
how it's delivered. Thanks.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great, Vamil. Thank you very much for the question. So, Dave, if you can comment on the
question on co-pay accumulator and then, Christi, whatever you can share, you might not be able
to fully respond, but what we can share on some of the commercial presentation for CGRP
galcanezumab. Dave?
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Well, co-pay accumulators, the idea that co-payers get credited differently than in the past is
– it's actually not really a new idea. A lot of people are talking about it this year. There are in the
back-and-forth between manufacturers and insurers ways to rebalance that.
I think the overall concerning thing is the continued shift across our consumers basically by
implementing this program without rebate pass-through, which I think it would be an important
compensating measure. It just increases the exposure that patients have to their high deductible
plans and that's a bad idea in our mind.So policy-wise, we are not for it. There are tactical ways through it and you can rest assure we are
implementing those on products like Taltz and others. There will be, I think, a toing and froing
around these points through time. And we'll compete as we do.
I think the bigger issue for the country is how do we make chronic medications patients be – more
affordable for them and, again, we go back to the rebate pass-through issue. That increasing
spread is a big issue for patients paying list price with a deductible plan.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great. Thank you, Dave. Christi?
A - `Christi Shaw, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Bio-Medicines `
Yeah. So we have a strong history, obviously, in the autoinjector and that will be our plan from a
commercialization standpoint with galcanezumab.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Okay. Great. Thank you. Kingson, next caller please.
Operator
Certainly. We'll go to the line of `Tony Butler, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC with Guggenheim Partners. Please go ahead.
Q - `Tony Butler, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC `
Yes. Thanks very much. I wanted to stick with the CGRP if I may and simply ask, would you expect
utilization to be principally for those who would be chronic users a la of injection once per month
or do you think that in fact there would be a good many episodic users? That's question one.
Number two is also to the extent that baricitinib has been in Europe, principally Germany, I'm just
curious if you have information on both the 2 and 4-milligram use. In other words, can you provide
some ratio like 60%/40% or some other permutation as to the percentage of use by dose?
Thanks very much.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Thanks, Tony. So, Christi, if you'll comment on both these questions, the CGRP, where we expect
the use to be principally, if that's going to be in chronic but are also in episodic. And then I'm not
sure if you have rabbit to pull out of the hat on the 2 and 4-milligram use in Germany or not. I
don't think we have that information in the IR group, so.
A - `Christi Shaw, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Bio-Medicines `
Okay. So we expect most of the users to be in the preventive obviously. There's about four
million to five million patients in the U.S. alone that are on preventive medicines. But we also
estimate that about 15 million patients could be eligible, because they have fallen off their
preventive medicine for one reason or the other, efficacy or safety.
So we do expect most of that use to be in chronic. The great thing about the Lilly platform is
we're also studying lasmiditan for acute use. And the third thing is galcanezumab also has a study
in cluster headaches. So as you look at chronic episodic cluster, we expect to use across those
two agents in all three areas.A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Thank you, Christi. And, Tony, we'll follow-up on your question in utilization in Germany that we're
seeing between the 2 and the 4-milligram dose.
A - `Christi Shaw, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Bio-Medicines `
We can tell you that the majority is at 4 milligrams.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
We can. Great. Okay.
A - `Christi Shaw, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Bio-Medicines `
I just can't give you the split.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Okay. Kingson, we'll go to the next caller, please.
Operator
Certainly. We'll go to the line of Jeff Holford with Jefferies. Please go ahead.
Q - `Jeffrey Holford, Analyst, Jefferies LLC `
Hi. Thanks very much for taking my questions. There seems to be a lot of focus going about on
Elanco, just I think some concerns that the trend there is maybe unsupportive of that business
standing on its own at some point this year. So wonder if you can just give a bit of your thoughts
on the longer term outlook. When does this business get more to industry growth rates on the
top line kind of 5% plus that we're used to seeing globally for animal health? And maybe what
kind of basis point opportunity you see on the margin in the mid-term as the mix evolves and it
gets more efficient?
And then just second quick question on Taltz, what kind of impact are you seeing in the market
really from TREMFYA? And also on some of the COSENTYX price adjustments, I think Novartis
were commenting they're still being reasonably aggressive on price of that product through 2018.
Thank you.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Thanks for the questions, Jeff. So our Jeff, could you comment please on the Elanco trends that
you see going forward and outlook for longer term growth, as well as margin expansion? Dave,
feel free to complement if you like. And then, Christi, if you'd like to comment on the impact from
TREMFYA and some of the pricing dynamics in the IL-17 class. Jeff?
A - `Jeffrey N. Simmons, Senior Vice President and President, Elanco Animal Health `
Yeah. As we've noted, Jeff, good question. We've had really three priorities to our strategy as we
go forward and we are definitely keeping this in context as we go forward. The assessment is
one, accelerating innovation; two is changing our mix to higher growth and margin segments; and
three, this margin expansion plan, those being the three. I think as Dave noted, we feel very
good about our pipeline and launching products that we're in the midst of right now. That will beI've noted, it will be flat to slightly growing in 2018 and we continue to see that increasing going
forward.
I think the margin expansion story is a significant one. There's really a couple parts to that. One is
just cost initiatives and we've pulled most of the key levers that we see here in the near and
medium term as well as our footprint. So we have announced two things this year, continuing to
look at rightsizing our footprint after the integration, so with the Larchwood consolidation as well
as Augusta and I think the bST assessment will help. We hit $1 billion in companion animals in 2017
for the first time. And I think just the example of the contrast of bST to the companion animals is a
demonstration of this mix change.
So we have said very clearly on margins that we do see, as we said in December 15 at the
investor conference, returning to 30% operating margins, albeit, it will be taking a little bit longer
given some of these forces like clean food. But we do see a path to that margin expansion, so
increasing as we go forward in the short and medium term.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great. Thanks, Jeff. Christi?
A - `Christi Shaw, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Bio-Medicines `
Yeah. So, TREMFYA has had a similar launch uptake as what we've seen with other biologics in the
psoriasis space. And as we've said before, we believe that the newer agents and what we're
seeing in the marketplace, is the newer agents are really increasing expectations of physicians, of
patients to ensure, to really switch patients more quickly from older agents to the newer ones. In
fact, the last two years, the market growth has been 15%, unlike the years before where we're
single digits. So we think that's a good thing.
And then on the COSENTYX price adjustment, we continue to look very closely at that. What
we've seen and what we saw at launch is in spite of that having great access because patients
actually cycle off routinely, go from one agent to another, we haven't had to utilize that piece. But
we'll continue to keep an eye on it and ensure that we continue to get access for patients who
want PASI 100 clear skin scores.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great. Thank you, Christi. Kingson, next caller, please?
Operator
Certainly. We'll go to the line of `Alex Arfaei, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) with BMO Capital. Please go ahead.
Q - `Alex Arfaei, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) `
Okay. Good morning, folks. Thank you very much for taking the questions. Three, if I may. First,
could you comment on the specific milestone achieved for your N3pG antibody in Alzheimer's?
Was there a specific efficacy or safety hurdle that was met?
Second, on Basaglar, would you expect – when do you expect additional insulin – basal insulin
biosimilars? And when should we expect interchangeability data for Basaglar? Is that something
that you're pursuing?And then third, to follow up on your comments on rebate pass-through authorizations, which
makes a lot of sense, we're hearing similar comments from other pharma leaders. Since you
seem to be involved in the policy discussions, what are your expectations of this actually
happening, whether it's in the Part D or the commercial setting? Thank you very much.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Alex, thank you for the questions. So Jan, if you'd like to comment on the specific milestone that
was achieved for us to be now showing the N3pG in that Phase 2 column. Enrique, on the
additional competition, when that might come in from our understanding for Basaglar, and if were
pursuing interchangeability and producing data for that. And then Dave, on the likelihood of some
of those rebate pass-throughs are being enacted in either the government or commercial
spaces. Jan?
A - `Jan M. Lundberg, Executive Vice President, Science and Technology, and President, Lilly `
Well, without being too specific on numbers here, then I can say that the N3pG studies then met
our criteria for reducing the amyloid imaging signal in Alzheimer's patients. And secondly, we
have a dose regimen that seems safe in spite of having some immunogenicity.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Thank you, Jan. Enrique?
A - `Enrique A. Conterno, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Diabetes and Lilly USA `
So some of the additional entrants into the basal space are held up right now due to litigation. I
think that is a question really for them and for Sanofi. As it relates to interchangeability, we think
this will eventually happen. The right studies will need to be conducted, but I view these as years
away. There's nothing imminent.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great, thank you. Dave?
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, rebate pass-through is good. Everyone is talking about it because it should happen. In fact, it
is already happening in commercial plans. I know that because we are executing it in our plans
and I know other large employers are as well. It's not happening in Part D. We've got the proposal
on the table. CMS put out the proposed regs for comment in the fall. And I think a number of
centers and others have weighed in on that. There is a push and pull there between should we
allow a modest increase in premiums in Part D to support the funding of rebate pass-through.
Now we're for that because, of course, not passing through the rebate subjects the very ill to the
cost burden versus spreading that over a much larger base. We think that's what insurance is for,
and therefore, we advocate for it. It's difficult to speculate on the probability that happening. But I
could tell you there's a strong unanimity amongst large manufacturers. It is a serious proposal
being looked at in both The Hill and HHS.
And to me, it is one of the simplest levers to pull to actually change the cost of the pharmacy
counter for drugs in America. And I think the U.S. should do it. That doesn't mean it will happen
though, so we'll have to stay close on that one and we'll keep you updated.A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Great. Thank you, Dave. Kingson, next caller, please?
Operator
Certainly. And our final question comes from the line of `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC with Cowen. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Thank you. Jeff, you mentioned a few times mix change in 2018. Can you be more specific? And
do you see any risks or opportunities in the food animal business related to either NAFTA or TPP?
And secondly, baricitinib completed a Phase 2 SLE study in December. Can you provide any
thoughts on what you saw? Thank you.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Steve, thank you for the question. So Jeff, you can comment on the mix change for 2018 and
opportunity with some of the trade agreements could have potentially in our food animal
business. And Christi, for the baricitinib question.
A - `Jeffrey N. Simmons, Senior Vice President and President, Elanco Animal Health `
Yeah. Thanks, Steve. Just to note, I would say that we continue to be very intentional on starting
back in our pipeline is to really focus on these higher growth areas. And we've been very open.
All of companion animals we see we can compete in the three major segments there in vaccines,
antibiotic alternatives and nutritional health. These were the areas that we're intentionally leaning
in on from our pipeline all the way through.
And then when I look at accelerating our mix, I guess, I would note, I mean, what really drove
primarily the decline in our food animal business in the U.S. this year was bST. We did see the
clean food movement hit us in an accelerated rate but we've got bST now representing less than
5% of our portfolio. So it gives you an idea of that change. And that's all I would speak to
specifically, but we are looking at antibiotic alternatives, vaccines, nutritional health and the food
side and we see some nice growth going forward there.
No, I don't see anything on the trade side, trade is critical. We all know that. We built in our
assumptions. There's no trade agreements or changes that we see impacting any of our portfolio
going forward.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `
Thank you, Jeff. Christi?
A - `Christi Shaw, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Bio-Medicines `
Yes, so we are very pleased with the Phase 2 data at lupus. We'll be disclosing that data at a
major medical meeting this year. And we're evaluating options to actually start a Phase 3 by the
end of 2018.
A - `Philip Johnson, Treasurer & Senior Vice President-Finance `Great. Thank you very much. Well. That does exhaust the queue and a few minutes early before
the bottom of the hour here. Dave, would you like to go ahead and close the call?
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Thanks, Phil. And thanks to all of you. We appreciate your participation in today's earnings
call and your interest in Eli Lilly and Company. In 2017, we generated strong revenue growth,
driven by our new human pharmaceutical products. We significantly improved margins leading to
even faster income growth. As we move into 2018, we expect to see continued growth of our
new pharmaceutical products and significant additional margin expansion. We believe Lilly – the
Lilly stock remains a compelling investment given the strength of our product portfolio, our top
and bottom line growth prospects over the balance of the decade.
Today, I'd also like to thank Chris Ogden, this will be his last earnings call in his current capacity,
and really thank him for his considerable contributions over the last few years to the IR efforts.
Please follow-up with our IR team if you have any questions we didn't address on today's call.
That concludes the call. Have a great day.
Operator
Thank you. And ladies and gentlemen, this conference will be available for replay after 11:30
today through January 31, 2019. You may access the AT&T teleconference replay system at any
time by dialing – I apologize, 1800-475-6701 and entering the access code 442374. International
participants, dial 320-365-3844. Those numbers again are 1800-475-6701 and 320-365-3844,
with access code 442374.
That does conclude our conference for today. Thank you for your participation and for using AT&T
Executive Teleconference Services. You may now disconnect.