Q4 2019 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Lilly Q4 2019 Earnings Call.
At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we'll be [ph] conducting a question-
and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, today's call is being recorded.
Now I'd like to turn the conference over to your host `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
`Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Good morning. Thank you for joining us for Eli Lilly and Company's Q4 2019 Earnings Call. I'm
`Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations, Vice President of Investor Relations. Joining me on today's call are Dave Ricks, Lilly's
Chairman and CEO; Josh Smiley, Chief Financial Officer; Dr. Dan Skovronsky, Chief Scientific
Officer; Anne White, President of Lilly Oncology; `Patrik Jonsson, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Bio-Medicines, President of Lilly Bio-Medicines;
and `Mike Mason, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Diabetes, President of Lilly Diabetes. We are also joined by Kim Macko and Mike Czapar of
the Investor Relations team.
During this conference call, we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements
based on our current expectations. Our actual results could differ materially due to a number of
factors, including those listed on Slide 3 and those outlined in our latest Forms 10-K, 10-Q and any
8-Ks filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information we provide about our
products and pipeline is for the benefit of the investment community. It is not intended to be
promotional and is not sufficient for prescribing decisions.As we transition to our prepared remarks, a reminder that our commentary will focus on non-
GAAP financial measures, which exclude the financial contribution from Elanco during 2018 and
2019, and present earnings per share as though the full disposition via the exchange offer was
complete on January 1st, 2018.
Now, I'll turn the call over to Dave for a summary of our Q4 results.
`David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Kevin. 2019 was a solid year for Lilly, and our strong Q4 financial results highlight the
strength of the underlying business. We exited 2019 with momentum and we'll continue to focus
on executing our strategy in 2020, which is to deliver excellent business results develop and
launch new medicines for patients and drive increased productivity.
Revenue growth accelerated in Q4, increasing 8% versus Q4 2018, or 9% in constant currency.
This strong performance was driven entirely by volume, which contributed 10 percentage points
of growth, despite continued headwinds from the loss of exclusivity in the US of Cialis and the
global withdrawal of Lartruvo. Excluding Cialis and Lartruvo, worldwide volume growth was an
impressive 15%.
Newer medicines continue to be our growth engine, representing 46% of our revenue this
quarter. We made good progress in Q4 on our productivity agenda, as operating income grew
10% versus last year. We posted strong revenue growth and held marketing, selling and
administrative expenses flat versus last year, while increasing our investment in R&D. Our non-
GAAP operating margin was 26.3%, an improvement of 40 basis points versus Q4 2018.
We finished 2019 with a full-year operating margin slightly below our guidance of approximately
28%. As we made targeted strategic investments in Q4 across both our commercial portfolio and
pipeline, which will enhance our opportunities for future growth. These investments provide good
momentum heading into 2020, and keep us on track to achieve our 31% operating margin target
this year.
We've announced multiple pipeline milestones, since our Q3 earnings call. These include positive
results in the remaining two Phase 3 trials of the baricitinib BREEZE-AD program in atopic
dermatitis. The submission of selpercatinib in the US and Europe and the FDA granting
selpercatinib, a prior to review. The submission of tanezumab for OA Pain in the US in
collaboration with Pfizer. The submission of higher doses of Trulicity in the US and Europe. And
the submission of baricitinib for atopic dermatitis in Europe and Japan.
During Q4, we put our strong operating cash flow to work, returning approximately $900 million
to shareholders via share repurchase and dividend, in addition, as previously announced, we
increased our dividend 15% for 2020. This marks the second consecutive year of a 15% dividend
increase, reflecting our confidence in the outlook for the business. Finally, we recently announced
the pending acquisition of Dermira, the company focused on developing new therapies for
chronic skin conditions. Dermira is an exciting -- and has an exciting asset in Phase 3 for atopic
dermatitis, lebrikizumab, in addition to a currently marketed product for excessive underarm
sweating QBREXZA. This transaction enhances our Phase 3 pipeline and complements our
existing efforts in atopic dermatitis with baricitinib. We look forward to closing that transaction
here in Q1.
Moving to Slide 5, you'll see the list of key events, since our last earnings call. In our continued
efforts to help make medicines more affordable and reduce out-of-pocket costs for patients, we
recently announced plans to introduce two additional lower priced insolence. Humalog 75/25KwikPen and Humalog Junior KwikPen, both products will be available by mid-April, and will be
offered at a 50% lower list price compared to the branded versions. Once these additional
options are available more than 90% of Lilly's Humalog options will be accessible to help patients
reduce their out-of-pocket costs. And we hope to see payers provide increased access to
patients for these solutions.
During the month of December alone, Insulin Lispro help nearly 79,000 patients in the US. These
recent additions complement existing offerings in the Lilly Diabetes Solution Center, which
includes, which currently helps, as many as 20,000 patients per month better afford their insulin.
As a company that has been in business for over 140 years and invest over $5 billion per year at
long-term research and development, we take our responsibility to pursue sustainable business,
social and environmental practices, very seriously.
Now I'll turn the call over to Josh to review our Q4 results and to provide an update on our 2020
financial results.
`Joshua L. Smiley, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Dave. Slide 6 summarizes our presentation of GAAP results to non-GAAP measures. And
Slide 7 provides a summary of our GAAP results.
So looking at the non-GAAP measures on Slide 8, you will see revenue increased 8% or 9% in
constant currency. Gross margin as a percent of revenue declined 70 basis points to 79.9%.
Excluding the impact of FX on international inventory sold, gross margin as a percent of revenue
was 79.6%. And on the same basis, our gross margin percent decreased by approximately 50
basis points compared to Q4 2018, driven by unfavorable product mix in the negative impact of
price on revenue.
Moving down the P&L, operating expenses grew 6% versus last year's quarter. Marketing, selling
and administrative expenses were flat as cost containment and productivity measures offset
investments in key growth products. R&D expenses increased 14% reflecting higher development
expenses for late-stage assets, including tirzepatide, selpercatinib and mirikizumab. Operating
income increased 10% compared to Q4, 2018, as sales growth outpaced expense growth,
resulting in operating income as the percent of revenue of 26.3% for the quarter and 27.2% for
the full year. This quarter's results are indicative of the potential for growth and margin expansion
our portfolio of new medicines offers. We are well positioned to drive top-tier revenue growth
and invest in the next wave of new medicines, while driving margin expansion at the same time.
We exit 2019 with significant momentum executing our strategy and are on track to achieve our
2020 full-year operating margin target of 31%. Other income and expense was income of $206
million this quarter compared to income of $31 million in Q4 2018, driven by investment gains on
public equities. As we highlighted previously, this line item can be volatile and public market
valuations fluctuate. Gains in Q4 were primarily generated by our investments in China biotech
companies through our Lilly Asia Ventures arm and strategic investments in companies focused in
newer technologies like RNAi.
While we appreciate the gains, we are even more pleased with the relationships and the
potential to develop new medicines for patients that accompany some of these investments. Our
tax rate was 12.6%, a decrease of 300 basis points compared with the same quarter last year,
driven primarily by an increase in net discrete tax benefits, including tax benefits from the
resolution of US and foreign audits. At the bottom line, net income increased 26%, while earnings
per share increased 31%, due to a reduction in shares outstanding from share repurchases.Slide 9 outlines the same non-GAAP measures for the full year. While we are excited with our
performance in Q4 and the momentum headed into 2020, we're also pleased with our overall
performance for the full year in 2019. Last year, we experienced the full effect of the Cialis patent
expiration and the impact of the withdrawal of Lartruvo. In spite of these headwinds, we grew the
top line at 5% in constant currency and generated EPS growth of 11%, while investing behind our
newer products and pipeline. We also generated good shareholder value and established a
strong strategic foundation through our split off of Elanco and the acquisition of Loxo Oncology.
As we highlighted in December last year, we are well positioned in 2020 to deliver our five-year
financial goals and continue this period of sustained growth.
Moving to Slide 10, we find a reconciliation between reported and non-GAAP EPS. Additional
details are provided on Slides 26 and 27.
On Slide 11, we quantify the effect of price, rate and volume on revenue growth. As mentioned
earlier, worldwide revenue grew 9% in constant currency during Q4, driven by strong volume
growth in 10%, partially offset by price. Foreign exchange had a modest negative impact on
revenue growth. For the fourth straight year, we delivered worldwide revenue growth each
quarter, despite headwinds from patent expirations.
US revenue grew 7% compared with the fourth quarter of 2018. Volume growth of 8% was led by
Trulicity, Taltz, Verzenio, Jardiance and Emgality. Excluding Cialis and Lartruvo volume grew over
50. Pricing was a 1% drag on US revenue growth this quarter impacted by increased funding
during the coverage gap in Medicare, unfavorable changes and estimates for rebates and
discounts and disproportionate volume growth in lower net price segments, which was partially
offset by the net of modest list price increases in higher rebates as well as reduced reliance on
patient assistance programs, primarily due to improved commercial access for Emgality. The full
year impact of price was a headwind of 3% consistent with our 2019 and 2020 expectations for
US price having a moderate drag on revenue growth.
Moving to Europe. Revenue grew 12% in constant currency, driven by impressive 15% volume
growth, partially offset by the negative effect of foreign exchange and price. Volume growth was
led by Trulicity, Olumiant, Taltz and Verzenio. We're pleased with the uptake of our newer
products across Europe and are looking forward to continued strong growth in 2020. In Japan,
revenue grew 7% in constant currency driven entirely by volume growth, somewhat offset by a
modest pricing headwind due to the government-mandated price decreases that went into
effect in 2019. Verzenio, Cymbalta, Trulicity and Olumiant were the key contributors to growth.
Revenue in the Rest of the World increased 14% in constant currency, led by 44% growth in China
on the same basis. China growth was driven by strong performance across a number of key
products, including Tyvyt, so we're excited about the recent launches of Trulicity, Taltz and
Olumiant. The same information for our full-year revenues at the bottom of this slide.
As shown on Slide 12, our key growth products continue to drive impressive worldwide volume
growth. These new medicines delivered nearly 15 percentage points of growth this quarter
continuing the strong trajectory we've seen throughout 2019. Brands that have experienced loss
of exclusivity provided a drag of over 400 basis points driven primarily by Cialis. As a reminder,
generic tadalafil entered the US market in September 2018, significantly impacting Cialis revenue
with erosion further accelerating in Q2 2019 at multisourced generic tadalafil market. While the
impact of this event is beginning to sunset, it still had a meaningful negative impact on growth in
Q4 2019.Slide 13, highlights the contributions of our key growth products. In total, these brands generated
over $2.8 billion in revenue this quarter, making up 46% of revenue. Our newest medicines again
had impressive results in large and growing therapeutic areas and our ability to reach more
patients continues to demonstrate the strength of our commercial execution. Within diabetes,
the injectable GLP-1 class continues to add new patients, despite the entry of a new oral therapy.
In the US, total injectable prescriptions grew 29% versus Q4 2018 and Trulicity grew faster than
the market, posting an increase of 32% in total prescriptions during the same period. Net pricing
in the US for Trulicity declined in the mid-single digits in line with our expectations for Q4 and for
2020. As we discussed on the Q3 call, Trulicity price in Q1 through Q3 of 2019 was impacted by a
number of factors that we don't expect to persist in 2020.
SGLT2 Inhibitors accelerated their trajectory as total US prescriptions for the class grew nearly
20% versus last year's quarter and new therapy starts grew over 46%. As the market leader,
Jardiance continues to drive strong class growth accounts for over 55% of total prescriptions. Our
sustained market leadership in these two important and growing classes within diabetes is a
competitive advantage for our diabetes business and positions us well for future growth.
In immunology, Taltz continues to have strong growth, as US total prescriptions grew nearly 40%
versus Q4 of 2018. Despite an increasingly competitive market, Taltz gained over 3 share points
in dermatology during 2019 and rheumatology weekly prescriptions have more than doubled
during that same time frame. In 2020, we look to build on the strong momentum demonstrated
in 2019 and reach even more patients. In pain, Emgality continued its US leadership in share of
market for new to brand prescriptions at over 47%. While pleased with the uptake, we believe
there is room for significant additional growth as we expand our commercial presence in primary
care. We continue to see progress with roughly 80% of prescriptions reimbursed at the end of
Q4, reflecting the strong access of Emgality.
Within oncology, Verzenio US total prescriptions grew over 46% versus Q4 2018 and the CDK4/6
market is showing encouraging growth as total prescriptions increased by over 16% during the
same time frame. Additionally Cyramza continues to post solid growth as we realized thoracic
synergies across our portfolio. In addition to the strong performance of our key growth drivers,
we look forward to potentially launching three new medicines in 2020, with REYVOW,
selpercatinib and Ultra Rapid Lispro. We believe all three new medicines have potential to be
first-in-class or best in class and to improve the lives of patients. In addition, launching new
medicines in the therapeutic areas where we have existing commercial infrastructure will support
further margin expansion.
Slide 14, shows the year-over-year change in select lines of our income statement focusing on our
non-GAAP results, foreign exchange rates had a negative impact on revenue, gross margin,
operating income and EPS and a modest net positive impact on operating expenses.
On Slide 15, we provide an update on capital allocation. In 2019, we invested over $13 billion to
drive our future growth through a combination of business development, capital expenditures
and after-tax investment in R&D. In addition, we returned approximately $7 billion to shareholders
via dividends and share repurchases. As Dave mentioned earlier, we also announced a 15%
dividend increase for the second consecutive year showing our confidence in the outlook for the
company. We are focused on utilizing the strong cash flow our business generates to develop the
next wave of new medicines through both internal and external sources, as highlighted by the
recently announced acquisition of Dermira. We remain active in assessing bolt-on acquisitions or
in-licensing where we can create shareholder value and enhance our future growth prospects.Turning to our 2020 financial guidance on Slide 16, you will see that we've updated our non-GAAP
guidance to reflect the impact of the planned acquisition of Dermira and our recent strong
business performance. Specifically, we are increasing our revenue range by $100 million to include
QBREXZA and to reflect strong prescription trends we see in the underlying business. Updating
our SG&A guidance to account for the addition of the Dermira sales force in the commercial
expenses to support QBREXZA and maintaining all other line items and confirming our non-GAAP
earnings per share range of $6.70 to $6.80 and operating margin target of 31%. On a reported
basis, the impact of the Dermira acquisition will have an impact of $0.21 and earnings per share
for 2020 is now expected to be in the range of $6.18 to $6.28. We continue to execute our
innovation-based strategy, while leveraging our young commercial portfolio of new medicines to
drive margin expansion over the mid-term.
So now, I will turn the call over to Dan to highlight our progress in R&D.
`Daniel M. Skovronsky, Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer `
Thanks, Josh. Slide 17 shows select pipeline opportunities as of January 27. Positive movement,
since our last earnings call includes the submission of selpercatinib in the US and Europe as well
as the initiation of Phase 3 trials for selpercatinib in patients with RET fusion-positive non-small cell
lung cancer or RET-mutant medullary thyroid cancer. The submission of tanezumab in the US for
osteoarthritis pain. The submission of higher doses of Trulicity for type 2 diabetes in the US and
Europe. The submission of baricitinib for atopic dermatitis in Europe and Japan. The addition of
lebrikizumab for atopic dermatitis to the Phase 3 portfolio pending the closure of the Dermira
acquisition. The initiation of a Phase 3 study of tirzepatide in obesity and a Phase 2 study of
tirzepatide in NASH. The initiation of Phase 2 for our checkpoint agonist CD200R and immunology
in the initiation of Phase 1 for four assets, as well as the termination of three early stage oncology
assets.
In addition, we had some important early stage readouts, including LOXO-305 or novel BTK
inhibitor, which we highlighted on the 2020 financial guidance call and continues to progress
quickly in development. We also had internal data readouts from two Phase 2 trials of
pegilodecakin in combination with immunotherapy agents in patients with non-small cell lung
cancer, Cyprus 1 and Cyprus 2. Although the full data will be presented at a medical meeting later
this year, I can say that both studies were negative. Though we are disappointed in the lack of
efficacy for pegilodecakin in combination with checkpoint inhibition in lung cancer, we remain
committed to finding new therapies for people with cancer. Although, we are still analyzing the
totality of the data that we have obtained with pegilodecakin, at present we do not anticipate
additional trials with this agent.
Moving to Slide 18. We show a final tally of how we finished 2019 versus the key events we
expected to occur. 2019 was a very productive year and we made significant progress in bringing
new medicines to patients. In total, we added four new Phase 3 clinical programs to our pipeline
all with the potential to be first-in-class or best-in-class. We reported 12 positive Phase 3 or
registrational trial readouts, including a mix of NMEs and new indications or new data for launched
products. We submitted 12 NMEs or new indications for regulatory review in geographies around
the world. And we received positive regulatory action on two new medicines REYVOW and
BAQSIMI as well as four important new indications across Trulicity, Tatlz, Emgality and Cyramza.
We're proud of the significant achievements we made in 2019. And we're focused on discovering
and developing more new medicines to help patients as we enter another promising decade.
Moving to Slide 19, while it's early in the year, we've already made good progress on our 2020
goals having announced the initiation of additional Phase 3 trials for selpercatinib, positive resultsin the remaining two trials of the baricitinib BREEZE program for atopic dermatitis. The submission
of baricitinib for atopic dermatitis in the EU and Japan. The submission of tanezumab for
osteoarthritis pain in the US in collaboration with Pfizer. FDA approval of Trijardy a fixed-dose
combination of empagliflozin, linagliptin and metformin XR and regulatory approval of Cyramza
for first line EGFR positive non-small cell lung cancer in Europe.
Before turning the call back over to Dave, I'd like to spend a few minutes providing additional
details on important milestones for two clinical programs that I mentioned earlier, but is the
initiation of additional clinical trials for tirzepatide and the completion of the baricitinib BREEZE-AD
atopic dermatitis program. Beginning with tirzepatide on Slide 20. We previously shared our plans
to initiate a cardiovascular outcome study for tirzepatide this year, assessing tirzepatide head-to-
head against the most widely used GLP-1 therapy by Trulicity. This is a bold move. It signals both
our confidence and the strength of tirzepatide as well as our desire to deliver meaningful data for
patients and physicians on how new medicines measure against the leading therapies. Through
very collaborative discussions with the FDA we've gained alignment on the key design features of
this unique study called surpass-CVOT. This trial will include approximately 12,500 patients with
type 2 diabetes and confirmed atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and we'll measure time to
first occurrence of the composite endpoint of CV death, myocardial infarction or stroke. The
study will assess both non-inferiority and superiority of tirzepatide versus Trulicity. And we
anticipate it will take just over four years to complete.
In addition to surpass-CVOT, we're pleased to share that the Phase 3 type 2 diabetes program
surpass is progressing extremely well. Investigator interest has been very strong in four of the
eight surpass clinical trials are already fully enrolled. We look forward to sharing top line results for
the first study to readout from the surpass program later this year. Finally, we're excited that the
surmount Phase 3 obesity program is actively dosing patients and that the synergy Phase 2
program in NASH is currently underway as well. Given the profound weight loss seen in Phase 2
trials of tirzepatide, we're excited about the potential opportunity these additional clinical
programs presents to help patients. Together with the ongoing surpass studies these additional
studies will expand the current Phase 3 tirzepatide program to over 20,000 patients. We're
excited about the breakthrough that tirzepatide represents for patients and we'll continue to
invest fully to maximize this opportunity.
Moving to Slide 21. We recently announced the completion of the final two studies of the BREEZE-
AD clinical program; BREEZE-AD4 and BREEZE-AD5. The full BREEZE program was comprised of
five studies assessing baricitinib in both monotherapy and in combination with topical
corticosteroids in patients with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis. While not all the data have
yet been presented, we're particularly encouraged by the strong results for the 2 milligram dose
in the US trial. We believe that the full data package generated from BREEZE-AD shows the
potential that baricitinib could offer as an additional treatment option for patients with atopic
dermatitis, where there are limited choices. In addition, these data add to the large safety
database of baricitinib having over 10,000 patient years of safety data. We recently submitted
baricitinib for atopic dermatitis in the EU in Japan and we expect regulatory action late in 2020.
We plan to submit in the US later this year. We anticipate that baricitinib will be the first oral JAK
inhibitor for the treatment atopic dermatitis and we look forward to bringing in new treatment
option to patients.
Finally, we recently announced the planned acquisition of Dermira. Pending deal closing this
transaction would add an additional medicine to the Lilly pipeline for moderate to severe atopic
dermatitis, that is lebrikizumab, which is an injectable antibody targeting IL-13 currently in Phase 3
trials. We view lebrikizumab is highly complementary to our efforts with baricitinib in atopicuse a range of oral and injectable therapies similar to current common practice for the treatment
of psoriasis.
Now I'll turn the call back over to Dave for some closing remarks.
`David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Dan. Before we go to Q&A, let me briefly sum up the progress we've made in the
fourth quarter of 2019 and the full year. We delivered impressive performance in Q4. Our
revenue grew 8% as our newest medicines were again the catalyst for volume basis growth. Our
worldwide prescription trends are strong and we are well positioned entering 2020 to continue
our positive trajectory and deliver our 2020 financial guidance.
We advanced our productivity agenda controlling operating expenses while investing behind key
commercial growth drivers and our late-stage pipeline. We grew sales in Q4, while keeping
marketing, selling and administrative expenses flat versus Q4 2018, demonstrating our ability to
drive margin expansion. We made important pipeline progress in Q4, capping a year that
featured significant new additions to the Phase 3 portfolio several positive readouts in Phase 3
trials and a multitude of regulatory submissions and approvals. Finally, we returned nearly $600
million to shareholders via the dividend and completed $300 million of share repurchases as well.
As we shared during our 2020 Financial Guidance Call last December, we are in the early stages
of a period of sustained growth at Lilly. The balance of new medicines we plan to launch over the
next five years and the continued scaling of our newer medicines compared to our limited patent
exposure sets up an exciting period ahead. We are pursuing new medicines and some of the
most important diseases with both significant unmet medical need and sizable business
opportunities. We are pleased with our finish to 2019 and our position of strength as we enter
2020 and the next decade of this company's history.
This concludes our prepared remarks, and now I'll turn the call over to Kevin to moderate the
Q&A.
`Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Dave. We'd like to take questions from as many callers as possible, so we ask that you
limit your questions to two per caller. Sean, please provide the instructions for the Q&A session
and then we're ready for the first caller.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Our first question is going to come from the line of Geoff
Meacham from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead.
Q - `Geoff Meacham, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Good morning, guys. Thanks for the question. Just had one on Taltz and one on the Olumiant
filing in AD. So for Taltz, the growth has been solid, but what would you say, it could be a demand
tipping point looking to 2020 and beyond is a new contracting agreements as it a broader
indication base. Do you have to invest more commercially. And then on the Olumiant filing in AD, I
wasn't sure the effect of the 4-mg dose changes the regulatory conversation in the US that
you've had in the RA indication since approval obviously was mostly focused on the 2-mgindication, or the 2-mg approval, but wasn't sure if that changes at all on the back of this new
data. Thank you.
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Geoff. We'll go to Patrik for both of those questions.
A - `Patrik Jonsson, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Bio-Medicines `
Well, thank you very much. We are very pleased with the performance of Taltz in the fourth
quarter last year with the growth of total Rx with approximately 40%. If we look at the different
spaces, first of all, dermatology, despite the increased competition, we think we are holding
ground very nicely, and we are maintaining our total Rx share of market in Q4 despite the
increased competition. Also, added to the body of evidence, the head-to-head data versus
strength via the IL-23 where we again demonstrated superiority on the skin clearance. And that's
the third study combined with Stelara and in Enbrel where we have again demonstrated
superiority. So we are confident in continued growth in the space of dermatology.
The biggest opportunity for us remains being in rheumatology where we, in Q4, announced the
old IL-17 to demonstrate superiority versus HUMIRA in the SPIRIT head-to-head study. And we saw
some significant acceleration in Q4 in terms of new-to-brand, and we are confident that we will
continue to grow in the rheumatology space where there are a lot of opportunities for us. We
also filed during the second half of the last year the non-radiographic axSpA, and that's an
indication where we also see a lot of patients that are not being appropriately diagnosed and
even if diagnosed, not appropriately treated. Lastly, both in dermatology and rheumatology, a
huge amount of patients are still treated with amputee and F alphas. In dermatology, 40%; and in
rheumatology, 70%. And we believe that, that remains the biggest opportunity for all new assets
to ensure that patients are being upgraded to new modern more efficacious and safer
treatments.
In terms of Olumiant, while we don't comment on regulatory actions for specific brands, we
continue to explore options to get the 4-milligram dose get approved in the US However, in the
light of most recent regulatory actions with other JAK inhibitors, we're also realistic in terms of
our expectations to get 4-milligram approved in the US in the near term. But as Dave mentioned,
we are very much encouraged by the 2-milligram data of Olumiant in atopic dermatitis and where
we're demonstrating hitting our primary objective both in terms of at least 75% improvement on
skin inflammation, but also in terms of patient-reported outcomes, improvement on itching. So
that is encouraging for us in terms of the Olumiant submission in the US.
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Patrik. Jeff, thanks for your questions. Next caller, please.
Operator
Thank you. Next question is going to come from the line of `Chris Schott, Analyst, JP Morgan from JP Morgan. Please
go ahead.
Q - `Chris Schott, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Great. Thanks very much. First question was just on the quarterly progression of sales and
earnings as we go through 2020. I think last year we saw a depressed first quarter sales relative
to the rest of the year that surprised the street a bit. Should we expect a similar gating of sales in2020 and are there any particular products we should be watching where I guess 2020 kind of
resets the plans could impact those first quarter results.
My second question was just on the Alzheimer's strategy more broadly. How would the approval
or I guess not of aducanumab impact how you're thinking about your pending Alzheimer's
readouts and development strategies from here. Thanks very much.
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Chris. We'll go to Josh for the first question, and Dan, for the second one.
A - `Joshua L. Smiley, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Chris. If we look at 2020, we don't provide quarterly guidance. But if we look at sort of
the trajectory of sales that we'd expect, if you look at our guidance for the full year, we're in
somewhere in the high single digits for sales growth. We'd expect that, that kind of growth to be
pretty consistent through the year although keep in mind, in Q1, we still will have a little bit more
of the overhang from things like Cialis. So you might expect to see a little bit more sales growth
through the year, but pretty consistent. On an absolute basis, though, Chris, we do always see
sales in Q1 lower than Q4. A lot of that just has to do with shipping patterns and otherwise. So
again, growth should look good in Q1 relative to the year. Absolute sales will be less. I think that's
a trend that you see, I'm sure, across almost all companies. There's nothing unique going on
there other than normal shipping patterns between Q4 and Q1.
A - `Daniel M. Skovronsky, Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer `
Okay. Chris, thanks for your question on Alzheimer's strategy. Of course, we, like many others,
will be watching aducanumab closely. And of course, we'll adapt our plans and thinking to meet
wherever we see the regulatory bar placed. But I don't think you should expect us to pivot in our
Alzheimer's strategy one way or another. We've placed some pretty important bets. We're
excited to see those readouts over time both with solanezumab, but also our own plaque-
clearing antibody, donanemab, as well as our tau -- anti-tau antibody that's in Phase 2. We also
have a tau small molecule in Phase 1 and other agents earlier in development. So we'll continue to
progress those. We think we have smartly designed trials that will give us important readouts
over time.
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Dan. Chris, thanks for your questions. Next caller, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is going to come from `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald from Cantor. Please go ahead.
Q - `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Hi, thanks for taking my questions here. So first question I have for you is, can you provide more
color on what might be driving your stronger volume growth when compared to other companies
out there in the space, and if this is durable over the longer term? And then my second question
for you is, with this growing competition in atopic dermatitis, where do you see Lilly fitting into the
evolving treatment paradigm? Thank you.
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `Thank you. So we'll go to Josh for the first question and Patrik for the second. Thanks.
A - `Joshua L. Smiley, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Louise. Good morning. I think in terms of volume growth, what we see at a corporate
level is a function of our portfolio. As we mentioned, about a little bit less than half of our sales
are coming from new products that we've launched since 2014, 10 of those. They are all still in --
very much in their growth phases: Trulicity growing at 31%, for example; Taltz at 37%. So we've
got a relatively young portfolio. We expect the volume gains that we saw in Q4 to be sustainable
between 2020 and 2025. As we mentioned on our guidance call, we expect to see top-tier
revenue growth over that period. And it will be driven by volume gains. It will be driven by that
cohort of products as well as the new launches that we'll expect over this period, including the 3
that we're planning for this year. You couple that going forward with less generic exposure than
probably most of the companies that we compete against or that you cover, and I think that
would certainly say to us that the volume gains we're seeing are something that we're planning
for and think are sustainable.
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Josh. Patrik?
A - `Patrik Jonsson, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Bio-Medicines `
Well, currently, it's estimated that approximately 18 million Americans are suffering from atopic
dermatitis, and 10 million of those are suffering from severe to moderate atopic dermatitis. And
the treatment opportunities are very limited. One is saying is that the field of atopic dermatitis is
pretty much where psoriasis was 15 years ago. And in the light of that, we believe that we are
extremely well positioned. As we shared, we are encouraged with the most recent data on
Olumiant both in the US and outside the US And we have submitted Olumiant for approval in
Japan and EU, and we take regulatory actions in 2020 here in the US And we believe that
Olumiant could definitely be an option for patients that are having fear of injection.
And we are also excited about the announcement we made a few weeks ago about our intent
and aim to acquire Dermira. And lebrikizumab is the big driver of that deal. And we see
lebrikizumab, based upon the Phase 2b data, as a medicine that will at least be competitive with
DUPIXENT and with an opportunity to even be best-in-class differentiating an itch. So overall, we
believe that we can play a very important role in the field of atopic dermatitis with both the first
oral JAK inhibitor for patients who have fear of injection and a potential best-in-class medicine in
lebrikizumab.
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Patrik. Louise, thanks for your questions. Next caller, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question will come from the line of `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research from Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead. I apologize. Our next question that will come from the line of `Umer Raffat, Analyst, Evercore ISI from
Evercore ISI. Please go ahead.
Q - `Umer Raffat, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Hi, thanks so much for taking my two questions. And both of them are Kevin's favorite topic. So
the first one is on CNS penetrants of your GLP-1, and I have two parts on this first one. So there isfeedback out there that Trulicity doesn't cross blood brain barrier very much, perhaps in part
because of its size, hey, can you comment on that. And in that same question, I also want to ask
tirzepatide does not have an IGG. So presumably it should have good CNS penetration. I just want
to make sure I hear your take on, on the CNS penetrants of both Trulicity and tirzepatide.
Secondly, Dave, perhaps for you. So the A4 trial and asymptomatic Alzheimer's, my
understanding is fully enrolled in December 2017. And at this point, it's already past two years in
every single patient. And by end of 2020, you would have hit a three-year landmark in every
single patient. So my question is strategically thinking, if regulators are being more
accommodating of late, wouldn't it make strategic sense to possibly consider taking an efficacy
read at three years, because even at three years, it's 2x the duration of all prior solanezumab
trials. Thank you very much.
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Umer for those questions. This is butler bulldogs basketball is probably my favorite topic,
but we don't cover that on the call. This is a close second though. We'll go to Dan for both of
these.
A - `Daniel M. Skovronsky, Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer `
Okay, great. Thanks, Kevin. So with respect to CNS penetration of GLP-1s, you're right that these
are large molecularly molecules. Actually, both the Fc-fusion molecules like Trulicity and also,
isolated peptides like tirzepatide. Those modifications of the peptides are what gives them the
long half-life that enables once-weekly injection. And molecules of that size typically don't
penetrate the blood-brain barrier. Having said that, we don't see those attributes, blood-brain
barrier penetration, as being important for the efficacy of this class of drugs as evidenced I think
by the tremendous efficacy that we've seen with Trulicity and an unprecedented efficacy that
we've seen with tirzepatide. So I think that addresses that.
With respect to A4, you're right that this is longer duration trial than, really, I think, any other large
Alzheimer's trial has ever been. The reason for that though is because these patients are
asymptomatic at the beginning of the trial. So they're very early in the disease course. And it
takes a great deal of time to let these patients progress in their disease course. And it's only
through progression of patients on the placebo group and hopefully differential less progression
of patients on therapy that we could hope to see effective drug. So that's why the design
includes such a long follow-up period.
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Dan. And Umer, thanks for your questions. And we'll go to the next caller, please.
Operator
Thank you. And once again we're going to have a question from the line of `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research from
Wolfe Research. Please go ahead.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Oh, hi. A question on your PD-1 with an event and really plans for that product outside the US. It
seemed like last summer when I talked to management it was really describe as a China only
opportunity with limited potential, but it seems that you may have pivoted in recent months and
may have bigger plans to bring them into other geographies. So I'm hoping you can give us yourwe should see those results really any time. Can you confirm that. And then just how do you view
odds of success, it kind of seems to me that it's highly improbable that this will yield positive
results for solar, but what are your views. Thank you.
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Tim. We'll go to Anne for the first question and Dan for the second.
A - `Anne E. White, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Oncology `
Well, Tim, thanks for the question on Tyvyt and our business collaboration. So as you said, our
current focus is on development and commercialization of Tyvyt in China. However, Innovent's
been really important and a terrific strategic partner to us, and so we're always open to
discussing opportunities to expand that for mutual benefit. There's really not more we can say at
this time. We're really pleased, I think as Josh and Dave mentioned, with the performance of
Tyvyt in China. It's been a remarkable story, and really now, as you know, the only PD-1 that's
included on the NRDL list, and I think that demonstrates how the NHSA has recognized its clinical
value. And then we were able to share the great news that we have the first-line nonsquamous
readout at interim. It's positive. So we'll be planning to submit that this year and that we expect
additional readouts in first and second line squamous this year with Innovent. So it's been a great
product, and we look forward to what more we can do here, but thanks for the question.
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Anne. Dan?
A - `Daniel M. Skovronsky, Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer `
Yeah, Tim, on DIAN, just a reminder for everyone that this is a dominantly inherited type of
Alzheimer's. It's a rare and sort of severe and fast-progressing form of Alzheimer's disease
where we're testing solanezumab. Your question on timing of results, we don't have the data yet,
but we do expect that this quarter. In terms of the odds to success, I think it's hard to speculate.
But as you know, this is a very small trial. A small population is being studied. And it is, as I said, a
severe form of Alzheimer's. So those factors weigh against it. There's other factors that weigh for
it. We know that it's driven by mutations here in amyloid overproduction and has a relatively
longer follow-up. But we'll just have to wait and see data.
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Dan. Tim, thanks for your questions. Next caller, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is going to come from the line of `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi from Citi. Please
go ahead.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi `
Thank you. A couple of questions. Firstly, in relation to the tirzepatide, you highlighted the
planned (inaudible). There's been some literature where the patent is that it may not be
(inaudible)
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `Hey, Andrew, this is Kevin. Andrew, we're really having trouble hearing you. Can't really pick up
the question other than we heard tirzepatide.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi `
No. Kevin
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Not much.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi `
Can you hear me?
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Yup. We'll try it.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi `
So my question is on tirzepatide. Talking about Talking about your OUTCOME trial, you're running
a head-to-head trial versus Ozempic, which has been described as a high bar. There is some
literature on potentially GL -- GIP agonism. If agonism could potentially be increasing
cardiovascular rather than decreasing risk, given its evidence as a marker of heightened
cardiovascular disease as well as some preclinical data. Perhaps you could talk to your thoughts
on the relevance of that literature.
And then second, more broadly, we like to think that Lilly is perhaps a better place than many of
your peers in understanding the direction of this particular administration in terms of health care
reform. There have been some discussions about whether the IPI proposal could be expanded to
include Medicare Part D drugs rather than just the part B. Perhaps you could share your thoughts
on what you expect in that direction. Apologies for the line quality.
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Andrew. We'll go to Dan for the question on tirzepatide and then Dave on the policy
question.
A - `Daniel M. Skovronsky, Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer `
Yeah. Thanks. First of all, just a clarification, that tirzepatide trial is head-to-head against Trulicity.
Look I think that there is a little bit of literature out there as you referenced about effects of GLP-1,
but our thinking is really based on the clinical data that we've already obtained with tirzepatide in
the Phase 2 trials. I think everything we see in those trials going into a large cardiovascular benefit
for a drug like this. And so that's the driver that's what gives us confidence is the real clinical data
with this molecule. The combination of GLP-1 and GLP-1 gives certain effects, which we are able to
see. So for example the improved A1C control and notably very dramatic improvement on weight
loss, which I think will drive the cardiovascular benefits even higher than we saw in Trulicity.
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Dan. Dave?
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `Yeah. So on the policy front, we continue to advocate for change in the US system because
although we're in a -- as an industry and certainly is moving a deflationary price environment.
Those savings are not reaching consumers at the pharmacy counter. And so either through a
combination of -- but progress is difficult in congress. So we continue to advocate for change on
behalf of patients though. As it relates to IPI, this proposal was part of the Blueprint and spring of
2018. It's been sitting out there for a while where we have to see any draft guidance for
proposed rule making or any version of this in detail. There's always a lot of swirling rumors about
it, including expanding it other parts of government programs or changes to it, in terms of the
objectives. We see it largely is misguided primarily because in Part-B patients hardly have any cost
sharing to begin with.
So, if we're worried about out-of-pocket cost for patients, IPI will do very little it's mostly just a
punitive measure against the industry going back to decisions made on European pricing
sometimes decades ago. It won't probably change those prices in Europe, if that's the presence
goal, and it certainly won't change the affordability equation for patients in the US. So we oppose
it for those reasons. That said it's administrative potential action and we'll have to read it if it
comes out and decide what to do from there, but it pretty much is a difficult thing to support for
our industry and you probably see pharma universally oppose it. So, we'll wait and see.
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Dave. Andrew, thanks for your questions. Next caller, please.
Operator
Our next question will come from line of `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim from Guggenheim. Please go ahead.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Guggenheim `
Well, thanks for the question. So maybe the first question is really for Josh. Josh, can you just help
us understand the progression of margins as we move through the balance of next year -- or
sorry, this year in 2020? When I look at the original guidance from this year, I think you guys had
said 28% was the target. I think, ultimately, we ended up at 27.2% at the final point of the year. But
on the guidance call in December, you had -- you stated and reiterated the 31% target. Can you
just help us understand the path to that 31%? Just because the second half of this year I think kind
of came in below investors' expectations to some degree and we're just trying to understand a
little bit better the very strong move in margins going higher. Obviously, the pieces of guidance
makes sense. I think we're just trying to understand the path as we move through the balance of
the year. And then the second question, the pegilodecakin update, thanks for that, appreciate
the understanding and the challenges. Can -- maybe Jake can just sort of update us on his
thoughts. And also, Dan, could update us on your thoughts for the growth of the oncology
development portfolio and directionally where you're headed?
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Josh, and then Dan.
A - `Joshua L. Smiley, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Great. Thanks, Seamus. In terms of margin this year, again, we've reiterated that we're on track
for 31%. And the one thing we have said is Q1 will likely be below 31%. That's mostly a function of
the less absolute sales that I talked about on a prior question on top of a relatively fixed OpEx
absolute amount. So I think as you look or model OpEx for the year, we see that as prettyconstant. On an absolute basis quarter-over-quarter, of course, some small variation. And then
you'll see absolute sales dollars on a quarter-over-quarter basis grow. So we don't expect to be
at 31% in Q1, but that's -- again, that's a function of the dynamics of the growth through the
quarters.
Remember, though, in terms of how to get there in totals for the year, we said for 2019 that we
would grow our R&D at an unusual growth rate in 2019 as we scale up programs like tirzepatide
and mirikizumab. In 2020, those programs are running at more like full speed. We're able to bring
in an asset like Dermira and keep that with a relatively smaller growth rate in R&D. So I think we're
confident that the sales growth that we're seeing, that we talked about in Q4 in our -- should
persist for the year on top of a slower growing OpEx that we can predict and manage will get us
to 31%. And again, I wouldn't be too concerned in Q1 if we're not at that level, but you should
expect it as we move through the year.
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Josh. Dan.
A - `Daniel M. Skovronsky, Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer `
Thanks for the question on oncology strategy. Of course, on the last call we talked about our
Loxo Oncology at Lilly and how that's changed Oncology strategy. And we're quite pleased with
the progress that we've made on executing against that strategy. You can see some portfolio
changes in our pipeline update and we also talked about the three key early-stage programs;
305, KRAS and SERD all of which are progressing in the clinic. While we said we're going to focus
a lot of our resources on high probability sort of biology that's well understood bets like those,
we will also from time to time continue to pursue more novel biology higher risk, high reward
bets like pegilodecakin was. And that will be a smaller part of our portfolio in the future.
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Dan. Seamus, thanks for your questions. Next caller, please.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `David Risinger, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `David Risinger, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thanks very much. I have two questions. First, just going back to the high level on GLP-1s in
Alzheimer's. Novo has recently convened enthusiasm about the potential for GLP-1 treatment in
Alzheimer's. Could you just comment on your view of whether GLP-1 treatment over a few years
can actually change the progression of Alzheimer's? And then second with respect to high dose
Trulicity, could you please frame what we should focus on when we see the Phase 3 data and
your planned positioning of that product? Thank you.
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Dave. We'll go to Dan for the first question. And Mike, for the second one.
A - `Daniel M. Skovronsky, Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer `
Thanks. Of course we're aware of the comments that Novo has made on GLP-1s in Alzheimer's
disease and the potential there. Look forward to seeing data from that first trial. Look, I think thatwe know that GLP-1 treatment has beneficial cardiovascular outcomes, including we've seen
reductions on stroke. Probably that's the tip of the iceberg, and there's other sort of micro
infarcts that are decreased by GLP-1 therapy that could, over time, contribute to a slower rate of
kind of decline. Is there a direct effect of GLP-1s on Alzheimer's pathology? I think that's not yet
known. So we'll watch how the field evolves. If it turns out that there are great opportunities, I
think we have a best-in-class incretin in the form of tirzepatide, and we'd be open to future
opportunities with it.
Q - `Chris Schott, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Thanks, Dan. Mike?
A - `Mike Mason, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Diabetes `
David, thanks for your question on our favorite subject. Trulicity had another great quarter,
growing by 32% on volume and 29% on revenue. We're still quite excited about the overall GLP
market growth. The 52-week rate was at 29.7% while the monthly grade in December was at
31.5%. So the market continues to grow. And Trulicity continues to hold up in a very strong market
share leadership position outpacing TRS class growth in the face of semaglutide product
launches. So we expect that both the new Trulicity REWIND as well as the high-dose label
enhancements will continue to drive class growth as well as solidify our market leadership
position place. So we're excited about that I think as you take a look at the results there, take a
look at increased -- or the A1c results as well as the weight loss results. And what we think is the
strength of Trulicity is the fact that you get real-world benefits by having powerful efficacy simply
delivered. And this will just give people using Trulicity another reason to stay on it.
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Mike. David, thanks for your question. Next caller, please.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question will come from the line of `Terence Flynn, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Terence Flynn, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Great, good morning. Thanks for taking the questions. The first one is on tirzepatide and the
CVOT trial. I was wondering if you can share any more details on the stats or powering
assumptions there as well as the discontinuation rate that you're assuming in the arms of the
trial? And then for Emgality, you mentioned look into the next phase of growth here in the primary
care market. What are some of the markers beyond obviously sales that we should look to in
terms of gauging successful uptake there? And then any thoughts on potential impact from oral
CGRPs? Thank you.
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Okay, thanks. We'll go to Dan for tirzepatide, and then Mike and then Patrik for the oral CGRP
question.
A - `Daniel M. Skovronsky, Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer `
Yeah. Thanks for your question asking for more detail on the tirzepatide surpass-CVOT trial
design. I think at this moment, we don't sort of comment on any of the finer details around clinicaltrial design and dropout rates. But I would say that having a trial like this where it's a head-to-head
with two great active drugs one on each arm, should be a very compelling opportunity for
enrolling positions and a great opportunity for treatment for patients as well. So I think that those
kinds of factors should help with both enrollment and retention in the trial.
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
And Mike?
A - `Mike Mason, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Diabetes `
I would agree. I think as we look at the opportunity and really learn from what providers and
payers want, they want active comparators. I think this provides a lot of value, a lot of insights into
the incremental value of one product over another product. And so obviously, doing a head-to-
head trial versus Trulicity is a bold bet, but I think it really reinforces the confidence we have in
tirzepatide in this population. So we're very excited about the study. It is a bold bet but one that
we're very excited about the potential of this product and CVOT.
Q - `Terence Flynn, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thanks. Patrik?
A - `Patrik Jonsson, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Bio-Medicines `
Thank you. If we look at on the prevention market, we have currently 6 million patients eligible for
prevention treatment in the US, but only 3 million of those are being treated. So that's a big
opportunity for us with the increased competition in the marketplace as well to drive patient
population. And specifically for Emgality, if we look upon the prescriber base today, it's relatively
limited. And only 15% of our targets are currently regularly prescribing Emgality. So that's where
we see a tremendous opportunity both in specialty care as well as in primary care.
In terms of the oral CGRPs, I think it's important to have in mind that they are only approved or will
be approved for the treatment of acute migraine this year, and the prevention indication is
coming later on. We are very confident with the profile of Emgality, particularly taking into account
that we are now the market leader and the preferred CGRP in the marketplace and particularly
with the differentiation we have in the label with both efficacy at 50%, 75% and 100% level and
also the convenience that the device offers from the same device platform as Trulicity.
The oral CGRPs will be competing in acute space, and we are also very excited about the
announcement that was the prepublication notice from the DEA that was publicly displayed this
morning and will result in an announcement in the federal register tomorrow enable us to bring
REYVOW to the marketplace probably late next week. And that's where we have a tremendous
opportunity to bring more value in the space of acute migraine. And for the first time, we will be
able to talk about complete pain elimination already after two hours with one single dose of
REYVOW. And not just complete pain elimination, but also complete elimination of bothersome
symptoms such as sun phobia, light sensitivity and nausea. So we believe that we are very well
positioned both in the preventive space as well as the acute phase, but patient activation will be
key. And that's something that will be beneficial with also new entrants in the marketplace.
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Patrik. Terence. Thanks for your questions. Next caller, please.Our next question will come from line of `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen from Cowen. Please go ahead.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen `
Thank you. I have a couple of questions. I'll take the other side of an earlier question and suggest
it would be surprising if DIAN-TU didn't hit its endpoint, given the signal you saw in the expedition
trials and the fact that DIAN-TU is testing a higher dose in a more homogeneous population for a
longer time with the tailor-made endpoint. So Dan, I'm trying to understand your pessimism. And
maybe you could please tell us on which of the points that I stated you disagree? And then there
are four components to the primary endpoint. Do you need to hit all four to achieve success?
Thank you.
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Steve. Dan?
A - `Daniel M. Skovronsky, Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer `
Okay, Steve. So look, I think most of the comments you said are right, the importance of those
factors in the outcome of the study is what we don't know. And there are other factors. As I said
earlier going against us here. The one that gives -- should give anyone the most pause I think is
the small sample size and Alzheimer's trials are I think even in large trials notorious for surprising
us because of the heterogeneity of that fact and variability in the outcome measures. So it's
factors like that, that could make it difficult to really know what is true. Look, I still think it's
regardless an interesting scientific question. Important experiment will look forward to seeing the
data. With respect to the specifics around the composite, I think the nature of a composite is that
you have to hit the overall composite score as the primary endpoint, which could be driven by the
various sub-measures or not, but as you point out, this was custom-made for this trial.
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Dan. Steve, thanks for your questions. Next caller, please.
Operator
We have a question from the line of `Navin Jacob, Analyst, UBS from UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Navin Jacob, Analyst, UBS `
Hi. Yes, thanks for taking my questions. Just on Verzenio, Pfizer has slightly delayed its IBRANCE
adjuvant trial PALLAS to early 2021. Wondering, and they highlight the event rate progressing
much slower? Wondering, how relative to your expectations the event rate has been progressing
in monarchE and is the timeline still for an early 2021 read out? And any color on the potential for
an interim would be appreciated. That's on Verzenio.
And then just on Humalog, the prior year, I think the press release suggested that pricing in the
US benefited from a better segment mix. Is that because of the volume shift to the Humalog
authorized generic and that's assuming that the authorized generic is being recorded within the
Humalog revenue line I just wanted any -- if you could provide any clarity on that. Thank you so
much so much.
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `Great, thank you. We'll go to Anne for the question on Verzenio and Mike for the question on
Humalog.
A - `Anne E. White, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Oncology `
Navin, thanks for the question on Verzenio. So as you know we have not disclosed any interim
analysis. Now this is an event driven trial similar to PALLAS. But our estimates make us quite
confident that we're looking at a read out in the first half of 2021. So we continue to expect that.
And as you know, the trial enrolled remarkably well. And so we able to roll ahead of schedule,
which helps obviously drive imminent rate for that. And again we specifically designed this trial
with a high-risk population and that was both a strategy of where we believe that Verzenio would
really differentiate, but as well it drove the speed of the trial. So again we feel quite confident in
that.
As you know, the positive MONARCH-2 overall trial results, particularly as we saw those with
primary resistance and visceral disease really at eight months survival benefit in patients with
visceral disease really reinforce our confidence in the potential success of monarchE. So we
designed it with that high-risk population. And really used what we think are thoughtful selection
factors that physicians use today to make prescribing decisions in that adjuvant setting. So things
like the number of nodes involved the tumor size and the measure proliferation. And so we feel
quite confidence in the design of the study and again, look forward to that readout in 2021.
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks. Anne. Mike?
A - `Mike Mason, Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Diabetes `
Navin, thanks for your question on Humalog. The biggest driver in Humalog segment mix is the
fact that with Humalog's uptake, they are taking volume away from Humalog in Medicaid, since
our Medicaid rebate rates are essentially 100% that TRX decline actually doesn't have -- has a flat
or positive impact on net revenues for Humalog.
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And just to confirm the AG products are consolidated into that Humlog.
A - `Kevin Hern, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Mike. Navin, thanks for your questions. We'll go to Dave for the close.
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, thank you all. I appreciate your participation in today's earnings call and your interest in Eli
Lilly and Company. 2019 was a strong year for the company. And we anticipate another great year
in 2020. We remain focused on executing our innovation-based strategy to bring new medicines
to patients and create value for our shareholders. With our strong commercial portfolio
complemented by a pipeline of exciting opportunities Lilly continues to be a compelling
investment. Thanks again for dialing in. Please follow up with our Investor Relations team. If you
have any additional questions. We weren't able to address on today's call. Hope you have a great
day.
OperatorThank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this conference will be available for replay after 11:15 today,
through January 30th, 2021. You may access the AT&T teleconference replay system at any time
by dialing 1800-475-6701 and entering the access code of 2544079. Those numbers again are
1800-475-6701 and internationally 320-365-3844 with an access code of 2544079. That does
conclude our conference for today. Thank you for your participation and for using AT&T Executive
Teleconference. You may now disconnect.