Q4 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Lilly Q4 2023 Earnings Call.
At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will be conducting a question-and-
answer session, and instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions).
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Joe Fletcher, Senior Vice President of
Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
`Joseph Fletcher, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations `
Good morning, and thank you, Paul. And thanks for joining us for Eli Lilly and Company's Q4 2023
earnings and 2024 guidance call. I'm Joe Fletcher, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.And joining me on today's call are Dave Ricks, Lilly's Chair and CEO; `Anat Ashkenazi, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Chief
Financial Officer; Dr.Dan Skovronsky, Chief Scientific Officer and President of Lilly Immunology;
Anne White, President of Lilly Neuroscience; `Ilya Yuffa, Executive Vice President and President, Lilly International, President of Lilly International; Jake Van
Naarden, President of Loxo@Lilly; and `Patrik Jonsson, Executive Vice President President, Lilly Diabetes and Obesity President, Lilly, President of Lilly Diabetes and Obesity, and
Lilly USA. We're also joined by Michala Irons, Mike Springnether, and Lauren Zierke of the Investor
Relations team.
During this conference call, we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements
based on our current expectations. Actual results could differ materially due to several factors,
including those listed on Slide 3.
Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is
contained in our latest Form 10-K and subsequent Forms 10-Q and 8-K filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission.
The information we provide about our products and pipeline is for the benefit of the investment
community. It's not intended to be promotional and is not sufficient for prescribing decisions. As
we transition to our prepared remarks, please note that our commentary will focus on non-GAAP
financial measures.
Now, I'll turn the call over to Dave.
`David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
All right. Thanks, Joe. 2023 was a year of advancement across our company. We grew our topline.
We progressed our pipeline, advanced our external innovation agenda through partnerships and
collaborations. We continued to invest in quality, the reliability, and the resilience of our company's
manufacturing infrastructure, and most importantly, delivered new life-saving and life-changing
medicines to more patients.
In 2023, revenue grew 20% for the full year and 28% for the most recent quarter, as our newly
launched portfolio continued to gain momentum. This past year, we announced positive Phase 3s
for donanemab, tirzepatide, mirikizumab, and pirtobrutinib. We also announced a positive Phase 2
result for orforglipron as well as retatrutide, and moved these two important molecules into
Phase 3.
In terms of external innovation, in 2023, we continued to complement our pipeline through
acquisitions and collaborations. These transactions included the acquisition of DICE Therapeutics,
POINT Biopharma, Versanis Bio, Emergence Therapeutics, Mablink Biosciences, Immunitrack, as
well as Sigilon Therapeutics.
We announced several significant investments in manufacturing, including plans to expand
capacity at the company's Research Triangle Park facility and the two manufacturing sites within
the LEAP Innovation Park in Boone County, Indiana. Most recently, we announced plans to
construct a new high-tech manufacturing site in Germany. This facility will further expand the
company's global injectable product and device manufacturing network, including for our
diabetes and obesity portfolio.
Most importantly, this past year, we brought innovative new medicines to patients. In 2023, we
received regulatory approvals for Zepbound, Jaypirca, Omvoh, Ebglyss in the U.S. -- in the EU
rather and an expanded label for Verzenio and two new indications for Jardiance. This progress
will serve as a foundation to drive top-tier revenue growth and margin expansion over time.As you can see on Slide 4, we continue to make progress against our strategic deliverables in Q4.
Revenue grew 28%, with our new products growing by over $2 billion. Since our last earnings call,
we achieved several key pipeline milestones. In addition to the Zepbound and Jaypirca CLL
approvals, today we announced topline results for the tirzepatide Phase 2 SYNERGY-NASH trial,
as well as the Verzenio Phase 3 CYCLONE-2 trial. Dan will talk more about these in his update.
In terms of business development, in Q4, we completed the acquisitions of Mablink Bioscience
and POINT Biopharma, the latter of which expands our capacity and capability into radioligand
therapies. Lastly, we announced a 15% dividend increase for the sixth consecutive year, and
distributed over $1 billion in dividends in the fourth quarter.
On Slide 5, you'll see a list of key events since our Q3 earnings call, including several important
regulatory, clinical, and other updates.
Now, I'll turn the call over to Anat to review our Q4 results.
`Anat Ashkenazi, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Dave. Slide 6 summarizes financial performance in the fourth quarter of 2023, and I'll
focus my comments on non-GAAP performance. We are pleased with the strong financial
performance in the fourth quarter and for the full year.
Our performance was highlighted by continued acceleration of revenue growth, driven by our
new products and growth products. Q4 revenue increased 28% compared to Q4 2022. Excluding
divestiture, this represents a quarter-over-quarter acceleration in revenue growth driven by
Mounjaro, Verzenio, Jardiance, and the recent launch of Zepbound.
For the full year, revenue increased 20%, driven by robust volume growth of 16%. Gross margin as
a percent of revenue increased to 82.3%. Gross margin in the quarter benefited from higher
realized prices, partially offset by higher manufacturing expenses.
Marketing, selling, and administrative expenses increased 17%, primarily driven by higher
expenses associated with launches of new products and additional indications, as well as higher
incentive compensation costs.
R&D expenses increased 28%, primarily driven by higher development expenses for late-stage
assets and additional investments in early-stage research, as well as higher incentive
compensation costs. In Q4, we recognized acquired IPR&D charges of $623 million, which
negatively impacted EPS by $0.62. In Q4 2022, acquired IPR&D charges totaled $240 million or a
$0.23 negative impact to EPS.
Operating income increased 29% in Q4, driven by higher revenue from new launches, partially
offset by operating expense growth. Operating income as a percent of revenue was
approximately 28% for the quarter and included a negative impact of approximately 7
percentage points, attributable to acquired IPR&D charges.
Our Q4 effective tax rate was 13.1% compared to 7.3% in Q4 2022. The higher effective tax rate
for Q4 2023 was primarily driven by a lower net discrete tax benefit compared to the same
period in 2022, and the new Puerto Rico tax regime. At the bottom line, we delivered earnings
per share of $2.49 in Q4, a 19% increase compared to Q4 2022, inclusive of the negative impact
of $0.62 from acquired IPR&D charges compared to $0.23 in Q4 2022.
On Slide 8, we quantify the effect of price, rate, and volume on revenue growth. U.S. revenue
increased 39% in Q4, driven by robust growth of Mounjaro, Verzenio, and Zepbound. Net price inthe U.S. increased 27% for the quarter, driven by Mounjaro access and savings parts dynamic, as
well as a one-time favorable change in estimates for rebates and discounts. Excluding Mounjaro,
net price in the U.S. decreased by high-single digits.
Europe continued its trend of strong growth in Q4, excluding $65 million in revenue associated
with milestones received for the EU approval and launch of Ebglyss. Revenue was up 11% in
constant currency, driven primarily by volume growth of Verzenio, Jardiance, and Taltz.
For Japan, we were pleased to see robust growth in Q4, as revenue increased 15% in constant
currency, driven primarily by volume growth of Verzenio and Mounjaro. Moving to China, Q4
revenue increased 7% in constant currency, with volume growth of 10%, partially offset by price
declines. Volume growth in Q4 was primarily driven by Tyvyt. We are pleased to see China return
to growth in 2023.
Revenue in the rest of the world decreased 10% in constant currency. However, when you exclude
the impact of the Q4 2022 sales of rights for Alimta in Korea and Taiwan, sales grew 9% in
constant currency, driven primarily by volume growth of Mounjaro and Verzenio.
Slide 9 shows the contribution to worldwide volume growth by product category. As you can see,
the new product and growth product categories combined contributed approximately 15
percentage points of volume growth for the quarter.
Slide 10 provides additional perspective across our product categories. First, I would like to
highlight Verzenio, which saw worldwide sales growth of 42% in Q4, driven by robust demand
growth, and to a lesser extent, higher realized prices. The continued positive momentum is
driven by the early breast cancer indication with steady performance in the metastatic indication.
Jardiance continued a strong 2023 performance with worldwide revenue growth of 30% for the
quarter. In the U.S., Jardiance revenue increased 29%, driven by increased demand. In Q4,
worldwide Trulicity revenue declined 14%. U.S. revenue decreased 18%, driven by lower volume
and lower realized prices. We experienced intermittent delays fulfilling orders of Trulicity. Starting
in early December and going through January, all dose strengths of Trulicity were indicated as
having limited availability on the FDA drug shortage site. We expect to experience intermittent
delays fulfilling orders of certain doses in the coming months.
In international markets, Trulicity volume continued to be affected by measures we have taken to
minimize potential disruption to existing patients, including communications to healthcare
professionals not to start new patients on Trulicity.
Moving to Slide 11, Mounjaro continued its robust growth as more type 2 diabetes patients
benefited from the medicine. Q4 revenue grew to over $2.2 billion globally, up from $1.4 billion in
Q3 2023. In the U.S., Mounjaro revenue of $2.1 billion in Q4, up from $1.3 billion in Q3 2023,
benefited from a one-time change in estimates for rebates and discounts. Adjusted for this one-
time change, sequential net sales in the U.S. would have grown approximately 30% in Q4.
Since our last call, we further expanded patient access to Mounjaro. As of February 1, access for
patients with type 2 diabetes in the U.S. was 90% in aggregate across commercial and Part D,
including 92% access for commercial patients. This expanded access puts Mounjaro near parity
with established injectable incretins and gives more patients the opportunity to start therapy on
Mounjaro for type 2 diabetes.
Since the $25 non-covered co-pay card program expired on June 30, we now consider all
prescriptions paid. Compared to Q4 2022, Mounjaro net price in Q4 2023 benefited from thischange to the co-pay card program in the U.S. Recall that after a change to the non-covered co-
pay program in late 2022, patients already started on the $25 co-pay card could remain in the
program until June 30. Today, commercially insured patients without coverage utilize the current
non-covered co-pay program and pay roughly half the list price for Mounjaro prescription.
Turning to Slide 12, in November, we received FDA approval for Zepbound for adults with obesity
or those who are overweight and have weight-related comorbidities. We then announced on
December 5 that Zepbound was available at U.S. pharmacies and we started building commercial
formulary access before the end of the year. We were pleased with the early access of
approximately one-third of commercial lives covered as of February 1.
Access in this market will be more gradual as individual employers need to opt in to coverage
after the typical formulary contracting takes place. We are focused on building formulary access
and employer opt-ins, but we expect that it will take some time before we reach broad open
access in this market. Meanwhile, a commercial savings card program is available at U.S.
pharmacies for those who do not yet have coverage.
In Medicare Part D, weight loss drugs are still prohibited from reimbursement. In Q4, we
recognized $176 million in sales for Zepbound, with approximately three-fourths of that coming
from initial channel stocking. The initial prescription trends we have seen are encouraging.
On Slide 13, we provide an update on capital allocation. Looking forward to 2024 and beyond, we
have confidence in our existing commercial portfolio bolstered by the recent launches of
Mounjaro, Jaypirca, Omvoh, and Zepbound, and the potential launches of donanemab and
lebrikizumab, all of which we expect to serve as drivers for continued growth through the balance
of the decade.
On Slide 14, you'll see a summary of our outlook outlining our capital deployment decisions in
relation to achievement of our strategic deliverables. We will invest in our current portfolio and in
the future innovation through R&D, business development, and a comprehensive manufacturing
expansion agenda designed to drive revenue growth and speed life-changing medicines to
patients. We will continue to return capital to our shareholders through dividend increases in line
with earnings growth over time and share repurchases with excess capital.
Moving to Slide 15, we highlight some of the dynamics that may impact our 2024 financial results.
We expect continued robust revenue growth with revenue from our core business, which
excludes revenue from divestiture, growing nearly 30% at the midpoint of our guidance range,
driven by positive momentum of recently launched products. In incretins, anticipated growth will
be led by Mounjaro and Zepbound.
In 2023, we made tremendous strides in expanding access from Mounjaro, and we entered 2024
with 90% of commercial and Part D lives covered. Zepbound coverage is off to a good start since
its early December launch, and we expect both tirzepatide to contribute substantially to Lilly's
revenue growth in 2024.
While we expect Mounjaro and Zepbound to be drivers of revenue growth, this will be partially
offset by an expected continuation of the softer Trulicity sales trends that we saw in the second
half of 2023. Recent revenue declines for Trulicity in the U.S. have been driven by supply
tightness. Volume has also been impacted by our actions outside the U.S.
As for supply outlook for incretin, our manufacturing organization continues to execute well on
the most ambitious expansion agenda in our company's long history. Given strong demand andtime required to bring capacity fully online, we continue to expect demand to outpace supply in
2024.
In late 2022, we shared our expectation that by year-end 2023, our capacity for incretin auto-
injector pens would double. This goal was achieved through significant efforts from our
manufacturing colleagues and partners around the globe.
In 2024, our capacity expansion efforts will continue with equal urgency and will be accomplished
not just through increased auto-injector capacity, but also through alternative presentation like our
multi-use KwikPen, which received regulatory approval in the U.K. in late January.
We expect our parental manufacturing site in Concord, North Carolina will initiate production as
early as the end of 2024, with product available to ship in 2025, and we are pursuing a host of
other projects, internal and external, large and small, to further expand capacity.
Now, I'll provide a bit more context on the timing and pace of our incretin supply plans in 2024.
While we are continuing to expand supply every quarter, we expect the most significant
production increases to come in the second half of the year. We expect our production of sellable
doses in the second half of 2024 will be at least 1.5x the production in the second half of 2023.
Note that while last year, our commentary focused on capacity of auto- injectors devices,
compared to 2022, we're now referring sellable doses produced, which is more relevant to
patients and investors.
Beyond incretin, we look forward to progressing our launch trajectory for two other leading
medicine approved and launched in 2023, Jaypirca and Omvoh. Jaypirca was initially approved by
the FDA in January 2023 for adult patients with relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma
under the Accelerated Approval Program, received FDA approval also under the Accelerated
Approval Program in December 2023 for adult patients with CLL or SLL that have received at
least two prior lines of therapy. We look forward to the ongoing opportunity to help patients with
this medicine as our best Phase 3 program continues.
Omvoh was approved in October 2023 in the U.S. and earlier that year in Japan, Europe, and
other markets and represents compelling new options for patients struggling with moderate-to-
severe ulcerative colitis. And in 2024, we look forward to potential U.S. launches of two more
medicines, donanemab and lebrikizumab. We continue to expect FDA regulatory actions on
donanemab in Q4 2024 and remain confident in the substantial potential for donanemab to
benefit patients with Alzheimer's disease. Due to the current state of diagnostic and treatment
readiness, initial uptake will be somewhat limited, and we expect donanemab to contribute only
modestly to growth in 2024 once approved.
Lebrikizumab, which last year was approved and launched in Europe under the brand name
Ebglyss, by our partner Almirall, received regulatory approval in Japan in January. As for the U.S.,
we look forward to the potential approval of lebrikizumab at the end of the year. We believe the
efficacy, safety, and dosing of lebrikizumab can make it a compelling option for patients and
prescribers in a large and growing market for the treatment of moderate-to-severe atopic
dermatitis. Given the expected timing of FDA regulatory action, we expect lebrikizumab to
contribute only modestly to revenue growth in 2024.
Beyond our recently launched portfolio of medicine, we expect continued growth from Verzenio
driven by the early breast cancer indication, where the magnitude and maturity of our clinical data
reinforces it as a standard-of-care treatment in node-positive, high-risk, early breast cancer.Jardiance has been another outstanding contributor to growth, and we expect revenue growth to
continue in 2024 though at a slower pace, as strong, strict growth may be dampened by pricing
dynamics in the U.S. Outside the U.S., we expect an acceleration of growth in every major
geography, led not only by the anticipated launches of tirzepatide, but also continued strong
growth of Verzenio, Jardiance, and Taltz.
Lastly, we seek to create long-term value beyond this decade. We will continue to invest across
our value chain in our recent and upcoming potential launches, in our pipeline, and in our
manufacturing footprint.
Slide 16 summarizes our initial 2024 financial guidance. Starting at the topline, revenue is
expected to be between $40.4 billion and $41.6 billion. Using the midpoint of the 2024 range, this
represents roughly 20% growth or 29% growth for our core business, which excludes the impact
of the divestitures that took place in 2023.
In terms of phasing of our revenue growth throughout 2024, while we don't provide quarterly
guidance, we expect revenue growth to accelerate in the second half of the year, consistent with
the increased availability of incretin doses.
In terms of pricing for a core business which excludes divestitures, we expect a high-single-digit
percent price decline in 2024. The lingering base period impact of the Mounjaro non-covered co-
pay card dynamics will dampen these price declines in the first half of 2024, with more significant
price declines expected in the second half of the year.
During this year, we're taking a streamlined approach to our guidance line items relating to
expenses. Rather than providing three separate guidance line items for gross margin, research
and development costs, and marketing and sales administrative costs, we are presenting a single
new ratio representing our margin after plant costs calculated by subtracting R&D costs and
marketing, selling, and administrative costs from gross margin; and dividing that figure by
revenue. We express this ratio as a percentage, and for 2024, we expect it to be in the range of
31% to 33% on a non-GAAP basis.
While we are not providing a specific guidance number for gross margin as a percent of sales,
our expectations remain consistent that we will maintain gross margin of approximately 80% on a
non-GAAP basis, as productivity gains and volumes are offset by pricing pressures and the cost of
new manufacturing facilities.
As for our expense growth across key categories, we expect marketing, selling, and
administrative expenses to again grow in 2024, though at a slower pace than revenues, with
growth driven by marketing investments in our recently launched and upcoming launch products.
We also expect R&D expenses in 2024 to increase driven by growing investments across all
phases of our pipeline as we invest for the future with the majority of dollar growth driven by
ongoing and new late-phase opportunities. We expect R&D expense to increase at a higher rate
than marketing, selling and administrative expenses.
Other income and expenses is expected to be between $400 million and $500 million of
expense, primarily driven by higher interest expense.
Turning to taxes, we expect our 2024 non-GAAP effective tax rate to be approximately 14%. Note
that this rate does not assume deferral or repeal of the provision in the 2017 Tax Act requiring
capitalization and amortization of research and development expenses for tax purposes. Should
such a change take effect, our effective tax rate for 2024 would be moderately higher.Earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $12.20 to $12.70 on a non-GAAP basis.
Consistent with our prior practice, we're not including any potential or pending acquired IPR&D
and development milestone charges in our 2024 guidance, and we will provide updates each
quarter on the impact of IPR&D on earnings per share if acquired IPR&D and development
milestone charges are incurred. For guidance modeling purposes, we're currently estimating
diluted weighted average share outstanding for 2024 to be approximately $903 million.
We entered 2024 with strong momentum and a remarkable opportunity to help millions more
patients with our medicines. For our investors, 2024 should be another exciting year driven by
expected revenue growth in our core business near an approaching 30% and continued
investments to drive future growth. Our outlook for top-tier revenue growth and operating
margin expansion remains on track.
Now, I'll turn the call over to Dan to highlight our continued progress in R&D.
C: `Daniel Skovronsky, Executive Vice President, Chief Scientific and Medical Officer, President of: Executive Vice President, Chief Scientific and Medical Officer, President of
Lilly Research Laboratories: Eli Lilly and Company:} Thanks, Anat. I'll start with our progress against
diabetes, obesity, and complications thereof. Today, we announced positive results from
SYNERGY-NASH, a Phase 2 study of tirzepatide in adults with biopsy-proven metabolic dysfunction
associated steatohepatitis, also known as MASH.
As shown on Slide 17, the study met its primary endpoint, with up to 74% of participants achieving
an absence of MASH with no worsening of fibrosis at 52 weeks compared to less than 13% of
participants reaching this endpoint on placebo. We are equally encouraged by results seen in the
secondary endpoint evaluating improvement in fibrosis.
While the study was not designed to be statistically powered to evaluate improvement in fibrosis,
the study results showed a clinically meaningful treatment effect across all doses on the
proportion of participants achieving a decrease of at least one fibrosis stage with no worsening
of MASH to placebo.
The adverse events were consistent with those observed in other clinical trials studying
tirzepatide in people living with obesity or type 2 diabetes. The full SYNERGY-NASH results will be
presented at a Medical Congress later this year.
As you know, late last year, we received FDA approval of Zepbound, which marks Lilly's first
approved treatment for obesity. This is a landmark occasion for patients and for the field, as
Zepbound is the first and only approved treatment activating two incretin hormone receptors, GIP
and GLP-1, to tackle the underlying cause of excess weight.
Also, in early stage development, we have now advanced our glucose-sensing insulin receptor
agonist for the treatment of diabetes into Phase I, and our long-acting atrial natriuretic peptide
for treatment of heart failure into Phase I. We've advanced mazdutide into Phase II for obesity, as
we've begun to dose patients in that study.
We are pleased that early this year, our partner, Innovent reported positive results in the Phase III
GLORY-1 study of mazdutide in Chinese adults with obesity. Innovent holds the development and
commercialization rights for mazdutide in China, and Lilly retains the rights in the rest of the world.
Moving to oncology. Today, we shared that in the Phase III CYCLONE-2 trials, Verzenio added to
abiraterone did not meet the primary endpoint of improved radiographic progression free
survival in men with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. For the study, we employed
an adaptive Phase 2/3 design. And while the Phase 2 stage met the pre-specified threshold forthe independent data monitoring committee to recommend initiation of Phase 3, the signal was
not confirmed in the Phase 3 portion in a larger sample size. The overall safety and tolerability
profile was consistent with the known profiles of the medicines. We anticipate sharing full results
from the CYCLONE-2 study at a future medical meeting.
Since our last earnings call, Jaypirca received approval under the FDA's Accelerated Approval
Program for the treatment of adult patients with CLL or SLL who have received at least two prior
lines of therapy, including a BTK inhibitor and a BCL-2 inhibitor.
We also reported that the Phase 3 confirmatory trial intended to convert this approval to
traditional approval, known as BRUIN CLL-321, met its primary endpoint, and we plan to present
these data at an upcoming medical meeting.
With the CLL and SLL approvals, Jaypirca is now the first and only FDA approved non-covalent
BTK inhibitor that can extend the benefit of targeting the BTK pathway in CLL and SLL patients
previously treated with a covalent BTK inhibitor and a BCL-2 inhibitor.
This was the second approval for Jaypirca in 2023, with the first in patients with MCL. We believe
these two indications only represent the beginning of the eventual impact Jaypirca can have for
patients. And we look forward to seeing the data from the rest of the Phase III program across
CLL, SLL, and MCL.
In Q4, we completed the acquisition of POINT Biopharma, which begins Lilly's entry into
radioligand therapy, a promising technology with potential to deliver meaningful advances against
a range of cancers. We welcome our new POINT colleagues to Lilly, and we look forward to
building on their work to grow this capability at Lilly.
2024 is also poised to be a particularly productive year for new clinical starts in oncology as we
begin to see the results of the new oncology R&D strategy that we implemented about four
years ago after the Loxo acquisition.
Through a combination of internal discovery efforts and business development, we expect to put
at least five new molecules into the clinic this year. A wild-type selective KRAS G12D inhibitor, a
pan-KRAS inhibitor, two antibody drug conjugates with topoisomerase payloads, one against
actinin-4 [ph] IV and one against folate receptor alpha, and an actinium PSMA radioligand therapy.
I'll speak in a moment about our clinical KRAS G12C program, but you can see that we're putting
real effort into developing a suite of RAS-directed therapeutics, and we're excited to see those
discovery efforts result in three potential medicines so far. Of course, we'll have to see which of
these deliver on our target clinical profiles, but we're optimistic about this early phase portfolio,
and we've certainly diversified the modalities in our pipeline.
In addition, we're excited that Olomorasib, our KRAS G12C inhibitor, has progressed into Phase 2
as we're finalizing dose selection under Project Optimus for the Phase 3 program, which we plan
to start later this year. You can now see the full design of that study on clinicaltrials.gov.
By way of reminder, we started this program years behind our competitors, and through focused
effort behind what looks like a great molecule to us, we've made up the vast majority of that
time. We believe we're now neck and neck with our closest competitors for the medicine that we
hope to show combines better with PD-1.
Lastly, in oncology, we've terminated development of our RET inhibitor II as it did not meet our
threshold to move forward with internal development. In immunology, we moved two new assetsinto Phase 1, and we advanced our KV1.3 antagonist for psoriasis into Phase 2.
Lebrikizumab was approved in the EU for atopic dermatitis under the brand name, Ebglyss, which
is marketed by our partner, Almirall there. In January of this year, we were pleased to have
Ebglyss approved in Japan.
In neuroscience, in January, our wholly-owned subsidiary Akouos announced positive clinical
results for the Phase 1/2 AK-OTOF-101 study, which demonstrated hearing restoration within 30
days of a single administration in the first participant, an individual with more than a decade of
profound hearing loss. The surgical administration and the investigational therapy were well
tolerated, and no serious adverse events were reported.
These results highlight our commitment to help solve some of humanity's most challenging
healthcare problems and make life better for individual patients. We now show OTOF gene
therapy in Phase 2 on our pipeline chart, as we've begun enrolling younger patients in the Phase
2 portion of the study.
On Slide 18, we highlight our select pipeline assets with updates since the last earnings call. And
Slide 19 summarizes our key events for 2023. I noted the key updates on each of these slides in
my therapeutic area comments.
Turning to Slide 20, we'd like to highlight potential key events for 2024. As you can see, this year
will be another important year as we look to progress our late-stage pipeline. In 2023, we
initiated Phase 3 development programs for our next generation of incretins, which are our oral
agent, Orforglipron, and our novel weekly injectable triagonist, retatrutide. These programs are
progressing and enrolling well. We look forward to seeing the first set of Phase 3 results on
orforglipron next year.
This year, we're planning to initiate a Phase 3 program in type 2 diabetes for retatrutide,
complementing the ongoing trials in obesity and related complications. Also this year, we're
planning to initiate a Phase 3 program for lepodisiran, our LPA-lowering siRNA therapy in
cardiovascular disease.
On tirzepatide, we're looking forward to a number of additional key data readouts this year.
Beyond SYNERGY-NASH, we expect to see results from the Phase III obstructive sleep apnea and
Phase III heart failure studies this year.
We note increased investor interest in the timing of SURPASS-CVOT, and we can reiterate that
we expect the data in 2025, notwithstanding the clinicaltrials.gov listing, which will be updated
soon to reflect our current assumptions based on event rate.
By the end of 2024, we expect to have results of SURMOUNT-5, which is our head-to-head study
of tirzepatide compared to high-dose semaglutide in participants with obesity. We also expect
the full Phase III program readout on our weekly basal insulin, insulin efsitora alfa later this year.
Moving to neuroscience, we're looking forward to FDA action and the potential launch of
donanemab in Q1 of this year, and we are progressing with regulatory reviews around the world.
We've now launched a P-tau217 blood-based diagnostic test, and we will continue to scale this
throughout 2024. We'll also continue to partner with others in the field to ensure physicians have
multiple tools to aid in timely and accurate diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.
In immunology, following the mirikizumab positive Phase III data in Crohn's disease, we plan to
submit to the FDA for this indication this year. Additionally, following the U.S. FDA completeresponse letter on lebrikizumab, we expect regulatory action by the end of the year in the U.S.
Finally, in oncology, as I mentioned before, we look forward to moving our KRS-G12C inhibitor,
Olomorasib into Phase III later this year following Phase II dose selection. Lastly, we're looking
forward to seeing the results of our imlunestrant Phase III study EMBER-3, participants with
metastatic breast cancer in both monotherapy and in combination with Verzenio. This past year
was busy and productive, and we expect more of the same in 2024 as we make meaningful
progress advancing our pipeline for the benefit of patients.
And I'll turn the call back to closing remarks.
`David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Dan, and congrats to you and the LLY team for a big year. Before we go to Q&A, let me
briefly sum up our progress in the fourth quarter.
Q4 revenue growth accelerated as our recently launched product portfolio continued to gain
momentum. We achieved meaningful advances in our late-stage pipeline with the FDA approvals
of Zepbound and Jaypirca. We continued to invest in recent and upcoming launches, late-stage
medicines, early-phase capabilities, and in business development, all of which will serve as a
foundation for future growth. In Q4, we completed the acquisition of POINT Biopharma and
announced plans to build a new manufacturing site in Germany. We have returned over $1 billion
to shareholders via the dividend.
Lastly, in January, we announced that Johna Norton, our Executive Vice President of Global
Quality, will be retiring at the end of July after 34 years of service. During her tenure, Johna has
overseen significant expansion, modernization, and improvements in our quality manufacturing
processes. I'd like to thank her for her many years of outstanding service to Lilly.
Now, I'll turn the call over to Joe to moderate our Q&A session.
`Joseph Fletcher, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Dave. Before diving into the Q&A, I wanted to clarify one point. We may have had some
muffled sound during Anat's prepared remarks regarding the timing of regulatory action on
donanemab. And as Dan mentioned, that timing is expected to be Q1 of 2024 this year. Received
some notes that there was some muffled sound. So just wanted to clarify on that important point.
Now, for Q&A, we'd like to take questions from as many callers as possible and conclude the call
in a timely manner. So consistent with prior quarters, we'll respond to one question per caller. So,
ask that you limit to one question per caller and we'll end the call at 11:15 a.m. If you have more
than one question, you can re-enter the queue and we'll get to your question if time allows.
Paul, please provide instructions for the Q&A and we're ready for the first caller.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. At this time, we will be conducting a question-and-answer session. (Operator
Instructions) And the first question today is coming from `Terence Flynn, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley.
Terence, your line is live.Q - `Terence Flynn, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thanks so much for taking the question. Congrats on all the progress. Just wondering for
your GLP franchise, ex-U.S. you under-index versus your key competitor, just wondering what are
some of the hurdles to closing that gap, as we think about the ramp in 2024, but also into 2025.
Thank you.
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Terence, for the question, I'll hand it over to `Ilya Yuffa, Executive Vice President and President, Lilly International, President of Lilly International, for
that question.
A - `Ilya Yuffa, Executive Vice President and President, Lilly International `
Great. Thanks, Terence. As we think about Mounjaro launches outside the U.S., we have already
launched in a number of select markets. We have a foundation to be competitive in many of our
markets, and we anticipate continued launches. We've just launched in vial format in select
markets outside of the U.S., namely in Australia, Canada and Germany and Poland. And we just
received KwikPen approval in the U.K., and so we're anticipating launch there.
As we get additional regulatory approvals for our multi-use KwikPen and we monitor our ramp-up
in capacity for supply, we'll continue to launch in other markets throughout the year. So, we
anticipate further growth, anticipated for launches of Mounjaro outside of the U.S. and continue
with that throughout the year as well as into 2025.
A - `Joseph Fletcher, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Ilya. Paul, next question.
Operator
The next question is coming from `Chris Schott, JPMorgan from J.P. Morgan. Chris, your line is live.
Q - `Chris Schott, JPMorgan `
Great. Thanks so much. On Zepbound, it seems like you're making strong progress on coverage,
but just interested in expectations for the remainder of this year, as we think about just where
coverage could go and just how to think about ASP. I guess the core question is, is it reasonable
to think that most payers, who cover Wegovy will add Zepbound this year? Thank you.
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Chris. I'll hand over to Patrik to comment on that question about Zepbound coverage.
A - `Patrik Jonsson, Executive Vice President President, Lilly Diabetes and Obesity President, Lilly `
Yes, thank you very much, Chris. As I stated, we are pleased. We are so early in launch with 35%
commercial access, having contract with ASI [ph] and Cigna. Our efforts moving forward will really
be to continue to expand payer access, but not only, we will do that with a very disciplined
approach, as we did with Mounjaro, but also to make sure that we get to employer opt-in.
And as Anat alluded to in her prepared remarks, that's going to take some time, but we are
assuming that with the current access we have, that our access will be along the lines of what the
competition has referred to, around 50%.Let me just emphasize that, when it comes to employer opt-in, there is not one reliable source
for employer opt-in, so I think that's something that we need to continue to monitor, and we'll
come back with more data during coming earnings calls.
So overall, a good start, and we will continue our efforts to increase payer access. I think, we're
quite encouraged with what we've heard from the marketplace so far. Employer opt-in will take
longer, but we believe that we are well positioned in that regard as well.
A - `Joseph Fletcher, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Patrik. Next question, Paul.
Operator
The next question is coming from `Seamus Fernandez, Guggenheim from Guggenheim. Seamus, your line is live.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Guggenheim `
Thanks very much, and congrats on all the progress and the success here. But just wanted to get
a quick sense from Dan. Do you see a prospect from SYNERGY-NASH, for accelerated approval?
And can you confirm that while clinically significant, the secondary endpoint of fibrosis stage
improvement was not statistically significant? Thanks.
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Seamus, for the question. Dan?
A - `Daniel Skovronsky, Executive Vice President, Chief Scientific and Medical Officer, President of `
Yeah, thanks, Seamus. This stage is really quite new to us, but we're really excited about it. We
haven't had a chance yet to talk to the FDA here at all about next steps, but we're looking
forward to having that opportunity. Of course, this was a small trial, about 190 participants, but it
did use liver biopsies, of course, to assess the endpoints here.
With respect to the improvement in fibrosis, I think, I probably previously stated that I was unsure,
whether it would be possible for incretin-based therapies to reverse fibrosis in patients based on
competitor readouts in the field. But really excited to see this data with clinically meaningful
improvement in fibrosis.
There's different doses, there's different statistical methods that can be applied here, accounting
for dropouts, particularly in the placebo group. So, we'll have to wait for the scientific
presentation to see all the P values there. But we're pretty positive on this data package as a
whole and what this could mean for patients, both in terms of stopping progression with NASH
and reversing fibrosis.
A - `Joseph Fletcher, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Dan. Paul, next question.
Operator
The next question is coming from `Umer Raffat, Evercore ISI from Evercore. Umer, your line is live.
Q - `Umer Raffat, Evercore ISI `Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my question. Dave, as you think about manufacturing build out in
various sites, which is obviously very important for all the existing GLP demand. I'm curious, how
are you balancing that dollar investment with your probabilities on orforglipron's clinical and
commercial odds, especially with all the blinded data that's coming in?
A - `Joseph Fletcher, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Umar. Dave?
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, happy to answer that. Of course, as we enter this phase of really strong growth in the
incretins, we're very focused on allocating capital, but top priority is creating new capacities. The
gating factors are not really financial for us right now. So, you can expect us to be investing fully.
We're not slowing down, because of cash flow or whatever. It's really a function of the technical
capacities, both in people and in suppliers, to be able to bring facilities online. That's particularly
true in the parenteral side.
Now, you're referencing or orforglipron. Here, we do plan to build ahead of Phase 3 at risk. I think,
given the probability we assess internally, as well as the opportunity on the other side of a
positive Phase 3, we see that as a wise investment. And as we've commented on before, it
relies, as you would know, a very different assets inside Lilly as well as outside of Lilly. So, here
you have organic chemistry, API, and tablets and capsules.
So, it's a pretty different setup. So, we can -- we're paralleling that with our robust injectable
investments. If we're wrong, okay we'll have to -- we'll have to eat that in the end, if we're for the
strong product, but if it is, I think, it does begin to change the math on supply in this category, and
I think, that's a bet worth taking.
A - `Joseph Fletcher, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Dave. Paul, next question.
Operator
The next question is coming from `Tim Anderson, Wolfe Research from Wolfe Research. Tim, your line is live.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Wolfe Research `
Thanks. On SURPASS-CVOT, you mentioned it's slipped to 2025. I assume that implies the one
interim look has come an{d gone, and then you're evaluating both non-inferiority and superiority.
Would you agree that superiority is really what you need to show here, and what's your
confidence in achieving that?
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Tim. There's a couple of questions. Maybe we'll field the one on the interim look. Dan?
A - `Daniel Skovronsky, Executive Vice President, Chief Scientific and Medical Officer, President of `
Yeah, sure. Well, thanks for that question, Tim. As you know, Lilly doesn't comment on interims,
probably the most trials in our portfolio do have opportunities for interim looks. But that is not, I
think, germane at all to the question on the timing on ClinicalTrials.gov, which was before and
continues to be the time point at which we'll have final data.When we initially put that time point in ClinicalTrials.gov, it was in early 2020. We hadn't started
enrolling the trial yet, so that was based on our assumption on enrollment rates, but probably
more importantly on event rates. And as the trial matures, we get a view on event rates.
So, I know it's frustrating for investors and for us perhaps to wait to longer time to get events, but
of course, that's great news for patients, when the event rates are slower, remembering that this
is a head-to-head trial with a drug, Trulicity, that we already know is active in preventing these
events.
A - `Joseph Fletcher, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Dan. Paul, next question.
Operator
The next question is coming from `Mohit Bansal, Wells Fargo from Wells Fargo. Mohit, your line is live.
Q - `Mohit Bansal, Wells Fargo `
Great. Thank you very much for taking my question, and congrats on the progress. I have a
question regarding your sleep apnea study. How much benefit do you think from baseline is
required for this to be clinically meaningful? Is it 50% or more? And do you think the trial is big
enough to seek a label in sleep apnea? Thank you.
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Mohit, for the question. Dan, back to you.
A - `Daniel Skovronsky, Executive Vice President, Chief Scientific and Medical Officer, President of `
Yeah, thanks. There isn't really a well-established threshold for clinical meaningfulness in sleep
apnea. Of course, the commonly used measure here is an index of how many apnea or hypoxic
events a patient has while sleeping.
Certainly, drugs in this category, I think, have great potential to improve that. We're excited to see
what tirzepatide can see. But probably, in addition to the absolute percent improvement in AHI
that we'll be looking for, I'd also like to see patients switching from one category, for example,
intermediate to mild disease or things like that. So, we'll be looking at a number of things to
assess clinical meaningfulness here, but I'm quite optimistic.
A - `Joseph Fletcher, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Dan. Paul, next question.
Operator
The next question is from `Louise Chen, Cantor Fitzgerald from Cantor. Louise, your line is live.
Q - `Louise Chen, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. I wanted to ask you how you think about sizing the downstream
opportunities for a GLP-1 such as tirzepatide, maybe in NASH, some of the other indications that
you're going after as well? Thank you.
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `Thanks, Louise, for that question. So, about the downstream opportunities in NASH and
elsewhere, Patrik, do you want to field that?
A - `Patrik Jonsson, Executive Vice President President, Lilly Diabetes and Obesity President, Lilly `
So, thank you very much. I think there are two important aspects. The first one is, when we refer
to employer opt-in. I think employers are really looking actively into benefits of anti-obesity
medications. And whatever data we can generate here, being in the cardiovascular space, being
in OSA, or being in NASH and other indications will be extremely important for increased
employer opt-in.
The second piece will be in Medicare Part D. As long as TROA is not paused, I think data in those
comorbidities will be critical to enable access for patients in Medicare Part D. So, those are truly
the key drivers for those indications.
A - `Joseph Fletcher, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Patrik. Paul, next question.
Operator
The next question is coming from `Kerry Holford, Berenberg from Berenberg. Kerry, your line is live.
Q - `Kerry Holford, Berenberg `
Thank you for taking my question. It's on to tirzepatide obesity. I'm interested to hear why you've
taken the decision not to launch under the Zepbound brand outside the U.S. to rather seek a
label expansion for weight loss for Mounjaro. Does that relate to simplicity, perhaps faster
reimbursement access? And I wonder if you foresee any risk here that ex-U.S. Governments
prefer ultimately to keep diabetes and obesity budgets separate? Thank you.
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Kerry, for the questions. I'll hand over to Ilya to talk about the branding of tirzepatide
OUS.
A - `Ilya Yuffa, Executive Vice President and President, Lilly International `
Sure. Yeah. So, for tirzepatide outside of the U.S., it depends on a number of different factors,
whether it's regulatory or competitive market dynamics. There are some payer dynamics as well.
We don't anticipate that being a challenge in terms of negotiating the reimbursement either for
type 2 diabetes or for chronic weight management. We continue to have those discussions in a
number of markets and are optimistic about our ability to commercialize under different brand
scenarios.
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thank you, Ilya.
A - `Joseph Fletcher, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations `
Paul, next question.
OperatorThe next question is from `Geoff Meacham, Bank of America Merrill Lynch from Bank of America. Geoff, your line is live.
Q - `Geoff Meacham, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Good morning, guys. Thanks so much for the question. Dave, I know you guys formally announced
LillyDirect last fall, should we view it as a platform just streamline access to providers and Lilly
Meds? Or is there a monetization model or some market differentiation that could also play out
over time? Thank you.
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks for the question. I can start, Patrik, jump in. Yeah, thanks for the question. The idea was
really actually born out of the challenges patients face every day in the U.S. And sometimes
seeing doctors, and you'll note we have a doctor finder tool as well as telehealth partners on the
platform for migraine, diabetes, and obesity.
Finding medicines in their pharmacies, that's been a challenge, and I think particularly as supplies
are tight, many patients report driving to five, six, seven pharmacies to find the medicine they
need. This simplifies that process. And then, I think, in addition, there's been a lot of noise about
drugs that are illicit or copies or compounded versions of Zepbound, or other weight loss drugs.
And that's concerning to us. And I think, it's concerning to patients. So, by going to LillyDirect,
literally they have confidence in the supply. And finally, application of our savings programs has
also been a challenge at the pharmacy counter. And that happens a 100% of the time on
LillyDirect.
We haven't thought about it as a way to create some new retail distribution business. It's a way to
serve the patients that want our medicines better. That's sort of the frame we're in now. Early
days, we're trying to develop it to be smoother, better, include more products over time, have
better information about physicians and telehealth providers. So, look for more developments
there, but good start so far. A lot of energy and enthusiasm from the patient community. Thanks,
Dave.
A - `Joseph Fletcher, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations `
Paul, next question.
Operator
The next question is coming from `David Risinger, Leerink Partners from Leerink. David, your line is live.
Q - `David Risinger, Leerink Partners `
Yes, thank you and congrats on today's update. So, my question is for Dave and Dan on lean
muscle loss associated with incretin use. Could you help us understand Lilly's take on this debate
and comment on tirzepatide data to date relative to semaglutide? What I've observed is that
SURMOUNT-1 showed a 3:1 to lean muscle loss ratio, whereas sema's STEP 1 trial showed a 1.5:1
ratio, albeit with a slightly different assessment. Thank you.
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Dave. We'll have Dan to field that.
A - `Daniel Skovronsky, Executive Vice President, Chief Scientific and Medical Officer, President of `Yeah, thanks for your question. Maybe just starting with our take on lean versus fat mass. I think
the ratio of lean to fat mass is an important thing to think about. Body composition, not just body
weight matters to patients. For example, in risk of type 2 diabetes or cardiovascular disease, that
body ratio seems to be important.
The good news is that for patients on tirzepatide, that ratio appears to improve. As you pointed
out, they lose far more fat mass than lean mass. And so, in every trial we've done, at the end of
the trial, if you measure body composition, it's better, a higher ratio of lean to fat than at the
beginning of the trial.
So, we see this changing body composition as a benefit, a potential benefit of tirzepatide to be
further explored. Of course, it's also a benefit we want to further extend. You've seen us try to
improve the total amount of those body weight loss. We're also trying to improve, further
improve, I should say, the change in body mass composition, and that's why you saw us acquire
Versanis [ph] and experiment with drugs like bimagrumab.
The numbers you quote from the tirzepatide and semaglutide studies seem right to me. Of
course, they're not head-to-head studies, but it does raise a question here about whether
there's a potential benefit of GIP-1 -- GIP agonism here in addition to GLP-1 agonism. That's
probably the way I would interpret this data.
A - `Joseph Fletcher, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Dan. Paul, next question.
Operator
The next question is coming from `Evan Seigerman, BMO Capital Markets from BMO Capital Markets. Evan, your line is
live.
Q - `Evan Seigerman, BMO Capital Markets `
Hi, all. Thank you for taking my question. I would love to get your take on how you're thinking
about the opportunity for the oral GLP-1s. We've seen some mixed data from competitors, and I
just would love to get how you see this evolving in context of your investment in orforglipron?
Thank you.
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Evan, for the question. Patrik, maybe I'll let you talk about how we think about an oral
agent.
A - `Patrik Jonsson, Executive Vice President President, Lilly Diabetes and Obesity President, Lilly `
Thank you very much. When we look at the opportunity in obesity, we have more than $110 million
in the U.S., we have $650 million globally. I think taking into account the current supply constraints
across markets, it's impossible to reach all of those with injectables. So, I think that's the big
opportunity with orforglipron.
And what we have seen so far in Phase 2, if we can replicate those data in Phase 3, we have an
oral medicine here with a weight loss along the lines of the best competitive incretin, not at the
level of tirzepatide, but at the level of the best incretin in the marketplace and with no food or
water restrictions.So we really see the opportunity here with orforglipron to reach patients across the globe. And
there is another component as well, if we look at the current, approximately 20% of patients with
obesity are actually concerned to take an injectable. So, that's another opportunity we have with
orforglipron. So, we believe that's a really strong card in our hands moving forward in the space
of chronic weight management.
A - `Joseph Fletcher, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Patrik. Paul, next question.
Operator
Next question is from `Steve Scala, TD Cowen from Cowen. Steve, your line is live.
Q - `Steve Scala, TD Cowen `
Thank you so much. There could be several reasons, why Lilly is not initiating a Phase 3 trial of
tirzepatide in NASH. First, Lilly believes it has better molecules. Second, there's something in the
Phase 2 data, which is less than ideal. Or third, Lilly will do a Phase 3. It just hasn't gotten around
to finalizing plans. But that really can't be it. To draw a parallel, you're starting a Phase 3 with LPA,
without even telling us the Phase 2 is positive. So, what would be best for us to conclude about
tirzepatide in NASH? Thank you.
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Steve.
A - `Daniel Skovronsky, Executive Vice President, Chief Scientific and Medical Officer, President of `
Yes, thanks, Steve, for the clever analysis here. So, first of all, I should just say, we literally just got
this Phase 2 data. So, give us a chance to determine our next steps on plans. Probably I debunk at
least one of the hypotheses here. There's nothing bad in the data that would stop us from going
to Phase 3.
In terms of having a better molecule, probably we do in retatrutide, of course, we don't have that
kind of Phase 2 data here for retatrutide. And so that's based on liver fat reduction, which was
just incredible in the Phase 2 trial. Still though, I think, having a positive Phase 2 trial here with really
a meaningful data in NASH obligates us to think about next steps. As I said, that's going to the
FDA to talk to them.
I would say in terms of planning of Phase 3 for any drug in NASH, but really important priority for
us is to move away as much as we can from liver biopsies and replace them with non-invasive
testing. I think we and others in the field have made a lot of progress there.
We see analogies here to other disease areas, and we hope that in the future it will be possible
to conduct Phase 3 NASH trials without relying on biopsies. That would really have a profound
effect on the feasibility of running these trials quickly, but also in the clinical application of NASH
drugs, where those non-invasive biomarkers could be used to identify patients for treatment and
monitor their response to therapy, rather than biopsies.
A - `Joseph Fletcher, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Dan. Paul, next question.Operator
The next question is from `Chris Shibutani, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. Chris, your line is live.
Q - `Chris Shibutani, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you. Duration of use of the GLP-1s across the diabetes and obesity populations, previously
you've characterized the duration in the range of 15 months for diabetes and have commented
that you don't believe we have enough experience. Any updates there? And when do you think
we will have enough experience to be able to get a better gauge of duration of use median in
the obesity population, at least initially?
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Chris. Patrik, do you want to comment on duration of therapy?
A - `Patrik Jonsson, Executive Vice President President, Lilly Diabetes and Obesity President, Lilly `
Yeah. Thank you very much, Chris. I think you're right. It's quite challenging. It's still early days with
both Mounjaro and particularly Zepbound, and we have been facing some specific dynamics in
terms of supply and also changes to the co-pay program.
However, when we look at the recent data for Mounjaro, it's encouraging, and it suggests that
patients that start therapy back in Q1, 2023, are having a persistency at least along the lines of
other injectable -- routines.
For Zepbound, definitely too early, but we strongly believe that patients will be motivated, when
they see the benefits of the drug, and that will, of course, be many factors impacting both supply,
macroeconomic and microeconomic, but we are convinced that there will be a finite duration of
treatment also for obesity, since when we look into even heart failure and type 2 diabetes, more
than a 12-month period of adherence is considered long. But encouraging data in type 2 diabetes
so far, and with Zepbound, we will see, but that we will facility an end of duration based upon
what we have seen in other chronic diseases, but we believe that the features itself will be
motivating for patients.
A - `Joseph Fletcher, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Patrik. Paul, next question.
Operator
The next question is coming from `Akash Tewari, Jefferies from Jefferies. Akash, your line is live.
Q - `Akash Tewari, Jefferies `
Hey. Thanks so much. So, David, at JPMorgan, you made an interesting comment on orforglipron,
where you mentioned the molecule has lots to prove here. Can you elaborate a bit on what you
mean by this? And what's your confidence on orfo's DDI profile, it seems to have a bit of CYP3A4
inhibition. So, will this drug be able to get dosed with SGLT2s, given they were excluded in some
of your earlier studies? Thanks.
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `Sorry, that was for me? I mean, I can frame like why I said that, but maybe Dan can comment on
the specific DDI questions in SGLT2 co-administration. I just said that, because we're just starting
the Phase 3 and we all know small molecule, there's a bit of empiricism in terms of eliminating
safety risks. And of course, every day, as we expose more patients to the drug and we have
higher doses, that's a good day, where we don't announce that the drug has a problem.
At some point, we reach a lot of confidence. We just weren't at that point. We're not at it now. I
think we're running the Phase 3 experiment, and we need to discharge the off-target safety that
is, I think, inherent in small molecule discovery. And we've seen in this class from others, but
nothing specific on my mind. Maybe Dan can further reassure us.
A - `Daniel Skovronsky, Executive Vice President, Chief Scientific and Medical Officer, President of `
Yeah, thanks. But Dave, of course, it's just the normal Phase 3 types of risk, but new safety
signals, which could always arise.
I think with respect to DDI and co-administration with STLT2s, we expect that to be possible, and
we have that ongoing in our Phase 3 trials. There are patients, who achieve, will be dosed with,
are being dosed with orforglipron as well as other drugs like STLT2s.
A - `Joseph Fletcher, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks, both. Paul, next question.
Operator
The next question is from `Trung Huynh, UBS from UBS. Trung, your line is live.
Q - `Trung Huynh, UBS `
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. Can I just ask your thoughts on GIP agonism versus
antagonism, given data yesterday from a competitor suggesting more limited effects on things
like blood pressure and lipid modifications? Just how differentiated do you think an agonism
approach is versus antagonism, and why you think agonism is the way forward? Thank you.
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Dan?
A - `Daniel Skovronsky, Executive Vice President, Chief Scientific and Medical Officer, President of `
Yeah, well, first of all, it's an unfair comparison, we have so much data now on the benefits of GIP
agonism from tens of thousands of participants in randomized clinical trials for tirzepatide. So,
we're extremely confident here about the benefits of GIP agonism.
Adding to that data, we have experimented with a pure GIP-1 agonist, that doesn't have any GLP-
1, and we reported the benefits there in our Phase 1 study. We're contrasting that here to a small
Phase 1 study that was recently published with a drug that has both GLP-1 agonism and GIP
antagonism.
I noted in that publication that GIP antagonism is at a much lower affinity, so it probably only starts
to antagonize GIP at very high doses. That's probably a question for that company. But I noted
that, that the high dose is actually an increase in free fatty acids and a complete attenuation of
the decrease in triglycerides in the clinical trial. Those are some effects that we attribute to GIP,and so I'm not surprised that antagonism of GIP is starting to have some negative effects once
that kicks in.
We also see GIP agonism as having positive benefits on tolerability, reducing potentially nausea
and vomiting. And again, I think, maybe at the higher dose, you could probably see some hints of
the opposite effect with antagonism. So, pretty glad with the decision we took, and let's see how
the field continues to evolve.
A - `Joseph Fletcher, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Dan. Paul, next question.
Operator
The next question is from `Carter Gould, Barclays from Barclays. Carter, your line is live.
Q - `Carter Gould, Barclays `
Great. Good morning. Thanks for taking the questions. I guess over the prior two earnings calls,
there have been at least an acknowledgment that CMOs were going to be part of the equation
going forward for supply on the incretin side. I guess does the developments yesterday have any
sort of direct or indirect impacts, as you think about that part of the equation going forward.
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Carter. Anat, do you want to field that?
A - `Anat Ashkenazi, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. So, we've, and I've mentioned on this call as well, that we have a very expensive manu
expansion agenda, which does include third parties. While our strategy is and has always been to
develop more internally, we do have third parties as well. So, we have -- we saw the
announcement that came out from Novo yesterday, regarding the intent to acquire Catalent, and
we certainly have questions about that transaction and need to learn more.
And we don't know Catalent is an integral part or manufacturer of both commercial and pipeline
products for the industry, especially in diabetes and obesity. And we have products with these
sites as well. So, our focus today is on ensuring that continuity of supply of medicine for patients
is uninterrupted, as well as we intend on holding Catalent accountable to their contract with us, as
we look and we gain more information on this proposed transaction.
A - `Joseph Fletcher, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you. Paul, next question.
Operator
The next question is coming from `James Shin, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank. James, your line is live.
Q - `James Shin, Deutsche Bank `
Hi, good morning. Thanks for taking the question. I just want to circle back to the Carter's
question. Given Lily is well capitalized and manufacturing capacity being the priority. I mean, could
you expect more buy versus build to get around some of the technical bottlenecks and the non-
trivial FDA process? I just want to get your thoughts there.A - `Joseph Fletcher, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations `
Dave?
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, maybe I'll give it a shot. Thanks for the question, James. As I mentioned on the earlier
question related to orforglipron, we are not -- we don't think of ourselves as capital constrained
buying or building in the space. The reality is there just isn't build capacity that's available. Most of
it that's being used is already deployed against the leading products in the GLP-1 space, at least
any at scale. And new capacity has a lead time of three to four years. So, all of the things that are
coming online now, like we mentioned today, our very large site in Concord, North Carolina, that's
a big node of capacity for the sector and certainly for Lilly.
I mean, that was announced 2.5 years ago, and it will just begin production at the end of this year.
So, that's the problem. And why is that? Well, of course, greenfield building is difficult,
repurposing is difficult, but also these are technically complex facilities. There's not an infinite
number of people, who know how to set them up. And the supply chain for the machines that
make the products is also constrained.
So, at this point, I don't think there's an easy way forward. And I think even in yesterday's
announcements, we have a lot of questions about that. But I think even the purchaser or our
competitors said, it will take many years for them to be able to increase capacity within that
purchase.
So, it's just not an easy problem to solve. I think that over time it will ease, there'll be more
capacity brought online by us or competitor and maybe others, including third parties and new
technology will emerge like, orforglipron or other oral options that tap into different asset bases.
So, I know, it's frustrating for investors, it's frustrating for us. It's even more frustrating for
patients, but yes, it's just sort of the situation we're in, is there'll be steady gains in manufacturing
over the coming several years and perhaps bigger gains after that.
A - `Joseph Fletcher, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Dave. Paul, next question.
Operator
Next question is from `Rajesh Kumar, HSBC from HSBC. Rajesh, your line is live.
Q - `Rajesh Kumar, HSBC `
Hi there. Can you give us some color on, how the access with employers is playing out? Are you
getting exclusive access for your drugs, or you're being added to the existing access your
competitors' drugs have?
And what is the nature of discussion, especially given that, the pound is priced at a more
attractive list price? I'm assuming with rebate, differences might be a bit smaller, but any color
there might be super helpful.
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `Yeah, thanks, Rajesh. I think we covered that in `Chris Schott, JPMorgan's question earlier. I don't know if Patrik
have anything to add, or if we could just move on.
A - `Patrik Jonsson, Executive Vice President President, Lilly Diabetes and Obesity President, Lilly `
I think the only addition would be that we are always aiming for open access. We believe that's
important for the providers and the patients we are serving, so that's going to be our aim, when
it comes to employer opt-in as well. And we believe a move by pricing Zepbound 22% below the
competition, despite launching with a best-in-class profile, is also a good signal for increased and
enhanced employer opt-in.
A - `Joseph Fletcher, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thanks. Thank you, Patrik. Paul, next question? I think we have time for maybe two more.
Operator
Certainly. The next question is from `Andrew Baum, Citigroup from Citi. Andrew, your line is live.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Citigroup `
Thank you. Could you talk to your scenario planning for post-2032, when the potential exists for
generic semaglutide to be launched? There seems to be significant interest and investment in
capacity expansion. Now, obviously, this is complex, as you outlined, given not just API, but fit and
finish and IP and the rest of it.
But I'm just curious how you think about that in terms of future-proofing your business against
step-edits and other thinking about your broader incretin portfolio.
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Andrew. It's a very long-term question. I'll pass it over to Anat to talk about 2032 and
beyond.
A - `Anat Ashkenazi, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
We do look at 2032 and we actually do look beyond. And the way we look at our business, it is a
long-term business. It's not a business that changes every year or two. So, we do look at the
long-term horizon, both in terms of the commercial products, as well as what's coming through
the pipeline.
And as we think through the events of that next freeze, whether for our products or those of
competitors, our way of managing through that is to bring new breakthrough innovation to the
marketplace. So, to raise the bar on our own innovation, we don't wait for that to occur or happen
by competition, but to bring something into the market that provides a meaningfully improved
outcome for patients.
So, in this specific example, you use the GLPs, surely tirzepatide brought in a higher bar for
weight loss for patients with chronic weight management. And retatrutide that Dan referenced in
his comments currently in Phase 3 has the potential to bring even further improved outcome for
patients. So, that's how we see that.
In terms of capacity and whether the question is on whether companies should be or shouldn't
be building, given that there is a patent expiry at the end. We do look at that and we look at thewe've just mentioned, whether it's in Concord, North Carolina or Research Triangle Park between
the two of them, it's about a $4 billion investment, are certainly a good investments of our capital
given that size of opportunity over the long term.
I will say that, as you think about potential for either generic or biosimilar entry in this space in
general, it will require quite a massive investment in capital. Just the sites that I've mentioned
today on the call, and we've talked about for the past year or so, total about $11 billion, and that's
on top of already substantial network we have around the globe, primarily in the U.S. and Europe,
for production. So, as you think about entering into that space, it will require some significant
capital commitments.
A - `Joseph Fletcher, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Anat. Maybe the final question, Paul, and then we'll wrap up.
Operator
Certainly. The next question is from `Tim Anderson, Wolfe Research from Wolfe Research. Tim, your line is live.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Wolfe Research `
Oh, thank you so much. So, one of the competitive data sets, obviously, everyone's watching is
the Amgen data this year. And their messaging is around, longer dosing frequency, monthly
dosing, and then possibly a greater effect of weight loss off therapy.
So, can you comment on your value -- on your views of the value of extended dosing, like
monthly or longer? And then do you believe in that argument about efficacy being sustained off
therapy or is that just a function of the fact that this drug lasts longer?
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Dan.
A - `Daniel Skovronsky, Executive Vice President, Chief Scientific and Medical Officer, President of `
Yeah. I'll start with the second and then maybe Patrik will weigh in on potential value here. But
although that could be a good question for Amgen.
Look, I think, the sustainability data I saw in that publication are a bit underwhelming. You know, it's
a very high dose drug at half-life of an antibody. So, just based on plasma concentrations that
would be extended to remain there after a month or two. It doesn't surprise me, but what we're
seeing is that doses that are reasonably well tolerated, if there were any doses that are
reasonably well tolerated, our weight loss is lower than what we would need to see to take a
molecule to Phase 3 for sure and sustainability doesn't appear to be at all differentiated.
A - `Patrik Jonsson, Executive Vice President President, Lilly Diabetes and Obesity President, Lilly `
My only addition would be that, when we look at the market research, of course, convenience is
one factor, but it's not necessarily the most important factor, when it comes to provider and
consumer selecting treatments. So, I'm really excited about the cards we have in our hands. Of
course, tirzepatide remaining a foundational treatment for obesity, but also with the addition of
retatrutide and orforglipron. And also, the opportunity is here to look into options with additional
non-weight loss dependent pharmacology to complement the assets we have in the pipeline.A - `Joseph Fletcher, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you both. Dave, do you want to wrap this up?
A - `David A. Ricks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, absolutely. That's good, Joe. Thanks. We appreciate everyone participating today, and of
course, your interest in the company.
2023 was a really productive year for Lilly, and we look forward to continued momentum in 2024,
with a strong guide today. Thanks again for dialing in, and please follow-up with Joe and the IR
team if you have additional questions that weren't answered. Thanks.
A - `Joseph Fletcher, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude our conference for today. This conference
will be made available for replay beginning at 1 pm today running through February 20th at
midnight. You may access the replay system at any time by dialing 800-332-6854, and entering
the access code 187676. International dialers can call 973-528-0005. Again, those numbers are
800-332-6854 and 973-528-0005, with the access code 187676.
Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect your lines.