Q4 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Lilly Q4 2024 Earnings Call.
At this time, all participants are on a listen-only mode. Later, we will be conducting a question-
and-answer session, and instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions).
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations, Senior Vice President of
Investor Relations. Mike, please go ahead.
`Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Good morning. Thank you for joining us for Eli Lilly and Company's Q4 2024 earnings call. I'm Mike
Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Joining me on today's call are Dave Ricks,
Lilly's Chair and CEO; Dr.Dan Skovronsky, Chief Scientific Officer and President of Lilly
Immunology; `Lucas Montarce, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Chief Financial Officer; Anne White, President of Lilly Neuroscience;
Ilya Yuffa, President of Lilly International; Jake Van Naarden, President of Lilly Oncology; and Patrik
Jonsson, President of Lilly Cardiometabolic Health and Lilly USA. We're also joined by Marc
Kemen, Wes Taul, and Wai Wong of the Investor Relations Team.During the call, we anticipate making projections and forward-looking statements based on our
current expectations. Our actual results could differ materially due to several factors, including
those listed on Slide 4. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to
differ materially is contained in our latest Form 10-K and subsequent filings with the SEC.
The information we provide about our products and pipeline is for the benefit of the investment
community. It is not intended to be promotional and is not sufficient for prescribing decisions. As
we transition to our prepared remarks, please note that our commentary will focus on our non-
GAAP financial measures.
Now I'll turn the call over to Dave.
`David A. Ricks, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, thanks, Mike. 2024 was a productive year for Lilly. We grew our top line, advanced our
pipeline, and invested in our supply chain to meet the increasing demand for our medicines. Most
importantly, we delivered for patients by bringing life-changing medicines to more people around
the world.
In 2024, our full-year revenue grew 32% compared to 2023, exceeding our first-time guidance by
$4 billion. Revenue grew 45% in the most recent quarter as our recently launched products
gained momentum. Last year, we announced positive Phase 3 results for imlunestrant, insulin
efsitora alfa, and three additional tirzepatide trials. We also started Phase 3 programs for
lepodisiran, remternetug, and olomorasib based on positive earlier phase data.
We continued to complement our pipeline through acquisitions and collaborations. We acquired
Morphic Therapeutics and announced a collaboration with OpenAI to invent novel antimicrobials.
We opened the Lilly Seaport Innovation Center in Boston as a hub for Lilly's genetic medicines
efforts, and announced a new Lilly Gateway Lab in the UK to collaborate with European research.
We advanced our manufacturing agenda, announcing investments to expand our footprint in
Indiana, in Wisconsin, and in Ireland.
Since 2020, our commitments to build, expand, and acquire manufacturing facilities now total
more than $23 billion. Importantly, we brought innovative new medicines to patients. In 2024, we
received regulatory approvals for Kisunla, Ebglyss, and a new indication for Zepbound in OSA.
This progress strengthens our portfolio of new products and enhances our capacity to drive top-
tier growth and margin expansion.
As you can see on Slide 5, we continue to make progress against our strategic deliverables in Q4.
Revenue grew 45% in our new products, growing by more than $3.1 billion, led by a strong uptake
of Mounjaro and Zepbound. Q4 also saw solid performance across oncology, immunology, and
neuroscience. Our business, excluding incretins, grew by 20% in the quarter compared to Q4
2023, excluding the one-time benefits of business development.
Since our last earnings call, we achieved several key pipeline milestones. We received approval
for a new indication of Zepbound and Omvoh. We submitted imlunestrant for metastatic breast
cancer and tirzepatide for heart failure. We also announced positive Phase 3 results in the
SURMOUNT-5 study, where Zepbound demonstrated a 47% greater relative weight loss
compared to Wegovy.
We strengthened our overall supply position and delivered on our production target to make 1.5x
the saleable doses of incretin medicines in the second half of '24 compared to the second half of
'23. With more patients using Lilly Direct, the uptake of single-use Zepbound vials increased. Wehad no wholesaler back orders as we closed 2024, and wholesalers have been fulfilling orders
from pharmacies at very high levels.
We continue to augment our internal pipeline with external innovation, announcing plans to
acquire Scorpion Therapeutics' mutant-selective PI3Ka inhibitor program. This transaction will add
a clinical-stage breast cancer asset to our oncology pipeline.
And lastly, we returned $3 billion to shareholders via dividends and share repurchases. In addition
to that, we announced at the end of the year a $15 billion share repurchase program and the
seventh consecutive 15% increase in our quarterly dividend. On Slide 6, you'll see a full list of key
events since our Q3 call, including the milestones I mentioned here, and several other updates.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Lucas to review our Q4 and 2024 full-year results and provide
details on the '25 guidance.
`Lucas Montarce, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Dave. Slide 7, summarizes our financial performance in the fourth quarter and Slide 8 for
the full year. As Dave mentioned, our revenue grew 45% in Q4, primarily driven by Mounjaro and
Zepbound. Performance of our non-incretin portfolio was also strong as revenue grew 20%,
excluding one-time payments related to business development.
Gross margin as a percentage of revenue increased to 83.2% in Q4, primarily impacted by
favorable product mix. R&D expenses increased 18% from continued investment in our early and
late-stage portfolio. In total, we started eight new Phase 3 programs in 2024 and advanced
several new assets into the clinic.
Marketing, selling, and administrative expenses increased 26%, mainly driven by promotional
efforts to support ongoing and future launches. This includes U.S. direct-to-consumer advertising
on Zepbound and Mounjaro, and U.S. launch activities for Kisunla and Ebglyss.
We also increased our commercial investment outside the U.S. to support international launches
of Mounjaro. Operating income more than doubled, increasing to $5.6 billion, driven by higher
revenue from new products. The effective tax rate was 13.2%. We delivered earnings per share of
$5.32, inclusive of $0.19 of acquired IPR&D charges. This compares to $2.49 in Q4 2023, that
includes $0.62 of acquired IPR&D.
On Slide 9, we quantify the effect of price, rate, and volume on revenue growth. U.S. revenue
increased 40% in Q4, driven by robust volume growth of 45%. Zepbound and Mounjaro were
again the largest growth contributors, partially offset by declines in Trulicity. Realized prices
decreased 5% in the U.S., due to favorable changes to estimate for rebates and discounts
related to Mounjaro in Q4 2023.
Europe revenue grew 82% in constant currency. We continue to be pleased with the uptake of
Mounjaro and have now launched in all major European markets. In addition to growth from
Mounjaro, European revenue benefited from one-time payment associated with the amendment
of our alliance with Boehringer Ingelheim. This was recorded in Jardiance revenue in Q4.
Excluding this one-time payment, Europe revenue grew 61%.
Japan revenue grew 27% in constant currency. Volume growth was driven by Mounjaro, Omvoh,
Jardiance, and Verzenio. In China, revenue increased 13% in constant currency. Tyvyt and Verzenio
drove volume growth. Mounjaro was recently made available in China and will proceed with a
limited launch as supply becomes available. We expect modest initial Mounjaro sales in China duerest of the world grew 46% in constant currency, driven by volume growth of Mounjaro and
Verzenio.
Slide 10 provides an update on our performance of new and growth products. New products
more than doubled in Q4 to $5.6 billion, led by global Mounjaro sales of $3.5 billion and U.S.
Zepbound sales of $1.9 billion. U.S. Zepbound performance is going very well. We began
promotional activities this quarter and we continue to see strong uptake. In Q4, Zepbound
became the market leader in the anti-obesity market as measured by new prescriptions.
As shown on Slide [ph] 11, we -- combined U.S. incretin analog market grew 45% compared to Q4
2023. We increased 3 percentage points in share of market in Q4 2024.
Jaypirca worldwide revenue was $114 million, adding another solid quarter of sequential revenue
growth. Worldwide Omvoh revenue increased to $57 million. With the recent FDA approval in
Crohn's disease, we look to drive broader use in an additional patient population.
The Kisunla launch is progressing well and prescriptions in the U.S. have been steadily increasing.
While it is early, we saw positive momentum across key indications -- key indicators, including
volume of diagnostic ordered, access in priority integrated health systems, coverage by Medicare
and commercial plans, and number of infusion sites placing orders.
We are encouraged by the launch of Ebglyss in the U.S. We saw early positive receptivity and high
levels of physician engagement. In addition, we expect commercial access with two of the largest
pharma benefit managers beginning in March. We now plan an accelerated investment in
commercial activities to drive new patient start.
Growth products also performed well as revenue increased by 13% compared to Q4 2023.
Verzenio's growth trajectory continued as U.S. total prescription grew by 15%. In addition to strong
execution in the early breast cancer indication, Verzenio revenue benefited from increased U.S.
wholesaler stocking at year end. Worldwide Trulicity revenue declined 25%, driven by Mounjaro
switches, and to a lesser extent, lower realized prices.
On Slide 12, we provide an update on capital allocation.
Moving to Slide 13 and 14, I will discuss our 2025 financial guidance. As previously shared, we
expect 2025 revenue to be between $58 billion and $61 billion. The midpoint represents
approximately 32% growth compared to 2024. We anticipate continued U.S.'s incretin class
growth, consistent with the trajectory of total prescriptions seen in 2024. We expect to launch
Mounjaro in new markets outside the U.S. and Europe throughout the year. Mounjaro international
revenue will contribute to overall performance more significantly in the second part of 2025.
Given the uptake of newer incretins, we expect Trulicity volume to continue declining as fewer
new patients are starting on Trulicity. We expect oncology, neuroscience, and immunology to also
grow revenue in 2025 as Ebglyss, Jaypirca, Omvoh, and Kisunla launch upticks continue. At the
portfolio level, we anticipate foreign exchange to be a headwind as the dollar has strengthened
relative to other currencies. In addition, we forecast overall net prices to decline by mid to high
single digits in percentage terms, including US Part-D changes.
We continue expanding our manufacturing capacity and estimate to produce 1.6x the amount of
incretin salable doses during the first half of 2025 compared to the first half of 2024. Our facility
in Concord is anticipated to begin shipping medicines this year, and we plan to make continued
progress on expanding our manufacturing network. Our expected ratio of gross margin lessOpEx divided by revenue is expected to be between 41.5% and 43.5%. At the midpoint, this
reflects approximately 340 basis points of margin expansion compared to 2024.
In SG&A, we will continue to invest behind our new launches, including direct-to-consumer efforts
in the U.S. to drive new patient activation. In addition, we plan to increase investment outside the
U.S. to support the launches of Mounjaro in new and existing markets. In R&D, we plan to
accelerate our investment in early and late-phase activities. As Dan will share later, we started
eight new Phase 3 programs in 2024, and anticipate that investment in those programs will ramp
as the studies enroll patients.
We also plan to initiate new Phase 3 programs in 2025. While we keep a high bar for what we
advance into clinical trial [ph] development, we expect to scale our investment in R&D this year.
Other expenses is expected to be $600 million to $700 million driven by interest expense. We
estimate our effective tax rate to be approximately 16%. Earnings per share, or EPS, is expected
to be $22.50 and $24 on a non-GAAP basis. This doesn't include a forecast for charges related to
IPR&D.
Now I will turn the call over to Dan to highlight our progress in R&D and to provide an overview of
potential key events we expect in 2025.
`Daniel M. Skovronsky, Chief Scientific Officer and President of Lilly Immunology `
Thanks, Lucas. Lilly R&D had another productive quarter. I'll cover pipeline progress in Q4, then
the 2024 key events, and finally, provide potential key events for 2025. Since our last earnings
call, two new indications were approved in the U.S., Zepbound for obstructive sleep apnea in
adults with obesity, and Omvoh for moderate to severe Crohn's disease. Both approvals are
important milestones and mark an expansion in the number of patients who can benefit from
each of these medicines.
Moving to regulatory submissions, we completed submissions in the U.S. and EU for tirzepatide
for heart failure and global submissions for imlunestrant for metastatic breast cancer and for
Jaypirca with the BRUIN CLL-321 data. I'm also pleased to share that we've submitted an update
to the Kisunla U.S. label to include the dosing modification data from TRAILBLAZER-ALZ 6, and the
FDA has granted this submission a priority review.
In our Phase 3 portfolio, we initiated a new program for orforglipron in obstructive sleep apnea.
This program includes two studies under the same master protocol to evaluate if people with
obstructive sleep apnea and obesity can benefit from orforglipron.
After Zepbound was approved in the U.S. as the first and only prescription medicine for
obstructive sleep apnea, we're excited to explore if an oral GLP-1 can also deliver a benefit in this
disease. Earlier in the pipeline, we advanced the second oral GLP-1 into Phase 2 in obesity and
advanced eltrekibart into Phase 2 for ulcerative colitis. Three Phase 2 assets and one Phase 1
asset have been discontinued based on clinical readouts. In Q4, we also began Phase 1 studies
for four new molecules, one in each of our therapeutic areas.
Q4 capped off a productive year of advancing new medicines at Lilly. In total over the year, we
started eight new Phase 3 programs. We disclosed Phase 3 data from 21 trials, including 17 major
publications in top-tier medical journals. We received regulatory approvals for two new medicines,
Ebglyss and Kisunla, as well as many new indications around the world. And we added 14 new
programs to the early phase pipeline.On Slide 16, we detail these outcomes for our 2024 milestones. I'm pleased that nearly all of our
anticipated milestones came to fruition positively in 2024.
Turning our focus to 2025, Slide 17 shows key R&D milestones we expect this year. Starting with
our late-stage portfolio, we expect to initiate two new Phase 3 programs this year. First, in
oncology, we'll begin an adjuvant non-small-cell lung cancer Phase 2 program for our KRAS G12C
inhibitor olomorasib, building on its ability to be administered with immunotherapy.
Our current metastatic program is progressing well, and we've aligned with the FDA on our
Phase 3 dose through the Project Optimus pathway. We shared a clinical update at the World
Conference on Lung Cancer last fall, and we are encouraged by the ability to safely combine
olomorasib with other agents.
Our new Phase 3 program will focus on moving to an earlier setting in combining with existing
approved agents in both resectable and unresectable KRAS G12C mutant lung cancer to prevent
cancer from recurring. The second program is in cardiometabolic health, where we plan to initiate
a Phase 3 trial for orforglipron in hypertension, adding to the ongoing trials in type 2 diabetes,
obesity, and obstructive sleep apnea.
I'm excited that this year we're looking forward to reading out multiple orforglipron trials. We
expect to see data from up to five studies in type 2 diabetes and two studies in obesity. Our goal
is to generate efficacy, safety, and tolerability profile that is similar to that of an injectable single-
acting GLP-1, but through an orally available medicine. The first orforglipron Phase 3 trial to read
out will be ACHIEVE-1, which is a 40-week study in patients with type 2 diabetes. These patients
have a baseline hemoglobin A1c between 7% and 9.5% and a body mass index of 23 or greater.
The trial utilizes six escalating doses in four-week increments to a maximum dose of 36
milligrams.
Based on prior studies of orforglipron, as well as other GLP-1 therapies, we expect weight loss in
people with diabetes to be significantly less than in people living with obesity who do not have
diabetes. We anticipate ACHIEVE-1 will read out in Q2 this year, followed by up to four additional
type 2 diabetes trials in the second half of 2025 and a potential submission for this indication in
2026.
The orforglipron Phase 3 trials in people with obesity, ATTAIN-1 and ATTAIN-2, are expected to
read out in Q3 of this year. These trials will form the basis of our first orforglipron regulatory
submissions, which will be for the treatment of obesity, and we expect to occur late in 2025. This
year, we also expect data from the tirzepatide cardiovascular outcome study, SURPASS-CVOT. Of
course, this is an event-based trial, and the timeline is dependent on the accrual of cardiovascular
events.
We anticipate data in Q3. While designed to measure both non-inferiority and superiority
compared to Trulicity, the positive outcome in either would demonstrate that tirzepatide reduces
the risk of cardiovascular outcomes and would support a labeled indication.
Late this year, we expect to see the first data from our triple-acting incretin, retatrutide, which
combines GLP-1, GIP, and glucagon. We believe this potential new medicine can deliver even
more weight loss than tirzepatide and could potentially provide additional health benefits. The
initial study to read out, TRIUMPH-4, is a 68-week study in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee
who have a body mass index of 27 or greater.
We'll also see multiple additional Jaypirca datasets this year. Physician feedback is very positive
on experience with Jaypirca in the currently approved indications, and we hope that generatingdata in earlier lines of therapy will enable broader use within CLL and MCL. We could see data
from additional trials in the first line or BTK-naive settings this year.
Moving to neurodegeneration, while we don't have a key event listed in 2025 for donanemab,
we're closely watching the preclinical Alzheimer's disease study, TRAILBLAZER-ALZ 3. This trial
screened patients with a blood-based diagnostic and utilized a fixed duration of treatment with
the donanemab. By moving earlier in disease progression, the goal is to reduce the risks of
developing any symptoms of Alzheimer's disease. While the current primary completion is
projected for 2027, the study will read out when the target number of progression events are
accrued.
A new focus area for us in 2025 will be to study potential new applications of incretin biology
across diseases in neuroscience and immunology. With a pipeline of incretins in clinical
development and deep scientific expertise in this space, Lilly is well positioned to match the
biologic properties of specific molecules to the desired indications being studied. We plan to
start several clinical trials, assessing potential benefits of our incretins in areas that could include
brain health, substance use disorder, pain, neuropsychiatry, and inflammation. We'll be prepared
to move rapidly into Phase 3 trials based on clinical data and where our conviction is high.
Lastly, we expect a number of important regulatory submissions in 2025, including orforglipron
for obesity, as I detailed, insulin efsitora alfa for type 2 diabetes, tirzepatide for cardiovascular
outcomes, and multiple potential data sets for Jaypirca. 2025 will be another exciting year for Lilly
R&D.
Now I'll turn the call back to Dave for some closing remarks.
`David A. Ricks, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, thanks, Dan. So we had a strong financial performance in Q4 and throughout 2024. We
finished $4 billion above our first-time revenue guide and $4 per share above our first-time EPS
guide when taking IPR&D charges into account.
The incretin market continues to grow rapidly, and Mounjaro and Zepbound are both gaining
share of market. We believe both products are still very early in their launch cycle. In addition, our
oncology, immunology, and neuroscience therapeutic areas continue to progress, launching new
medicines and delivering strong revenue growth.
We have an exciting outlook for growth in 2025 as well. New indications, new manufacturing
capacities, new access opportunities, and new markets are all tailwinds to our financial
performance. We made significant advances across our pipeline in 2024 and have several
exciting readouts, which Dan just highlighted, expected throughout 2025.
So now, let me turn the call over to Mike to moderate our Q&A session.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Thanks, Dave. We'd like to take questions from as many callers as possible and conclude our call
on time. So to that end, consistent with prior quarters, we will respond to one question per caller,and we will end at 11 a.m. If you have more than one question, you may re-enter the queue, and
we will get to your question if time allows. Paul, please provide the instructions for the Q&A, and
we're ready to take the first caller.
Operator
Thank you. At this time, we'll be conducting a question-and-answer session. (Operator
Instructions) And the first question today is coming from `Tim Anderson, Bank of America Securities from Bank of America.
Tim, your line is live.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Bank of America Securities `
Thanks so much. Just a question on the guidance, the 2025 guidance. So I think everyone knows,
the prescription uptake trend didn't show acceleration, hasn't shown it yet. That's been viewed
by some as a concern. Does the 2025 guidance require acceleration, or can you get there if
scripts just continue on the same trajectory and the slope of that line doesn't change? When I do
back-of-the-envelope math, it seems like that's, frankly, all that needs to occur, and one of your
slides suggests that might be the right way to think about it as well. But can you just confirm?
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Great. Thanks, Tim, for the question. We'll go to Lucas to talk about the guidance assumptions.
A - `Lucas Montarce, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, we mentioned in my notes that what we expect to see, Tim, is a continuation of basically the
total prescription growth that we have seen in 2024. So that's what we built in our 2025 guide --
A - `David A. Ricks, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
To the market.
A - `Lucas Montarce, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
For the market. Yes.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Bank of America Securities `
Great.
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is coming from `Terence Flynn, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. `Terence Flynn, Morgan Stanley from
Morgan Stanley. Terrence, your line is live.
Q - `Terence Flynn, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thanks so much. I was just wondering if you could maybe elaborate on your expectations
for Zepbound payer dynamics and access this year, particularly the impact from the OSA label. I
know you've also filed for heart failure, and how you expect that to play out over the course ofthe year. And then anything on next steps on the compounding litigation that we should be
focused on. Thank you.
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Dangerously close to a two-part question there, Terence, but we'll go to Patrik to talk about
access, and then I'll come back to Dave to make a quick comment about compounding.
A - `Patrik Jonsson, Executive Vice President President, Lilly Cardiometabolic Health President, Lilly `
Thank you very much. When we look at the commercial access, it remains strong with 87%
coverage in the commercial space, still and of course, the employer opt-in is the second step of
high importance. That made progress in 2024, and we expect in terms of employer opt-in that
were north of 50% today. OSA remains an opportunity for us to gain access also in the Medicare
segment. And CMS confirmed recently that they will reimburse OSA if Plan D plans decides to list
it. And they have 180 days to make that decision from the FDA approval. And we're working with
plans right now and we anticipate to get some Medicare coverage by the second half of this year.
And similarly, OSA is also an opportunity for us to get more Medicaid states signed in. We expect
HFpEF when and if approved to have a similar role as OSA, an access opportunity, particularly in
Medicare and Medicaid.
A - `David A. Ricks, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So regarding compounding, I think our position's been pretty clear. We've been in supply
since August and FDA took us off the list formally, later in Q4, of course, the compounding
associations are suing to delay that. We oppose that, haven't joined that suit. I think the next date
coming up is February 18th where the FDA said that's when you need to stop one form of
compounding.
Our position's been clear all along. We don't think there's a place for this, because we have full
supply and there's no reason to have a non-approved, kind of illegitimate product out there. So
of course, new sheriff in town, new government, and court case pending. So we don't know the
outcome of all that. But that all said, I mean, I think our business is growing nicely in Q4 and we
can see that in prescription trends early this year. It's just an unsafe practice that shouldn't exist
and long-term probably isn't great for innovators. So we'd like to move on from this and hope
that's what the courts and the government decide to do.
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Great, thanks Dave and Patrik. Next caller, please.
Operator
The next question is coming from `Courtney Breen, Bernstein from Bernstein. Courtney, your line is live.
Q - `Courtney Breen, Bernstein `
Hi, everyone, thanks for taking the call today. I just wanted to zoom in to orforglipron specifically,
and I think made -- you took the chance to make the point about diabetes and diabetes
population and their weight loss. Can you just talk a little bit more about kind of the potential
positioning, particularly in the context of kind of that single injectable GLP-1 kind of anticipated
efficacy that you were guiding to?
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor RelationsGreat, thanks Courtney. We'll go to Dan to talk about the right comp for orforglipron.
A - `Daniel M. Skovronsky, Chief Scientific Officer and President of Lilly Immunology `
Yes, sure. I'll start on the efficacy expectations and then maybe Patrik can talk about the market
positioning here. So you're right, it's a single GLP-1 and we take pains to have mentioned that,
because we're not expecting the kinds of efficacy or tolerability actually that we see with
tirzepatide which is a dual acting agent.
Still, as you know, monotherapy with GLP-1 has provided important benefits to many patients, and
so we're setting our sights there. This is a first study in type 2 diabetes patients where, as I
noted, weight loss is typically quite a bit lower than you see in people without type 2 diabetes. So
we sort of index on the efficacy that we've seen in the past with Ozempic, and we'll get that data
soon and excited to see it. Patrik?
A - `Patrik Jonsson, Executive Vice President President, Lilly Cardiometabolic Health President, Lilly `
And from a positioning perspective, we like the idea of having an oral with an injectable GLP-1 like
efficacy, and there is a big portion of patients that actually have needle fear. It's estimated in the
U.S. to be 20% to 25%, and also a group of patients that doesn't necessarily need the amount of
weight loss or HbA1c reduction as tirzepatide generates. So that might be an opportunity in the
maintenance space as well. But lastly and very importantly, it's an opportunity to scale in markets
outside the U.S. taking into account that we don't have a need for refrigeration.
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Great. Thanks, Patrik and Dan. Next caller, please.
Operator
The next question is coming from `Chris Schott, J.P. Morgan from J.P. Morgan. Chris, your line is live.
Q - `Chris Schott, J.P. Morgan `
Great. Thanks so much. Just another orforglipron question. You've now launched a pretty wide
range of studies, I guess, to hypertension beyond the initial obesity and type 2 diabetes studies.
Can you just elaborate a little bit more on what gives you confidence in running such a wide range
of programs without having seen those initial readouts, particularly maybe some of the tolerability
profiles with the drugs titration, et cetera? I'm just trying to think of how you balance kind of the
risk-taking there with the confidence in the asset you have right now. Thank you.
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Great. Thanks, Chris. We'll go to Dan for that question.
A - `Daniel M. Skovronsky, Chief Scientific Officer and President of Lilly Immunology `
Yes. Thanks, Chris. It's a smart question. Of course, going into Phase 3 with any drug, particularly
a small molecule such as orforglipron, the biggest risk is safety. And I think as these trials
proceed, even though we're not seeing the safety data, we grow more confident in the overall
safety profile of the drug because the trials continue uninterrupted.
Of course, we won't know for sure until we get that first data readout and then subsequent data
readouts. But it's correct that we grow more and more confident in the success of this moleculedon't really factor into our thinking. We haven't had a look at unblinded data for any of those
things. So we can't make assumptions on that yet.
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Great. Thanks, Dan. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question will be from `Geoff Meacham, Citi from Citibank. Geoff, your line is live.
Q - `Geoff Meacham, Citi `
Hey, guys. Thanks for taking the question. Just had one on commercial tirzepatide in bigger
settings like diabetes prevention or if the SURPASS-CVOT is successful. Would these be a tipping
point on broader reimbursement or access? I mean, it's clear you have a benefit there, but I
wasn't sure if commercial payers or Medicare are looking for yet even more data to support kind
of risk-benefit. Thank you.
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Great, thanks, Geoff. We'll go to Patrik to talk about the broader landscape there.
A - `Patrik Jonsson, Executive Vice President President, Lilly Cardiometabolic Health President, Lilly `
Well, thank you very much, Geoff. I think the SURMOUNT-1 extension is definitely defined as
game-changing at the provider level, and we are in discussions, of course, with regulatory
agencies, but there is no precedent for a Type 2 prevention as an indication. But the data itself, I
think, we will utilize to really drive increased employer opt-in, seeing the benefits of outcome
studies and treatment of people with pre-diabetes and obesity.
A - `David A. Ricks, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
Maybe just a broader point, which, we've said before, Geoff, I think a lot of investors are looking
for some single event that will trigger the broad reimbursement or not, and I don't think we've
ever really thought of it that way, but rather an accumulation and sort of weight of everything that
will grow reimbursement steadily over time. And I think that's actually what we've seen since we
launched Zepbound last year, U.S. commercial insurance, picking up several points during the
year, and even ex-U.S. now, we have UK reimbursement, et cetera.
But different payers will make different decisions at different times, and I think the data sets you
mentioned will be some of the more compelling to create moves, but still then, the way
affordability and budget constraints, et cetera. That all said, by the time we get to the end of the
decade, it's hard to imagine we are not using obesity medications to prevent what is the
precursor condition to so many chronic diseases. And already, the health economics are pretty
compelling, and there'll be more data coming beyond that. So long-term, we remain really, really
bullish on this whole category being reimbursed like we expect to reimburse all other
medications. Just the schedule for that is going to be more slow and steady, I would say, as you
model expectations on a global scale and in the U.S. as well, because of the diversity of the
payers.
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Great. Thanks, Dave and Patrik. Next question, please.Operator
The next question will be from Seamus Fernandez from Guggenheim Securities. Seamus, your
line is live.
Q - `Colleen Waltz, Guggenheim Partners
Hi. This is Colleen on for Seamus. Thanks for taking our question. We just wanted to ask on the
sustainability of operating margin expansions, looking at some of the longer-term forecasting
from sell-side consensus. We're seeing estimates nearing 50% by the end of the decade. Do you
view this as realistic, or how are you thinking about the balance between the margins and then
also ensuring you're not under-investigating on the pipeline? Under --
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Great. Thanks for the question, Colleen. We'll go to Lucas to talk about the long-term operating
margin philosophy.
A - `Lucas Montarce, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Well, we are very pleased with the results that we've seen in 2024 and Q4. And we provided a
guidance for 2025 that is a continuation of that margin expansion. I mentioned 340 basis points
expansion in 2025. Thinking more long-term, our view is how we continue to drive growth in a
sustainable manner.
And in order to do so, we believe that reinvesting into the business, in particular in R&D to drive
that innovation and growth into the future is critical success factor for our business. So from that
perspective, we mentioned before that we believe that getting into high 40s or 50% is not
actually a good way to drive that sustainable growth into the future. So what we are seeing now
on that low 40s is in particular at this time, the right basically balance that we have in terms of
investment into the business and also the returns that we generate as well.
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Great, thanks, Lucas. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question will be from Evan Seigerman from BMO Capital Markets. Evan, your line is live.
Q - `Conor MacKay, BMO Capital Markets
Thank you. This is `Conor MacKay, BMO Capital Markets on for Evan. Thanks for taking our question. Given some of the
slower launches we've seen from peers in the Alzheimer's space, can you maybe talk a bit about
the lessons you've taken from those? And then as well as sort of your experience early days in
the Kisunla launch. Thank you.
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Great, thanks, Conor, for the question. We'll go to Anne to talk about Kisunla.
A - `Anne E. White, Executive Vice President and President, Lilly Neuroscience `
Well, thanks so much for the question about Kisunla. And I'll tell you, we are pleased with ourgrowth. That's still a significant area of opportunity in the space. So we're partnering with
healthcare providers to scale and reach more patients. As far as how it's going so far, Lucas
mentioned key indicators that we're watching. To date, we've achieved P&T approvals of over
80% in our key accounts. We have over 800 prescribers. And then an important leading indicator
is the diagnostics front. And those results also continue to be encouraging, and the its use is
more than doubling in the last year, and the use of blood diagnostics grows significantly each
month as well.
The true challenge here is the systems -- healthcare system's readiness and I think most critically,
the capacity to detect and diagnose patients. And so we have a number of solutions that we're
working on with the healthcare providers to help them increase that capacity, increase the
throughput for patients. A lot of educational series as well on how to quickly diagnose and treat
these patients.
Importantly, I think we're hearing a lot of enthusiasm about the profile of Kisunla, and that actually
helps with these capacity constraints. The once monthly infusions, the ability to stop dosing once
plaque is cleared, all of those physicians have told us are going to help with some of these
capacity constraints. So it's been a strong start so far. We didn't [ph] want to learn lessons from
the first launch that went out there and applying that learning to what we're doing now, but it's
been really positive so far in the terms of the level of support and collaboration that Lilly's been
able to bring with our expertise in the field and our long relationships with these customers.
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Great, thanks, Anne. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question will be from `Umer Raffat, Evercore ISI from Evercore. Umer, your line is live.
Q - `Umer Raffat, Evercore ISI `
Hi, guys, thanks for taking my question. It's certainly very encouraging to see the range of new
Phase 3 trials being initiated with orforglipron in the past few months. But there's one trial in
particular, I noticed has not been initiated or may not be in the plans, which is an outcomes trial.
I'm just curious, what's the thought process behind that. Thank you.
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Great, thanks Umer for the question. We'll go to Dan to talk about the orfo development plan.
A - `Daniel M. Skovronsky, Chief Scientific Officer and President of Lilly Immunology `
Yes, thanks Umer. Of course, we're trying to cover a broad landscape of indications here that we
think would be important and fit with the advantages an oral medication has in sort of primary
care, broad use kinds of applications being prioritized. That outcome setting is an interesting
idea. The challenges here in maintaining patients on placebo make it more and more difficult to
do those kinds of studies in the U.S., but it's certainly an idea that we're exploring around the
world and have more thinking to come in the future.
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Great, thank you, Dan. Next question, please.Operator
The next question will be from `Steve Scala, TD Cowen from TD Cowen. Steve, your line is live.
Q - `Steve Scala, TD Cowen `
Well, thank you so much. I apologize in advance for this question, but over the past six to nine
months, there has been a consistent cadence of data points questioning the size of the
addressable and accessible obesity market, none of which are news, but include slowing
prescription trends, Lilly meeting demand at least a year early, Lilly instituting DTC and extending
copay cards despite struggling to meet demand, Lilly launching in O-U.S. markets despite
struggling to meet U.S. demand and significant stocking fluctuations and challenges in guiding.
So taken collectively, these points are concerning. I think you will say that they all relate to the
unprecedented size of the market and meeting its demand, but can you state that there has not
been any conversations within Lilly questioning whether we are all significantly over our skis on
this market and that the manufacturing build out may simply be too aggressive? Thank you.
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Great. Well, Steve, thanks for the apology and the question. I'll go to Dave for that one.
A - `David A. Ricks, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Steve, I think you've been calling into our calls for most of my career. I've never had the
apology upfront. So I appreciate that. I know why you're asking it, and I think the perspective we
have is that it's early days on a very, very large opportunity. There's turbulence. I'll own that. We
always seek to put projections out that we can hit with confidence, but that are also within the
range of possibilities. And in the back half of that year, last year, we fell short of that.
But everything we've said is true, and we continue to believe it, that this is a market with
hundreds of millions of people globally, that there is a unique thing here and that we can both
prevent a large portion of chronic disease with obesity drugs. And last year, we saw proof points
on that from Lilly and our competitor. That's not just weight loss, it translates into chronic disease
outcomes. You'll hear and see more of that.
And people love taking these drugs. We know that because when we run out, which we did last
year, they get very angry with us. And so I have been a person who represents the -- to the
Board, the CapEx decisions, I have zero doubt that we have still more building to do and that the
capacity we've put it -- put in the ground so far is not sufficient to meet global demand. You'll
hear more about that from us. Of course, as highlighting on this call, we're getting close to, I
think, a relief valve on that, which is the idea that you can have an oral, which is scalable in a way
that injectable systems just aren't really test the question legitimately, what is the edge of the
demand curve?
But we don't think we're close to it right now. We're still gating promotion and gating launches
globally. That's a different thing. And we're building facilities as fast as we can to match up those
two things, what we can make and what we can sell. And although we're supplying the U.S.
market well right now, we'll need to do more. And I'm pretty confident in that. So hopefully that
gives you some color on the mindset here and wouldn't over-read the turbulence and prediction
challenges we have. But long term, we're very bullish and you'll see us act according to that
belief.A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Thank you, Dave. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question will be from `Mohit Bansal, Wells Fargo from Wells Fargo. Mohit, your line is live.
Q - `Mohit Bansal, Wells Fargo `
Great, thank you very much for taking my question. And I have a question regarding sleep apnea.
Now that you have sleep apnea on Zepbound label, how have the discussions with the
prescribers as well as payers have gone so far? The one pushback we hear is that these patients
are often treated by sleep specialists and there's a general shortage of those specialists here. So
could you talk a little bit about the call points and then how you're thinking about this?
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Great. Thanks, Mohit. We'll go to Patrik for the question on sleep apnea, what the discussions are
like with some of the prescribers and the initial experience so far.
A - `Patrik Jonsson, Executive Vice President President, Lilly Cardiometabolic Health President, Lilly `
Thank you very much, Mohit. Yes, you're correct. It's the first pharmacological treatment ever
approved for obstructive sleep apnea. So there is a lot of lifting on our side, and we will approach
that as we are approaching any new disease area, partnering with advocacy organizations,
healthcare providers and massive efforts in terms of medical education. We expect this to go
beyond the sleep specialists, but of course, we are starting our efforts with the sleep specialist
community. And I think that's been very well received so far. And we are meeting with them
regularly, conducting speakers' trainings, but with the aim to move to primary care, which is a
necessity, because this is also a patient population, but to a large extent remains undiagnosed.
So primary care efforts are going to be required.
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Thank you, Patrik. Next caller, please.
Operator
The next question will be from Dave Risinger from Leerink Partners. Dave, your line is live.
Q - `David Risinger, Leerink Partners `
Thanks very much. So my incretin related questions have been asked. I wanted to just pivot to the
long-acting relaxin candidate, volenrelaxin. And so the company had advanced it into a CKD trial
in the fourth quarter, but then recently canceled both the heart failure and CKD programs. Dan,
I'm hoping you could provide some more color on what drove the action plus how you now view
the long-acting relaxin mechanism including potential for future development in other
cardiopulmonary diseases. Thanks very much.
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Great. Thanks, Dave. We'll go to Dan to talk about the volenrelaxin program.A - `Daniel M. Skovronsky, Chief Scientific Officer and President of Lilly Immunology `
Thank you. I was disappointed with the results from the Phase 2 trial for sure. Relaxin is an
interesting mechanism, I think, sort of validated by normal human physiology during pregnancy.
But unfortunately the results that we got in this trial didn't support proceeding with this molecule. I
read that as speaking to the mechanism, but rather than the molecule. But I know others are
pursuing this mechanism and I wish them success where we didn't have it. So we'll have to wait
and see.
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Thank you, Dan. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question will be from `Akash Tewari, Jefferies from Jefferies. Akash, your line is live.
Q - `Akash Tewari, Jefferies `
Thanks so much. So at J.P. Morgan, your team mentioned, you expect GLP-1 pricing to be relatively
stable in 2025. Are you implying that while you'll give additional discounts to the channel to
improve access that will be offset by improved adherence or is it more, Lilly's reached the steady
state on discounts at least until semaglutide gets put under IRA negotiation in 2026? Thanks.
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
All right. Thanks, Akash. We'll go to Lucas to talk about GLP-1 pricing trends.
A - `Lucas Montarce, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks for the question. In terms of the pricing trends that I alluded during the J.P. Morgan
conference and getting into 2025; first, we talk about the Q4 and into 2025 what we mentioned
basically is a continuation of the trends. Remember that we had in the base period in 2023 an
uncovered co-pay that basically created quite a lot of noise on the year-on-year comparison. So
we talk about basically adjusting by that, there's still single-digit erosion on our pricing trends, and
that are the same trends that I alluded that will continue into 2025.
In terms of some of the dynamics on the access side, I don't know if you want to comment
anything, Patrik, on your side.
A - `Patrik Jonsson, Executive Vice President President, Lilly Cardiometabolic Health President, Lilly `
I think we have really good access on the Mounjaro side over 90% in commercial and Part D, and
I've already covered the commercial space for Zepbound. We expect access to continue to
improve in 2025 as well. In terms of adherence, I think we just need to reflect on the dynamics
that we have experienced in this market, partly due to supply constraints, but we are encouraged
with what we see on Mounjaro, for patients that started in Q2 2023, we actually see a longer
adherence with Mounjaro than we do with both Trulicity and Ozempic. And as Dave referred to
earlier, in terms of Zepbound, we expect adherence to be long here based upon the first-hand
experiences that consumers have.
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Great. Thank you, Patrik. Thank you, Lucas. Next caller, please.Operator
The next question will be from `Alexandria Hammond, Wolfe Research from Wolfe Research. Alexandria, your line is
live.
Q - `Alexandria Hammond, Wolfe Research `
Thanks for taking the question. With the Ro partnership, how does Lilly envision this relationship
evolving? And a follow-up, can you help frame the opportunity associated with Zepbound vials,
and how is it expected to shift over time?
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Great. Thanks, Alex. We'll go to Patrik to talk about Zepbound vials and Ro.
A - `Patrik Jonsson, Executive Vice President President, Lilly Cardiometabolic Health President, Lilly `
We launched the self-pay system with LillyDirect back in late August, and we are pleased with the
performance so far. In terms of TRx for Zepbound, it's still low to mid-single-digit, but in terms of
new therapy starts, it's actually in the low teens. So a very good start. The partnership with Ro is
not a financial or a marketing partnership at all. It's just the opportunity for eligible patients to
have the option of using the Ro platform to purchase FDA-approved authentic medicines. And it's
really about connecting that software to Lilly Direct self-pay pharmacy. We will lean into additional
partnerships along those lines with partners that really want to ensure that the patients get
access to authentic and FDA-approved medicines.
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Thank you, Patrik. Next caller, please.
Operator
The next question will be from `Chris Shibutani, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. Chris, your line is live. Chris,
please go ahead with your question. Your line is live.
Q - `Chris Shibutani, Goldman Sachs `
Apologies, I was on mute. So the orforglipron launch, you previously stated that you're doing
manufacturing scale-up to be prepared for a full launch at the potential approval. What is
embedded in that assumption? Can you talk a little bit about the approach for timing of
orforglipron in terms of diabetes versus obesity? Will it be simultaneous or one before the other?
U.S. versus international, we certainly saw the injectable business, do a prioritized U.S. launch. And
then should we also expect a similar kind of "new product launch" cadence with patient
assistance programs and the implementation of channel tools like LillyDirect, should all those be
at the outset? Thanks.
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Thanks, Chris, for the very detailed question. We'll go to Dave to talk a bit about the orfo launch
prep.
A - `David A. Ricks, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `Okay. Waiting for all allowance at some point. Yes. Look, the goal here with orfo, because it's
using different production systems that are available to us, it's a long cycle of processing to get a
commercial product, but it's very predictable and we have access to those platforms inside and
outside the company. So we are building for a full launch in the normal pharma sense, and here
pointing out maybe the flip of the earlier question about demand, we have had to gate all these
things to make sure we carefully match supply and demand for the injectables as does our
competitor.
We do not plan for that with orfo. So we will plan to launch or submit and have approvals and then
launch in a full sense, including activities you're used to seeing for primary care products like
sampling, co-pay, full formulary access, and globalization of orforglipron as rapidly as possible.
And we're building capacities to do that, and hopefully, that will begin in early '26. I think as Dan
mentioned, the first complete package for submission in the U.S. will be obesity. But we expect
diabetes to shortly follow and then these other indications that have been discussed today. Hope
that answers the question.
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Great. Thanks, Dave. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question will be from `James Shin, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank. James, your line is live.
Q - `James Shin, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you. Good morning. Thanks for the question. Another one for Dan on orforglipron. I
appreciate the earlier comments on indexing orforglipron's efficacy to sema and the Phase 3
titration schedule. Sorry, excuse me. But can you go over how this titration schedule may impact
the Phase 2 weight loss, A1c and safety results published in Lancet and New England Journal?
Thank you.
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Great. Thanks, James, for the question. We'll go to Dan to talk more about orfo.
A - `Daniel M. Skovronsky, Chief Scientific Officer and President of Lilly Immunology `
Yes, it's a good question, James, and reminiscent of a theme we had when the tirzepatide trials
were going. It was a similar transition from a faster titration in Phase 2 to a more gradual titration
in Phase 3. I think that strategy served us well in the case of tirzepatide. I'm hopeful for the same
kind of outcomes in orforglipron, which is to say that it mitigated tolerability concerns. So the GI
side effects that are just known to this class seem to be significantly mitigated by slower titration.
And in longer studies, and the first study the read out is not the longest study we have here. In
longer studies, we were still able to obtain the sort of plateau kind of efficacy that we expect for
the mechanism. So that's what we're hoping for, orfo, better tolerability and similar efficacy as
Phase 2.
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Thank you, Dan. Next question, please.
OperatorThe next question will be from `Trung Huynh, UBS from UBS. Trung, your line is live.
Q - `Trung Huynh, UBS `
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my question. So for the first orfo study on diabetes, thank you so much
for the level set there. I have a similar question on retatrutide. We noticed in your slides, there
was a Phase 3 readout in obesity and overweight patients with osteoarthritis of the knee as a
potential event for '25. So one of the primary endpoints is weight loss. Could that be a
reasonable comp for the obesity studies in '26, unlike what you flagged with ortho and diabetes?
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Thanks for the question, Trung. We'll go to Dan to talk about retatrutide.
A - `Daniel M. Skovronsky, Chief Scientific Officer and President of Lilly Immunology `
Yes, I'm glad you asked the question. It's a super smart question. You're probably noticing that
the osteoarthritis trial is shorter than any of the other ones. We've commented before that
retatrutide is going to need longer trials. Most of ours are 80 week plus trials to reach maximum
efficacy. This is a 68 week trial.
I think we also know, at least by analogy from the sema trials that looked at osteoarthritis and
obesity versus a more pure obesity population, that even for similar length studies, there's a
diminution of efficacy in terms of weight loss in the OA population for a number of reasons,
including different baseline demographics, male, female, BMI, et cetera. So I think we know how
to extrapolate out from the OA population to the general population, but I don't think you should
take the OA population as a point estimate for what will be achieved in a broader obesity
population. We should do quite a bit better than that.
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Great, thanks, Dan. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question will be from Kripa Devarakonda from Truist Securities. Kripa, your line is live.
Q - Analyst
Great, thanks for taking our question. This is Nicole on for Kripa. Can we see some bima data this
year? And do you still see some benefit with a muscle preserving drug? The recent data from
Veru showed preservation of lean mass, but no incremental weight loss. So with bima, do you
expect incremental weight loss or weight neutral, but better body composition? Is that what
you're looking for?
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Thanks for the question. We'll go to Dan to talk a bit about how we're thinking about the bima
data.
A - `Daniel M. Skovronsky, Chief Scientific Officer and President of Lilly Immunology `
Yes, thanks for -- good question on bimagrumab. I think our thesis here has been, in combination
with tirzepatide, that we could get incremental weight loss or perhaps a similar weight loss, butI think to really show a benefit for combining the two drugs, we're probably going to either need
to see the incremental weight loss, or we're going to need to see some real functional benefits
to lean mass preservation. I think just lean mass on its own, we don't really know how to
understand that. And we've previously noted that we don't see any signs that lean mass changes
on tirzepatide, or to my knowledge, on any incretin are actually adverse in any way.
On the other hand, growing muscle could be a positive in different ways. So we're looking for
new positive effects with bimagrumab. At the beginning of your question, I realized I didn't come
to, which is when do we see the previous Phase 2 study, which was completed? We haven't been
clear on exactly when we'll show that data, but this year is a safe assumption.
A - `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations
Great. Thank you, Dan. I think we have time for one last question. Okay.
Operator
The final question today will be a follow-up from Dave Risinger from Leerink Partners. Dave, your
line is live.
Q - `David Risinger, Leerink Partners `
Yes. Thanks very much. I was just hoping you could clarify the comment earlier. I think there was a
comment about additional PBM coverage coming in March. I didn't quite catch that. If you could
just provide some more color and quantify the potential impact on the opportunity for script
trends following that occurring. Thank you.
A - `David A. Ricks, Chair and Chief Executive Officer `
Let me cover that, and then I'll just close. I think, Dave, that was referred to Ebglyss, which is very
new in cycle, and we do expect two of the three PBMs to cover it, and that gets us excited about
activating consumers and raising awareness for that brand. Zepbound and Mounjaro have full
PBM coverage already.
So great. Let's conclude it there. Thanks for dialing in, everyone, and your interest in today's
earnings call, and of course, in everything about Eli Lilly and Company. If you've got follow-up
questions or things we didn't cover in enough detail today in the Q&A, please follow up with the
IR team. `Mike Czapar, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations leads that now, and everyone, have a great day.
Operator
Thank you. And ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude our conference for today. This
conference will be made available for replay beginning at 1:00 p.m. Today, running through March
13th at midnight. You may access the replay system at any time by dialing 800-332-6854 and
entering the access code 443262. International dialers can call 973-528-0005. Again, those
numbers are 800-332-6854 and 973-528-0005, with the access code 443262. Thank you for
your participation. You may now disconnect your lines.