Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Results of Operations – Core Performance Measures, “Items which we exclude from GAAP measures to arrive at Core Performance measures” for an explanation of the reconciling items. All other segments that do not meet the quantitative threshold for separate reporting have been grouped as “All Other.”  This group is primarily comprised of the results of Corning Precision Materials’ non-LCD business and new product lines and development projects that involve the use of various technologies for new products such as advanced flow reactors and adjacency businesses in pursuit of thin, strong glass.  This segment also includes results for certain corporate investments such as Eurokera and Keraglass equity affiliates, which manufacture smooth cooktop glass/ceramic products. 2014 vs. 2013 The increase in net sales of this segment in the year ended December 31, 2014 reflects the consolidation of the Corning Precision Materials’ non-LCD business as a result of the Acquisition.  The increase in the net loss of this segment reflects higher spending for development projects which were not part of the segment in the year ended December 31, 2013. 2013 vs. 2012 The increase in segment net loss in 2013 when compared to 2012 was driven by the write-down of assets to their fair value in the amount of $36 million in Samsung Corning Precision Materials’ non-LCD glass business, the absence of the 2012 gain on the sale of assets in Samsung Corning Precision Materials’ non-LCD glass business, and restructuring costs of $5 million associated with our global restructuring program implemented in the fourth quarter of 2013, partially offset by lower research, development and engineering expenses on development projects.  The increase in core net loss in 2013 reflects the absence of the 2012 gain on the sale of assets in Samsung Corning Precision Materials’ non-LCD glass business and a decline in research, development and engineering expenses for development projects. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Financing and Capital Structure The following items impacted Corning’s financing and capital structure during 2014 and 2013: 2014 · In the third quarter of 2014, we amended and restated our existing revolving credit facility.  The amended facility provides a $2 billion unsecured multi-currency line of credit and expires on September 30, 2019.  At December 31, 2014, there were no outstanding amounts under this credit facility.  The facility includes affirmative and negative covenants that Corning must comply with, including a leverage (debt to capital ratio) financial covenant.  As of December 31, 2014, we were in compliance with all of the covenants. Index -55- 2013 · In the first quarter of 2013, we amended and restated our then-existing revolving credit facility.  The 2013 amended facility provided a $1 billion unsecured multi-currency line of credit that would have expired in March 2018.  This facility was terminated when we entered into the amended and restated $2 billion facility in the third quarter of 2014. · In the first quarter of 2013, Corning repaid the aggregate principal amount and accrued interest outstanding on the credit facility entered into in the second quarter of 2011 that allowed Corning to borrow up to Chinese renminbi (RMB) 4 billion.  The total amount repaid was approximately $500 million.  Upon repayment, this facility was terminated. · In the second quarter of 2013, the Company established a commercial paper program on a private placement basis, pursuant to which we may issue short-term, unsecured commercial paper notes up to a maximum aggregate principal amount outstanding at any time of $1 billion.  Under this program, the Company may issue the notes from time to time and will use the proceeds for general corporate purposes.  The maturities of the notes will vary, but may not exceed 390 days from the date of issue.  The interest rates will vary based on market conditions and the ratings assigned to the notes by credit rating agencies at the time of issuance.  The Company’s revolving credit facility is available to support obligations under the commercial paper program, if needed.  At December 31, 2013, we did not have any outstanding commercial paper. · In the fourth quarter of 2013, we issued $250 million of 3.70% senior unsecured notes that mature on November 15, 2023.  The net proceeds of approximately $248 million were used for general corporate purposes. · In the fourth quarter of 2013, we recorded a financing obligation in the approximate amount of $230 million for a new LCD glass substrate facility in China. Common Stock Dividends On December 3, 2014, Corning’s Board of Directors declared a 20% increase in the quarterly common stock dividend, which increased the quarterly dividend from $0.10 to $0.12 per common share, beginning with the dividend to be paid in the first quarter of 2015.  This increase marks the fourth dividend increase since October 2011. Fixed Rate Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, Series A On January 15, 2014, Corning designated a new series of its preferred stock as Fixed Rate Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, Series A, par value $100 per share, and issued 1,900 shares of Preferred Stock at an issue price of $1 million per share, for an aggregate issue price of $1.9 billion, to Samsung Display in connection with the Acquisition of its equity interests in Samsung Corning Precision Materials.  Corning also issued to Samsung Display an additional 400 shares of Fixed Rate Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock at closing, for an aggregate issue price of $400 million in cash. Dividends on the Preferred Stock are cumulative and accrue at the annual rate of 4.25% on the per share issue price of $1 million.  The dividends are payable quarterly as and when declared by the Company’s Board of Directors.  The Preferred Stock ranks senior to our common stock with respect to payment of dividends and rights upon liquidation.  The Preferred Stock is not redeemable except in the case of a certain deemed liquidation event, the occurrence of which is under the control of the Company.  The Preferred Stock is convertible at the option of the holder and the Company upon certain events, at a conversion rate of 50,000 shares of Corning’s common stock per one share of Preferred Stock, subject to certain anti-dilution provisions.  As of December 31, 2014, the Preferred Stock has not been converted, and none of the anti-dilution provisions have been triggered.  Following the seventh anniversary of the closing of the Acquisition, the Preferred Stock will be convertible, in whole or in part, at the option of the holder.  The Company has the right, at its option, to cause some or all of the shares of Preferred Stock to be converted into Common Stock, if, for 25 trading days (whether or not consecutive) within any period of 40 consecutive trading days, the closing price of Common Stock exceeds $35 per share.  If the aforementioned right becomes exercisable before the seventh anniversary of the closing, the Company must first obtain the written approval of the holders of a majority of the Preferred Stock before exercising its conversion right.  The Preferred Stock does not have any voting rights except as may be required by law. Capital Spending Capital spending totaled $1.1 billion in 2014, slightly above the amount spent in 2013.  Spending in 2014 was driven primarily by the Display Technologies segment, and focused on finishing line optimization and tank rebuilds.  We expect our 2015 capital expenditures to be approximately $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion.  Approximately $650 million will be allocated to our Display Technologies segment . Index -56- Cash Flows Summary of cash flow data (in millions): Years ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 4,709 $ 2,787 $ 3,206 Net cash used in investing activities $ (962) $ (1,004) $ (2,628) Net cash used in financing activities $ (2,586) $ (2,063) $ (115) 2014 vs. 2013 Net cash provided by operating activities increased significantly in the year ended December 31, 2014, when compared to the same period last year, due to a dividend of approximately $1.6 billion received from Samsung Corning Precision Materials, an increase in net income of $511 million and the cash inflows from inventory movements.  Although net inventory increased by $52 million due to the Acquisition, which added $121 million, this inventory was acquired through the issuance of preferred stock.  Cash outflows for inventory declined by $120 million in the base Display Technologies and Specialty Materials segments in 2014 when compared to 2013, offset somewhat by an increase of approximately $50 million, driven by spending for new business development, and increases in the Optical Communications and Life Sciences segments. Net cash used in investing activities decreased slightly in the year ended December 31, 2014, when compared to the same period last year, driven by a decrease in investments in unconsolidated entities, the realized gains on our yen-denominated purchased collars and the absence of the premium paid for our yen-denominated purchased collars in 2013, offset by an increase in short-term investments. Net cash used in financing activities in the year ended December 31, 2014 increased when compared to the same period last year, driven by our share repurchase programs and the absence of the proceeds received in 2013 from the issuance of long-term debt, somewhat offset by cash received from the issuance of preferred stock and the absence of the retirement of long-term debt in the first quarter of 2013. 2013 vs. 2012 Net cash provided by operating activities decreased in the year ended December 31, 2013, when compared to the same period last year, largely due to a decrease in dividends received from affiliated companies and the unfavorable impact of changes in working capital, driven by the following items: · Higher incentive compensation payments of approximately $100 million, driven by the pay-out of the initial year of the executive cash-based performance plan and an increase in performance-driven incentives; · An increase in foreign tax payments in the amount of $114 million, driven by higher withholding tax in Taiwan; and · An increase in fiber and cable inventory in the Optical Communications segment in the amount of $111 million, due to a decline in sales in China, Europe and North America. A decline in accounts receivable in the Display Technologies, Optical Communications and Specialty Materials segments somewhat offset these unfavorable impacts. Net cash used in investing activities declined in 2013, when compared to 2012, due to a decrease in capital spending, lower business acquisition spending and the liquidation of short-term investments, offset by the premium related to our purchased collars. Net cash used in financing activities increased in 2013 when compared to the same period last year, driven primarily by the absence of the issuance of long-term debt in the first quarter of 2012, higher share repurchases, the retirement of long-term debt in the first quarter of 2013, and higher dividend payments. Defined Benefit Pension Plans We have defined benefit pension plans covering certain domestic and international employees.  Our largest single pension plan is Corning’s U.S. qualified plan.  At December 31, 2014, this plan accounted for 77% of our consolidated defined benefit pension plans’ projected benefit obligation and 86% of the related plans’ assets. Index -57- We have historically contributed to the U.S. qualified pension plan on an annual basis in excess of the IRS minimum requirements.  In 2014, we made voluntary cash contributions of $85 million to our domestic defined benefit pension plan and $45 million to our international pension plans.  In 2013, we did not contribute to our domestic defined benefit pension plan and contributed $5 million to our international pension plans.  In 2012, we made voluntary cash contributions of $75 million to our domestic defined benefit pension plan and $30 million to our international pension plans.  Although we will not be subject to any mandatory contributions in 2015, we anticipate making voluntary cash contributions of up to $65 million to our U.S. pension plan and up to $28 million to our international pension plans in 2015. Refer to Note 13 (Employee Retirement Plans) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Restructuring For the year ended December 31, 2014, we recorded charges of $71 million for workforce reductions, asset disposals and write-offs, and exit costs for restructuring activities with total cash expenditures estimated to be $51 million. In the fourth quarter of 2013, Corning implemented a global restructuring plan within several of our segments, consisting of workforce reductions, asset disposals and write-offs, and exit costs.  We recorded charges of $67 million associated with these actions, with total cash expenditures expected to be approximately $40 million. In 2012, we recorded a charge of $89 million associated with a corporate-wide restructuring plan to reduce our global workforce in response to anticipated lower sales in 2013.  The charge included costs for workforce reductions, asset disposals and write-offs, and exit costs.  Total cash expenditures associated with these actions are expected to be approximately $49 million primarily related to termination benefits, and were largely finalized in 2013. During 2014, 2013 and 2012, we made payments of $39 million, $35 million and $15 million, respectively, related to employee severance and other exit costs resulting from restructuring actions.  Refer to Note 2 (Restructuring, Impairment and Other Charges) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Key Balance Sheet Data Balance sheet and working capital measures are provided in the following table (in millions): December 31, 2014 2013 Working capital $ 7,914 $ 7,145 Current ratio 4.4:1 5.1:1 Trade accounts receivable, net of allowances $ 1,501 $ 1,253 Days sales outstanding 56 58 Inventories $ 1,322 $ 1,270 Inventory turns 4.2 3.6 Days payable outstanding (1) 41 47 Long-term debt $ 3,227 $ 3,272 Total debt to total capital 13% 13% (1) Includes trade payables only. Index -58- Credit Ratings As of February 13, 2015, our credit ratings were as follows: RATING AGENCY Rating long-term debt Outlook last update Fitch A- Stable May 17, 2011 Standard & Poor’s A- Stable December 16, 2013 Moody’s A3 Stable September 12, 2011 Management Assessment of Liquidity We ended the fourth quarter of 2014 with approximately $6.1 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments.  The Company has adequate sources of liquidity and we are confident in our ability to generate cash to meet existing or reasonably likely future cash requirements.  Our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments are held in various locations throughout the world and are generally unrestricted.  Although approximately 68% of the consolidated amount was held outside of the U.S. at December 31, 2014, we have sufficient U.S. liquidity, including borrowing capacity, to fund foreseeable U.S. cash needs without requiring the repatriation of foreign cash.  We utilize a variety of tax effective financing strategies to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. From time to time, we may issue debt, the proceeds of which may be used for general corporate purposes or to refinance certain debt maturities.  Additionally, to manage interest rate exposure, the Company, from time to time, enters into interest rate swap agreements.  In the fourth quarter of 2014, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge against the variability in cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate related to an anticipated issuance.  The instruments were designated as cash flow hedges. On June 24, 2013, the Company established a commercial paper program on a private placement basis, pursuant to which we may issue short-term, unsecured commercial paper notes up to a maximum aggregate principal amount outstanding at any time of $1 billion.  Under this program, the Company may issue the notes from time to time and will use the proceeds for general corporate purposes.  The maturities of the notes will vary, but may not exceed 390 days from the date of issue.  The interest rates will vary based on market conditions and the ratings assigned to the notes by credit rating agencies at the time of issuance.  The Company’s revolving credit facility is available to support obligations under the commercial paper program, if needed.  At December 31, 2014, we did not have any outstanding commercial paper under this program. Share Repurchase Programs On October 31, 2013, as part of the share repurchase program announced on April 24, 2013 (the “2013 Repurchase Program”), Corning entered into an accelerated share repurchase (“ASR”) agreement with JP Morgan Chase Bank, National Association, London Branch (“JPMC”).  Under the ASR agreement with JPMC, Corning agreed to purchase $1 billion of its common stock, in total, with an initial delivery by JPMC of 47.1 million shares based on the current market price, and payment of $1 billion made by Corning to JPMC.  The payment to JPMC was recorded as a reduction to shareholders’ equity, consisting of an $800 million increase in treasury stock, which reflects the value of the initial 47.1 million shares received upon execution, and a $200 million decrease in other-paid-in capital, which reflects the value of the stock held back by JPMC pending final settlement.  On January 28, 2014, the ASR agreement with JPMC was completed.  Corning received an additional 10.5 million shares on January 31, 2014 to settle the ASR agreement.  In total, Corning purchased 57.6 million shares based on the average daily volume weighted-average price of Corning’s common stock during the term of the ASR agreement with JPMC, less a discount. In addition to the shares repurchased through the ASR agreement, we repurchased 61.3 million shares of common stock on the open market for approximately $1.0 billion, as part of the 2013 Repurchase Program.  This program was executed between the second quarter of 2013 and the first quarter of 2014, with a total of 118.9 million shares repurchased for approximately $2 billion. Index -59- On March 4, 2014, as part of the $2 billion share repurchase program announced on October 22, 2013 and made effective concurrent with the closing of Corning’s Acquisition of Samsung Corning Precision Materials on January 15, 2014 (the “2014 Repurchase Program”), Corning entered into an ASR agreement with Citibank N.A. (“Citi”).  Under the ASR agreement with Citi, Corning agreed to purchase $1.25 billion of its common stock, with an initial delivery by Citi of 52.5 million shares based on the current market price, and payment of $1.25 billion made by Corning to Citi.  On May 28, 2014, the ASR agreement with Citi was completed, and Corning received an additional 8.7 million shares to settle the ASR agreement.  In total, Corning repurchased 61.2 million shares based on the average daily volume weighted-average price of Corning’s common stock during the term of the ASR agreement with Citi, less a discount. In addition to the shares repurchased through the ASR agreement, in the year ended December 31, 2014, we repurchased 36.9 million shares of common stock on the open market for approximately $750 million, as part of the 2014 Repurchase Program.  This program was completed in the fourth quarter of 2014, with a total of 98.2 million shares repurchased for approximately $2 billion. On December 3, 2014, Corning’s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion shares of common stock between the date of announcement and December 31, 2016.  No shares were repurchased under this program between the date of authorization and December 31, 2014. Other We complete comprehensive reviews of our significant customers and their creditworthiness by analyzing their financial strength at least annually or more frequently for customers where we have identified a measure of increased risk.  We closely monitor payments and developments which may signal possible customer credit issues.  We currently have not identified any potential material impact on our liquidity resulting from customer credit issues. Our major source of funding for 2015 and beyond will be our operating cash flow and our existing balances of cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and proceeds from any issuances of debt.  We believe we have sufficient liquidity for the next several years to fund operations, share repurchase programs, acquisitions, the asbestos litigation, research and development, capital expenditures, scheduled debt repayments and dividend payments. Corning also has access to a $2 billion unsecured committed revolving credit facility.  This credit facility includes a leverage ratio financial covenant.  The required leverage ratio, which measures debt to total capital, is a maximum of 50%.  At December 31, 2014, our leverage using this measure was 13% and we are in compliance with the financial covenant. Our debt instruments contain customary event of default provisions, which allow the lenders the option of accelerating all obligations upon the occurrence of certain events.  In addition, some of our debt instruments contain a cross default provision, whereby an uncured default in excess of a specified amount on one debt obligation of the Company, also would be considered a default under the terms of another debt instrument.  As of December 31, 2014, we were in compliance with all such provisions. Management is not aware of any known trends or any known demands, commitments, events or uncertainties that will result in or that are reasonably likely to result in a material increase or decrease in our liquidity.  In addition, other than items discussed, there are no known material trends, favorable or unfavorable, in our capital resources and no expected material changes in the mix and relative cost of such resources. Purchased Collars and Average Rate Forwards In the first quarter of 2013, Corning executed a series of purchased collars that expire quarterly across a two-year period to hedge its translation exposure resulting from movements in the Japanese yen against the U.S. dollar.  These derivatives are not designated as accounting hedges and changes in fair value are recorded in other income immediately.  The fair value of these derivative contracts are recorded as either assets (gain position) or liabilities (loss position) on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Index -60- Beginning in the second quarter of 2013 and continuing throughout 2014, Corning entered into a series of average rate forwards with no associated premium, which hedge the translation impact of Japanese yen on Corning’s projected 2015 net income and a significant portion of Corning’s projected 2016 and 2017 net income.  Like the purchased collars, these contracts settle quarterly, and are not designated as accounting hedges.  In the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, we recorded pre-tax net gains of $1,406 million and $435 million, respectively, related to changes in the fair value of the purchased collars and average rate forward contracts, offset slightly by premium expense.  Included in these amounts are realized gains of $344 million and $110 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013.  The gross notional value outstanding for purchase collars and average rate forwards which hedge our exposure to the Japanese yen at December 31, 2014 and 2013 was $9.8 billion and $6.8 billion, respectively. In the second quarter of 2014, following the Acquisition, we entered into a portfolio of zero cost collars to hedge our translation exposure resulting from movements in the Korean won and its impact on our net earnings.  These zero cost collars have a gross notional value outstanding at December 31, 2014 of $2.3 billion, and began settling quarterly in the third quarter of 2014 and will conclude at the end of 2015.  In the year ended December 31, 2014, we recorded a pre-tax net loss of $37 million related to changes in the fair value of these zero cost collars, which included $6 million in realized losses. Gains and losses related to purchased collars and average rate forwards are recorded in earnings in the Other income, net line of the Consolidated Statements of Income. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Off balance sheet arrangements are transactions, agreements, or other contractual arrangements with an unconsolidated entity for which Corning has an obligation to the entity that is not recorded in our consolidated financial statements. Corning’s off balance sheet arrangements include guarantee contracts.  At the time a guarantee is issued, the Company is required to recognize a liability for the fair value or market value of the obligation it assumes.  In the normal course of our business, we do not routinely provide significant third-party guarantees.  Generally, third-party guarantees provided by Corning are limited to certain financial guarantees, including stand-by letters of credit and performance bonds, and the incurrence of contingent liabilities in the form of purchase price adjustments related to attainment of milestones.  These guarantees have various terms, and none of these guarantees are individually significant. Refer to Note 14 (Commitments, Contingencies, and Guarantees) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. For variable interest entities, we assess the terms of our interest in each entity to determine if we are the primary beneficiary.  The primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity is the party that absorbs a majority of the entity’s expected losses, receives a majority of its expected residual returns, or both, as a result of holding variable interests, which are the ownership, contractual, or other pecuniary interests in an entity that change with changes in the fair value of the entity’s net assets excluding variable interests. Corning has identified one entity that qualifies as a variable interest entity.  This entity is not considered to be significant to Corning’s consolidated statements of position. Corning does not have retained interests in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity that serve as credit, liquidity or market risk support to that entity. Index -61- Contractual Obligations The amounts of our obligations follow (in millions): Amount of commitment and contingency expiration per period Total Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years 5 years and thereafter Performance bonds and guarantees $ 75 $ 21 $ 3 $ 1 $ 50 Stand-by letters of credit (1) 61 57 4 Loan guarantees 14 14 Subtotal of commitment expirations per period $ 150 $ 78 $ 3 $ 1 $ 68 Purchase obligations (6) $ 287 $ 152 $ 105 $ 15 $ 15 Capital expenditure obligations (2) 358 358 Total debt (3) 2,899 29 314 250 2,306 Interest on long-term debt (4) 2,451 151 293 274 1,733 Capital leases and financing obligations (3) 360 7 14 7 332 Imputed interest on capital leases and financing obligations 258 19 38 38 163 Minimum rental commitments 238 48 75 44 71 Uncertain tax positions (5) 2 1 1 Subtotal of contractual obligation payments due by period 6,853 765 840 628 4,620 Total commitments and contingencies $ 7,003 $ 843 $ 843 $ 629 $ 4,688 (1) At December 31, 2014, $41 million of the $61 million was included in other accrued liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. (2) Capital expenditure obligations primarily reflect amounts associated with our capital expansion activities. (3) Total debt above is stated at maturity value, and excludes interest rate swap gains and bond discounts. (4) The estimate of interest payments assumes interest is paid through the date of maturity or expiration of the related debt, based upon stated rates in the respective debt instruments. (5) At December 31, 2014, $8 million was included on our balance sheet related to uncertain tax positions.  Of this amount, we are unable to estimate when $6 million of that amount will become payable. (6) Purchase obligations are enforceable and legally binding obligations which primarily consist of raw material and energy-related take-or-pay contracts. We are required, at the time a guarantee is issued, to recognize a liability for the fair value or market value of the obligation it assumes.  In the normal course of our business, we do not routinely provide significant third-party guarantees.  Generally, third-party guarantees provided by Corning are limited to certain financial guarantees, including stand-by letters of credit and performance bonds, and the incurrence of contingent liabilities in the form of purchase price adjustments related to attainment of milestones.  These guarantees have various terms, and none of these guarantees are individually significant. We believe a significant majority of these guarantees and contingent liabilities will expire without being funded. ENVIRONMENT Corning has been named by the Environmental Protection Agency (the Agency) under the Superfund Act, or by state governments under similar state laws, as a potentially responsible party for 15 active hazardous waste sites.  Under the Superfund Act, all parties who may have contributed any waste to a hazardous waste site, identified by the Agency, are jointly and severally liable for the cost of cleanup unless the Agency agrees otherwise.  It is Corning’s policy to accrue for its estimated liability related to Superfund sites and other environmental liabilities related to property owned by Corning based on expert analysis and continual monitoring by both internal and external consultants.  At December 31, 2014 and 2013, Corning had accrued approximately $42.5 million (undiscounted) and $15 million (undiscounted), respectively, for its estimated liability for environmental cleanup and related litigation.  Based upon the information developed to date, management believes that the accrued reserve is a reasonable estimate of the Company’s liability and that the risk of an additional loss in an amount materially higher than that accrued is remote. Index -62- CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported therein.  The estimates that required us to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments, including future projections of performance and relevant discount rates, are set forth below. Impairment of assets held for use We are required to assess the recoverability of the carrying value of long-lived assets when an indicator of impairment has been identified.  We review our long-lived assets in each quarter to assess whether impairment indicators are present.  We must exercise judgment in assessing whether an event of impairment has occurred. Manufacturing equipment includes certain components of production equipment that are constructed of precious metals, primarily platinum and rhodium.  These metals are not depreciated because they have very low physical losses and are repeatedly reclaimed and reused in our manufacturing process over a very long useful life.  Precious metals are reviewed for impairment as part of our assessment of long-lived assets.  This review considers all of the Company’s precious metals that are either in place in the production process; in reclamation, fabrication, or refinement in anticipation of re-use; or awaiting use to support increased capacity.  Precious metals are only acquired to support our operations and are not held for trading or other non-manufacturing related purposes. Examples of events or circumstances that may be indicative of impairments include, but are not limited to: · A significant decrease in the market price of an asset; · A significant change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset is being used or in its physical condition; · A significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of the asset, including an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; · An accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the acquisition or construction of an asset; · A current-period operating or cash flow loss combined with a history of operating or cash flow losses or a projection or forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with the use of an asset; and · A current expectation that, more likely than not, an asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life. For purposes of recognition and measurement of an impairment loss, a long-lived asset or assets is grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities.  We must exercise judgment in assessing the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities.  For the majority of our reportable segments, we concluded that locations or businesses which share production along the supply chain must be combined in order to appropriately identify cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. For long-lived assets, when impairment indicators are present, we compare estimated undiscounted future cash flows, including the eventual disposition of the asset group at market value, to the assets’ carrying value to determine if the asset group is recoverable.  This assessment requires the exercise of judgment in assessing the future use of and projected value to be derived from the assets to be held and used.  Assessments also consider changes in asset utilization, including the temporary idling of capacity and the expected timing for placing this capacity back into production.  If there is an impairment, a loss is recorded to reflect the difference between the assets’ fair value and carrying value.  This may require judgment in estimating future cash flows and relevant discount rates and residual values in estimating the current fair value of the impaired assets to be held and used. For an asset group that fails the test of recoverability described above, the estimated fair value of long-lived assets is determined using an “income approach”, “market approach”, “cost approach”, or a combination of one or more of these approaches as appropriate for the particular asset group being reviewed.  All of these approaches start with the forecast of expected future net cash flows including the eventual disposition at market value of long-lived assets, and also considers the fair market value of all precious metals if appropriate for the asset group being reviewed.  Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions in our analysis include: market size and growth, market share, projected selling prices, manufacturing cost and discount rate.  Our estimates are based upon our historical experience, our commercial relationships, and available external information about future trends.  We believe fair value assessments are most sensitive to market growth and the corresponding impact on volume and selling prices and that these are also more subjective than manufacturing cost and other assumptions.  The Company believes its current assumptions and estimates are reasonable and appropriate. Index -63- In the event the current net book value of an asset group is found to be greater than the net present value of the cash flows derived from the asset group, we determine the actual fair market value of long-lived assets with the assistance from valuation appraisals conducted by third parties.  The results of these valuations generally represent the fair market value of the asset group that will remain after any necessary impairment adjustments have been recorded.  The impairment charge will be allocated to assets within the asset group on a relative fair value basis. At December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, the carrying value of precious metals was higher than the fair market value by $222 million and $164 million, respectively.  These precious metals are utilized by the Display Technologies and Specialty Materials segments.  Corning believes these precious metal assets to be recoverable due to the significant positive cash flow in both segments.  The potential for impairment exists in the future if negative events significantly decrease the cash flow of these segments.  Such events include, but are not limited to, a significant decrease in demand for products or a significant decrease in profitability in our Display Technologies or Specialty Materials segments. In the fourth quarter of 2011, the Specialty Materials segment recorded an impairment charge in the amount of $130 million related to certain assets used in the production of large cover glass due to sales that were significantly below our expectations.  In the fourth quarter of 2012, after reassessing the large cover glass business, Corning concluded that the large cover glass market was developing differently in 2012 than our expectations, and demand for larger-sized cover glass was declining, and the market for this type of glass was instead targeting smaller gen size products.  Additionally, in the fourth quarter of 2012, our primary customer of large cover glass notified Corning of its decision to exit from this display market.  Based on these events, we recorded an additional impairment charge in the fourth quarter of 2012 in the amount of $44 million, before tax.  This impairment charge represents a write-down of assets specific to the glass-strengthening process for large size cover glass to their fair market values, and includes machinery and equipment used in the ion exchange process.  Additional information on the asset impairment is found in Note 2 (Restructuring, Impairment and Other Charges) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Impairment of Goodwill We are required to make certain subjective and complex judgments in assessing whether an event of impairment of goodwill has occurred, including assumptions and estimates used to determine the fair value of our reporting units. Corning’s goodwill relates primarily to the Display Technologies, Optical Communications, Specialty Materials and Life Sciences operating segments.  On a quarterly basis, management performs a qualitative assessment of factors in each reporting unit to determine whether there have been any triggering events.  The two-step impairment test is required only if we conclude that it is more likely than not that a reporting unit’s fair value is less than its carrying amount.  We perform a detailed, two-step process every three years if no indicators suggest a test should be performed in the interim.  We use this calculation as quantitative validation of the step-zero qualitative process that is performed during the intervening periods and does not represent an election to perform the two-step process in place of the step-zero review. The following summarizes our qualitative process to assess our goodwill balances for impairment: · We assess qualitative factors in each of our reporting units which carry goodwill to determine whether it is necessary to perform the first step of the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test. · The following events and circumstances are considered when evaluating whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount: o Macroeconomic conditions, such as a deterioration in general economic conditions, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and/or other developments in equity and credit markets; o Market capital in relation to book value; o Industry and market considerations, such as a deterioration in the environment in which an entity operates, material loss in market share and significant declines in product pricing; o Cost factors, such as an increase in raw materials, labor or other costs; o Overall financial performance, such as negative or declining cash flows or a decline in actual or forecasted revenue; o Other relevant entity-specific events, such as material changes in management or key personnel; and o Events affecting a reporting unit, such as a change in the composition or carrying amount of its net assets including acquisitions and dispositions. The examples noted above are not all-inclusive, and the Company will consider other relevant events and circumstances that affect the fair value of a reporting unit in determining whether to perform the first step of the goodwill impairment test. Index -64- Our two-step goodwill recoverability assessment is based on our annual strategic planning process.  This process includes an extensive review of expectations for the long-term growth of our businesses and forecasted future cash flows.  Our valuation method is an “income approach” using a discounted cash flow model in which cash flows anticipated over several periods, plus a terminal value at the end of that time horizon, are discounted to their present value using an appropriate rate of return.  Our estimates are based upon our historical experience, our current knowledge from our commercial relationships, and available external information about future trends. Display Technologies Goodwill for the Display Technologies segment is tested at the reporting unit level which is also the operating segment level.  On a quarterly basis in 2014, management performed a qualitative assessment of factors and determined there had not been any triggering events which would indicate that the Display Technologies reporting unit’s fair value is less than its carrying amount. Optical Communications Goodwill for the Optical Communications segment is tested at the reporting unit level which is also the operating segment level.  On a quarterly basis in 2014, management performed a qualitative assessment of factors and determined there had not been any triggering events which would indicate that the Optical Communications reporting unit’s fair value is less than its carrying amount. In addition to assessing qualitative factors each quarter, we performed a quantitative goodwill recoverability test in 2012 for this reporting unit.  The results of our impairment test indicated that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeded its book value by a significant amount.  A discount rate of 9% was used in 2012.  We determined a range of discount rates between 7% and 11% would not have affected our conclusion. Specialty Materials Goodwill for the Specialty Materials segment is tested at the reporting unit level, which is one level below an operating segment, as goodwill is the result of transactions associated with certain businesses within this operating segment.  There is only one reporting unit with goodwill within this operating segment.  On a quarterly basis in 2014, management performed a qualitative assessment of factors and determined there had not been any triggering events which would indicate that the Specialty Materials reporting unit’s fair value is less than its carrying amount. In addition to assessing qualitative factors each quarter, we performed a quantitative goodwill recoverability test in 2012 for this reporting unit.  The results of our impairment test indicated that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeded its book value by a significant amount.  A discount rate of 8% was used in 2012.  We determined a range of discount rates between 6% and 10% would not have affected our conclusion.  Additionally, the asset impairment which occurred in the fourth quarter of 2012 did not cause a triggering event for goodwill impairment in this reporting unit because the cash flow related to this lower level asset group is not material to this reporting unit. Life Sciences Goodwill for the Life Sciences segment is tested at the reporting unit level which is also the operating segment level.  On a quarterly basis in 2014, management performed a qualitative assessment of factors and determined there had not been any triggering events which would indicate that the Life Sciences reporting unit’s fair value is less than its carrying amount. In addition to assessing qualitative factors each quarter, we performed a quantitative goodwill recoverability test in 2012 for this reporting unit.  The results of our impairment test indicated that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeded its book value by a significant amount.  A discount rate of 7% was used in 2012.  We determined a range of discount rates between 5% and 9% would not have affected our conclusion. Restructuring charges and impairments resulting from restructuring actions We are required to assess whether and when a restructuring event has occurred and in which periods charges related to such events should be recognized.  We must estimate costs of plans to restructure including, for example, employee termination costs.  Restructuring charges require us to exercise judgment about the expected future of our businesses, of portions thereof, their profitability, cash flows and in certain instances eventual outcome.  The judgment involved can be difficult, subjective and complex in a number of areas, including assumptions and estimates used in estimating the future profitability and cash flows of our businesses. Index -65- Restructuring events often give rise to decisions to dispose of or abandon certain assets or asset groups which, as a result, require impairment.  We are required to carry assets to be sold or abandoned at the lower of cost or fair value.  We must exercise judgment in assessing the fair value of the assets to be sold or abandoned. Income taxes We are required to exercise judgment about our future results in assessing the realizability of our deferred tax assets.  Inherent in this estimation process is the requirement for us to estimate future book and taxable income and possible tax planning strategies.  These estimates require us to exercise judgment about our future results, the prudence and feasibility of possible tax planning strategies, and the economic environments in which we do business.  It is possible that actual results will differ from assumptions and require adjustments to allowances. Corning accounts for uncertain tax positions in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes.  As required under FASB ASC Topic 740, we only record tax benefits for technical positions that we believe have a greater than 50% likelihood of being sustained on their technical merits and then only to the extent of the amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement.  In estimating these amounts, we must exercise judgment around factors such as the weighting of the tax law in our favor, the willingness of a tax authority to aggressively pursue a particular position, or alternatively, consider a negotiated compromise, and our willingness to dispute a tax authorities assertion to the level of appeal we believe is required to sustain our position.  As a result, it is possible that our estimate of the benefits we will realize for uncertain tax positions may change when we become aware of new information affecting these judgments and estimates. Equity method investments In October 2013, Corning announced that it was entering into a series of strategic and financial agreements with Samsung Display which would result in Corning obtaining full ownership of Samsung Corning Precision Materials.  As part of this agreement, in the fourth quarter of 2013, Corning acquired the minority interests of three shareholders in Samsung Corning Precision Materials for $506 million, which included payment for the transfer of non-operating assets and the pro-rata portion of cash on Samsung Corning Precision Materials balance sheet at September 30, 2013.  The resulting transfer of shares to Corning increased Corning’s ownership percentage of Samsung Corning Precision Materials from 50% to 57.5%.  Because this transaction did not result in a change in control based on the governing articles of this entity, Corning did not consolidate this entity as of December 31, 2013.  The remaining transactions were completed on January 15, 2014, which increased Corning’s ownership to 100% and resulted in consolidation of the entity beginning in the first quarter of 2014.  This organization was integrated into Corning’s Display Technologies segment in 2014.  Refer to Note 8 (Acquisition) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. At December 31, 2014 and 2013, the carrying value of our equity method investments was $1.8 billion and $5.5 billion, respectively.  In 2014, our largest equity method investment, Dow Corning, comprised 74% of the balance.  In 2013, prior to the Acquisition and consolidation of Samsung Corning Precision Materials, our largest equity method investments, Dow Corning and Samsung Corning Precision Materials, comprised approximately 93% of the balance.  We review our equity method investments for indicators of impairment on a periodic basis or if events or circumstances change to indicate the carrying amount may be other-than-temporarily impaired.  When such indicators are present, we then perform an in-depth review for impairment.  An impairment assessment requires the exercise of judgment related to key assumptions such as forecasted revenue and profitability, forecasted tax rates, foreign currency exchange rate movements, terminal value assumptions, historical experience, our current knowledge from our commercial relationships, and available external information about future trends.  As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, we have not identified any instances where the carrying values of our equity method investments were not recoverable. Fair value measures As required, Corning uses two kinds of inputs to determine the fair value of assets and liabilities: observable and unobservable.  Observable inputs are based on market data or independent sources, while unobservable inputs are based on the Company’s own market assumptions.  Once inputs have been characterized, we prioritize the inputs used to measure fair value into one of three broad levels.  Characterization of fair value inputs is required for those accounting pronouncements that prescribe or permit fair value measurement.  In addition, observable market data must be used when available and the highest-and-best-use measure should be applied to non-financial assets.  Corning’s major categories of financial assets and liabilities required to be measured at fair value are short-term and long-term investments, certain pension asset investments and derivatives.  These categories use observable inputs only and are measured using a market approach based on quoted prices in markets considered active or in markets in which there are few transactions. Index -66- Derivative assets and liabilities may include interest rate swaps and forward exchange contracts that are measured using observable quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities.  In arriving at the fair value of Corning’s derivative assets and liabilities, we have considered the appropriate valuation and risk criteria, including such factors as credit risk of the relevant party to the transaction.  Amounts related to credit risk are not material. As a result of the Acquisition of Samsung Corning Precision Materials, the Company has contingent consideration that was measured using unobservable (Level 3) inputs.  This contingent consideration arrangement potentially requires additional consideration to be paid between the parties in 2018: one based on projections of future revenues generated by the business of Corning Precision Materials for the period between the acquisition date and December 31, 2017, which is subject to a cap of $665 million; and another based on the volumes of certain sales during the same period, which is subject to a separate cap of $100 million.  The fair value of the potential receipt of the contingent consideration in 2018 in the amount of $196 million recognized on the acquisition date was estimated by applying an option pricing model using the Company’s projection of future revenues generated by Corning Precision Materials.  Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration in future periods are valued using an option pricing model and are recorded in Corning’s results in the period of the change.  As of December 31, 2014, the fair value of the potential receipt of the contingent consideration in 2018 is estimated to be $445 million.  Corning recorded a pre-tax adjustment in the year ended December 31, 2014 in the amount of $249 million to reflect the increase in the fair value which is mainly due to the movement in foreign exchange rate. Probability of litigation outcomes We are required to make judgments about future events that are inherently uncertain.  In making determinations of likely outcomes of litigation matters, we consider the evaluation of legal counsel knowledgeable about each matter, case law, and other case-specific issues.  See Part II –