Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations and Note 20 (Reportable Segments) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K 5 Back to Contents Corporate Investments Corning and The Dow Chemical Company (Dow
Chemical) each own half of Dow Corning Corporation (Dow Corning), an equity company headquartered in Michigan that manufactures
silicone products worldwide. Dow Corning is a leader in silicon-based technology and innovation, offering more than 7,000 products
and services. Dow Corning is the majority-owner of Hemlock Semiconductor Group (Hemlock), a market leader in the production of
high purity polycrystalline silicon for the semiconductor and solar energy industries. Dow Corning’s sales were $5.7 billion
in 2013. Additional discussion about Dow Corning appears in the Legal Proceedings section. Dow Corning’s financial statements
are attached in Item 15, Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. Corning and PPG Industries, Inc. each own
half of Pittsburgh Corning Corporation (PCC), an equity company in Pennsylvania that manufactures glass products for architectural
and industrial uses. PCC filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization in April 2000. Corning also owns half of Pittsburgh Corning
Europe N.V. (PCE), a Belgian corporation that manufactures glass products for industrial uses primarily in Europe. Additional discussion
about PCC and PCE appears in the Legal Proceedings section. Additional information about corporate investments
is presented in Note 7 (Investments) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Competition Corning competes across all of its product
lines with many large and varied manufacturers, both domestic and foreign. Some of these competitors are larger than Corning, and
some have broader product lines. Corning strives to sustain and improve its market position through technology and product innovation.
For the future, Corning believes its competitive advantage lies in its commitment to research and development, and its commitment
to quality. There is no assurance that Corning will be able to maintain or improve its market position or competitive advantage. Display Technologies Segment We believe Corning, including Samsung Corning
Precision Materials, is the largest worldwide producer of glass substrates for active matrix LCD displays. The environment for
LCD glass substrate products is very competitive and Corning believes it has sustained its competitive advantages by investing
in new products, providing a consistent and reliable supply, and using its proprietary fusion manufacturing process. This process
allows us to deliver glass that is larger, thinner and lighter, with exceptional surface quality and without heavy metals. Asahi
Glass, Nippon Electric Glass and Avan Strate, Inc. are Corning’s principal competitors in display glass substrates. Optical Communications Segment Competition within the communications equipment
industry is intense among several significant companies. Corning is a leading competitor in the segment’s principal product
groups, which include carrier network and enterprise network. The competitive landscape includes industry consolidation, price
pressure and competition for the innovation of new products. These competitive conditions are likely to persist. Corning believes
its large scale manufacturing experience, fiber process, technology leadership and intellectual property yield cost advantages
relative to several of its competitors. The primary competing producers of carrier
network products are TE Connectivity, Prysmian Group, OFS (a Furukawa Company), Fujikura Ltd., Sumitomo Electric, YOFC, Futong
Group and 3M Company. For enterprise network products, significant
competitors are CommScope, TE Connectivity, Panduit Corporation and a number of other smaller competitors. Environmental Technologies Segment For worldwide automotive ceramic substrate
products, Corning has a major market position that has remained relatively stable over the past year. Corning has also established
a strong presence in the heavy duty and light duty diesel vehicle market and believes its competitive advantage in automotive ceramic
substrate products for catalytic converters and diesel filter products for exhaust systems is based upon global presence, customer
service, engineering design services and product innovation. Corning’s Environmental Technologies products face principal
competition from NGK, Denso, and Ibiden. CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K 6 Back to Contents Specialty Materials Segment Corning is one of very few manufacturers
with deep capabilities in materials science, optical design, shaping, coating, finishing, metrology, and system assembly. Additionally,
we are addressing emerging needs of the consumer electronics industry with the development of chemically strengthened glass. Corning
Gorilla Glass is a thin-sheet glass that is better able to survive events that most commonly cause glass failure. Its advanced
composition allows a deeper layer of chemical strengthening than is possible with most other chemically strengthened glasses, making
it both durable and damage resistant. Our products and capabilities in this segment position the Company to meet the needs of a
broad array of markets including display, semiconductor, aerospace/defense, astronomy, vision care, industrial/commercial, and
telecommunications. For this segment, Schott, Shin-Etsu Quartz Products, Asahi Glass, Carl Zeiss, Nikon, Nippon Electric Glass,
Transitions Optical, Oerlikon, Hoya and Heraeus are the main competitors. Life Sciences Segment Corning seeks to maintain a competitive advantage
by emphasizing product quality, product availability, supply chain efficiency, a wide product line and superior product attributes.
Our principle worldwide competitors include Greiner, Nunc, Kimble-Chase, Gibco and Duran. Corning also faces increasing competition
from two large distributors that have pursued backward integration or introduced private label products. Raw Materials Corning’s production of specialty glasses,
ceramics, and related materials requires significant quantities of energy, uninterrupted power sources, certain precious metals,
and various batch materials. Although energy shortages have not been a
problem recently, the cost of energy remains volatile. Corning has achieved flexibility through engineering changes to take advantage
of low-cost energy sources in most significant processes. Specifically, many of Corning’s principal manufacturing processes
can be operated with natural gas, propane, oil or electricity, or a combination of these energy sources. Availability of resources (ores,
minerals, polymers, helium and processed chemicals) required in manufacturing operations, appears to be adequate.
Corning’s suppliers, from time to time, may experience capacity limitations in their own operations, or may eliminate
certain product lines. Corning believes it has adequate programs to ensure a reliable supply of batch materials and precious
metals. For many products, Corning has alternate glass compositions that would allow operations to continue without
interruption in the event of specific materials shortages. Certain key materials and proprietary equipment
used in the manufacturing of products are currently sole-sourced or available only from a limited number of suppliers. Any future
difficulty in obtaining sufficient and timely delivery of components could result in lost sales due to delays or reductions in
product shipments, or reductions in Corning’s gross margins. Patents and Trademarks Inventions by members of Corning’s
research and engineering staff have been, and continue to be, important to the Company’s growth. Patents have been granted
on many of these inventions in the United States and other countries. Some of these patents have been licensed to other manufacturers,
including companies in which Corning has equity investments. Many of our earlier patents have now expired, but Corning continues
to seek and obtain patents protecting its innovations. In 2013, Corning was granted over 350 patents in the U.S. and over 700 patents
in countries outside the U.S. Each business segment possesses a patent
portfolio that provides certain competitive advantages in protecting Corning’s innovations. Corning has historically enforced,
and will continue to enforce, its intellectual property rights. At the end of 2013, Corning and its wholly-owned subsidiaries owned
over 6,900 unexpired patents in various countries of which about 3,100 were U.S. patents. Between 2014 and 2015, approximately
4% of these patents will expire, while at the same time Corning intends to seek patents protecting its newer innovations. Worldwide,
Corning has over 8,000 patent applications in process, with about 2,000 in process in the U.S. Corning believes that its patent
portfolio will continue to provide a competitive advantage in protecting Corning’s innovation, although Corning’s competitors
in each of its businesses are actively seeking patent protection as well. CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K 7 Back to Contents The Display Technologies segment has over
900 patents in various countries, of which over 250 are U.S. patents. No one patent is considered material to this business segment.
Some of the important U.S.-issued patents in this segment include patents relating to glass compositions and methods for the use
and manufacture of glass substrates for display applications. There is no group of important Display Technologies segment patents
set to expire between 2014 and 2016. The Optical Communications segment has over
2,400 patents in various countries, of which over 1,100 are U.S. patents. No one patent is considered material to this business
segment. Some of the important U.S.-issued patents in this segment include: (i) patents relating to optical fiber products including
low loss optical fiber, high data rate optical fiber, and dispersion compensating fiber, and processes and equipment for manufacturing
optical fiber, including methods for making optical fiber preforms and methods for drawing, cooling and winding optical fiber;
(ii) patents relating to optical fiber ribbons and methods for making such ribbon, fiber optic cable designs and methods for installing
optical fiber cable; (iii) patents relating to optical fiber connectors, termination and storage and associated methods of manufacture;
and (iv) patents related to distributed communication systems. There is no group of important Optical Communications segment patents
set to expire between 2014 and 2016. The Environmental Technologies segment has
over 500 patents in various countries, of which over 250 are U.S. patents. No one patent is considered material to this business
segment. Some of the important U.S.-issued patents in this segment include patents relating to cellular ceramic honeycomb products,
together with ceramic batch and binder system compositions, honeycomb extrusion and firing processes, and honeycomb extrusion dies
and equipment for the high-volume, low-cost manufacture of such products. There is no group of important Environmental Technologies
segment patents set to expire between 2014 and 2016. The Specialty Materials segment has about
600 patents in various countries, of which over 350 are U.S. patents. No one patent is considered material to this business segment.
Some of the important U.S.-issued patents in this segment include patents relating to protective cover glass, ophthalmic glasses
and polarizing dies, and semiconductor/microlithography optics and blanks, metrology instrumentation and laser/precision optics,
glass polarizers, specialty fiber, and refractories. There is no group of important Specialty Materials segment patents set to
expire between 2014 and 2016. The Life Sciences segment has over 800 patents
in various countries, of which over 250 are U.S. patents. No one patent is considered material to this business segment. Some of
the important U.S.-issued patents in this segment include patents relating to methods and apparatus for the manufacture and use
of scientific laboratory equipment including multiwell plates and cell culture products, as well as equipment and processes for
label independent drug discovery. There is no group of important Life Sciences segment patents set to expire between 2014 and 2016. Products reported in All Other include development
projects, new product lines, and other businesses or investments that do not meet the threshold for separate reporting. Many of the Company’s patents are used
in operations or are licensed for use by others, and Corning is licensed to use patents owned by others. Corning has entered into
cross licensing arrangements with some major competitors, but the scope of such licenses has been limited to specific product areas
or technologies. Corning’s principal trademarks include
the following: Axygen, Corning, Celcor, ClearCurve, DuraTrap, Eagle XG, Epic, Evolant, Gosselin, Gorilla, HPFS, Lanscape, Pretium,
Pyrex, Steuben, Falcon, SMF-28e, and Willow. Protection of the Environment Corning has a program to ensure that its
facilities are in compliance with state, federal and foreign pollution-control regulations. This program has resulted in capital
and operating expenditures each year. In order to maintain compliance with such regulations, capital expenditures for pollution
control in continuing operations were approximately $5 million in 2013 and are estimated to be $6 million in 2014. Corning’s 2013 consolidated operating
results were charged with approximately $39 million for depreciation, maintenance, waste disposal and other operating expenses
associated with pollution control. Corning believes that its compliance program will not place it at a competitive disadvantage. Employees At December 31, 2013, Corning had approximately
30,400 full-time employees, including approximately 11,400 employees in the United States. From time to time, Corning also retains
consultants, independent contractors, temporary and part-time workers. Unions are certified as bargaining agents for approximately
23.8% of Corning’s United States employees. CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K 8 Back to Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant Wendell P. Weeks Chairman,
Chief Executive Officer and President Mr. Weeks joined Corning in 1983. He
was named vice president and general manager of the Optical Fiber business in 1996, senior vice president in 1997, senior
vice president of Opto-Electronics in 1998, executive vice president in 1999, and president, Corning Optical Communications
in 2001. Mr. Weeks was named president and chief operating officer of Corning in 2002, president and chief executive officer
in 2005 and chairman and chief executive officer on April 26, 2007. He added the title of president in December 2010. Mr.
Weeks is a director of Merck & Co. Inc. Mr. Weeks has been a member of Corning’s Board of Directors since 2000. Age
54. James B. Flaws Vice Chairman and
Chief Financial Officer Mr. Flaws joined Corning in 1973 and
served in a variety of controller and business management positions. Mr. Flaws was elected assistant treasurer of Corning in
1993, vice president and controller in 1997, vice president of finance and treasurer in May 1997, senior vice president and
chief financial officer in December 1997, executive vice president and chief financial officer in 1999 and to his current
position in 2002. Mr. Flaws is a director of Dow Corning Corporation. Mr. Flaws has been a member of Corning’s Board of
Directors since 2000. Age 65. Kirk P. Gregg Executive Vice
President and Chief Administrative Officer Mr. Gregg joined Corning in 1993 as
director of Executive Compensation. He was named vice president of Executive Resources and Employee Benefits in 1994, senior
vice president, Administration in December 1997 and to his current position in 2002. He is responsible for Human Resources,
Information Technology, Procurement and Transportation, Aviation, Community Affairs, Government Affairs, Business Services
and Corporate Security. Prior to joining Corning, Mr. Gregg was with General Dynamics Corporation as corporate director, Key
Management Programs, and was responsible for executive compensation and benefits, executive development and recruiting. Age
54. Lawrence D. McRae Executive Vice
President, Strategy and Corporate Development Mr. McRae joined Corning in 1985 and served
in various financial, sales and marketing positions. He was elected vice president Corporate Development in 2000, senior vice president
Corporate Development in 2003, and senior vice president Strategy and Corporate Development in October 2005. He was elected to
his present position in October 2010. Mr. McRae is on the board of directors of Dow Corning Corporation, and Samsung Corning Precision
Materials Co., Ltd. Age 55. David L. Morse Executive Vice
President and Chief Technology Officer Dr. Morse joined Corning in 1976 in
glass research, and worked as a composition scientist in developing and patenting several major products. He served in a
variety of product and materials research and technology director roles, and was appointed division vice president and
technology director for photonic technology groups beginning in March 1999, and became director of corporate research,
science and technology in December 2001. He was elected vice president in January 2003, becoming senior vice president and
director of corporate research in 2006. Dr. Morse was elected to his current position in May 2012. He is on the board of Dow
Corning Corporation and a member of the National Academy of Engineering and the National Chemistry Board. Age 61. Jeffrey W. Evenson Senior Vice
President and Operations Chief of Staff Dr. Evenson joined Corning in June 2011
and was elected to his current position at that time. He serves on the Management Committee and oversees a variety of
strategic programs and growth initiatives. Prior to joining Corning, Dr. Evenson was a senior vice president with Sanford C.
Bernstein, where he served as a senior analyst since 2004. Before that, Dr. Evenson was a partner at McKinsey & Company,
where he led technology and market assessment for early-stage technologies. Age 48. R. Tony Tripeny Senior Vice President,
Corporate Controller and Principal Accounting Officer Mr. Tripeny joined Corning in 1985 as
the corporate accounting manager of Corning Cable Systems, and became the Keller facility’s plant controller in 1989.
In 1993, he was appointed equipment division controller of Corning Cable Systems and, in 1996 corporate controller.
Mr. Tripeny was appointed chief financial officer of Corning Cable Systems in July 2000. In 2003, he took on the additional
role of Telecommunications group controller. He was appointed division vice president, operations controller in August 2004,
and vice president, corporate controller in October 2005. Mr. Tripeny was elected to his current position in April 2009. He
is on the board of directors of Hardinge Inc. Age 54. Lewis A. Steverson Senior Vice
President and General Counsel Mr. Steverson joined Corning in June
2013 as Senior Vice President and General Counsel. Prior to joining Corning, Mr. Steverson served as senior vice president,
general counsel, and secretary of Motorola Solutions, Inc. During his 18 years with Motorola, he held a variety of legal
leadership roles across the company’s numerous business units. Prior to Motorola, Mr. Steverson was in private practice
at the law firm of Arnold & Porter. Age 50. CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K 9 Back to Contents Document Availability A copy of Corning’s 2013 Annual
Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission is available upon written request to Ms. Linda E.
Jolly, Corporate Secretary, Corning Incorporated, HQ-E2-10, Corning, NY 14831. The Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act of
1934 and other filings are available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed or
furnished to the SEC, and can be accessed electronically free of charge, through the Investor Relations line on
Corning’s web site at www.corning.com . The information contained on the Company’s website is not included
in, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other Additional information in response to Item
1 is found in Note 20 (Reportable Segments) to the Consolidated Financial Statements and in Item 6 (Selected Financial Data). ITEM
1A Risk Factors We operate in rapidly changing economic and
technological environments that present numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict.
Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could
adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock.
The following discussion of “risk factors” identifies the most significant factors that may adversely affect our business,
operations, financial position or future financial performance. This information should be read in conjunction with MD&A and
the consolidated financial statements and related notes incorporated by reference into this report. The following discussion of
risks is not all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider, as these factors could
cause our future results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements and from historical trends. As a multinational company, we face many
risks which could adversely impact our ongoing operations and reported financial results We operate in over 100 countries and derive
a substantial portion of our revenues from, and have significant operations, outside of the United States. Our international operations
include manufacturing, assembly, sales, customer support, and shared administrative service centers. Compliance with laws and regulations
increases our cost of doing business. These laws and regulations include U.S. laws and local laws which include data privacy
requirements, employment and labor laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, prohibitions on payments to governmental
officials, import and trade restrictions and export requirements. Non-compliance and violations could result in fines,
criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Any such
violations could result in prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries and could
also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain
employees, our business and our operating results. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and
manage these difficulties. CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K 10 Back to Contents We are also subject to a variety of other
risks in managing a multinational global organization, including those related to: • General economic conditions in each country or region; • Many complex regulatory requirements affecting international trade and investment, including anti-dumping laws, export controls, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local laws prohibiting improper payments. Our operations may be adversely affected by changes in the substance or enforcement of these regulatory requirements, and by actual or alleged violations of them; • Fluctuations in currency exchange rates, convertibility of currencies and restrictions involving the movement of funds between jurisdictions and countries; • Sovereign risks may adversely affect Corning’s profitability and assets; • Geographical concentration of our factories and operations and regional shifts in our customer base; • Periodic health epidemic concerns; • Political unrest, confiscation or expropriation of our assets by foreign governments, terrorism and the potential for other hostilities; • Difficulty in protecting intellectual property or sensitive commercial and operations data or information technology systems generally; • Differing legal systems, including protection and treatment of intellectual property and patents; • Complex tax regimes, tariffs, trade duties and other trade barriers including anti-dumping duties; • Difficulty in collecting obligations owed to us such as accounts receivable; • Natural disasters such as floods, earthquakes and windstorms; and • Potential power loss or disruption affecting manufacturing. Our sales could be negatively impacted
by the actions or circumstances of one or more key customers leading to the substantial reduction in orders for our products In 2013, Corning’s ten largest customers
accounted for 50% of our sales. In addition, a relatively small number of
customers accounted for a high percentage of net sales in our reportable segments. For 2013, four customers of the Display Technologies
segment accounted for 94% of total segment net sales when combined. In the Optical Communications segment, one customer accounted
for 10% of segment net sales. In the Environmental Technologies segment, three customers accounted for 87% of total segment sales
in aggregate. In the Specialty Materials segment, three customers accounted for 47% of segment sales in 2013. In the Life Sciences
segment, two customers accounted for 44% of segment sales in 2013. As a result of mergers and consolidations between customers,
Corning’s customer base could become more concentrated. Samsung Corning Precision Materials’
sales were also concentrated in 2013, with sales to two LCD panel makers located in South Korea accounting for approximately 92%
of total Samsung Corning Precision Materials sales. Our Optical Communications segment customers’
purchases of our products are affected by their capital expansion plans, general market and economic uncertainty and regulatory
changes, including broadband policy. Sales in the Optical Communications segment are expected to be impacted by the pace of fiber-to-the-premises
deployments. Our sales will be dependent on planned targets for homes passed and connected. Changes in our customers’ deployment
plans could adversely affect future sales. In the Environmental Technologies segment,
sales of our ceramic substrate and filter products for automotive and diesel emissions tend to fluctuate with vehicle production.
Changes in laws and regulations for air quality and emission controls may also influence future sales. Sales in our Environmental
Technologies segment are mainly to three catalyzers and emission system control manufacturers. Our customers sell these systems
to automobile and diesel engine original equipment manufacturers. Sales in this segment may be affected by adverse developments
in the global vehicle or freight hauling industries or by such factors as higher fuel prices that may affect vehicle sales or downturns
in freight traffic. Certain sales in our Specialty Materials
segment track worldwide economic cycles and our customers’ responses to those cycles. In addition, any positive trends in
prior years in the sales of strengthened glass may not continue. We may experience losses relating to our inability to supply contracted
quantities of this glass and processes planned to produce new versions of this glass may not be successful. CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K 11 Back to Contents Sales in our Life Sciences segment are concentrated
with two large distributors who are also competitors, and the balance is to a variety of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies,
hospitals, universities, and other research facilities. In 2013, our two largest distributors accounted for 44% of Life Sciences’
segment sales. Changes in our distribution arrangements in this segment may adversely affect this segment’s financial results. Our operations and financial performance
could be negatively impacted, if the markets for our products do not develop and expand as we anticipate The markets for our products are characterized
by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry or regulatory standards and new product introductions. Our success is dependent
on the successful introduction of new products, or upgrades of current products, and our ability to compete with new technologies.
The following factors related to our products and markets, if they do not continue as in the recent past, could have an adverse
impact on our operations: • our ability to introduce advantaged products such as glass substrates for liquid crystal displays, optical fiber and cable and hardware and equipment, and environmental substrate and filter products at competitive prices; • our ability to manufacture glass substrates and strengthened glass, to satisfy our customers technical requirements and our contractual obligations; and • our ability to develop new products in response to government regulations and laws. We face pricing pressures in each of our
businesses that could adversely affect our financial performance We face pricing pressure in each of our businesses
as a result of intense competition, emerging technologies, or over-capacity. While we work consistently toward reducing our costs
to offset pricing pressures, we may not be able to achieve proportionate reductions in costs or sustain our current rate of cost
reduction. We anticipate pricing pressures will continue in the future in all our businesses. Any of these items could cause our sales,
profitability and cash flows to be significantly reduced. We face risks due to foreign currency
fluctuations Because we have significant customers and
operations outside the U.S., fluctuations in foreign currencies, especially the Japanese yen, New Taiwan dollar, Korean won, and
Euro, affect our sales, profit and cash flows. Foreign exchange rates may make our products less competitive in countries where
local currencies decline in value relative to the U.S. dollar and Japanese yen. Sales in our Display Technologies segment, representing
32% of Corning’s sales in 2013, are denominated in Japanese yen. If sales grow in our Display Technologies segment, our exposure
to currency fluctuations will increase. Corning hedges significant transaction and balance sheet currency exposures and uses derivative
instruments to limit exposure to foreign currency fluctuations associated with certain monetary assets and liabilities as well
as operating results. Although we selectively hedge these items, changes in exchange rates (especially the Japanese yen to U.S.
dollar) will significantly impact our reported revenues and profits. A large portion of our consolidated operations
are international and we expect that we will continue to realize gains or losses with respect to our foreign currency exposures,
net of gains or losses from our hedging programs. For example, we will experience foreign currency gains and losses in certain
instances if it is not possible or cost effective to hedge our foreign currency exposures or should we elect not to hedge certain
of our foreign currency exposures. We have a program which primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the
risks associated with foreign currency exposures. As a part of this program, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts so
that increases or decreases in the value of our foreign currency exposures are at least partially offset by gains or losses on
the foreign currency forward contracts in order to mitigate the volatility associated with our foreign currency transactions. We
are exposed to potential losses in the event of non-performance by our counterparties to these derivative contracts. However, we
minimize this risk by limiting the counterparties to a diverse group of highly-rated major international financial institutions
with which we have other financial relationships. We do not expect to record any losses as a result of such counterparty default.
Neither we nor our counterparties are required to post collateral for these financial instruments. Our ultimate realized loss or
gain with respect to currency fluctuations will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency exposures that we enter
into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, whether we have entered into foreign
currency forward contracts to offset these exposures and other factors. All of these factors could materially impact our results
of operations, anticipated future results, financial position and cash flows, the timing of which is variable and generally outside
of our control. CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K 12 Back to Contents If the financial condition of our customers
declines, our credit risks could increase Although we have a rigorous process to administer
credit and believe our bad debt reserve is adequate, we have experienced, and in the future may experience, losses as a result
of our inability to collect our accounts receivable. If our customers or our indirect customers fail to meet their payment obligations
for our products, we could experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of amounts reserved. Many customers of our Display
Technologies and Specialty Materials segments are thinly capitalized and/or unprofitable. In our Environmental Technologies segment,
the U.S. auto makers and certain of their suppliers have encountered credit downgrades or have filed for bankruptcy protection.
In our Optical Communications segment, certain large infrastructure projects are subject to governmental funding, which, if terminated,
could adversely impact the financial strength of our customers. These factors may result in an inability to collect receivables
or a possible loss in business. The success of our business depends on
our ability to develop and produce advantaged products that meet our customers’ needs Our business relies on continued global demand
for our brands and products. To achieve business goals, we must develop and sell products that appeal to our customers, OEMs and
distributors. This is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to manage and maintain key customer relationships,
our ability to produce products that meet the quality, performance and price expectations of our customers. The manufacturing of
our products involves complex and precise processes. In some cases, existing manufacturing may be insufficient to achieve the requirements
of our customers. We will need to develop new manufacturing processes and techniques to maintain profitable operations. While we
continue to fund projects to improve our manufacturing techniques and processes and lower our costs, we may not achieve satisfactory
manufacturing costs that will fully enable us to meet our profitability targets. In addition, our continued success in selling
products that appeal to our customers is dependent on our ability to innovate, with respect to both products and operations, and
on the availability and effectiveness of legal protection for our innovations. Failure to continue to deliver quality and competitive
products to the marketplace, to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, to supply products that meet applicable regulatory
requirements or to predict market demands for, or gain market acceptance of, our products, could have a negative impact on our
business, results of operations and financial condition. Our future financial performance depends
on our ability to purchase a sufficient amount of materials, precious metals, parts, and manufacturing equipment to meet the demands
of our customers Our ability to meet customer demand depends,
in part, on our ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of materials, precious metals, parts and components from our suppliers.
We may experience shortages that could adversely affect our operations. Although we work closely with our suppliers to avoid shortages,
there can be no assurances that we will not encounter problems in the future. Furthermore, certain manufacturing equipment, raw
materials or components are available only from a single source or limited sources. We may not be able to find alternate sources
in a timely manner. A reduction, interruption or delay of supply, or a significant increase in the price for supplies, such as
manufacturing equipment, precious metals, raw materials or energy, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. We have incurred, and may in the future
incur, goodwill and other intangible asset impairment charges At December 31, 2013, Corning had goodwill
and other intangible assets of $1,542 million. While we believe the estimates and judgments about future cash flows used in the
goodwill impairment tests are reasonable, we cannot provide assurance that future impairment charges will not be required if the
expected cash flow estimates as projected by management do not occur, especially if an economic recession occurs and continues
for a lengthy period or becomes severe, or if acquisitions and investments made by the Company fail to achieve expected returns. If our products, including materials purchased
from our suppliers, experience performance issues, our business will suffer Our business depends on the production of
products of consistently high quality. Our products, components and materials purchased from our suppliers, are typically tested
for quality. These testing procedures are limited to evaluating our products under likely and foreseeable failure scenarios. For
various reasons, our products, including materials purchased from our suppliers, may fail to perform as a customer expected. In
some cases, product redesigns or additional expense may be required to address such issues. A significant or systemic quality issue
could result in customer relations problems, lost sales, reduced volumes, product recalls and financial damages and penalties. CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K 13 Back to Contents We operate in a highly competitive environment We operate in a highly competitive environment,
and our outlook depends on the company’s share of industry sales based on our ability to compete with others in the marketplace.
The Company competes on the basis of product attributes, customer service, quality and price. There can be no assurance that our
products will be able to compete successfully with other companies’ products. Our share of industry sales could be reduced
due to aggressive pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors, unanticipated product or manufacturing difficulties, our
failure to price our products competitively, our failure to produce our products at a competitive cost or unexpected, emerging
technologies or products. We expect that we will face continuous competition from existing competitors, low cost manufacturers
and new entrants. We believe we must invest in research and development, engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities,
and continue to improve customer service in order to remain competitive. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain
or improve our competitive position. We may need to change our pricing models
to compete successfully We face intense competition in all of our
businesses, particularly LCD glass, and general economic and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our prices. If
our competitors offer significant discounts on certain products or develop products that the marketplace considers more valuable,
we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to retain our customers and market positions. Any such changes
may reduce our profitability and cash flow. Any broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could cause our revenues
to decline or be delayed as we implement and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. If we do not adapt our pricing models
to reflect changes in customer use of our products or changes in customer demand, our revenues could decrease. LCD glass generates a significant amount
of the Company’s profits and cash flow, and any events that adversely affect the market for LCD glass substrates could have
a material and negative impact on our financial results Corning’s ability to generate profits
and operating cash flow depends largely upon the level of profitability of our LCD glass business. As a result, any event that
adversely affects our Display business could have a significant impact on our consolidated financial results. These events could
include loss of patent protection, increased costs associated with manufacturing, and increased competition from the introduction
of new, and more desirable products. If any of these events had a material adverse effect on the sales of our LCD glass, such an
event could result in material charges and a significant reduction in profitability. Additionally, emerging material technologies
could replace our glass substrates for certain applications, including display glass, cover glass and others, resulting in a decline
in demand for our products. Existing or new production capacity for glass substrates may exceed the demand for them. Technologies
for displays, cover glass and other applications in competition with our glass may reduce or eliminate the need for our glass substrates.
New process technologies developed by our competitors may also place us at a cost or quality disadvantage. Our own process technologies
may be acquired or used unlawfully by others, enabling them to compete with us. Our inability to manufacture glass substrates to
the specifications required by our customers may result in loss of revenue, margins and profits or liabilities for failure to supply.
A scarcity of resources, limitations on technology, personnel or other factors resulting in a failure to produce commercial quantities
of glass substrates could have adverse financial consequences to us. Changes in our effective tax rate or tax
liability may have an adverse effect on our results of operations Our effective tax rate could be adversely
impacted by several factors, including: • changes in the relative amounts of income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates; • changes in tax treaties and regulations or the interpretation of them; • changes to our assessments about the realizability of our deferred tax assets that are based on estimates of our future results, the prudence and feasibility of possible tax planning strategies, and the economic environments in which we do business; • the outcome of current and future tax audits, examinations, or administrative appeals; • changes in generally accepted accounting principles that affect the accounting for taxes; and • limitations or adverse findings regarding our ability to do business in some jurisdictions. In the ordinary course of our business,
there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Significant judgment is required
in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination
could be materially different from our historical tax provisions and accruals. CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K 14 Back to Contents We may have additional tax liabilities We are subject to income taxes in the U.S.
and many foreign jurisdictions and are commonly audited by various tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable,
the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions
and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial statements in the period or periods
for which that determination is made. A significant amount of our net profits and
cash flows are generated from outside the U.S., and certain repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result
in higher effective tax rates for the company. In addition, there have been proposals to change U.S. tax laws that could significantly
impact how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. Although we cannot predict whether or in what form proposed
legislation may pass, if enacted certain anti-deferral proposals could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash
flow. Our business depends on our ability to
attract and retain talented employees The loss of the services of any of our key
research and development, engineering or operational personnel or senior management without adequate replacement, or the inability
to attract new qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. We are subject to strict environmental
regulations and regulatory changes that could result in fines or restrictions that interrupt our operations Various stages in some of our manufacturing
processes generate chemical waste, waste water, other industrial waste or greenhouse gases, and we are subject to numerous laws
and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of such substances. We have installed anti-pollution equipment
for the treatment of chemical waste and waste water at our facilities. We have taken steps to control the amount of greenhouse
gases created by our manufacturing operations. However, we cannot provide assurance that environmental claims will not be brought
against us or that government regulators will not take steps toward adopting more stringent environment standards. Any failure on our part to comply with any
present or future environmental regulations could result in the assessment of damages or imposition of fines against us, or the
suspension/cessation of production or operations. In addition, environmental regulations could require us to acquire costly equipment,
incur other significant compliance expenses or limit or restrict production or operations and thus materially and negatively affect
our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in regulations and the regulatory
environment in the U.S. and other countries, such as those resulting from the regulation and impact of global warming and CO 2 abatement, may affect our businesses and their results in adverse ways by, among other things, substantially increasing
manufacturing costs, limiting availability of scarce resources, especially energy, or requiring limitations on production and
sale of our products or those of our customers. We may experience difficulties in enforcing
our intellectual property rights and we may be subject to claims of infringement of the intellectual property rights of others We rely on patent and trade secret laws,
copyright, trademark, confidentiality procedures, controls and contractual commitments to protect our intellectual property rights.
Despite our efforts, these protections may be limited and we may encounter difficulties in protecting our intellectual property
rights or obtaining rights to additional intellectual property necessary to permit us to continue or expand our businesses. We
cannot provide assurance that the patents that we hold or may obtain will provide meaningful protection against our competitors.
Changes in or enforcement of laws concerning intellectual property, worldwide, may affect our ability to prevent or address the
misappropriation of, or the unauthorized use of, our intellectual property. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual
property rights. Litigation is inherently uncertain and the outcome is often unpredictable. Other companies hold patents on technologies
used in our industries and are aggressively seeking to expand, enforce and license their patent portfolios. If we cannot protect
our intellectual property rights against unauthorized copying or use, or other misappropriation, we may not remain competitive. CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K 15 Back to Contents The intellectual property rights of others
could inhibit our ability to introduce new products. We periodically receive notices from, or have lawsuits filed against us by
third parties claiming infringement, misappropriation or other misuse of their intellectual property rights and/or breach of our
agreements with them. These third parties often include entities that do not have the capabilities to design, manufacture, or distribute
products or that acquire intellectual property like patents for the sole purpose of monetizing their acquired intellectual property
through asserting claims of infringement and misuse. Such claims of infringement or misappropriation may result in loss of revenue,
substantial costs, or lead to monetary damages or injunctive relief against us. We cannot provide assurance as to the outcome of
any such claims. Current or future litigation may harm
our financial condition or results of operations As described in Legal Proceedings in this
Form 10-K, we are engaged in litigation and regulatory matters. Litigation and regulatory proceedings may be uncertain, and adverse
rulings could occur, resulting in significant liabilities, penalties or damages. Such current or future substantial legal liabilities
or regulatory actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and reputation. We may not capture significant revenues
from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all Developing our products through research
and development is expensive and the investment often involves a long return on investment cycle. We have made and expect to continue
to make significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities. Accelerated product introductions
and short product life cycles require high levels of expenditures for research and development that could adversely affect our
operating results if not offset by increases in our gross margin. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount
of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. Business disruptions could affect our
operating results A significant portion of our manufacturing,
research and development activities and certain other critical business operations are concentrated in a few geographic areas.
A major earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical facilities
could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future financial results could be
materially and adversely affected. Additionally, a significant amount of the
specialized manufacturing capacity for our Display Technologies segment is concentrated in three overseas countries and it is reasonably
possible that the operations of one or more such facilities could be disrupted. Due to the specialized nature of the assets and
the customers’ locations, it may not be possible to find replacement capacity quickly or substitute production from facilities
in other countries. Accordingly, loss of these facilities could produce a near-term severe impact on our Display business and the
Company as a whole. We face risks through equity affiliates
that we do not control Corning’s net income includes equity
earnings from affiliated companies. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we recognized $547 million of equity earnings, of which
approximately 94% came from our two largest investments: Dow Corning (which makes silicone and high purity polycrystalline products)
and Samsung Corning Precision Materials (which primarily makes LCD glass). In January 2014, Corning completed a series of transactions
which resulted in the Company obtaining 100% ownership of Samsung Corning Precision Materials, which will result in control of
the entity beginning in the first quarter of 2014. Our equity investments may not continue to
perform at the same levels as in recent years. Dow Corning emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy in 2004 and has certain obligations
under its Plan of Reorganization to resolve and fund claims of its creditors and personal injury claimants. Dow Corning may incur
further bankruptcy charges in the future, which may adversely affect its operations or assets. Dow Corning also could be adversely
impacted by a continuation of significant price declines at their consolidated subsidiary, Hemlock Semiconductor Group. In addition,
we rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of these entities and their failure to maintain effectiveness
or comply with applicable standards may adversely affect us. CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K 16 Back to Contents We may not have adequate insurance coverage
for claims against us We face the risk of loss resulting from product
liability, asbestos, securities, fiduciary liability, intellectual property, antitrust, contractual, warranty, environmental, fraud
and other lawsuits, whether or not such claims are valid. In addition, our product liability, fiduciary, directors and officers,
property policies including business interruption, natural catastrophe and comprehensive general liability insurance may not be
adequate to cover such claims or may not be available to the extent we expect in the future. A successful claim that exceeds or
is not covered by our policies could require us to make substantial unplanned payments. Some of the carriers in our historical
primary and excess insurance programs are in liquidation and may not be able to respond if we should have claims reaching their
policies. The financial health of other insurers may deteriorate. Several of our insurance carriers are litigating with us the
extent, if any, of their obligation to provide insurance coverage for asbestos liabilities asserted against us. The results of
that litigation may adversely affect our insurance coverage for those risks. In addition, we may not be able to obtain adequate
insurance coverage for certain types of risk such as political risks, terrorism or war. Our global operations are subject to extensive
trade and anti-corruption laws and regulations Due to the international scope of our operations,
we are subject to a complex system of import- and export-related laws and regulations, including U.S. regulations issued by Customs
and Border Protection, the Bureau of Industry and Security, the Office of Antiboycott Compliance, the Directorate of Defense Trade
Controls and the Office of Foreign Assets Control, as well as the counterparts of these agencies in other countries. Any alleged
or actual violations may subject us to government scrutiny, investigation and civil and criminal penalties, and may limit our ability
to import or export our products or to provide services outside the United States. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect
of future regulatory requirements to which our operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered
or interpreted. In addition, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act and similar foreign anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making
improper payments or providing anything of value to improperly influence foreign government officials for the purpose of
obtaining or retaining business, or obtaining an unfair advantage. Recent years have seen a substantial increase in the
global enforcement of anti-corruption laws. Our continued operation and expansion outside the United States, including in
developing countries, could increase the risk of such violations. Violations of these laws may result in severe criminal or
civil sanctions, could disrupt our business, and result in an adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of
operations or financial condition. Moreover, several of our equity affiliates
and related partners are domiciled in areas of the world with laws, rules and business practices that differ from those in the
United States. Although we strive to select equity partners and affiliates who share our values and understand our reporting requirements
as a U.S.-domiciled company and to ensure that an appropriate business culture exists within these ventures to minimize and mitigate
our risk, we nonetheless face the reputational and legal risk that our equity partners and affiliates may violate applicable laws,
rules and business practices. Acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic
alliances may have an adverse effect on our business We expect to continue making acquisitions
and entering into joint ventures and strategic alliances as part of our business strategy. These transactions involve significant
challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that we do not realize a satisfactory
return on our investment, or that we experience difficulty integrating new employees, business systems, and technology, or diversion
of management’s attention from our other businesses. It may take longer than expected to realize the full benefits, such
as increased revenue and cash flow, enhanced efficiencies, or market share, or those benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated,
or may not be realized. These events could harm our operating results or financial condition. Improper disclosure of personal data could
result in liability and harm our reputation We store and process personally-identifiable
information of our employees and, in some case, our customers. At the same time, the continued occurrence of high-profile data
breaches provides evidence of the increasingly hostile information security environment. This environment demands that we continuously
improve our design and coordination of security controls across our business groups and geographies. Despite these efforts, it
is possible our security controls over personal data, our training of employees and vendors on data security, and other practices
we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information. Improper disclosure of this information
could harm our reputation or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss
of revenue. CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K 17 Back to Contents Significant macroeconomic events, changes
in regulations, or a crisis in the financial markets could limit our access to capital We utilize credit in both the capital markets
and from banks to facilitate company borrowings, hedging transactions, leases and other financial transactions. We maintain a $1
billion revolving credit agreement to fund potential liquidity needs and to backstop certain transactions. An adverse macroeconomic
event or changes in bank regulations could limit our ability to gain access to credit or to renew the revolving credit agreement
upon expiration. Additionally, a financial markets crisis may limit our ability to access liquidity. Adverse economic conditions may adversely
affect our cash investments We maintain an investment portfolio of various
types of securities with varying maturities and credit quality. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market,
and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events that have affected global financial markets. We also make significant
investments in U.S. government securities, either directly, or through investment in money market funds. If global credit and equity
markets experience prolonged periods of decline, or if the U.S. defaults on its debt obligations or its debt is downgraded, our
investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that more of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary
decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely impact our financial results. Information technology dependency and
security vulnerabilities could lead to reduced revenue, liability claims, or competitive harm The Company is increasingly dependent on
sophisticated information technology and infrastructure. Any significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption or corruption of these
systems or data breaches could have a material adverse effect on our business. We use electronic information technology
(IT) in our manufacturing processes and operations and other aspects of our business. Despite our implementation of security measures,
our IT systems are vulnerable to disruptions from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access, cyber attack and other
similar disruptions. A material breach in the security of our IT systems could include the theft of our intellectual property or
trade secrets. Such disruptions or security breaches could result in the theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual
property and/or confidential business information, harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research
and development and other strategic initiatives, or otherwise adversely affect our business. Like other global companies, we have,
from time to time, experienced incidents related to our IT systems, and expect that such incidents will continue, including malware
and computer virus attacks, unauthorized access, systems failures and disruptions. We have measures and defenses in place against
unauthorized access, but we may not be able to prevent, immediately detect, or remediate such events. Additionally, utilities and other operators
of critical energy infrastructure that serve our facilities face heightened security risks, including cyber attacks. In the event
of such an attack, disruption in service from our utility providers could disrupt our manufacturing operations which rely on a
continuous source of power (electrical, gas, etc.). International trade policies may impact
demand for our products and our competitive position Government policies on international trade
and investment such as import quotas, capital controls or tariffs, whether adopted by individual governments or addressed by regional
trade blocs, can affect the demand for our products and services, impact the competitive position of our products or prevent us
(including our equity affiliates/joint ventures) from being able to sell products in certain countries. The implementation of more
restrictive trade policies, such as higher tariffs or new barriers to entry, in countries in which we sell large quantities of
products and services could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, a government’s
adoption of “buy national” policies or retaliation by another government against such policies could have a negative
impact on our results of operations. These policies also affect our equity companies. ITEM
    1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K 18 Back to Contents ITEM
    2 Properties We operate approximately 70 manufacturing
plants and processing facilities, of which approximately 40% are located in the U.S. We own substantially all of our executive
and corporate buildings, which are located in Corning, New York. We also own approximately 99% of our research and development
facilities and the majority of our manufacturing facilities. We own approximately 67% of our sales and administrative facilities,
while the remaining facilities are leased. For the years ended 2013, 2012 and 2011
we invested a total of $5.3 billion, primarily in facilities outside of the U.S. in our Display Technologies segment. Of the $1.0
billion spent in 2013, over $500 million were for facilities outside the U.S. Manufacturing, sales and administrative,
and research and development facilities have an aggregate floor space of approximately 26 million square feet. Distribution of
this total area follows: (million square feet) Total Domestic Foreign Manufacturing 19.5 7.2 12.3 Sales and administrative 2.1 1.7 0.4 Research and development 2.3 2.0 0.3 Warehouse 2.2 1.6 0.6 Total 26.1 12.5 13.6 Total assets and capital expenditures by
operating segment are included in Note 20 (Reportable Segments) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Information concerning
lease commitments is included in Note 14 (Commitments, Contingencies, and Guarantees) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM
    3 Legal Proceedings Dow Corning Corporation. Corning
and The Dow Chemical Company (“Dow”) each own 50% of the common stock of Dow Corning Corporation (“Dow Corning”). Dow Corning Breast Implant Litigation In May 1995, Dow Corning filed for bankruptcy
protection to address pending and claimed liabilities arising from many thousands of breast implant product lawsuits. On June
1, 2004, Dow Corning emerged from Chapter 11 with a Plan of Reorganization (the “Plan”) which provided for the settlement
or other resolution of implant claims. The Plan also includes releases for Corning and Dow as shareholders in exchange for contributions
to the Plan. Under the terms of the Plan, Dow Corning
has established and is funding a Settlement Trust and a Litigation Facility to provide a means for tort claimants to settle or
litigate their claims. Inclusive of insurance, Dow Corning has paid approximately $1.8 billion to the Settlement Trust. As of
December 31, 2013, Dow Corning had recorded a reserve for breast implant litigation of $1.6 billion. Other Dow Corning Claims Arising From
Bankruptcy Proceedings As a separate matter arising from the bankruptcy
proceedings, Dow Corning is defending claims asserted by a number of commercial creditors who claim additional interest at default
rates and enforcement costs, during the period from May 1995 through June 2004. As of December 31, 2013, Dow Corning has estimated
the liability to commercial creditors to be within the range of $94 million to $309 million. As Dow Corning management believes
no single amount within the range appears to be a better estimate than any other amount within the range, Dow Corning has recorded
the minimum liability within the range. Should Dow Corning not prevail in this matter, Corning’s equity earnings would be
reduced by its 50% share of the amount in excess of $94 million, net of applicable tax benefits. There are a number of other claims
in the bankruptcy proceedings against Dow Corning awaiting resolution by the U.S. District Court, and it is reasonably possible
that Dow Corning may record bankruptcy-related charges in the future. The remaining tort claims against Dow Corning are expected
to be channeled by the Plan into facilities established by the Plan or otherwise defended by the Litigation Facility. CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K 19 Back to Contents Dow Corning Chinese Anti-Dumping Case On July 20, 2012, the Chinese Ministry
of Commerce (“MOFCOM”) initiated anti-dumping and countervailing duty investigations of imports of solar-grade
polycrystalline silicon products from the U.S. and Korea, based on a petition filed by Chinese solar-grade
polycrystalline silicon producers. The petition alleged that producers within these countries, including a consolidated
subsidiary of Dow Corning, exported solar-grade polycrystalline silicon to China at less than normal value, and that
production of solar-grade polycrystalline silicon in the U.S. has been subsidized by the U.S. government. On July 18, 2013,
MOFCOM announced its preliminary determination that China’s solar-grade polycrystalline silicon industry suffered
material damage because of dumping by producers in the U.S. and Korea. The Chinese authorities imposed provisional
antidumping duties on producers in the U.S. and Korea ranging from 2.4% to 57.0%, including duties of 53.3% on future imports
of solar-grade polycrystalline silicon product from the Dow Corning subsidiary into China. On September 16, 2013, the Chinese
authorities imposed provisional countervailing duties of 6.5%. On January 20, 2014, MOFCOM issued a final determination. The
final determination resulted in no change to the antidumping duties; however, the countervailing duties were reduced to 2.1%.
The requirement for customers to pay provisional duties on imports from solar-grade polycrystalline silicon producers became
effective on July 24, 2013 for the antidumping duties and on September 20, 2013 for the countervailing duties, adjusted for
the final determination. Dow Corning will not be subject to duties for previous sales, and is evaluating possible actions in
response to the final determination. Pittsburgh Corning Corporation and Asbestos
Litigation. Corning and PPG Industries, Inc. (PPG) each own 50% of the capital stock of Pittsburgh Corning Corporation (PCC).
Over a period of more than two decades, PCC and several other defendants have been named in numerous lawsuits involving claims
alleging personal injury from exposure to asbestos. On April 16, 2000, PCC filed for Chapter 11 reorganization in the U.S. Bankruptcy
Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania. At the time PCC filed for bankruptcy protection, there were approximately 11,800
claims pending against Corning in state court lawsuits alleging various theories of liability based on exposure to PCC’s
asbestos products and typically requesting monetary damages in excess of one million dollars per claim. Corning has defended those
claims on the basis of the separate corporate status of PCC and the absence of any facts supporting claims of direct liability
arising from PCC’s asbestos products. PCC Plan of Reorganization Corning, with other relevant parties, has
been involved in ongoing efforts to develop a Plan of Reorganization that would resolve the concerns and objections of the relevant
courts and parties. On November 12, 2013, the Bankruptcy Court issued a decision finally confirming an Amended PCC Plan of Reorganization
(the “Amended PCC Plan” or the “Plan”). Under this Plan, Corning is required to
contribute its equity interests in PCC and Pittsburgh Corning Europe N.V. (PCE), a Belgian corporation, and to contribute $290
million in a fixed series of payments, recorded at present value. Corning has the option to use its shares rather than cash to
make these payments, but the liability is fixed by dollar value and not the number of shares. The Plan requires Corning to make:
(1) one payment of $70 million one year from the date the Plan becomes effective and certain conditions are met; and (2) five
additional payments of $35 million, $50 million, $35 million, $50 million, and $50 million, respectively, on each of the five
subsequent anniversaries of the first payment, the final payment of which is subject to reduction based on the application of
credits under certain circumstances. The Bankruptcy Court’s confirmation
of the Plan must be affirmed by the District Court, and two objectors to the Plan have appealed the Bankruptcy Court’s confirmation
of the Plan to the District Court. Assuming the District Court affirms the confirmation, that decision may be appealed. If that
occurs, it could take many months for the confirmation of the Plan to be finally affirmed. Non-PCC Asbestos Litigation In addition to the claims against
Corning related to its ownership interest in PCC, Corning is also the defendant in approximately 9,700 other cases
(approximately 37,400 claims) alleging injuries from asbestos related to its Corhart business and similar amounts of monetary
damages per case. When PCC filed for bankruptcy protection, the Court granted a preliminary injunction to suspend all
asbestos cases against PCC, PPG and Corning – including these non-PCC asbestos cases (the “stay”). The stay
remains in place as of the date of this filing. Under the Bankruptcy Court’s order confirming the Amended PCC Plan, the
stay will remain in place until the Amended PCC Plan is finally affirmed. These non-PCC asbestos cases have been covered by
insurance without material impact to Corning to date. As of December 31, 2013, Corning had received for these cases
approximately $19 million in insurance payments related to those claims. If and when the Bankruptcy Court’s
confirmation of the Amended PCC Plan is affirmed, these non-PCC asbestos claims would be allowed to proceed against Corning.
Corning has recorded in its estimated asbestos litigation liability an additional $150 million for these and any
future non-PCC asbestos cases. CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K 20 Back to Contents Total Estimated Liability for the Amended
PCC Plan and the Non-PCC Asbestos Claims The liability for the Amended PCC Plan and
the non-PCC asbestos claims was estimated to be $690 million at December 31, 2013, compared with an estimate of liability of $671
million at December 31, 2012. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, Corning recorded asbestos litigation expense of
$19 million and $14 million, respectively. The entire obligation is classified as a non-current liability as installment payments
for the cash portion of the obligation are not planned to commence until more than 12 months after the Amended PCC Plan becomes
effective and the PCE portion of the obligation will be fulfilled through the direct contribution of Corning’s investment
in PCE (currently recorded as a non-current other equity method investment). Non-PCC Asbestos Cases Insurance Litigation Several of Corning’s insurers have
commenced litigation in state courts for a declaration of the rights and obligations of the parties under insurance policies,
including rights that may be affected by the potential resolutions described above. Corning is vigorously contesting these cases,
and management is unable to predict the outcome of the litigation. Environmental Litigation. Corning
has been named by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) under the Superfund Act or by state
governments under similar state laws, as a potentially responsible party for 15 active hazardous waste sites. Under the Superfund
Act, all parties who may have contributed any waste to a hazardous waste site, identified by the EPA, are jointly and severally
liable for the cost of cleanup unless the EPA agrees otherwise. It is Corning’s policy to accrue for its estimated liability
related to Superfund sites and other environmental liabilities related to property owned by Corning based on expert analysis and
continual monitoring by both internal and external consultants. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, Corning had accrued approximately
$15 million (undiscounted) and $21 million (undiscounted), respectively, for the estimated liability for environmental cleanup
and related litigation. Based upon the information developed to date, management believes that the accrued reserve is a reasonable
estimate of the Company’s liability and that the risk of an additional loss in an amount materially higher than that accrued
is remote. Chinese Anti-dumping Investigation Involving
Single-Mode Optical Fiber Produced in India. In August 2013, China’s MOFCOM initiated an anti-dumping proceeding involving
single-mode optical fiber produced in India and exported to China. Corning recently constructed an optical fiber draw facility
in India which commenced operations in November 2012 and only reached full-scale production capability in June 2013. The period
of investigation is April 1, 2012 through March 31, 2013, a period during which Corning’s export volumes to China from India
were small. Although an anti-dumping action is a trade action between the two countries involved, dumping margins – if assessed
– are assessed individually against producers based on information provided in detailed questionnaires and verification
audits. Corning has responded to the petition and completed the questionnaires. While we do not believe our sales into China from
India violated applicable trade laws, the anti-dumping laws provide great discretion to the investigating authorities, particularly
where a start-up operation is involved. A final determination is expected in the period August 2014 - February 2015. A negative
determination would result in the imposition of an anti-dumping margin on single-mode optical fiber exported from India to China
for a period of at least 5 years. Seoul Guarantee Insurance Co. and other
creditors against Samsung Group and affiliates. Prior to their merger, Samsung Corning Precision Materials Co., Ltd. (Samsung
Corning Precision Materials) and Samsung Corning Co. Ltd. (Samsung Corning) were two of approximately thirty co-defendants in
a lawsuit filed by Seoul Guarantee Insurance Co. and thirteen other creditors (SGI and Creditors) for alleged breach of an agreement
that approximately twenty-eight affiliates of the Samsung group (Samsung Affiliates) entered into with SGI and Creditors on August
24, 1999 (the Agreement). The lawsuit is pending in the courts of South Korea. Under the Agreement, it is alleged that the Samsung
Affiliates agreed to sell certain shares of Samsung Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (SLI), which had been transferred to SGI and Creditors
in connection with the petition for court receivership of Samsung Motors Inc. In the lawsuit, SGI and Creditors allege a breach
of the Agreement by the Samsung Affiliates and are seeking the loss of principal (approximately $1.95 billion) for loans extended
to Samsung Motors Inc., default interest and a separate amount for breach. On January 31, 2008, the Seoul District Court ordered
the Samsung Affiliates: to pay approximately $1.3 billion by disposing of 2,334,045 shares of SLI less 1,165,955 shares of SLI
previously sold by SGI and Creditors and paying the proceeds to SGI and Creditors; to satisfy any shortfall by participating in
the purchase of equity or subordinate debentures issued by them; and pay default interest of 6% per annum. The ruling was appealed.
On November 10, 2009, the Appellate Court directed the parties to attempt to resolve this matter through mediation. On January
11, 2011, the Appellate Court ordered the Samsung Affiliates to pay 600 billion won in principal and 20 billion won in delayed
interest to SGI and Creditors. Samsung promptly paid those amounts, which approximated $550 million when translated to United
States dollars, from a portion of an escrow account established upon completion of SLI’s initial public offering (IPO) on
May 7, 2010. On February 7, 2011, the Samsung Affiliates appealed the Appellate Court’s ruling to the Supreme Court of Korea
and the appeal is currently in progress. Samsung Corning Precision Materials has not contributed to any payment related to these
disputes, and has concluded that no provision for loss should be reflected in its financial statements. Other than as described
above, no claim in these matters has been asserted against Corning or any of its affiliates. CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K 21 Back to Contents Demodulation, Inc. Trade Secret Litigation. On January 18, 2011, Demodulation, Inc. (Demodulation) filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey
against Applied DNA Sciences, Inc., Corning Incorporated, Alfred University, Alfred Technology Resources, Inc., and John and Jane
Does 1-10. Demodulation filed an amended complaint on August 3, 2011, alleging a conspiracy by the defendants to steal Demodulation’s
alleged trade secrets and other intellectual property related to glass covered amorphous metal microwires and seeks damages under
various theories, including breach of contract, defamation, conspiracy, antitrust, unfair competition, interference with prospective
business relations and misappropriation of trade secrets. Corning moved to dismiss the amended complaint which was granted in
part for certain claims, but denied as to other claims, e.g. breach of contract, unfair competition, misappropriation of trade
secrets, and tortious interference with business relations. Plaintiff was granted leave to file a second amended complaint. Corning
does not believe Demodulation’s allegations against Corning have merit and intends to defend the case vigorously. Recognizing
that the outcome of litigation is uncertain, management believes that the likelihood of a materially adverse impact to Corning’s
financial statements is remote. Trade Secret Misappropriation Suits Concerning
LCD Glass Technology. On July 18, 2011, in China, Corning Incorporated filed suit in the Beijing Second Intermediate People’s
Court against Hebei Dongxu Investment Group Co., Ltd., which changed its name to Dongxu Group Co., Ltd. (Dongxu) for misappropriation
of certain trade secrets related to the fusion draw process for manufacturing glass substrates used in active matrix liquid crystal
displays (LCDs). On July 18, 2011, in Korea, Corning Incorporated and Samsung Corning Precision Materials filed suits in the Daejeon
District Court against Dongxu, one of its officers, and two other named individuals, for related trade secret misappropriation.
On November 15, 2013, these cases were settled with Dongxu taking a license to the misappropriated technology for a royalty, broken
up into two payments. Dongxu made the first payment in December 2013, and will make the second payment in 2014. Department of Justice Grand Jury Subpoena. In March 2012, Corning received a grand jury subpoena issued in the United States District Court for the Eastern District
of Michigan from the U.S. Department of Justice in connection with an investigation into conduct relating to possible antitrust
law violations involving certain automotive products, including catalytic converters, diesel particulate filters, substrates and
monoliths. The subpoena required Corning to produce to the Department of Justice certain documents from the period January 1999
to March 2012. In November 2012, Corning received another subpoena from the Department of Justice, with the same scope, but extending
the time frame for the documents to be produced back to January 1, 1988. Corning’s policy is to comply with all laws and
regulations, including all antitrust and competition laws. Antitrust investigations can result in substantial liability for the
Company. Currently, Corning cannot estimate the ultimate financial impact, if any, resulting from the investigation. Such potential
impact, if an antitrust violation by Corning is found, could however, be material to the results of operations of Corning in a
particular period. ITEM
    4 Mine Safety Disclosure None. CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K 22 Back to Contents PART II ITEM 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities (a) Corning Incorporated common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. In addition,
it is traded on the Boston, Midwest, Pacific and Philadelphia stock exchanges. Common stock options are traded on the Chicago
Board Options Exchange. The ticker symbol for Corning Incorporated is “GLW.” The following table sets forth the high and
low sales price of Corning’s common stock as reported on the Composite Tape. First quarter Second
    quarter Third quarter Fourth quarter 2013 Price range High $ 13.35 $ 16.43 $ 15.51 $ 18.07 Low $ 11.75 $ 12.64 $ 13.84 $ 13.82 2012 Price range High $ 14.62 $ 14.58 $ 13.40 $ 13.96 Low $ 12.52 $ 12.17 $ 10.62 $ 10.71 As of December 31, 2013, there were approximately
18,771 record holders of common stock and approximately 565,877 beneficial shareholders. Between the third quarter of 2007 and the
third quarter of 2011, Corning paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share on the Company’s common stock. On October
5, 2011, Corning’s Board of Directors declared a 50% increase in the Company’s quarterly common stock dividend, increasing
Corning’s quarterly dividend from $0.05 per share to $0.075 per share of common stock. On October 3, 2012, Corning’s
Board of Directors declared a 20% increase in the Company’s quarterly common stock dividend. Corning’s quarterly dividend
increased to $0.09 per share of common stock. On April 24, 2013, Corning’s Board of Directors declared an 11% increase in
the Company’s quarterly common stock dividend, increasing Corning’s quarterly dividend from $0.09 per share to $0.10
per share of common stock. Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table shows the total
number of outstanding options and shares available for other future issuances of options under our existing equity
compensation plans as of December 31, 2013, including the 2010 Equity Plan for Non-Employee Directors and 2012 Long-Term
Incentive Plan: A B C Plan
    category Number
    of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights Weighted-average
    exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights Number
    of securities remaining available for future issuance
    under equity compensation plans (excluding securities
    reflected in column A) Equity
    compensation plans approved by security holders (1) 57,139,000 $ 17.83 78,339,329 Equity
    compensation plans not approved by security holders 0 0 0 Total 57,139,000 $ 17.83 78,339,329 (1) Shares indicated are total grants under the most recent shareholder approved plans
as well as any shares remaining outstanding from any prior shareholder approved plans. CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K 23 Back to Contents Performance Graph The following graph illustrates the cumulative
total shareholder return over the last five years of Corning’s common stock, the S&P 500 and the S&P Communications
Equipment Companies (in which Corning is currently included). The graph includes the capital weighted performance results of those
companies in the communications equipment company classification that are also included in the S&P 500. (b) Not applicable. (c) The following table provides information about our purchases of our common stock during
the fiscal fourth quarter of 2013: Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Period Number of shares purchased (1) Average
    price paid per share (1) Number
    of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs (2) Approximate
    dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs (2) October 1-31, 2013 51,310,363 $ 16.79 51,288,807 $ 683,751,648 November 1-30, 2013 242 $ 17.26 $ 683,751,648 December 1-31, 2013 23,811 $ 16.88 $ 683,751,648 Total at December
    31, 2013 51,334,416 $ 16.79 51,288,807 $ 683,751,648 (1) This column reflects the following transactions during the fiscal fourth quarter of
2013: (i) the deemed surrender to us of 1,655 shares of common stock to pay the exercise price and to satisfy tax withholding
obligations in connection with the exercise of employee stock options, and (ii) the surrender to us of 43,954 shares of common
stock to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock issued to employees, and (iii)
the purchase of 51,288,807 shares of common stock in conjunction with the repurchase program announced in the second quarter of
2013. (2) On April 24, 2013, we publicly announced authorization to repurchase up to $2 billion
of our common stock by December 31, 2014. CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K 24 Back to Contents ITEM
    6 Selected Financial Data (Unaudited) (In millions, except per share amounts and number Years
    ended December 31, of employees) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Results of operations Net sales $ 7,819 $ 8,012 $ 7,890 $ 6,632 $ 5,395 Research, development and engineering expenses* $ 710 $ 769 $ 668 $ 599 $ 568 Equity in earnings of
    affiliated companies $ 547 $ 810 $ 1,471 $ 1,958 $ 1,435 Net income attributable
    to Corning Incorporated* $ 1,961 $ 1,636 $ 2,817 $ 3,574 $ 1,984 Earnings per common share attributable to Corning Incorporated: Basic* $ 1.35 $ 1.10 $ 1.80 $ 2.29 $ 1.28 Diluted* $ 1.34 $ 1.09 $ 1.78 $ 2.26 $ 1.27 Cash dividends declared
    per common share $ 0.39 $ 0.32 $ 0.23 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 Shares used in computing per share amounts: Basic earnings per common share 1,452 1,494 1,562 1,558 1,550 Diluted earnings per
    common share 1,462 1,506 1,583 1,581 1,568 Financial position Working capital $ 7,145 $ 7,739 $ 6,580 $ 6,873 $ 3,982 Total assets $ 28,478 $ 29,375 $ 27,848 $ 25,833 $ 21,295 Long-term debt $ 3,272 $ 3,382 $ 2,364 $ 2,262 $ 1,930 Total Corning Incorporated
    shareholders’ equity $ 21,162 $ 21,486 $ 21,078 $ 19,375 $ 15,543 Selected data Capital expenditures $ 1,019 $ 1,801 $ 2,432 $ 1,007 $ 890 Depreciation and amortization $ 1,002 $ 997 $ 957 $ 854 $ 792 Number of employees 30,400 28,700 28,800 26,200 23,500 * Includes
    impact of defined benefit pension plan methodology change implemented in the first quarter of 2013 and retrospectively applied
    to prior periods. Reference should be made to the Notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements and