Q4 2015 Earnings Call

Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Emma, and I will be your operator for today. At this time, all participants are on a
listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of the
conference. As a reminder, this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And now, I'd now like to turn the call over to Mr. Ted Cannis, Executive Director of Ford Investor
Relations. Please proceed, sir.
Ted Cannis `
Thank you very much, Emma, and good morning, everyone. On behalf of the entire Ford
management team, I'd like to thank you for taking the time to be with us today so we can provide
you the additional details of our 2015 fourth quarter and full year financial results.
Copies of this morning's press release and the presentation slides are available on our Ford
Investor and media websites.
The financial results discussed today include references to non-GAAP financial measures. Non-
GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the U.S. GAAP equivalent in the appendix to the slides.
Today's presentation includes some forward-looking statements about our expectations for
Ford's future performance. Actual results could be different. The most significant factors that
could affect actual results are summarized at the end of this presentation and are detailed in our
SEC filings.So, presenting today are Mark Fields, our President and CEO; Bob Shanks, our Chief Financial
Officer; and also participating are Stuart Rowley, Vice President and Controller; Neil Schloss,
Corporate Treasurer; Paul Andonian, Director of Global Accounting; and Marion Harris, Ford
Credit CFO.
Mark, over to you.
Mark Fields `
Okay. Thanks, Ted, and good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us. I'm really pleased to
review with you our 2015 full year and our fourth quarter results. And if you recall last year on this
call, we promised a breakthrough year in 2015 and we delivered. We achieved a record company
full-year pre-tax profit of $10.8 billion.
Looking at the business units, every business unit with the exception of South America was
profitable. In Europe, we returned to profitability and we earned over a $0.25 billion and that
reflects the progress of our transformation plan. Asia-Pacific had its best ever annual profit. And
of course, North America and Ford Credit continue to deliver strong profitability for the company.
We also generated our highest volume in 10 years and the most revenue in 12 years. And our
automotive operating-related margin came in at 6.8% and that was the highest since at least the
1990s. And in automotive-related operating cash flow, we came in at $7.3 billion and that was the
best that we generated since 2001.
We also, at the same time, grew our global market share and that's in large part due to the
strength of our new products and a little bit of a sampling of that, Explorer remains the best
selling three row SUV in the world; Mustang which, as you know, we took global last year, is the
world's best selling sports car; F-Series is America's best-selling pickup for 39 straight years and
the best-selling vehicle for 34 years in a row. We're also, again, America's best-selling vehicle
brand for the sixth straight year. And in Europe we became the number one commercial vehicle
brand and that's the first time we've been able to achieve that in 18 years.
And turning to Lincoln, we delivered a second straight year of U.S. sales growth and we also
became the first luxury brand in China to top 10,000 sales in its first full year of operation. And of
course along with this strong performance, we rewarded our shareholders with distributions
totaling $2.5 billion during the year and also growing our regular dividend by 20%. And I strongly
believe that these results, once again, demonstrate that our plan, our people, and our process
are delivering, and they're creating value for our stakeholders.
Now, looking at the fourth quarter on the next slide, you can see it was another terrific quarter
that helped contribute to our performance for the year. Our fourth quarter pre-tax profit of $2.6
billion was nearly double a year ago. Our net income came in at $1.9 billion, and our automotive
operating margin came in at 6.1%, and that was up 2.7 percentage points from last year.
Importantly, we also delivered strong top line growth with our wholesale volume and automotive
revenue both up 12%. And revenue was up 18% at constant exchange, and we generated strong
automotive operating-related cash flow of $2.1 billion for the quarter.
We were profitable in all business units, except South America, including a record profit in Asia
Pacific, a fourth quarter record in North America, and another solid quarter from our Ford Credit
operations. And in Europe, we delivered our third consecutive profitable quarter.
So, in sum, our profits improved, our market share improved, and our margins improved,strong or better results this year.
Now turning to slide four, 2015 was also a year of progress from an operating point as well. We
successfully completed the 16 global launches that we planned. We improved quality and
customer satisfaction around the world as we launched those products. And we continued to
invest for profitable growth in the future.
And I believe of all of our accomplishments, one of the most significant was delivering such
strong results in the near-term while expanding our business model for the future. And we're
growing and investing to be both an auto and a mobility company. And what this means is we're
strengthening and investing in our core business of designing, developing, manufacturing,
marketing, financing and servicing great cars, trucks, SUVs and electrified vehicles. But also, at the
same time, we're aggressively pursuing emerging opportunities through Ford Smart Mobility with
the most recent announcement of SYNC Connect and our plans to have the largest autonomous
vehicle test fleet in the industry.
And we're also working to transform the automotive customer experience with the introduction
of FordPass. And as we do all of this, we're going to stay absolutely focused on accelerating the
pace of progress of our One Ford plan, delivering product excellence with passion and driving
innovation in every part of the business.
So, with that, I'll turn it over to Bob who will take us through some of the financial results.
Robert L. Shanks `
Thanks, Mark. What I'd like to do is to start on slide five, which is our key financial summary. And
the first thing I would ask you to do is just to glance down the second and the fourth column.
Those are the year-over-years for the fourth quarter and the full year. And what you'll see is
everything is positive. So, whether it's the growth factors, the operating results, the net income
factors, cash liquidity, everything better than in 2015, whether it's the quarter or the full year.
Now, certainly we should recognize that – and we'll talk about it later in the presentation, that
we're seeing strong improvement from across most parts of the business, in fact, all parts of the
business in terms of the full year. And we should recognize, too, that we're benefiting from the
big bet that we made on the F-150. We had the launch effects of that in 2014, including in the
fourth quarter. And that was a big bet for the company, and it's paying off for us. It's certainly
resonating with customers. It's good for the environment. And certainly, as I said, we're reaping
the rewards of that.
Since I'm going to touch on most of these things in the subsequent comments and slides, I just
want to highlight three things that I won't come back to later, the first down the page under
operating results. Let's look at our earnings per share on an operating basis. You can see that we
came in at $0.58 which is up 93% from a year ago, and $1.93 which is up 44%.
Go down a bit further and look at the after-tax results, net income. You can see we came in at the
quarter at $1.9 billion that was up very sharply from a year ago, and $7.4 billion for the full year, up
$6.1 billion. If you go up just a couple of lines from there, you can see the special items pre-tax
charges in the quarter. We had $714 million that was almost completely explained by the re-
measurement losses on our pension and OPEB plans.
Let's go on to slide six. I've got three slides for the full year. I'd like to touch on those first, and
then we'll get into more details of the quarter. These are the absolutes of the quarter, and you
can see the record of $10.8 million. And then, as you glance across the segments, you can seeeverything was profitable in terms of the business units with the exception of South America. And
if you look at the regions outside of North America, collectively, we made $223 million.
To me, the big story and one of the big stories that we want to get across today is the quality of
the improvement across the business on a year-over-year basis. If you look below the chart, you
can see the changes, the $3.57 billion improvement at the company level, it was driven by North
America, $1.9 billion; financial services, a contributor, over $200 million; but we got $1.4 billion of
improvement from the operations outside North America.
And going forward, our whole strategy is to keep North America strong, strengthen it to the
extent that we can, but it's really the other operations. We need to get them moving forward in a
positive direction both in terms of profitability and returns. That's the big opportunity for us, as
well as the new opportunities. And you can see we made great progress on that in the full year,
and I'll touch on that in the quarter as well.
Let's turn now to slide seven, and here we'll look at the key metrics for the company. This is the
automotive sector for the full year. So, just kind of looking across the page, wholesale was up 5%,
revenue up 4%, 9% at constant exchange, very strong improvement in the operating margins,
6.8%, and the pre-tax results up 60%. And on the lower left, you can see the global market share,
which was up two-tenths, that was in South America, and Europe had some favorable geographic
mix effects as well.
Let's go on to slide eight, and here we'll look at the full year improvement. You can see $3.3
billion that was driven by $7.4 billion of improvement in market factors, volume, mix, net pricing, all
driving that in the positive direction.
We did have cost increases, both contribution cost and structural cost. The one thing I'd like to
highlight here, we have broken out for the first time manufacturing and engineering separately.
And you can see with the manufacturing callout that we've also indicated that it includes volume-
related effects. Some companies include variable and labor and overhead in volume. But we
don't do that. We put all of that in structural cost, which is why we don't call it fixed cost because
we recognize that in a downturn, we're able to respond appropriately, whether it's taking
overtime out, shifts, line speed changes and so forth. And so, hopefully that will help you
understand better the cost and the nature of the cost that we're investing in the business.
On the far right, you can see the ratification bonus related to the UAW agreement. I should note
that within the results – and all this sits in North America – we've got about $600 million of cost
increases associated with the agreement. Most of that, the one-time ratification bonus, the rest
of it is just normal cost increases related to wage increases and so forth, and that's sitting in our
structural cost.
All right, now let's move into the fourth quarter, and I'll start by looking at the absolutes on slide
nine. Again, very strong performance, $2.6 billion. And again, glance across the page and you can
see everything profitable with the exception of South America. And again, the collected results of
the operations outside North America, a profit of nearly $300 million.
Again, I want to highlight the story year-over-year. Go below the chart, first line, $1.3 billion, $400
million from North America, about $130 million from Financial Services, but more than 50%, or
$760 million, coming from the operations outside of North America, again, demonstrating the
progress that we're making in getting the company more balanced in terms of the contributions
around the world.Now let's move to the key metrics on slide 10. Again, growth in wholesale is double-digit; same
thing in revenue, up 18% at constant exchange. A good margin for the fourth quarter, 6.1%, and
pre-tax results have more than doubled. And on the lower left, you can see our global market
share was flat.
Let's go on to slide 11, and here we'll look at the change in our automotive sector results year-
over-year, up $1.1 billion; very similar pattern to what we saw in the full year, very strong market
factors. We had cost increases. Again, look at the structural costs, you can see the manufacturing
of $235 million. Almost all of that is volume related, the balance is explained by the UAW contract
and then the ratification bonus to the far right.
Okay. Let's go on to North America, and here we'll start going through the business units. These
are the key metrics. North America had very strong growth in the quarter. It was their best quarter
of growth of the year. You can see wholesale is up 15%, revenue up by nearly 20%. The operating
margin very, very good at 8.2%. Traditionally fourth quarter is our weakest quarter, and this
includes the full $600 million of UAW-related cost, so really strong results from North America.
And you can see the profit of $2 billion, up 26%.
You go below the chart, you can see the full year, very strong factors right across the board, and
again, the margin came in at 10.2%. As we look at the guidance for the year, we expect to sustain
this level of benchmark profitability with margins about around where we actually ended up,
about 9.5% or higher.
I thought I'd comment on this because it was certainly something that was discussed quite a bit at
the Deutsche Bank Conference earlier in the month when we provided our guidance. Let me just
again put into context how we're seeing the North American business. It is performing and has
been performing for years at benchmark levels of profitability and margins. And then as we've
mentioned in three of the last four years other than the year when we launched the F-150, it's
been operating at 10% or higher, which actually is a the high end of the range that we're targeting
on an ongoing basis of 8% to 10%.
Now in 2016, we expect the margins again to be sort of in this range, 9.5% or higher. But unlike in
2015, when the year-over-year growth and the market factors far exceeded the cost increases,
we expect to see a smaller improvement in the market factors while we'll continue to invest for
profitable growth.
And this was reflecting mainly three factors. The first is the fact that we'll see much less benefit in
2016 from industry growth in the U.S. The second one is that we expect the impact of the Super
Duty launch which takes place in the second half to have an impact. Now, we've called it a normal
launch, but it's still going to incur costs associated with such a large launch, and we're going to
have the normal volume ramp-up curve that we have to climb. So, it will have an effect, and
primarily in the third quarter.
And as mentioned, lastly, we are continuing to invest for profitable growth this year and beyond.
Not only in the traditional business, the core business, but also as we transform Ford into an auto
and a mobility company. So, that's how we see it. We're very pleased with the results. We think
we're going to sustain this level of profitability as we move into 2016.
Okay. Let's go the following slide, on slide 13, and looks at what happened in the quarter for
North America, an improvement of $400 million, strong market factors, cost increasing related to
the products which also drove the market factors, but also the structural costs which were largely
volume-related and the UAW agreement with the ratification bonus also having effect, which isMark Fields `
And when you look at – just a couple of comments – we're coming off a strong year for Ford in
the U.S. And as Bob mentioned earlier in terms of the investments, one of the stories within here
is our new products have enabled strong pricing power with our transaction prices up over
$2,200 versus last year, and that was more than double the industry increase. And going forward
this year, we're going to continue to focus on profitable growth while at the same time launching
some very important high-volume products like the Escape, the Fusion, and as Bob mentioned,
the Super Duty.
Robert L. Shanks `
Let's turn now to South America on slide 14. There's a lot of very big macro trends that are
sweeping across the global economy and certainly the strong dollar commodity – weak
commodity cycle is one. And there's probably no region that's more affected by this than South
America and you can see it clearly in our results in the fourth quarter and the full year. You can see
that whole sales were down sharply, 39%. The revenue was actually down 52%; about 45% of
that was related to weaker currencies. Margin, of course, down sharply, and the results were
down as well.
If you look at the fourth quarter, the same story, but when you get to the full year, you can see
that the – we actually had an improvement in the results, and that was related to the fact that we
had the non-repeat of the big Venezuelan devaluation in 2014. In terms of guidance, as we
mentioned, we expect our guidance – or our guidance for that region – is that it will be a loss in
2016 and likely to be greater than what you're seeing today for 2015.
Okay. Let's move on to South America; on a year-over-year basis, down $108 million. And if you'll
look at the callout box on volume and mix, you can see that it's more than explained by the
industry decline. We had a 33% reduction in the Brazil industry in the quarter. It clearly had an
impact on the business. But I'll tell you our team did a great job of doing what they can do with
the things they can control, with strong pricing. We had very favorable results in terms of cost
performance. And I would highlight that within these positive cost factors, we have over $100
million of negative impact from the very high inflation that we're seeing in Brazil and in Argentina.
And then lastly, I would call out the exchange we had, over $100 million of bad news that came
from the devaluation of the Argentinean peso that came towards the end of the year as the new
government started to take action to restructure the economy. So, it's good for the longer term
of Argentina, but certainly hurt the business in the fourth quarter.
Okay. Let's turn to Europe now which is a very good story around the progress that the team is
making there. In the fourth quarter, we were profitable. That's the third consecutive quarter of
profitability. We had the strongest growth among the business units in Europe in the fourth
quarter. It was up 21% in whole sales, up 19% if you hold exchange constant. And, of course, we've
turned to profitability with a positive margin.
And the story on a full-year basis is just as good, we had growth. Although revenue was down, if
you adjust for exchange, it was actually up 8%. And then, of course, the profit that Mark
mentioned of $259 million.
If you look on the lower left, you can see we also grew share in Europe. We were up six-tenths of
a point across the entire region that was driven by Britain and Germany and some favorable
impact of geographic mix of the markets. And we also had favorable market share among theEurope 20, and that was driven by good performance of the Mondeo and the EcoSport. In terms
of guidance for 2016, we expect the results for Europe to be higher than what they were in 2015.
Now, let's turn to slide 17, and here we'll look at the year-over-year improvement on the quarter
from Europe, so, up $428 million. And going across the page, almost everything positive. We had
favorable volume and mix. We had higher net pricing. We had lower cost. And if you go to the far
right, the other is largely is the effect of the consolidation of our Ford Sollers entity in Russia. So,
really, really strong performance right across the board in Europe.
Mark Fields `
And just to jump in here for a second, obviously, we're pleased with our progress in Europe, but
not satisfied. And we just want to be clear that getting profitable in Europe is just the first step.
And our goal is to deliver a sustainable and a vibrant business despite the competitive and
regulatory pressures that we're seeing, and also the difficult business conditions in Russia.
Robert L. Shanks `
Okay, let's go on to Middle East and Africa. This is the only slide we have for this region. You can
see we had growth in the quarter. We also had positive results and for the full year we had a
profit of $31 million as the team continues to start to unfold the growth strategy that they
developed and put in place last year. As we move into 2016, we expect the results to be about
the same if not better in the Middle East and Africa.
All right, let's go on to slide 19 in terms of Asia-Pacific, a great story here. Whole sales were up
sharply, 16%. The revenue was up 38% if you adjust for exchange, a very strong operating margin,
and the record pre-tax result in the quarter.
If you look at the numbers below the chart, which is the full year, similar story, not quite as strong
growth because the fourth quarter was clearly the big quarter of growth in 2015. Very strong
margin of over 7% and that record profit that we talked about earlier. On the lower left you can
see the share in China was flat but we did improve the share overall across the region and that
was largely due to favorable geographic mix.
In terms of guidance, we're expecting results in 2016 to be even better than they were in 2015.
Let's go to slide 20 and we'll look at the improvement in the fourth quarter in Asia-Pacific, which
was quite strong, $349 million. It was largely driven by volume and mix and you can see it was
industry, a bit of share, which is again geographic mix, favorable stocks as the industry grew we
also got new products into the pipeline and the mix was very, very strong. Within this mix and
other of $181 million you actually had $355 million of favorable mix. That was largely effect of the
edge which is hot and high margin as well as good performance of the Mondeo and the Kuga.
And then you can see that the costs were pretty much flat. And over the far right, you can see
other that is largely the royalties in China, so volume-related as well. So, very strong performance
across the region and setting us up for another record in 2016.
Mark Fields `
And just focusing on China for a second. We delivered record sales in 2015, and we saw growth
across the country. But the fastest growth actually occurred in the Tier 4 through Tier 6 cities. And
as we start out this year, what we're seeing is industry retail sales in January had started strong.
They look to be in line with the sales rate that we saw in the fourth quarter of 2015, although
they're moderating in the second half of the month versus the first half.But just a note to point out that, as you know, the Chinese New Year is very variable. Some years
its falls in January, some years it falls in February. So, we're really going to need to look at how
sales perform across January and February to get a clear view of how the industry is tracking.
Robert L. Shanks `
Okay, let's turn now to Ford Credit, and on slide 21, we've actually created a new slide. We
wanted to be able to show you the absolutes that are important to the Ford Credit operations.
So, on the far left, you can see a couple of growth metrics around contract volume, which was up
8% in the quarter, managed receivables grew 12% as Ford Credit supported Ford's growth
overall.
Pre-tax result of $556 million, that was up 31%. And then we've got three metrics which just
represent the portfolio performance which continued to be very strong and very robust. And for
those of you that want to understand more, of course, you can call in to the fixed income call
which will take place later today, and our team will take you through more insights and details into
Ford Credit's performance. But the portfolio performance continues to be at very, very good
levels, and in fact, compared to history, low levels.
If you look at the data below the chart, again, growth across the board there, whether it's volume
or managed receivables, the profit of $2.1 billion. And again, look at those portfolio performance
metrics all looking quite good. And this is simply because Ford Credit has got a very clear point of
view around its purchase policies. It's been implementing those very consistently for a number of
years. So, for example, in terms of high-risk business continues to be about 5% to 6% of the
portfolio, and it's performing very well as the data indicates.
What I want to highlight on the left, and I'm not going to talk about it till I get to the next slide, but
look at the debt, $120 billion to support Ford Credit, and the managed leverage of 9.5 to 1. We
target 8-to-9 to 1. It's above that level because of the effect of the strong dollar as it translates
the equity of our operations outside of the United States. In terms of guidance, we expect Ford
Credit to continue to be a strong performer, about the same if not better in 2016 than it was in
2015.
Now let's turn to slide 22, and we'll look at the fourth quarter year-over-year performance of Ford
Credit. You can see that it was driven by the growth, the volume, favorable mix across the globe
in terms of the products and services that it provides and favorable financing margin which came
from lower borrowing costs.
With that, let's go on to slide 23, and we'll look at automotive sector cash and cash flow. This was
a really great story in the quarter and also for the full year. If you go to about a third of the way
down the page, you can see the $2.1 billion of automotive operating-related cash flow in the
quarter, driven by the profits. And if you look at the full year, the $7.3 billion record at least in
2001, again, driven by the very strong profits. And then you can see the uses of the cash below
that. On the lower left, you can see we ended the year at $34.5 billion of liquidity, a very strong
level, and then the automotive debt of $12.8 billion.
I just want to stop right here because one of the things I just wanted to take a minute and
comment on, we've seen a number of articles that continue to be written about the very high
leverage of Ford Motor Company. And generally, that point of view is because people are taking
this automotive debt, they're adding it to the Financial Services' debt, which is on the previous
page, and, of course, the business will look very highly leveraged.But that's not the way that investors should look at it. It's also not the way that the credit rating
agencies look at it. If you think about Ford Credit, Ford Credit is self-funding. Ford Credit also self-
liquidates in a downturn and lower volume. And so, you think about Ford Credit separately. And
then in terms of its own leverage, you want to look at that managed leverage that I touched on.
And as I mentioned, we've historically been within the 8% to 9%. We target a little bit above
because of the translation effect in 2015, but we're going to back into range in 2016.
The key one in terms of the leverage of the company and the one that the credit rating agencies
look at is this, what's on this page, the $12.8 billion, and this is the lowest it's been since 2000.
And it's representative of very good leverage position by the company along with where we
stand on pensions and other things that the credit rating agencies look at.
So, we're in a great shape in terms of the balance sheet, and I just wanted to clarify that for
everyone if you had any questions about that.
Okay. I'm going to wrap up on slide 24, and this is looking at the planning assumptions and key
metrics that we've provided at the beginning of the year. And all I'll say is we delivered. If you go
to the very bottom of the slide, you can see a new metric that we've added that we disclosed at
the Deutsche Bank Conference earlier this month, which is our after-tax five-year average return
on invested capital. We came in at 16% in 2015 which was unchanged from 2014, and in both
years well above the cost of capital.
So, Mark, back to you to talk about 2016 and wrap it up.
Mark Fields `
Okay. Thanks, Bob. So, as you go on slide 25, here you can see the company guidance is
unchanged from the outlook that we provided on January 12. And we expect 2016 to be another
strong year for the company, one that features, obviously, sustained strong financial performance
and returns, profitability across all parts of our business except South America, a continued strong
balance sheet, and of course the next stage in the deployment of our shareholder distribution
strategy.
Now, as always, for our process, we're going to continue to monitor the business environment to
anticipate or react to any changes that we see and take appropriate action.
So, to sum it up, before we get to the Q&A, we promised and we delivered on our commitments
for 2015. We promised to restructure and invest in our operations around the world, and we
delivered both top-line and bottom-line growth. And this year, our commitment is to accelerate
our pace of progress even further by building on our strengths but also we're growing lean.
We're going to be focusing obviously on profitability and making tough choices to restructure
where necessary. We're moving fast to expand our business model, and we're on track to deliver
both our near- and our long-term strategic objectives. And our commitment quite simply is to
deliver continued strong results in 2016 and expand our business model to take advantage of the
huge opportunities in the changing world.
So, with that, why don't we just open the phone line for your questions?
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. And your first question comes from the line of John Murphy from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.Q - `John J. Murphy, BofA Merrill Lynch `
Good morning, guys.
A - Mark Fields `
Good morning.
Q - `John J. Murphy, BofA Merrill Lynch `
Just a first question on cash flow which was obviously very strong for the fourth quarter and the
full year. Bob, as we look at this, the pre-tax profit that you're looking at for the total company is
going to be flat on a year-on-year basis, so I would imagine – or up – but that's not going to have
too big an impact, it would be negative on free cash flow in 2016. So, why sort of the same or
lower for the free cash flow number for 2016? Is there something else going on below the line
that either benefited on in 2015 it would be a headwind in 2016?
A - Robert L. Shanks `
Yeah. Thanks, John. That's a good question. There are two things to think about in terms of our
call for 2016, and one of them is exactly what you mentioned. If you look, and I'm on slide 23
here, if you look at the cash flow for the full year, you can see a favorable change in working
capital. And what we benefited from was the fact that in 2014 we had the launch of the F-150,
and there was a launch effect at the end of the year as well. So, we had a drain-down, if you will,
that was unusual of working capital. We kind of restored that, replenished that in 2015, and
benefited from that. That does not obviously repeat in 2016, so that's one of the factors.
The other factor on the slide, you can see favorable other and timing differences, and at least
based on what we're seeing right now for 2016, we don't think we're going to benefit the same
degree in that area of the cash flow statement as well. So, those are the two factors that are
causing us at this time to say that it will still be strong, yet not as strong as what you're seeing
here on slide 23.
So, I think you can get a sense that it's going to be a good number, but just not at the level that
we're seeing right. Now, of course, we're going to continue to work to try to get everything that
we can, and we'll update you in the year if things change.
Q - `John J. Murphy, BofA Merrill Lynch `
That's incredibly helpful. Second question is APAC. It seems like you hit a real inflection point here
in the fourth quarter. I mean, it was like a very significant step-up on a year-over-year basis but
more importantly on a run rate basis. Is there anything that would change going forward here in
the near term to sort of mitigate that step-up because it is a big factor in the quarter?
A - Mark Fields `
John, when you look at the run rate of the fourth quarter – so your question was, I mean for 2016.
A couple of things. One is, as you know, in the fourth quarter, we do have higher dealer stocks
due to the seasonal increases as we prepare for the Chinese Lunar New Year selling season.
Also, we had a few product launches so we were stocking up on that.
Obviously we have to keep an eye on what's happening with the renminbi in terms of the
currency. That's impacting us. And, of course, we're going to continue to have investments
particularly engineering in for new products but also to meet the regulatory requirements. So, weexpect, as you saw from the guidance, to do better in Asia Pacific in 2016. But hopefully, that
gives you a little flavor of the run rate going in.
Q - `John J. Murphy, BofA Merrill Lynch `
That's helpful. And then just lastly, Brazil seemed to be holding up very well for you and the
industry. Obviously, that's important for FMCC, but it's also very important for pricing on the new
vehicle side. I mean, what are you seeing on residuals? And as we see the sort of this constant
march on product cadence kind of ramping up, how important it is to keep supporting your
residuals, and how do you see that impacting pricing for the new vehicles?
A - Marion Harris `
Hey, John, this is Marion Harris. Residual prices, recently, or auction values have been holding up
pretty well. We've seen a little bit of weakness recently, but nothing material. I think as we look
forward with the growth in leasing over the last number of years, we do expect to see some
higher auction volume coming through over the coming years. And as such, we've baked into our
plan some expectation of lower used-vehicle prices.
Q - `John J. Murphy, BofA Merrill Lynch `
Okay. Thank you very much.
Operator
Okay. Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Colin Langan from UBS. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Colin Michael Langan, UBS Securities LLC `
Oh, great. Thanks for taking my question. One of the big highlights today seems to be the
opportunity to see profits improve around the rest of the world. Can you remind us of the longer-
term targets you have in those major regions like Europe, and I guess the pension may have
changed since the last update which I think was a couple of years ago? And then particularly, Asia
ex-China, when do you think maybe get that back to profitability?
A - Robert L. Shanks `
Yeah. We would expect Europe to get to sort of a 6% to 8% margin; that's what we're targeting.
As you think about Asia Pacific, there I think it'd be 8% or maybe it's a bit higher because you've
got the effect of the JV net income with no equity. So, actually it could even be higher that. Do
you remember, Stuart?
A - Stuart John Rowley `
It's more like over 10%...
A - Robert L. Shanks `
Over 10% on the basis that we report. And then in the case of South America, I would just go
back to what we did the previous nine years before this particular downturn started. We got very
healthy margins there, so I think I'd expect to see the same type of margins, but you have to think
about South America over big cycles. You don't look at it year-by-year so much as you think
about, okay, what do I get over these nine years? What am I kind of suffering from right now? Andthen it will come back once the worm turns again. So, I think we think about it that way but would
expect to get very, very strong margins when the cycle turns once again.
A - Mark Fields `
And then when you think about your question around Asia Pacific outside of China, as you can
see, we've made progress and it's really in a couple of different areas. One is in the ASEAN
markets, we've made a lot of progress, and part of that was the industry getting better, but also
we saw a lot of good mix on the back of Ranger and Everest.
The fruits of the labor of our Australian transformation plan are really starting to take hold, as well
as some capacity actions that we took in India. So, we'll continue to work on that. We've seen
some good improvement this year, and we're going to work very hard to continue that in 2016,
Colin.
Q - `Colin Michael Langan, UBS Securities LLC `
Okay, great. And any color on the pricing environment around the world? There's been a lot of
concern about Europe and China. I mean, how is it looking for you and how are you thinking about
it into next year?
A - Mark Fields `
Well, when you look at Europe, we're still – it's still a challenging pricing environment – probably
more challenging in the non-euro countries like UK and Sweden as those currencies have
strengthened against the euro, but we're still seeing a challenging situation there. I think the
good news is when you look at our performance on the back of our new products, we actually
had positive pricing performance. So, I think it's showing that the investments that we're making
for our products are paying off.
In China, a little bit of a different story. We saw negative pricing in the industry of about 6% last
year. We actually saw it probably peak at about 8% in the fourth quarter; part of that was the
purchase tax reduction. And as we go forward into this year, we think we'll see it in that 6% range.
And again, we'll see how we go going forward.
And here in North America, I think on the truck side, it's pretty healthy. Obviously, we're seeing
more competition on the car side, particularly the sedan side, and given the migration we're
seeing from customers.
Q - `Colin Michael Langan, UBS Securities LLC `
Just one last question. I get a lot of questions around the financing market in the U.S. It seems like
Ford Credit's results are actually quite solid and stable. What are you seeing in the market? Are
you seeing issues with subprime in particular? Any challenges out there that you're seeing in
terms of the lending market for auto?
A - Marion Harris `
Colin, this is Marion. No, we're really not. And I know there's a lot of discussion about this. But with
the exception of a trend in longer-term financing, we're not seeing any weakness in the
consumer at all. In fact, delinquencies, which are a leading indicator, were at all-time record low
for us.
A - Mark Fields `And I think our mix of high risk is what it always is, 5% to 6%, right?
A - Marion Harris `
That's right. And so, our underwriting standards have remained consistent, and our portfolio
continues to be very robust.
Q - `Colin Michael Langan, UBS Securities LLC `
Okay. All right. Thank you very much.
Operator
Okay. Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Dan Galves from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Daniel V. Galves, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Good morning, thanks for taking my questions. Just looking at the dealer stocks in the appendix,
pretty big increase sequentially, like 11%, globally and some of the markets are up year-over-year
a lot more than overall industry demand is. So I guess could you comment on the sequential
increase in stocks? Is that normal for this time of year? And then looking forward, can you give us
any color on what you're expecting in terms of year-over-year full year production growth for Ford
in 2016?
A - Mark Fields `
Dan, this is Mark. When you look at the stocks, again, you have to put into relation where the
markets are going. And in the U.S., for example, when you look at it on a days' supply basis, we're
only up one day from 2014. So, we think we're in pretty good shape there.
Europe, we're probably about four days above last year, but that's taking into account the growth
that we're seeing as we went from quarter to quarter, and we're actually seeing in January the
growth in Europe continuing. So, we think we're in good shape there. And in China, as we
mentioned earlier, we do have the seasonal increases in stocks as we get ready for the Chinese
New Year.
A - Robert L. Shanks `
And in terms of what we're expecting for 2016, Dan, we do expect to see growth in volume in
2016. It's going to be different by region. So, we will have higher production, but we're not going
to provide any specific details at this time.
Q - `Daniel V. Galves, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Okay, got it. And then on the North America margins, obviously really solid right now. Are you
sticking to the 8% to 10% kind of long-term number, even though the pension accounting change
added 100 basis points? Just wanted to ask that question. And then, how should we think about
the margin level, let's say, if – at kind of more of a North America trend demand level or U.S. trend
demand level in the 15 million range – how should we think about decremental margins if
eventually we did get a bit of a downtick in the U.S.?
A - Robert L. Shanks `Yeah, that's a good question. When we developed the 8% to 10%, this was before – this was
quite a number of years ago, actually. So, since then we've had this big reduction in interest rates,
which really drove very big increases in these re-measurement losses, which is one of the
reasons why after we saw this occur and understood how the market. But it's really quite
sophisticated in understanding the company's results when they treated it in the way that we're
now treating it. And so, we decided to move in that direction so that you could clearly see the
operating performance of the business.
So, we developed the 8% to 10% before that. So, I would say, we're back to where we were in
terms of the effect of that on the business. And we developed the 8% to 10% – think of it as over
a longer business cycle – it's not peak. We'd actually like to – maybe we'll be a bit below that in
the downturn. But we'd like, on average, to sort of be around that 8% to 10%.
And so, we see that as something that we're aspiring to get to. We think with the breakeven that
we have with North America that's probably where we would be. But going forward, as we've
said, we're operating at this 10% level. In fact, in two of the last four years, I think we were over
11%, if I'm not mistaken.
So, yeah, we clearly can go higher and we're continuing to work to do that. And certainly, Joe is
working to stay at the level that we've been the last several years and doing better if possible.
But we're operating at benchmark levels and the results speak for themselves.
Q - `Daniel V. Galves, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Okay. Thanks very much. I appreciate it.
Operator
Okay. Thank you. And our next question is from the line of Pat Archambault from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Patrick Archambault, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Thank you very much. Just a couple of follow-ups. I guess for the North America profit walk, for
the fourth quarter on slide 13, just wanted to understand how we see those costs playing out
over the course of 2016. We appreciate the detail here. I think it's very helpful, but there seems
to be some moving parts that will affect distinct parts of the year, right. We have the
anniversarying of the launch or the ramp of the F-150, the launch of the Super Duty, and then
presumably there's also opportunities that you have to take costs out of the existing F-150. So
how do those things sort of interplay as we think about the cost performance versus 2016?
A - Robert L. Shanks `
Yeah. I think what you'll see in 2016 is that you'll see – as I mentioned earlier, you'll see less
tailwinds although still tailwinds from the market factors. In terms of the cost, you'll see less of an
impact on the contribution cost and particularly the product cost because we have the big effect
in 2015 versus 2014 because of the F-150 but also we had the Edge and Mustang and some
other products.
In 2016, you won't see such a big effect. So, I see much less of an increase in contribution cost in
North America than we saw in 2015. And then in terms of the structural cost, we'll have an
increase. A lot of that will be in manufacturing, it'll be in engineering and some of the other
aspects of the business including frankly some of the initiatives that we're working on in SmartBut I think overall, you'll see much less of a cost increase in North America in 2016 than we had in
2015. But it'll be largely driven by the performance and contribution cost.
A - Mark Fields `
The only thing I would add, Pat, is as we look at the cost, particularly Bob mentioned the
contribution cost, we're also going to get the full year benefit of the pricing power that we're
seeing from these new products, whether it's the Edge or the Lincoln MKX or the F-150,
particularly in the second half of last year, we get the full benefit of that.
Q - `Patrick Archambault, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Got it, makes sense. One just addition there on commodities. I think, if I'm paraphrasing you guys
correctly at the Detroit Auto Show, that was a fairly small positive and likely offset by FX I think
was maybe the commentary. Even since then commodities have continued to go down. Is there
may be a potential upside risk there, just given where some of these things are tracking?
A - Robert L. Shanks `
Yeah. We saw – I'm not looking at the numbers – but I think it was $930 million of good news in
commodities for the company and a lot of that in North America in 2015. And then we had the
$249 million of exchange. Things are moving; in fact, since we talked at Investor – Deutsche Bank
– things have moved. If we look at this year, and I just talked with the team yesterday and we
looked at this, I think we'll still see positive performance from commodities. It won't be quite as
great based on what we're looking at right now as it was in 2015, but it will be positive.
And we will have some headwinds on the exchange. So, I think the net of the two at the moment,
and again, it changes every day as you highlighted. But the net of the two won't be quite as
strong as it was in 2015.
The other thing I would just highlight so everyone understands is that we basically have already
locked in about a third of our commodities exposure either through contracts largely on steel,
and/or hedging that we do one some of the base metals including aluminum, which is the second
largest exposure that we have.
The other thing is that our policy on hedging for exchange is basically to have the operating
exposure that we've identified across the full year largely hedged on key currencies, not every
currency because we leave some unhedged because we believe that they naturally are hedged
with some of the commodities. But we lock in some of those commodities a 100% on an
operating basis at the beginning of the year, and that's the position that we're in right now.
So, we do that not to play the market, but we're trying to reduce the volatility both – and both in
terms of the impact of commodities and the impact of exchange – operating exchange.
Q - `Patrick Archambault, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Okay, great. Thanks. Appreciate the color.
Operator
Okay. Thank you. So, your next question comes from the line of Brian Johnson from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Brian A. Johnson, Barclays Capital, Inc. `Yes, good morning. Question really probably for Mark, because I don't believe Joe is on the
phone. If we kind of think about the overall environment in North America just around in energy
prices, it's almost like the opposite of 2007-2008. We've got gas prices approaching $1 in some
places. Apparently your pickup truck sales and light truck sales overall are very strong. But within
your results, can you give us a sense of what the drag is on cars? Maybe recap some of the
capacity actions taken. And then with regard to the light trucks, since this low gas prices hasn't
been lost on others, we heard from a competitor in your suburbs yesterday about adding SUV
and pickup truck capacity. Some of the Asians seem to be converting cars to CUV capacity. How
do you see the capacity situation in the industry for light trucks versus cars going forward?
A - Mark Fields `
Well, Brian, for your first question, if you can tell me where that gas station is that's selling out gas
for $1, I'm there, because that's a good price. But, yeah, I mean, we're seeing gas prices here in
the Detroit area about $1.50.
As you think about the second part of your question on SUV capacity, we think given our view of
where the market is going that I think we're well-positioned to capitalize on both SUV and trucks.
We have opportunities to – we're – in terms of capacity, we're nearly there, but we have
opportunities to add line speeds, work during some of the shutdown periods, et cetera. So, I
think we're well positioned there.
And in terms of the car capacity, as you know, we did take some downtime in for example, our
Michigan Assembly Plant to make sure our stock is in line for vehicles like our Focus. But overall,
we'll just continue to work our process. And you know our process, it's always matching
production to demand and we'll adjust as necessary.
And just two more things on the truck piece of it, and we're getting a little bit more specific. You
may have seen the other day, we announced that in our Ohio assembly facility, we're actually
adding Super Duty capacity and also at our Louisville Assembly Plant where we make the Escape,
we are actually putting in some increased line speed. So, we'll watch the market and be balanced
in our inventories and focusing on profitable growth.
A - Operator
And just jumping on that, those are the types of cost that show up in that volume-related aspect
of manufacturing structural cost. So, obviously, they come in, but they can also come off in a
downturn.
Q - `Brian A. Johnson, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Yeah. And in terms of the mix versus – or the pricing versus contribution cost variance in cars, are
you seeing pressure in pricing in cars? And so is there sort of a tale of two cities within the profit
walks that you're not – that obviously wouldn't show it, but just directionally?
A - Mark Fields `
Well, in the marketplace, it's very clear. You're seeing as a percentage of variable marketing as a
percent of the transaction or the MSRP. It is clearly higher on the car side, and I think that's
reflective of the segmentation shifts that we're seeing. And there's a number of competitors that
really want to defend that. We want to make sure, as usual, we're taking a balanced approach to
profitable growth. And as we said, we'll just work our process of matching production to demand.Q - `Brian A. Johnson, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Okay. And then just finally on that, why not over the midterm have more plants that can flex back
and forth like the one here in Chicago? Between cars and light trucks?
A - Mark Fields `
Well, as you know, if you looked – actually over the last seven or eight years, as you look across
our plants, we have increased the flexibility. And I think you can assume that going forward, we're
going to continue to walk down that path because we've always said we want to make sure we
position ourselves for market changes. So, I think you can be assured we're going to continue
down that path.
Q - `Brian A. Johnson, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Okay. Thanks.
Operator
Okay. Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Joseph Spak from RBC. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Joseph R. Spak, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Hi. Thanks for taking the question. I guess just going back to some of the announcements and
comments around Detroit and then, Mark, again you talked about this transformation into more
of a mobility company. It's clear that partners are going to become important. I think you have
already seen that with some of your announcements. So, I realize it varies depending on what you
are trying to do, but can you give us some sense as to how you go about that process? Especially
since you could build the case that in some areas, depending on the partner or the function, that
could theoretically distract the consumer from the Ford brand and potentially even marginalize
the brand?
A - Mark Fields `
Well, thanks for the question, Joe. When you look at where we're heading, we've said we were
transforming into an auto and a mobility company because it's really important that we don't lose
sight of our core business as I mentioned in my remarks upfront. But when we look at partnering,
first off, in some cases, I'll use an example of the Amazon relationship that we have. That really
came out of an idea from one of our folks in our Palo Alto facility, and happened to also bump
into one of the Amazon folks in the Valley. So, part of it is just discovery that's happened.
The other piece is as we identify a need in the marketplace, we look within ourselves and we say,
what are our core competencies? And in some cases, we convince ourselves we can fulfill that
need on our own. In other cases, we can say listen, there are other great companies out there
that we can approach and partner with. So, that's kind of the process that we're going through to
identify these opportunities and then to execute them.
Q - `Joseph R. Spak, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
All right. Thanks for the color, guys.
OperatorOkay. Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Rod Lache from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Rod A. Lache, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Good morning, everybody. Just a couple things. First, you've been asked this in some ways,
strategy in passenger cars. Obviously, some competitors are acknowledging that in some
markets like North America passenger cars are going to be tough for as far as the eye can see,
assuming oil stays where it is. And you see what GM is doing with capacity and yesterday FCA
saying they're going to outsource the Dart and the Chrysler 200. Haven't heard anything along
those lines from Ford. Is the bottom line that you just have to accept lower margins in certain
segments in order to have a balanced approach, or is there a plan to address the passenger car
situation more broadly?
A - Mark Fields `
Well, as you know, Rod, we're always looking to be as efficient as possible. And to your point, we
– in every product that we bring out, we want to make sure we're earning our appropriate return
on that. As you think about small cars and just cars in general, we believe very strongly that it's
important to have a balanced portfolio because it's to anticipate changes in customer demand,
changes in the economic environment or the regulatory environment. So, as we go forward,
we're going to be very focused on this and understanding, in some cases, what we do on our
own? We're always open to talking with others as we go forward because we realize that we
have to be very realistic around what is the type of revenue that these vehicles will be able to
command and make sure we have an appropriate cost structure to earn a reasonable return.
Q - `Rod A. Lache, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
So, I guess that's TBD on the plans there. I appreciate the color you provided on the structural
cost inflation and where that's coming from. Could you just give us a sense of maybe bracketing
how we should be thinking about structural cost inflation in North America as we look out to 2016
in the base case? And in a slowdown, how much latitude do you have to moderate that part of
your cost structure?
A - Robert L. Shanks `
Well, in terms of 2016 over 2015, I think you'll probably see less effect of this volume-related cost
because of what we've done last year coming off of 2014, where we had a lot of down weeks
and that sort of thing. And also just, we had a really big increase in overall volume year-over-year.
I don't see that happening to the same degree in 2016. We'll still have some volume-related
costs and Mark just referred to a couple of them. But I don't think that will be as much of a factor
in 2016 versus 2015.
But the key point, which is what you mentioned, Rod, and, I think, someone else just touched on.
But the key point is that we just wanted to highlight that our structural costs aren't necessarily
fixed cost, that we've got the ability when volume changes or the economic cycle changes to go
in and do something about it. I think you can see an example of that in South America where
despite really big headwinds on inflation, we're actually getting net reductions through actions
that the team are taking, including around some of these volume-related factors, but more
broadly across the business. And that flexibility is there. I think the way that perhaps we were
showing and talking about the structural costs that wasn't clear, and so we just wanted to make
that understandable to the investors.Q - `Rod A. Lache, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Okay, thanks. And then just two more last things. One is any color on how you are feeling about
credit costs? Obviously, benchmarks and spreads have widened a little bit in certain markets,
subprime, ABS. Even the Ford Credit CDS has widened slightly. If that continues, is there
something – is that something the industry absorbs or do you think that gets passed along? And
then just a point of clarification on your Asia earnings guidance for 2016 in the context of I think
you said minus 5% pricing. How are you feeling about Asia this year?
A - Robert L. Shanks `
Well, let me answer the Asia question. I'm going to have Marion respond to your other question
about the credit spreads. So, we've factored that in. I think Mark actually mentioned that we were
assuming about 5% or 6% reduction in pricing in China. So, we have factored that in, and we
actually came in line at about that level, I think, in 2015. So, that is consistent with our guidance of
higher results and 2016 versus 2015.
Marion?
A - Marion Harris `
Okay, Rod. And you're absolutely right. Credit spreads have been widening out a bit, and it has
affected us and the industry. But on the other side of that, the base rates have not gone up as
much as we had anticipated either. And so, the actual all-in cost to the consumer hasn't really
flowed through yet.
Q - `Rod A. Lache, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Okay. Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Matt Stover from Susquehanna
Investment Group. Please go ahead.
Q - `Matthew Stover, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Thanks. Most of my questions have been answered and I don't want to beat a dead horse, but I
kind of want to think about this car problem or car issue because it feels like it's deja vu all over
again with the industry. And I know you guys are in a much different place versus FCA in terms of
your product and your balance sheet. But I do wonder if you think about this program over the
course of the next five years – or 10 years rather – if there's an opportunity for you to more
significantly restructure the cost structure of your small and mid cars. And what I'm specifically
speaking about are the transmissions and engines, referring back to some of the work that
you've done with GM on transmissions in the pickup truck market. Are there opportunities for you
to husband some capital investment as you think about these new programs to fundamentally
improve the cost structure of them as their near-term demand seems uncertain, but long-term
demand seems more necessary?
A - Mark Fields `
Yeah. Thanks for the question, Matt. And you're right. It's a little bit like looking at the crystal ball
and your view depends upon the point that you're at. And right now, obviously, we're seeingBut in simple answer to your question, yes, we're looking at all opportunities because we want to
make sure that we get a good return on our invested capital. And as you saw, we're measuring
that and we pay a lot of attention to that as a company.
So, we're going to always look at different opportunities to improve the profitability of all of our
vehicles including our small cars.
Q - `Matthew Stover, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Just out of curiosity from a timing standpoint, has the board okay-ed the next-generation Fusion
and Focus or is that still something in front of the board?
A - Mark Fields `
No, we don't talk about what decisions have been made by the board, et cetera, but obviously,
you're seeing the launch of the freshened Fusion that we showed at the North American
International Auto Show.
Q - `Matthew Stover, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Okay. Thanks, Mark.
A - Mark Fields `
Sure.
Operator
Okay. Thank you. So, our next question is from the line of Ryan Brinkman from JPMorgan. Please
go ahead.
Q - `Ryan J. Brinkman, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Great, thanks for taking my question. Maybe a couple really on sort of the latest that you're
seeing in terms of demand in China and the U.S. The stock market seems – the industry market
seems actually quite great in both of those countries – but the stock market seemed to sort of
reflect the price of the automakers and the suppliers that investors think that these markets could
decelerate maybe materially over the short run. So just what you're seeing there, the latest.
So, for example, in China the big surge in 4Q; does that pull ahead from future periods? And if
so, which future periods? Because industry forecasters like IHS, they're increasing their outlook
for 2016 thinking it pulls from 2017, but the investors we talked to think it pulls from much sooner,
like as soon as this quarter. So any color you can provide on what you're seeing in China in
January, et cetera, that would be helpful?
And then in the U.S. too, December was a little bit softer than the preceding months. Are there
any signs that the U.S. is really slowing on an underlying basis? Are there any real reasons to think
it might slow as the stock prices, including your stock price, seems to maybe imply?
A - Mark Fields `
Okay, Ryan. Thanks for the question. In China, obviously, as we mentioned, when you look at the
stock market volatility, I mean, that's endemic of a country that's moving from an investment and
industry-led economy to one that's consumer-led. And then actually when you look at thegrowing, while some of the industry ones are coming down. And we view that as a good sign. It's
going to be a bit bumpy as they go through that transition.
As we mentioned, in the fourth quarter, you usually see a – more production by the industry and
by us. That's normal as we get for the – get ready for the Chinese New Year. We're – going in –
we're in line with our stocks going into January into China. And, as I mentioned, China has started
off – the month is starting off strong. We have seen it moderate in the second half versus the first
half. But as I mentioned, we really have to wait and see how January and February play out
because of where the Chinese New Year falls this year, and we'll get a good sense for that. But
our view is that the market will grow in China this year, and a lot of that on the back of the
response we've seen from the purchase tax reduction.
In the case of North America, in terms of the industry, we don't see the cycle being over.
Obviously, the consumer sector drives a majority of the economic growth. All the metrics we're
seeing, wages growing, jobs growing, low interest rates, low energy costs, those type of things
are really putting more spending power in the hands of consumers. And when you marry that with
the demographics of the inventory of vehicles that are out there, they are the oldest they've ever
been. Pickup trucks also in particular, are very old, so we think that bodes well.
As we get into January, what we're seeing – it will probably be a solid month for the industry. But,
as you know, January is always a bit of a difficult month to call, right, because it's a small industry,
there's lots of seasonality. Of course, I hate to turn January always into a weather report, but
there's always storms and, obviously, we had that big one on the East Coast.
So, we could see an industry maybe around 17 million units, maybe somewhere around there. But
I think it's a little bit of a tricky month. But what we're seeing in our business, commercial sales
continue to be strong and we'll report out on February 2.
Q - `Ryan J. Brinkman, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Okay. That's helpful and encouraging color. Thanks a lot.
A - Mark Fields `
Sure.
Operator
Okay. Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Emmanuel Rosner, CLSA Americas LLC from CLSA. Please
go ahead.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, CLSA Americas LLC `
Hi. Good morning, everybody.
A - Mark Fields `
Good morning.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, CLSA Americas LLC `
So, I appreciate all the color on the profile from North American margins and certainly understand
the issue of maybe less industry growth this year and then the Super Duty launch. It also feels like
there's a decent amount of it that has to do with investments, maybe not necessarily just for themean, it just feels, that in comparison with some of your competitors, that you seem to be
investing more heavily maybe. Can you either put that into buckets or like how should we think
about these investments and what they are going towards?
A - Robert L. Shanks `
Well, I think let me first start with – I think we said at the Deutsche Bank – that our CapEx for the
company for this year is expected to be about $7.7 billion. I think we came in at $7.1 billion in 2015.
So, you can see that that will be increasing, again, as we invest for future growth. As I look across
the business more broadly, and I think you were talking specifically, Emmanuel, about North
America, is that correct?
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, CLSA Americas LLC `
Yes, yes.
A - Robert L. Shanks `
There, I think we'll see higher engineering. The spending-related will go up because we've been
ahead of the curve in terms of the spending, the DNA is catching up, so that's probably going to
be up around $0.5 billion alone. And then there's additional investments that we're making to
support some of our more future opportunities around Ford Smart Mobility, which we're not
going to break out, but clearly that is something that is ahead of this as well. So, around
refreshment, powertrain investments to support regulatory actions and Ford Smart Mobility. And
obviously we expect all of them to payoff, which they've done over the last six years.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, CLSA Americas LLC `
Great. And then still on the topic of investments, just wanted to ask a little bit more about where
you stand now in China. I know you've opened a lot of factories and capacity over the past few
years, including in 2015. Is there more to do? Do you have more in the works or are you pretty
much now working at sort of like filling this capacity and maximizing what you have?
A - Mark Fields `
Well, from our capacity standpoint, we're at 2.7 million units across Asia. And when you look at
China in particular, we're at 1.9 million. We are adding our Harbin facility a little later this year. So, I
think we're in good shape, Emmanuel, from a capacity standpoint.
And when you look at the investments, as Bob mentioned earlier, the investments on the product
freshness in China but also meeting the regulatory requirements, powertrain and those type of
things, and also Ford Smart Mobility.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, CLSA Americas LLC `
Great. Thank you very much.
A - Mark Fields `
Welcome.
Operator
Okay. Thank you. So, our next question comes from the line of `Christina Rogers, The Wall Street Journal from The WallQ - `Christina Rogers, The Wall Street Journal `
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking the question.
A - Mark Fields `
Hi, Christina.
Q - `Christina Rogers, The Wall Street Journal `
First off, on the UAW profit sharing, how much will that cost in absolute terms? I mean is this a
matter of just taking the $9,300 per worker and multiplying it by the workforce? And when will
that payout be booked? Is it in the first quarter?
And my second question is also on the shift in demand to trucks. I mean, AutoNation's Mike
Jackson just said America has gone truck crazy. And it sounds like there's opportunity there for
you to increase production on those vehicles. But, I'm wondering, will you be taking down
passenger car capacity to do that?
A - Mark Fields `
Okay. Christina, on your question on UAW profit, it's generally in line. But, again, the profit sharing
checks, what we say on average is $9,300. So, I guess, it depends on how many hours have been
worked by the employee, et cetera. And that profit sharing check will be paid in the first quarter
and it's booked in the first quarter as well.
When you think about the trucks, I mean, obviously, we have our capacity. It's a medium-term
thing. But, in general, when you look at trucks, let me just focus on F-Series for a minute. We're
going to have – we expect, actually, our volume on F-150, we think there's upside opportunity this
year to grow it versus 2015 because we now have the availability of regular cabs and super cabs.
And so we didn't have a lot of availability of that and so that will give us some good entry points,
both from the mid and the entry level price points.
So, we think we have the opportunity to grow at least our volume in F-150. But over the longer
term, again, we'll make our assumptions around where we think the segmentation is going and
make appropriate capacity changes.
A - Robert L. Shanks `
And then – I'm sorry. I thought you were finished.
A - Mark Fields `
No. And just in the short term, as we talked about earlier, line shift speeds or line speed
adjustments and working shut downs.
A - Robert L. Shanks `
And just to clarify, we pay it in the first quarter. About $1,500 of that was paid in the fourth quarter
(70:28).
A - Mark Fields `
That's right.A - Robert L. Shanks `
...and we accrued that throughout 2015. So, we accrue in advance.
Q - `Christina Rogers, The Wall Street Journal `
What would the total charge looks like in the first quarter for the payout? Do you have like...?
A - Robert L. Shanks `
Well, it's a cash, it's a cash outflow. It's not a profit yet because we accrued for it'd during 2015.
So, that profit recognition is behind this. It's in the results that you're seeing today.
Q - `Christina Rogers, The Wall Street Journal `
Okay. Okay. And then regarding the passenger car capacity, will you be looking to take that down
as you increase volume on the truck and SUV side?
A - Mark Fields `
That will be based on our view of segmentation going forward. So, that will be part of our
business planning process.
Q - `Christina Rogers, The Wall Street Journal `
Thank you.
Operator
Okay. Thank you. So, your next question comes from the line of `Bob Gritzinger, WardsAuto from WardsAuto.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Bob Gritzinger, WardsAuto
Hi. Thanks for taking my call. I noted that you're dropping out of the Japanese and Indonesian
markets in the coming year. Are there other small-volume markets that you're considering pulling
out of?
A - Mark Fields `
Well, we've – obviously, we announced Japan and Indonesia. We're going to follow our normal
process, and we're committed to serving global markets. But also at the same time, we're
committed to aggressively restructuring parts of our business where we don't see a reasonable
path to sustain profitability or a return on our investment over a reasonable period of time. So,
we'll continue to work that process going forward, but nothing to announce.
Q - `Bob Gritzinger, WardsAuto
Okay. Good. Thanks for taking my call.
A - Mark Fields `
You bet.
OperatorOkay. Thank you. We have no more questions at this time, so now I'd like to turn the call back
over to Mr. Ted Cannis. Please go ahead.
A - Ted Cannis `
All right. Thank you very much, everybody, for joining the call today. And we'll see you soon.
Operator
Thank you for your participation in today's conference. This concludes the presentation. You may
now disconnect. So, have a good day.