Q4 2017 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day. My name is Ian, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like
to welcome everyone to the Ford Motor Company Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2017 Earnings
Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the
speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) Thank
you.
I would now like to turn the call over to `Lynn Antipas Tyson, Executive Director of Investor Relations, Executive Director of Investor
Relations. Please begin.
`Lynn Antipas Tyson, Executive Director of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Ian. Welcome everyone to Ford Motor Company fourth quarter and full year 2017
earnings call. Presenting today are Jim Hackett, our President and CEO; and `Bob Shanks, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, our
Chief Financial Officer. Jim will begin with a brief review of our strategy and operating
performance, and then Bob will review the quarterly and full year results in more detail. After
Bob's section, we'll open the call up for questions, and following Q&A, Jim will have a few closing
remarks.
Our results discussed today include some non-GAAP references. These are reconciled to the
most comparable US GAAP measure in the Appendix of our earnings deck, which can be found
along with the rest of our earnings materials at shareholder.ford.com. Today's discussions include
some forward-looking statements about our expectations for future performance. Actual results
may vary and the most significant factors are included in our presentation. Also, all comparisons
are year-over-year, unless noted otherwise.Before we begin, I want to bring your attention to pages A25 and A26 of our earnings deck,
where we have provided you with P&L metrics for fiscal 2015, 2016 and 2017, consistent with the
new reporting format, we will begin using with the first quarter of fiscal 2018. As we announced
last week, we're making these changes to enhance transparency and better align with industry
reporting.
Now, let me turn the call over to Jim.
`James Hackett, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Lynn, and good afternoon, everyone. I was looking forward to this call today, not only
to discuss our fourth quarter and full year 2017 results, but also to have a dialogue about our
company and how we're managing both the near-term business, while simultaneously building
out a compelling vision for our future. I'll start with some brief reflections on CES in Las Vegas and
NAIAS in Detroit last week and how they support our direction. In fact, I had a chance to catch up
with some of you last week at the show in Detroit. I was really proud of how Ford brought to life
our passion for great vehicles from the new Ranger, the Edge and the Bullitt Mustang to the
expansion of our unique EV strategy. Our ability to tap into the passion that people have for our
vehicles is an advantage for us versus the tech world that might toy with cars. It is connected to
our vision for the future in a really profound way.
At both CES and the Detroit Auto Show, I found myself constantly siding the role of human
centered insight and to help define the trajectory of our strategy. The importance of this is clear
when you consider two major trends. First cities, which of course house people are becoming
ever more congested, and the vehicles, which move people in city infrastructures will become
smarter than we could ever, ever imagine. Our opportunity is to leverage the capability of the
smart vehicles and smart environments to attack that congestion problem. This new
transportation operating system can add tremendous value to shareholders and we can help
people have a better, more productive day.
We also have the opportunity to improve logistics. Currently, there is an inefficient operating
system for goods delivery as neither the vehicles nor the infrastructure are really smart enough.
The growth of Internet sales is compounding the problem, I cited above of congestion and yet
customers really prefer the convenience of buying over the web. Our early work with Domino's
Pizza confirmed that people enjoy getting deliveries from a robotic vehicle versus a human. It's
apparent to us that the potential here is dramatic, as we imagine a world, where smart vehicles in
the smart world not only improve traffic flow and reduce congestion, but also improve logistics.
Now, let me turn your attention to slide three. I want to be direct and assure you that as we map
out this exciting winning future during times of what we see is profound change, we and I are
intensely focused on fixing the health of the core business today. I know this is foundational to our
success. And last week, we provided guidance for 2018. Clearly, I and my team are not satisfied
with this level of performance and we see 2018 as the opportunity to prove to you that we can
sharpen operational execution, dramatically improve the fitness we're talking about and continue
making the big decisions strategically on where to play and how to win and of course properly
allocate capital.
So take your attention to slide four. We continue to aggressively address this -- the fitness of our
business. This is both by resetting revenue and attacking costs in the short term, but also
redesigning our business to compete and win in the future. We now can commit that we have
multiple work streams up and running and we see significant potential benefits downstream,
which will dimension for you in the future. We think of operational fitness as much broader thoughthan just cost cutting. It will certainly drive meaningful costs out of business, no question. It's really
important because it's ultimately the state of our ability to compete.
Ford is a strong company, I'm proud of it, but we simply have not done enough to truly be fit
today. We have the opportunity now to make step change improvements across our business in
areas like product development, manufacturing and marketing to become more common in our
platforms, more efficient and more customer-centric in our design thinking. We're moving quickly
to transform our business through -- though much of this work will really begin paying off as you
ask in 2019 and beyond.
Okay. If you turn to slide five, I'll hit some of the highlights of the fourth quarter. Significantly, we
developed and announced a plan that ensures all of our new vehicles in the US are connected by
2019 and that goes to 90% globally by 2020. At the same time, we continue to advance our
autonomous vehicle plan, building out robust business model and making rapid progress in the
technology or the capability of the vehicle. In the quarter, we were proud to announce that we will
expand our investment and our workforce at our plant here in Flat Rock, Michigan, which will be
our initial manufacturing hub for AVs. And as we discussed last week at the auto show, we have
dramatically expanded and accelerated our EV or electrical vehicle plans with an $11 billion
investment.
On the product side, we're poised to build on our success. Ford was the best selling brand in the
US for the eighth straight year and our F-Series franchise marked its 41st year as America's best
selling pickup and the margin between first and second continue to expand. The good news is
that our investment in new product in recent years will really start to come fruition in 2018. We
have 23 global vehicle launches planned for this year, more than twice as many as 2017. So
overall, I'm positive with the progress we're making toward our vision of becoming the most
trusted mobility company, designing the smart vehicles for a smart world and clearly we're going
to accelerate this work in 2018.
Now, I'll turn to `Bob Shanks, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Financial Officer for more detail on the quarter. Bob?
`Bob Shanks, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Jim, and good afternoon, everyone. I don't plan to go through any slides today, instead
I've just planned to make a few remarks to share our perspective on the quarter and the full year,
reconfirm the guidance for 2018 that we provided last week and then we'll take your questions.
Let me start by stating that 2017 overall was challenging, including the fourth quarter. It also
however was a year of progress and I'll touch on that a bit more later. In the quarter, the top line
improved with both wholesale volume and automotive revenue higher than a year earlier. The
volume improvement was across all regions, except Middle East and Africa, and the 7% gain that
we saw in revenue was due mainly to the higher volume. Company adjusted pre-tax profit was
$1.7 billion, down $395 million from a year ago with the decline more than explained by the
Automotive segment. The lower automotive profit was due mainly to higher commodity costs
and adverse exchange, but we also saw higher warranty cost mainly recalls in North America and
Europe.
Our automotive operating margin was 3.7% that was down 200 basis points due to declines in
North America, Asia-Pacific and Europe. Within Automotive, the largest profit contributor once
again was North America, where we earned $1.6 billion, which was down $315 million. Operating
margin was at 6.8% down a 170 basis points. The year-over-year declines were due to effects
from the Expedition/Navigator launch and that was mainly lower volume and higher commodityOutside North America in the Automotive segment, results were a combined loss of $206 million
with a profit in Europe about breakeven results in Asia-Pacific and losses in South America and in
the NA. The combined loss of these operations was nearly $300 million greater than last year
due to weak results in Asia-Pacific, and that was driven mainly by China as well as Brexit related
effects and higher commodity and warranty costs in Europe.
Ford Credit on the other hand turned in another strong quarter, earning $610 million, up 53%.
Every causal factor with the exception of credit losses contributed to the better performance.
Adjusted EPS in the quarter was $0.39, up $0.09 and that was driven by favorable tax planning,
which resulted in an adjusted effective tax rate for the quarter of 10%. Net income came in at $2.4
billion that was $3.2 billion higher than a year ago due to significantly lower re-measurement loss
on pension and OPEB plans along with favorable tax planning. Automotive operating cash flow
was $2.3 billion, up $800 million from a year ago, and it was the strongest quarterly cash flow of
the year. Ford's balance sheet remained strong with cash and marketable securities totaling $26.5
billion and liquidity at more than $37 billion.
Let's turn now to the full year 2017. Our Automotive revenue grew 3% and that was driven by
favorable mix, higher volume within consolidated operations and higher net pricing. Wholesale
volume on the other hand, including unconsolidated operations, was about flat, with lower
volume in North America, EMEA and Asia Pacific about offset by gains and South America and
Europe.
Adjusted company pre-tax profit totaled $8.4 billion, down $1.9 billion from 2016. This was driven
by $1.2 billion of higher commodity cost and about 850 million of adverse exchange, about 600
million of which was Brexit related as had been expected. The company's entire profit decline in
the full year was within our Automotive segment. Automotive operating margin was 5%, down
170 basis points due to North America and Europe. These two regions alone accounted for nearly
90% of the commodity cost and 80% of the exchange impacts we saw on a year-over-year basis.
Adjusted EPS was a $1.78 per share in the lower half of our most recent guidance and up $0.02
from a year ago. This reflects a 15.3% adjusted effective tax rate. Net income came in at $7.6
billion, up 3 billion from 2016 due to significantly lower re-measurement loss on pension and
OPEB plans and favorable tax planning actions. Full year automotive operating cash flow came in
at $3.9 billion, down from the $6.4 billion a year ago due to the lower automotive profit, but also
less favorable working capital changes.
As we look to 2018, we expect external conditions to be mixed with industry volume globally
expanding to some extent and most markets, exception of course would be the US, where we
expect volumes to be lower, but still strong. Commodities and exchange continue to be
headwinds. For 2018, we expect company revenue to be up to flat. This will be supported by 23
global product launches compared to 11 in 2017, as Jim just referenced. We see company
adjusted EPS falling within a range of a $1.45 to a $1.70, assuming an adjusted effective tax rate of
about 15%, which is similar to 2017.
By using our new 2018 reporting elements that Lynn just touched on, the top end of the range
assumes an Automotive segment that is about unchanged from 2017, despite continued
headwinds from commodities and exchange. The drivers therefore of our outlook for a decline in
adjusted EPS are a lower profit at Ford Credit and an increased loss at mobility. The Ford Credit
change is due to a lower financing margin as interest rates rise, along with evaluation change for
derivatives. The lower result at our Mobility segment is driven by higher investments for
autonomous vehicle program along with increased investments at Ford Smart Mobility as we build
capabilities and create future services opportunities.At the low end of our adjusted EPS range, reflects the normal volatility we could see from recalls
and further pressure from exchange and commodity prices, but it also recognizes potential
challenges and fully delivering the recovery actions we have developed and deployed to offset
the adverse year-over-year impact of commodities and exchange. And I'd like to call up for your
attention two slides. An EBIT margin bridge from 2017 to 2018 on slide 35 and on slide 32, a long-
term view of commodity market price changes since the great recession and the impact that
they've had on our bottom line.
As the commodity slide indicates, we've always been transparent with investors on the drivers of
our profitability, including commodities, no matter if they are tailwinds or headwinds. And we're
doing the same now with the guidance we're providing for 2018. We are confident in the
processes our team use in managing our commodity exposures and their impacts on the
business globally, and we have applied them consistently during the inevitable highs and lows of
the commodity cycle. As of the end of January, a little more than one-third of our commodity
exposures for the full year already will be locked in through fixed contracts, hedges or purchases
made.
I mentioned at the start that 2017 was a challenging year. Yeah, we did make important progress
too. The new organization and management team are operating very effectively. We established
our vision, our NorthStar, smart vehicles in a smart world that sets out the path that we're
following. And we made important strategic and capital reallocation decisions. And Jim Hackett
initiated and is championing our global fitness reset and redesign initiatives, which are yielding, as
he said, significant opportunities that will improve the business going forward. So we're looking
forward to 2018. This is an important year in our journey to redefine and reshape Ford through
our fitness initiatives and the strategic decisions we continue to make to become the world's
most trusted mobility company.
With that, let's turn it back to the operator, who will get us started on our Q&As.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) We will start with questions from the investment community, followed by
the news media. And our first question is from the line of `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC from JPMorgan.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Hi, good evening. Thanks for taking my questions. I think firstly just relative to the softer year-
over-year results in Asia-Pacific, can you talk some more about the drivers there by causal factor,
particularly net pricing? I see that incentives were at $210 million headwind versus 133 million last
quarter. How would you rate the competitive environment in China and the relative
competitiveness of your lineup there? And then with the 16 product launches in China you
referenced on slide 33, should investors think about the net pricing for you maybe starting to
improve in that market this year?
A - `James Hackett, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. So I'm going to ask Jim Farley to handle this one.
A - `James Farley, President of Ford of Europe `
Hi, thank you for your question. It was a challenging year in China for us. We were down in unitwas the incentives that affected our financials. Our -- average age of our product in China is
about 4.3 years, so we're at the very end of our cycle, especially in the utility segment, where
we're seeing a lot of new domestic players. We did reorient our marketing in the second half of
the year towards Cougar and Edge, which are responding. But the key is that in 2018 in the
second half, we start a new wave of product launches in China and we believe that freshness is
going to be a really important part of our growth story in China again. So we did see a negative
pricing last year, especially in the fourth quarter. I think December was about 5%. So the overall
year was like 4% negative, but it was most acute in the utility segment, especially for older
vehicles, which is where we are with our cycle plan, but very excited about our new launches in
the second half of next year.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Okay. That's encouraging. Thanks. And then just lastly from me, you've provided a lot of new and
helpful data on the impact of commodities. I'd be curious though, what your latest thoughts are
with regard to commodity and currency hedging? So you mentioned that your commodity
exposure is about one-third fixed for 2018. Do you think that's the right proportion to try to fix
going forward, about one-third or can you discuss is there any particular commodity too that
might be providing a particular pain point in 2018 like aluminum for instance and what coping
mechanisms, if any, might be available to you? Ryan, I'll handle that. What I think, as I mentioned in
my comments based on discussions that we've -- well, actually, I think I mentioned that earlier at
the scrum with the media, so you didn't hear what I said. So what I was saying is that to the media
earlier this afternoon is that we understand, I think in a good sense what competitors generally
do because we talk to suppliers and we understand what OEMs as a matter of course do. And
the feedback we get is that they apply the same tools that we do, fix contracts whereas
appropriate. For example, steel. There is no forward market. It really can't hedge and so forth.
So, we've had a feather in through fixed contracts that are staggered through the course of the
year, our steel contracts. So you get some smoothing if you will in terms of the ups and downs of
market prices. We hedge a number of currencies and we hedge out certain periods of time, but
one thing I would note though is that, and I believe this is going to be true for everyone, is that
these are non-designated hedges. And so for those of you that don't know what that means that
are listening in, it means that you can lock in an economic value at the end of the contract, but
because they're not designated, you actually have to mark to market them every quarter. So you
don't escape the volatility of whatever is happening in the market in terms of market prices. So it
doesn't help you from that regard. So we do that.
And then lastly, we do have some spot buys for some of the commodities, which again I think is
an industry practice for those particular commodities. What's interesting when you look at the
special slide that we included on slide 32 is the effect that we've seen on Ford's business has
been completely correlated to what's happened to commodity prices. And I would argue that
that's going to be true for everyone because you may be able to delay volatility through what
you're doing in terms of your own contract plan or hedges or so forth, but ultimately at the end of
the day that just smooths out, it doesn't allow you to escape the overall trends of prices. And as
you can see on the slide that we provided, we've had some good years, we've had some bad
years and interestingly when you cume the results since the great recession through 2014, that
cume affected about $3.4 billion.
You see on the slide, there was a smaller downward commodity cycle at that point in time which
we benefited from for two years about 900 million each year. And what we've seen in '17 and '18
as the global economy is growing pretty much synchronous -- in a synchronous way around the
world, commodity prices are increasing. And now, we're about at the point in '17 and '18, wherewe were in 2014 on a cumulative basis. And if you look at the trend of the prices, that's about
where they come back to you.
In terms of the effects, as the slide indicates, two-thirds of the effect is largely around steel and
aluminum. And for those of you that are interested in the aluminum story because of the strategy
that we're pursuing on our larger pick-ups and on the SUVs, it's less than 25% of our impact. It's
really steel that's the story and other metals -- I mean, aluminum as well, but it's -- it maybe is not
as much as what you had expected.
That was super helpful. Thanks a lot.
Operator
And our next question is from the line of `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Guggenheim from Guggenheim.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Guggenheim `
Hi, good evening, everybody. First, I wanted to ask you about your -- the investments in
electrification. So I think the slides from the Detroit Auto Show were showing that it was going
from 4.5 billion plan through 2020. Now, it's going to be 6.7 billion. So -- but at the same time, it
was not mentioned in the 2018 factor. So first, which bucket will they be reported in? Is that
mobility, is that in the regional automotive? And then second, can you talk about what the
cadence will be for the next few years in terms of these investments and if that's a major factor in
the earnings progression?
A - `Bob Shanks, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I'll handle that one, Emmanuel, and thanks for the question. So when you look at the
cadence, I think the cadence is just going to be an ever-increasing rise I think in the investments
because it's going to be driven by the PE factory, which certainly have accelerated and made
some choices around pulling ahead some of the EVs, but this will be sort of a progressive
increase over the course of time. And it will show up in automotive and it will show up in the
regions in which those vehicles are sold. EVs are moving to mobility, but everything related to EVs
are staying within automotive.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Guggenheim `
Okay, that's helpful. And then specifically on the mobility investment, if that's sort of moved out. A
similar type of question. Any way you could sort of like dimension the progression here. I mean,
you obviously said that '18 would be larger. Any sense of size? And then going forward, does that
also keep going up like electrification or do you see that sort of leveling off and being a positive
factor beyond this year?
A - `Bob Shanks, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, the thing that's interesting about that is, of course, you'll have an increase in the AV
investment as we move through the program to launch the product in sort of the 2021 period and
that will show up there, we will also have investments associated with what Jim talked about at
Deutsche Bank around the infrastructure to support it, the business operations, the terminals,
that sort of thing. And so I would see that increasing, there will be no revenue obviously and -- on
that until we get to the point where the product and the services associated with that hit the
market. But on the other hand, while we are also making increased investments on the other part
of Marcy's world, Ford Smart Mobility, which is -- think of that as services, digital services, therelevels of revenue. And so we actually can see the day within business planning period, where that
part of our business is generating a profit and in fact quite a nice return. So I think you have to
look at the two parts of her world a bit differently. But that part actually will start to contribute to
the bottom line I think over the five-year plan period.
A - `James Hackett, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And right now, Emmanuel, it's Jim Hackett. These are totally matched as you would imagine. The
technology capability development for the AV is way ahead of -- certainly in '18, any kind of
revenue projections in the services, similarly Marcy's work is building out the capability. It's within
the realm of what we've been believing what happened. There is -- I don't think there's big
surprises here and we felt it was time to be transparent about it because the core Investments
really will matter as you look across competitors about people who are claiming to really be in this
business and those like us that are inventing it.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Guggenheim `
Understood. And I guess, in the name of transparency, do you care to dimension the size of this
increased investment in 2018?
A - `Bob Shanks, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Well, when we get to the first quarter, let me -- give me a quarter to think about that. But what
you will see when you look at the bridge chart that if you collectively look at slide 35, if you
collectively look at everything related to automotive, that's a pretty flat result. So what you can
see is mobility is the largest single reporting element in terms of impact on a year-over-year
basis and that's from those two investments. And I would just say, it's -- let's say, it's roughly split
between autonomy and growth and capabilities and services expense as we create those
opportunities.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Guggenheim `
Understood. Thanks a lot.
Operator
And our next question is from the line of `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thanks everyone. I got a couple of questions about the six global fitness redesign initiatives. First
of all, Jim, what are the six initiatives? Can you tell us tonight, please?
A - `James Hackett, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, we have a slide on four that I think is as far as I want to go right now, Adam, and I'll explain
the background. The slide on four is insight for you, where I feel like the company over time and
this happens I think generally loses some of this fitness. So I can take an example a couple of
them for you. We've talked about product complexity, back in October, we started talking about
that. We found the product where it had something like 30% of the sales and 95% of the part
count. And so we -- what's taking the time and I know that I don't have forever with this, as we're
going through and doing all the fact-based work to find out where the biggest opportunities are
and that's an example in complexity.We've been working as we talked to you about product development. This is something that is an
advantage for Ford that I think we haven't fully realized, which is having this capability all around
the world with real time technologies, how do we actually get the advantage of the clock and
shared efficiencies because we can average cost down, given the capability we have around the
world. We've been talking about marketing inside the company. The hope here is if you stared at
our advertising and the way that we buy media and things like that, it doesn't look like some of
the companies that you follow in other industries that are using machine learning. I'll stop there
because this night is not about those six projects. But I do want to tell you that, the more time I've
gotten with it, which is really October to now, the more hopeful and clear it's becoming to me
about where we can find the kind of savings. And so I've asked the team to work with me on
dimensioning that for our investors and -- because we needed not only for you to understand the
power of it, but I want to use it to prioritize first, second and third. Some of these are multi-year
efforts. For example, the enterprise systems that underpin the different databases that we have
in the company. There's things that I've done before in this area that are really beneficial to the
speed to market with delivery and efficiencies around the world.
So let me stop there and say that's --
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
I mean -- so Jim, I respect that you don't want to use tonight to talk about these initiatives, but I
think a lot of the investment community on this call this evening, this is the time, right. This is your
-- I know it has't quite been a year obviously, you are still learning the organization, but I think it
would be -- it's a fair question to ask, when are we going to know these six because I asked you a
pretty straightforward question you were alluding the six in your slides, but you are clearly not
wanting to talk about them. That's a problem, Jim. When are we going to be very clear and
transparent about this, so that we can -- the investors and your associates at Ford can kind of rally
around the mission? How long we have to wait?
A - `James Hackett, President and Chief Executive Officer `
It's a great -- yeah, you'll have to wait long, you just have to stand in line. So you have to wait till
our people know. And I don't want to communicate to our people through the shareholder call. So
the way that we have that laid out is -- it means that it comes pretty quickly once we get the
whole organization up to speed.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Okay. Then I won't be specific, and I will just finish with a question. Is restructuring -- perhaps
restructuring that you have not announced to this point on the table as one of the many
weapons, not your only weapon, but one of the initiatives at your disposal to execute on the six
initiatives or some of them as we -- as you learn and are able to strategize upon them? Thank
you.
A - `James Hackett, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. And I think that's a question we answered two quarters ago, we said that the impact of the
redesign of things means that we're going to have excess capacity in areas that we don't need.
I'm not going to tell you which parts of the company that is, but of course, we'll address that
when the time is right. But I also want to emphasize something here, which is in the design of
fitness, one of the things you have to do in addition to having you understand where we're going
and our people understanding that is you can't disrupt the flow of the business, I can tell youlegendary stories where certain enterprise systems were put in prematurely and the business
was disrupted.
So what you're -- what you'd be witnessing now in the way that we've started this work is we've
long identified where we want to work. We're now in the redesign phase, we're now
dimensioning the value, we've assigned responsibilities. I'm meeting with teams weekly, I just had
a big meeting Friday with people in the company, and it's getting close to the point, where I think
we can start to bring you under tent, but it's not tonight.
Operator
And our next question is from the line of `Rod Lache, Analyst, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Hi, everybody. I guess, my question is kind of along the same lines, but I appreciate the long-term
strategic objectives and initiatives you're talking about, but they're pretty high level. And I was
hoping maybe you could at least give us a little bit of financial grounding towards that 8% long-
term auto margin target, it's about 250 basis points higher than you're doing now, which would
be about 3.5 billion of improvement. So my question is, is there at this point a specific bridge to
get there? And can you give us some idea of what the high level buckets would be, maybe not
specifically on restructuring, but when you're thinking about how much of this is net cost
reduction? You've talked about some gross cost buckets, how much of it is mix repositioning for
your portfolio?
A - `Bob Shanks, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Let me take a first shot at that, then if anyone else wants to chime in, they can. So as I
mentioned I think in an answer at your conference Rod and our present business plan, we actually
see the business achieving the 8% margins towards the end of the business plan period and it
improves over the period. So we actually -- and that's all physically based. That has without $1 of
the global fitness redesign efforts that Jim was just talking about. And while we haven't provided
specifics as Jim mentioned in his response to Adam in the question before, what we did say both
Jim and I at the conference is that the early work on monetizing the opportunities that have just
been developed thus far. There's more to come. It's really immaterial in terms of impact on
OpEx, but also on CapEx. And we think it'll be more as I said.
So that would be incremental is what I just described. Now, if you want to say that it's not unusual
for a business plan to be, it looks like a hockey stick, I mean, I take a lot of comfort -- first of all,
we try to be very realistic and 50-50 in our calls, but we know you can't always anticipate the
inevitable surprises that happened in this business both externally, but maybe internally. So when I
look at the opportunities of the fitness that's already been at least preliminary tabled by the
team, it gives me more confidence in our ability to at least hit the levels that we're targeting if not
doing better.
I would say that a lot of that is around product. I think we've also talked, you saw the big increase
in product launches this year versus last year and I think Jim mentioned at Deutsche Bank there is
even more to come when you look at 2019, 2020. So I think that is going to help drive the top
line. We do think there will be opportunities in terms of mix as we continue to work on that and
revenue and then the good news on the cost side as well we would expect cost to come up to
some extent over that period. We're getting the appropriate amount of operating leverage from
the top line and the amount of the increases is -- it isn't as great as what we've seen over the lasteight years. So I think we're starting to get the balance right, the balance better with the fitness
to be an opportunity on top of that.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Okay. And I guess just two other questions, one is when Jim Hackett said that we're going to start
seeing this pay off in 2019 some of these initiatives. Can you just give us a little bit more color on
what that means? And also just a point of clarification on Asia, Jim Farley mentioned that you've
got a lot of product coming on the back half, so -- of '18. So should we be thinking that the results
are pretty much what we see right now through the first half and you start to get some traction
financially in the back half or is that more of a 2019 benefit?
A - `Bob Shanks, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Let me answer that one first. We would expect and I'm going to stay away from providing as
much as I can business unit guidance tonight and certainly calendarization, but building on the
comments that he made, we do expect the second half of this year to be a better half in the first
half for Asia-Pacific driven by those launches. So they're not launches that are all like at the very
end of the year, we actually will see effect in the second half of the year as well.
And then, what was the other part of the question? I forgot.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Just Jim Hackett was mentioning that we're going to start to see some benefits from your
initiatives starting in 2019.
A - `James Hackett, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Hey, Rod, so it's Jim again. As Bob is spooling up to talk about what is recorded, I just -- I want to
reaffirm something. So we've identified these six work streams are up and running and the
benefits, we're talking about '18 and '19, some of them, the bulk of what I'm feeling from what
I've seen comes a little later because some of these are substantial redesigned. And I think that
what we really need what you're asking for is the dimension of what the value of that is. And so
that's just -- we're not ready to release that tonight. And when we -- and we're not, it's not
because we don't know it or we're not working on it, it's as I said, I want to have a plan to include
the people in the company. So I'm sitting here thinking identifying the six work streams for you
might build more cred that you're on the right things, but I think you got to trust we got that part
right . I think you really want to understand what the yield is going to be and that's a really fair
question, and when we plan on answering.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Okay, thank you.
Operator
And our next question comes from the line of `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs.
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Wonderful. Thank you. Jim, I just want to follow up on a couple of your earlier comments about
your mobility partnerships. And you mentioned what you saw from the customers from the
partnership with Domino's, but I'm more interested in what your partners have seen from thatbusiness. Has there been an increase and there are products being ordered as a result? Is there
any potential to see these developments convert into commercial opportunities and to deploy
and for not just to be a tester demonstration? And ultimately my question is, what's the feedback
from your partners on the impacts to their business, both from a cost and an incremental revenue
generation standpoint?
A - `James Hackett, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I think, I gonna ask Jim Farley to add to this, but if you -- Patrick Doyle at Domino's just
announced that he'll be stepping down in June, and so there's some interviews online about their
experience with Ford, he highlights it as one of the really big things he is excited about. So I'm
going to let you read between his lines of how he's talking about their business, but they've re-
upped as we expand soon in some other markets our testing Domino's has asked continue. So
Jim?
A - `James Farley, President of Ford of Europe `
What we've -- what they've learned are a couple of things. First of all, for those who spend a lot
of -- a lot of the cost is local delivery, this is a really important leverage to lower the cost because
the driver cost is meaningful. But equally interesting like companies like Postmates and others
that we haven't announced yet, they're excited about the revenue expansion. So let's take, like a
local home improvement company, you can imagine that it's a big revenue opportunity for them
to have a fleet of automated vehicles to deliver work materials to the work site. That's one thing.
The second area that maybe is a surprise to us is the data they're getting back. So especially for
the companies that are looking to grow the revenue, they're very interested in the data that
comes back from the delivery, where it is exactly what was -- digitizing all that, so they can really
forecast that revenue growth. Good example would be a local home improvement. They know if
it's wood that some one is framing out of a house, maybe next will be insulation. So they kind of
know what the business opportunity is based on the data, where it's going and what it is.
Hope that makes sense.
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
I think you might have lost me a little bit within there. Maybe just as a follow-up to help clarify. I
think what I heard was you are seeing some increased orders and increased demonstrations
from your commercial partners here. At what point do you think that could be -- or become into
something more meaningful revenue generation from those partnerships?
A - `James Hackett, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I think though -- I think we're answering the question did Domino's sell more pizzas. And
that's where I want to draw your attention to them. Now are you asking, are we realizing more
vehicle business, is that what you're asking?
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Yeah, I'm trying to understand if this -- if that partnership specifically is going to move towards
more units being delivered or a significant commercial deployment for that customer of yours?
And --
A - `James Hackett, President and Chief Executive Officer `Yeah. So I (multiple speakers) yeah. I -- right now, we're still testing with them. So I'm going to just
again pointing back to their comments. They're very positive.
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Understood. And Just my second question for you tonight is the launch issues with the Expedition
and the Navigator, have those been controlled or is there still going to be some issues hitting the
1Q '18 P&L?
A - `James Hackett, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So `Joe Hinrichs, EVP and President of Global Operations is here and I'm going to ask Joe to speak to the launches.
A - `Joe Hinrichs, EVP and President of Global Operations `
Yeah. The Expedition/Navigator launch is going extremely well. We, in the fourth quarter, we got
off to a little slower start than we anticipated due to some availability of some parts from one of
our suppliers. But the products have been incredibly received and the feedback on the quality has
been great, and we're building to plan right now and we plan to do that all year.
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Okay. So the issues have been fixed is what I heard?
A - `Joe Hinrichs, EVP and President of Global Operations `
Correct.
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you.
Operator
And our next question is from the line of `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays from Barclays.
Q - `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays `
Yeah. A couple questions. First, when you came in, Jim, you, I understand, inherited the
performance compensation -- executive performance compensation plan that was in the March
proxy. Consistent with what you've been saying about 2018, it sounds like a transition year, kind of
stronger performance through 2022. How are you thinking about the mix short-term and long-
term and how you're going to be thinking about compensation, recognizing of course it's a Board
decision going forward?
A - `James Hackett, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I think what you're asking is, have we changed, have we announced any compensation changes,
is that what you're asking me?
Q - `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays `
Well, or will -- are you considering shifting, for example, the focus between short-term and long-
term, it was 60-40 in last year's plan as part of the go forward plan?A - `James Hackett, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I would tell you that I've had discussions with the Compensation Committee about the short term
and long term plans here at Ford and got their support that the vision that we're painting for
fitness, quality improvements, the smart vehicle smart world can be really supported by the
leverage that we have with our share program in the long-term program. We have a performance
share program that's tied to shareholder return and a time invested stock that's a smaller portion
of that, that's what you're reading in the proxy, I guess.
Q - `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays `
Well, (multiple speakers)
A - `James Hackett, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. So we -- and look forward to news on this year as we publish that.
Q - `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays `
Okay. Because it sound like you want to tilt it more towards longer-term performance, is that fair?
A - `James Hackett, President and Chief Executive Officer `
It's already ahead of the market in that regard. So -- I mean, this is the kind of stuff that's -- I think,
I just want to confirm with you that everybody I think is in the right place with alignment of the
compensation and the plans we have.
Q - `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays `
Okay. Second question. You talked in the 2018 guide about mix improvements, yet we certainly
had at the auto show two competitors unveiling new pickup truck products, your biggest in high --
segment that enjoyed strong ATP increases. So are you thinking mix and price could improve in
pick-ups despite that fresh competition or are you really talking about the other 20 some product
launches around the world?
A - `James Hackett, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Jim Farley is going to take that one.
A - `James Farley, President of Ford of Europe `
So great question. We are very fortunate because we're going in the year with essentially new F-
Series as well as a very fresh Super Duty. And we saw even in December our price -- transaction
prices stiffened in December. As Joe mentioned, we have the Navigator/Expedition, so part of
the opportunity for us is definitely going to be those other launches. The first six months of the
year when everyone is selling down their old model, we expect a very competitive environment.
But over the second half of the year with the new products, obviously, there's going to be more
pricing in the market for the goodness of those.
So I think we're going to see a, on the pickup truck market, a very competitive environment,
especially for the next six months. But we've been in that for a couple months now and we have
been growing our transaction price in that more competitive market, for example, the '17 sell
down. As we go into the first six months, we'd expect that competitiveness to be there and our
performance to be there, but we have the addition now, as Joe said, of good availability forNavigator and Expedition, and of course we have other vehicles coming as you alluded to in North
America, for example, a new Mustang as we go into the spring market. So I think we're really well
positioned. It's going to be a combination of both.
Q - `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays `
Okay, thanks.
Operator
And our next question is from the line of `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Good evening, guys. I just have a first question for you, Jim. I mean, as you're going through the
review of the company and looking at fitness as well as where you want to shift the product
portfolio as well as your smart vehicle efforts and really sort of your total review here. I'm just
curious, if you're coming across anything or think there's any way that maybe if you accelerated
sort of spending and committed larger chunk of capital that you may even be able to sort of
accelerate the fitness of the company or potentially develop AVs faster? And I guess that would
be sort of -- maybe sort of internal spending that might make a lot more sense or maybe even
some acquisitions outside for technology.
A - `James Hackett, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, John. So I heard really three different kind of streams in that. Let's take the first one.
Spending on AV, right now, we're making a big commitment to that with the Argo AI investments
and things that we're doing, and I do believe there is art and science at work here, so I'm not
sure more money is the answer there. We're looking at really a solid underpinning to the way
we're writing the software for these vehicles, so that as you have over the air updates and you
have changes, we're not going to have a lot of problems in the future with updating kind of that
capability. That's an example of taking a long view in terms of getting that right. The other areas
that you mentioned, fitness and that is a great -- that's a really great question is, absolutely, if I
saw payback for fitness returns, Bob and I are really interested in short-term pay less than two-
year kinds of things, we would be all over that. And so nothing like that is being held up in any
kind of bureaucracy.
And what was the third area you mentioned?
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
No, I mean -- just in your smart vehicle. So I mean, it kind of falls into AI, but just in your smart
vehicle efforts for a smart world, I mean, just in this grander plan?
A - `James Hackett, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, and I think it was you asked about acquisitions.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Oh, yeah. Would any of the acquisitions pile into any of this as well?
A - `James Hackett, President and Chief Executive Officer `Yeah, very, very open to that. Look for news as you will in that area. We're very interested in that.
So all three of those things, I want you to feel like -- we're not capital constrained in the sense of
moving faster. It's having the designs right, having the right ideas, getting things situated to go.
And I approve of progress that we've made, which is hard to see from your perspective. As I
walked into the job, there was a lot of kind of backup of decisions that have been stuck for a
while. And we've led some of that tension out and gotten things moving. So we're building an all
new dedicated AV vehicle and that platform is -- we now have that decided when working on
that. So I'm confident that if you're wondering, if there's any hesitancy in spending more time,
that's not the issue.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. That's incredibly helpful. And then just Bob, as we look forward to 2018, I was just curious, if
you could sort of outline your view on used vehicle pricing for -- particularly for the US market?
What that means for Ford Motor Credit because that was a big benefit -- unexpected benefit
maybe at least from my perspective in the second half of 2018? And just how -- I mean, in 2017,
sort of how you're thinking about that for 2018 and what that means for Ford Motor Credit, but
also sort of your view on new vehicle pricing?
A - `Bob Shanks, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I mean as you saw the Ford Credit's page in the deck, I mean, they benefited across broad
parts of the business, but certainly that was a factor. And for the full year, they came in about I
think on average the portfolio, we saw a decline of about 3%, which if you remember
conversations that we had at the beginning of last year, I think it was about half or so of what we
thought was going to happen. When we look at '18 in terms of the assumptions we've built in,
we've assumed something around 4% on average.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. And then if I could just sneak in one housekeeping on the raws. Bob, is there anyway that
you could share more of this raw material risk and pressure maybe with other partners in the
value chain, and particularly maybe some of the suppliers or is there no way to really kind of shift
around sort of this exposure and things aren't going to change there?
A - `Bob Shanks, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Well, I think the area that you would look at as the indexing I suppose because in terms of the
indexing, one of the things that we I think learned a long time ago is that there was a point where
we would negotiate and try to -- with whole giving them good news when the commodity prices
were low and then fight with them when the reverse was true, and I think we found that we were
spending a lot of time and not getting a lot of long-term benefit by focusing on that, I suppose to
working with the suppliers on their best innovations, their best designs, material cost reductions
and are we getting the best cost as job one. So we have deployed the indexing across the board
on certain commodities as I said, one quarter, one month, in some cases, I think if you were 12
months and we just feel that that's -- you're not going to avoid the long-term trends and enables
our team to focus on what we think is better long-term play for us in terms of getting true low
cost, excluding the commodities.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay, great, thank you very much.Operator
And our next question is from the line of `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets from RBC Capital Markets.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Thanks. Bob, if I heard correctly, the EV spends now is included in automotive. So if I look at slide
35 where you provided the bridge, I'm assuming that's in the cost ex-commodities bucket. But
you also have obviously a bunch of structural contribution costs with the Navigator/Expedition
ramp, the EcoSport launch and just broadly more content increasing from connectivity and active
safety. So can you provide any sort of breakdown between electrification and sort of the more
traditional structural contribution costs and that headwind for '18?
A - `Bob Shanks, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Well, I'm not going to break out EV, if I understand the question, but let me answer the question
this way. So when I look at that bar of margin change around cost excluding commodities, about
half of that is depreciation and amortization. So if you think about that, that's investments across
the whole business, not just EVs, which to some extent is already behind us because we've spent
the money and this is just the D&A of that, some of which though will be spent during the year
and then the amortization begins.
So about half of that and then the other two pieces that make up the rest of it is essentially a
relatively modest increase in engineering and that is largely on EVs as part of that, but it's also
pretty much on trucks and SUV, there is a reduction on cars and then the balance, which is a
smaller piece, is around launches. The increased number of product launches that we saw some
of that will show up in parallel launch costs through the year. But the biggest piece, like three
quarters of it is around D&A and engineering with the D&A being the bigger portion.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Okay. And then just housekeeping on the FX side. I mean, in the past I think one of the biggest
crosses you talked about was pound-euro, which I think is actually moving in your favor here, but I
just want to understand, what would be sort of FX component of that 1.6 billion you talked about?
A - `Bob Shanks, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, the FX component is -- a little less than half of that will still be Europe, but that will be well
down from what it was this year. And some of that is the continued impact of our revenue
exposure on a net basis to the sterling and the cost exposure to the euro. So it's actually more of
the cross rates between those two currencies than it is vis-a-vis the US dollar. But it will be coming
down, which is what we had expected. And then the rest of it is largely in South America and
somewhat in Asia-Pacific, not much effect in North America at all.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Okay, thank you.
Operator
And our next question is from the line of `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citi from Citi.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citi `Great, thanks. Good evening. So just a first question on mobility and autonomous. I think, as you
plan to roll out the self-driving vehicles on your partner networks and your customers in 2019 and
2020, two questions there. Can you share when you think you'll actually be able to run a true
driverless to actually removing the driver and getting the vehicles to that state as well as what the
fleet size will look like forward in 2019 and 2020?
A - `James Farley, President of Ford of Europe `
It's Jim Farley. So as we announced, we're going to our first city this quarter. So the fleet we have
in the market is going to be business model like people driving the vehicle. Argo is now just
implementing the first cycle of new prototypes and we won't go in the specifics, but 2018 is a
year where you're going to see a lot of progress on our VDS and the vehicle being autonomous.
But that's going to be development work for the next several years, until we launch in '21. And
we're going to be using existing products because we're developing an all new product, which
obviously won't be ready until the prototypes -- Joe's team is building the prototypes, so -- for
the next couple of years.
The fleets over the next couple of years will expand, but they're going to be different types of
hybrid Fords and that will play out over the next 24 months. Our goal is to get people in the
vehicles this year to see how our VDS works by itself. So, you have a feel for how far -- how fast
we're going with the VDS itself done by Argo this year. So I think 2018, you'll have a good chance
to assess that in person and we have a very concrete plan to rollout the prototype fleet of those
autonomous vehicles over the next two years in multiple cities.
So please know that fleet we will grow in size. We're not going to be specific what it is, but it's --
it's a very meaningful investment money-wise to build out all those prototypes. And of course, we
have different cycles of prototypes, they have updated not only algorithms and computing
software, but also perception equipment.
A - `James Hackett, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So one thing I'd bring to mind, at Vegas two weeks ago at CES, you could search some blogs,
there were people that were in vehicles in that test market. There's I think six or seven and this
lady wrote a really telling article about how she got carsick in everyone of them, but not anyone
of them completed a trip as advertised. And the reason I'm doing this, I don't want to talk down
the capability because it's very promising, but I feel in the questions that you're -- you want to
see if we're behind or ahead. And the way you're going to be able to judge that is the
performance of the product.
So in this case, we are going to test, we are expanding, I mentioned the Domino's test. We are --
Argo is actually building vehicles as well as Ford. And in doing that, you will have more to write
about and understand what Ford performance. But I also am holding the company accountable
for Ford performance here on a quality basis and people trusting us in this product. And that is
the new world of the AV is that one test is getting there and then the other test is it really of high
quality. And I'm asking to think about both of those goals.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citi `
That's very, very helpful. Thanks so much. A quick, quick follow-up, just switching back to the
financials on slide 35 and I think you alluded to it to a prior question. I want to make sure I have it
correctly in my notes, but for full-size pickup performance and how that relates to the positive
market factor, can you share a bit of just kind of what you're looking at for Ford's full-size pickup inNorth America the F-150 platform in terms of just revenue and variable profits 2018 versus 2017
and how that relates to the overall positive market factors?
A - `Bob Shanks, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
No, Itay, we're not going to provide that information.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citi `
Okay, great, thanks so much .
Operator
And our next question is from the line of `David Whiston, Analyst, Morningstar from Morningstar.
Q - `David Whiston, Analyst, Morningstar `
Thanks. I heard a lot of talk from the team lately on fitness and some examples, such as too
vehicle combinations and a two part question is, I guess, where is this weakness? Is it -- regionally
speaking, where is it? Is it pretty up much all over the globe or is it really skewed to one or two
regions? And also, why wasn't this rectified more during Alan and Mark's time?
A - `James Hackett, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I just take the second thing. I -- you got to look at I'm here because it wasn't. And that's as
much as I want to comment on two really fine people I have a lot of respect for, but they -- I'd
rather make the issue of the company's fitness than those two folks. And this problem that you're
talking about, I mean I just picked one for Adam, so he could be satisfied that we weren't just
doing head fakes here that we really are working on the right things, that problem is all over the
world. And underpinning was a nice try to try and get the more efficient model by building
platforms around the world. We've learned a lot in doing that, and we're going to be a lot better
as we adjust in that single category of complexity. We're not the only OEM dealing with that
problem, as I read. Now the question is, can we be more clever in the way we address it and I
think we can.
A - `Bob Shanks, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Can I just add something?
A - `James Hackett, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah.
A - `Bob Shanks, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
So David, the only thing I would add is when I look at the business, North America has been
operating at a very high level of margin for a long time, it's starting to come off of a level it had
been at. So I think you're starting to see the impact of the fitness because as it is affected by
increasing regulatory costs, the commodity costs and so forth, I mean, we're not able to get the
same level of margins that others may be able to do. So I think that shows the gap, if you will, that
we have to address in North America. Obviously in the markets outside of North America, if you
go back and look at history, I mean, we've done reasonably poor, I would say, across the
collection of those markets ever since the downturn.So to me, the issue there clearly is a fitness issue, but it's probably as much as if not more than
strategic issue in terms of how we've approached the markets, the business models we've
brought to bear, our expertise and competence in some of those markets, the products
themselves ONE Ford versus something that's more regional, all sorts of things in that space and
that's something that we are actively addressing through the strategic work streams that we have
underway.
Q - `David Whiston, Analyst, Morningstar `
Okay.
A - `James Hackett, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And also David, it's Jim again, because these are moments for me to give you insight as well that
this team, there's -- I went from -- Mark had 19 direct reports, I have eight and you have three of
the key leaders sitting here at the table with me that own all parts of this business. `Joe Hinrichs, EVP and President of Global Operations
and Jim Farley, there's really just two people that have to deal now with that product complexity
around the world, that wasn't the case in the previous organization. So that's an insight for you
about why should you have more confidence in our ability to address something like that as I am
inferring.
Q - `David Whiston, Analyst, Morningstar `
Okay, thanks for all the detail.
Operator
And our last question comes from the line of James Albertine from Consumer Edge Research.
Q - `Derek Glynn, Analyst, Consumer Edge Research `
Yeah, this is `Derek Glynn, Analyst, Consumer Edge Research on for Jamie. Thanks for taking my question. So we discussed
partnerships you have in place Domino's and Postmates. Can you just provide an update from a
regulatory standpoint as you pursue all these new initiatives and collaborations, what's the
dialogue been like with regulators? Do you see any near or medium term hurdles in this regard?
A - `James Hackett, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I think we're -- let me just clarify Jamie, you're talking about regulators oversight of AVs.
Q - `Derek Glynn, Analyst, Consumer Edge Research `
Yeah, exactly.
A - `Joe Hinrichs, EVP and President of Global Operations `
Yeah, hi, it's `Joe Hinrichs, EVP and President of Global Operations again. I mean, you're hearing this play out in lot of the government
debates and discussions that are taking place. With our government affairs team, we are
optimistic that we're going to get the support necessary to move this technology forward on the
AV front. I mean, when you think about it, everyone you talk to realizes the long-term benefits
that Jim Hackett has been describing as a potential for our company and for others in the mobility
space. So we don't see any obstacles at this point. Jim Farley talked earlier about, we're going to
make a lot of progress this year in the testing in the market, so it's not -- we're not being held
back from that. Obviously, we're expecting over time to be able to advance a number of vehiclesand locations, but that's not holding us back right now and we're optimistic that the governments
understand the opportunity here and are moving it forward.
Q - `Derek Glynn, Analyst, Consumer Edge Research `
Okay, thanks.
Operator
And at this time, I'm showing we have no further questions. I now turn it back to Mr. Jim Hackett.
A - `James Hackett, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. So let's close out the call today with some emphasis on key points that come through.
2017, I came here at June 1st, and in that six months, we worked extremely hard on resetting
revenue and cost expectations for that year and a lot of the underlying work that resulted in the
performance we had should not be unappreciated. The team did a really good job, really proud.
Meanwhile, we reorganized the business, we -- I told you about streamlining the leadership team.
We have written a new winning aspiration, we took important decisions, it was asked on this call
to accelerate in key areas. So for example, in the connected vehicles, that's a big investment. The
AV strategy, I want to emphasize, that's on track and the investment is flowing there and of
course you heard about the new EV plan, which Ford did not have a complete story about
electrical vehicles and we've gone from being incidental about that too, it's a key part of our
future. You've heard us talk about this fitness thing ad nauseam, but it's really starting to take
hold in the company. The -- I had mentioned this already, so I'll just emphasize the six work
streams that are up and running, they're staffed, the dimensioning is starting to come on, the
dimensions are -- and values of that need to be shared with you and we plan to do that this year.
Our approach to capital allocation is also evolving as well. We're working at markets -- looking at
markets, excuse me, and the where to play questions. We've already shared how we're shifting
the vehicle portfolio around the world. I can attest to you that we've sped up decision making
that's going to continue in 2018. There's no wasting there in terms of waiting for things to get
done and you're going to see us make important capital allocation decisions. We have -- Bob
Shanks has put together a board plan for the year for us to review strategy with the board each
quarter that's all something that wasn't there before, it's all been mapped out.
We're also moving quickly to advance the Smart Mobility business and look forward to some
announcements from Marcy's organization soon in that space, exciting things that will be
developed. So you can see that as I stare back from June 1st to now, I have this feeling that I'm
really happy with the things that we've laid, the pipe we've kind of laid. Not happy at all that we're
not proving to you what that's going to yield and really confident that you will be happy with this,
as we bring that forward. So I want you to understand that I get how important that dimensioning
is. I get how important this year is to prove this management team's ability at a convert and I look
forward to proving to you that our vision is really going to make Ford an exciting brand in the
future.
Thanks for your time today.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude the Ford Motor Company fourth quarter and fiscal year
2017 earnings conference call. We thank you greatly for your participation. You may now