Q4 2018 Earnings Call

Operator
Good day. My name is Deirdra and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would
like to welcome you to the Ford Motor Company Fourth Quarter 2018 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers'
remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. After the question-and-answer session,
there will be closing remarks.
At this time, I would now like to turn the call over to `Lynn Antipas Tyson, Executive Director, Investor Relations, Executive Director of
Investor Relations.
`Lynn Antipas Tyson, Executive Director, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Deirdra. Welcome, everyone, to Ford Motor Company's Fourth Quarter 2018 Earnings
Call. Presenting today are Jim Hackett, our President and CEO; Bob Shanks, our Chief Financial
Officer; and Jim Farley, President of Global Markets. Also joining us today are `Marcy Klevorn, Executive Vice President & President-Mobility,
President Mobility; Joe Hinrichs, President Global Operations; and Brian Schaaf, CFO of Ford
Credit.
Jim Hackett will begin with a brief review of our progress relative to the value creation framework.
Bob will then review our quarter results in more detail, and then Jim Farley will talk about the
actions we're taking to improve our performance in China and Europe.
After Jim's comments we'll open the call up for questions. Following Q&A, Jim Hackett will have a
few closing remarks. Our results discussed today include some non-GAAP references. These are
reconciled to the most comparable U.S. GAAP measure in the appendix of our earnings deck
which can be found, along with the rest of our earnings materials, at shareholder.ford.com.
Today's discussions include forward-looking statements about our expectations for future
performance. Actual results may differ from those stated, and the most significant factors that
could cause actual results to differ are included on slide 47. In addition, unless otherwise noted, all
comparisons are year-over-year, company EBIT, EPS and operating cash flow are on an adjusted
basis, and product mix is on a volume-weighted basis.Now, let me turn the call over to Jim Hackett.
`James P. Hackett, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you, Lynn, and thanks to all of you for joining us today. If you would turn to slide 2, as we
recap 2018 and look ahead to 2019, I would like to make a couple of points to start our discussion
this evening. For Ford, 2018 will be known as the year between the business that wasn't designed
right and the business that we know will win.
Certainly, it was a challenging year, in that we were hit by some headwinds outside of our control
and frankly, poor performance in some parts of the business which we have now taken action to
address. Importantly through 2018, was a year of progress where we laid the foundation for a
much stronger, more resilient and more dynamic business, a business that we want to tell you can
thrive now and in the future. So, I am really optimistic as we enter 2019. We have a clear vision, we
have a solid plan, and we are in execution mode.
We're fortifying and building on our strengths to start and taking decisive action to address
underperforming parts of the business. Some that you know about, for example, were our
decision last April to phase out sedans in the U.S. and our restructuring in Europe that we
announced recently. And Jim Farley will touch on this later, along with the action we are taking in
China to restore profitable growth.
We are reorganizing and resizing our global salaried workforce, and we're retooling product
development to bring more unique, customer-focused product to market more efficiently. We're
leveraging relationship where it makes sense to be more cost and capital efficiency, hence, as
our alliances with VW and Mahindra. Our work on AVs and Mobility is advancing quickly. We're
connecting every new Ford vehicle in the U.S. to the cloud. And soon, these vehicles will talk to
the world around them through the technology known as C-V2X. Through this, we will help usher
in a new transportation system that reduces traffic congestion, accidents, and improves CO2.
Now let's turn to slide 3. I will cover our full financial metrics here. For the year, revenue grew 2%.
We generated $7 billion in EBIT with a margin of 4.4%, and we delivered $1.30 in EPS. Now led by
North America, Auto EBIT benefited from the largest improvement in market factors in seven
years. This benefit was more than offset by commodity and currency headwinds and higher net
product costs as we entered a major product refresh cycle. We also incurred higher warranty
costs and the Ford-specific challenges in China and Europe, again confirming that we are
addressing all of those. Importantly, in the face of all that, we generated $2.8 billion in company
cash flow and we ended the year with $23.1 billion in cash and $34.2 billion in liquidity, both well
above our targets.
I'd ask you to turn to slide 4. This is the strategic highlight slide. Now on every market, this team is
focused on introducing a fresher, more targeted and appealing lineup that can compete and win
in the marketplace. For example, in the U.S., over the next 24 months, we are refreshing 75% of
the lineup. In that we're bolstering our strong pickup in commercial vehicle business, note a
(05:52) $72 billion global franchise with 14% EBIT margin. In 2018, our F-Series outsold the nearest
competitor by the widest margin ever. And our transaction prices were about $2,000 above
segment average.
In the U.S., we recently started selling the new Ranger and early customer interest has been very
strong. In Europe, we are expanding our profitable Transit Commercial Vehicle franchise that
includes new services and revenue streams in that strategy. Now, given our brand strength and
capability, we have the opportunity to create a similar stronghold in SUVs globally and we arebut one in a series of world-class SUV that we're bringing to market. The Lincoln Aviator is
another example. And I have to say we've been really pleased to see the experts note how
superior the Aviator is to other brands that it competes against. We also launched the all-new
Focus and Escort in China, and this is the first of many new products for China. Jim will hit on this
area as well.
In terms of advancing our propulsion strategy, we introduced the new Explorer Hybrid, the first of
our next-generation of advanced hybrids that provide no compromised blend of capability and
efficiency. We will reveal a new fully electric utility later this year with, if I say so myself, stunning
design, performance and technology. And we've confirmed that we have started early work on a
zero-emissions version of the F-150.
In November, shifting to the press review of self-driving technology, we demonstrated how that
technology will propel self-driving fleets in partnerships with cities and businesses to deliver
people and goods in new ways with new business models. I was very happy with the reviews that
that generated.
As we build out our Mobility business, note that we acquired the e-scooter company, SPIN. And
this is to deliver first-mile and last-mile mobility solutions.
Lastly, the bottom-line impacts of our fitness initiatives on operating leverage will continue in
2019. I get asked about this all the time. Let me tell you that from 2013 through 2017, our
Automotive structural cost increased by $1.7 billion per year on average. We've arrested this trend
in 2018. We kept cost flat year over year, and we expect our structural cost to be flat again in
2019.
Before I turn it over to Bob, let me say in the coming months that of course you can expect us to
share more specific initiatives related to the redesign of our global business. There's nothing
more important than having you understand what's happening there. I want to confirm that plans
are in place and that we're taking action. These announcements, though, have to come in a
coordinated way as we work respectfully and constructively with our stakeholders.
Now, let me turn it over to Bob Shanks, our Chief Financial Officer. Bob?
`Robert L. Shanks, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Thanks, Jim, and good evening, everyone. Before going through the details, I'd like to provide
some context on the quarter and the year, and to keep it simple, I'll just focus on the full year,
although my comments generally apply to both periods.
First off, let me reiterate what Jim said about our market factors. It's been a year of no global
growth in industry volume and of relatively light new product action at Ford, we delivered very
strong market factors, specifically strong mix and higher net pricing. We delivered 45% of this in
the fourth quarter alone. It's probably fair to say that most folks didn't expect this from Ford,
given our product refresh plan for the year. And you should note that in 2019, we have planned a
more active year of significant product actions in growing segments.
Secondly, in 2018, we incurred headwinds of about $3.3 billion in four areas. These impacts are
not indicative, for the most part, of the ongoing run rate of the business. The first, roughly $750
million in tariff-related effects. The second, $1.1 billion of increased commodity cost unrelated to
tariff effects. The third, about $750 million of unfavorable exchange net of pricing were taken to
partially recover some of this impact. And fourth, about $775 million related to the Takata recalls
announced last year in North America.Now, this $3 billion impact, we incurred a bit more than $1.9 billion in North America. North
America's EBIT, however, declined year over year by only $450 million. This suggests to us that
Kumar Galhotra and his team delivered strong improvements elsewhere in the business as they
continue their aggressive work to return the region to a 10% margin.
South America absorbed about $400 million of these headwinds, yet it delivered a $75 million
EBIT improvement from 2017. Again, this demonstrates to us that the efforts of Lyle Watters and
his team to successfully pushback against these adverse trends, not to mention other inflationary
effects not counted in the $400 million (11:37), as they approach the fundamental redesign of the
business in the region.
The two regions that essentially drove the year-over-year decline in Automotive and company
EBIT, both for the full year and in the fourth quarter, were Asia Pacific, specifically China, and
Europe. Asia Pacific took on about $400 million of the company headwinds, yet delivered a much
deeper decline in results from 2017, $1.8 billion in fact. And Europe, Europe absorbed about $600
million of the headwinds yet saw a year-over-year decline of $765 million, and that was with the
strongest product refresh among all our regions in 2018. These results underscore the urgency
we have in addressing Ford's specific performance issues and executing fundamental redesigns
of our business models in these regions to generate appropriate returns on future capital that we
may allocate to them.
Finally, I'd be remiss if I didn't highlight, both for the full year and the quarter, the continued
strong and stable results from Ford Credit.
So with that, let's turn to slide 6, the summary of our company key metrics. There's three things I
want to highlight here. First, in the quarter, all key metrics were lower from a year ago with the
exception of revenue, which benefited from strong mix in North America and higher net pricing
across all regions, except China. Performance in China and Europe drove the year-over-year
decline in most of the other metrics.
Second, company-adjusted EPS in the quarter was $0.30 per share, and this includes an adjusted
effective tax rate of negative 4% driven by the favorable impact of U.S. tax planning and tax
reform. Finally, company GAAP net income was a negative $116 million. This includes adverse
special items of $1.2 billion. Two major items drove this. First, we incurred a negative non-cash
pre-tax mark-to-market adjustment for our pension and OPEB plans that totaled $877 million. This
was due to adverse financial market conditions that occurred late in the year. The second was
personnel separation charges of $262 million.
Now, turning to slide 8, favorable results in Automotive and Ford Credit more than accounted for
the company-adjusted EBIT of $1.5 billion. This result was nearly $600 million lower than the year-
ago period, explained mainly by a lower Automotive EBIT. In Mobility, we incurred a loss, as
planned, driven by investments to develop our mobility services and autonomous technology
businesses.
Next, looking at taxes, while total company taxes were low in the quarter, this compares to a
positive absolute total tax effect a year ago, resulting in a large unfavorable increase in the
impact of taxes. This largely reflects the non-repeat of favorable U.S. tax reform and tax planning
effects a year ago.
Slide 9 shows that North America generated $2 billion of the $1.1 billion Automotive EBIT.
Operations outside North America were individually and collectively at a loss, which increased
from a year ago. China and Europe drove the increase in the combined loss outside of NorthSlide 10 highlights Ford Credit. In the quarter, Ford Credit delivered earnings before taxes of
$663 million, up 9%. The full year EBT of $2.6 billion was the best in eight years. Ford Credit
continues to operate very well and support Automotive effectively. U.S. consumer metrics remain
healthy.
As shown on slide 11, we ended the year achieving positive company-adjusted operating cash
flow in the quarter and the full year. We also ended the year with a cash balance of about $23
billion, with liquidity at more than $34 billion, both above our targets. Cash net of debt was $8.9
billion. Our global funded pension plans at year-end continued to be fully funded taken together
and de-risked.
Turning to the full year for a moment, slide 12 shows that Automotive and Ford Credit results
more than accounted for company-adjusted EBIT of $7 billion. Mobility and Corporate Other, as
expected, were losses. Compared to a year ago, the lower Automotive EBIT fully explains the
decline in company EBIT.
Bridging to our GAAP net income results, special items for the full year were driven by the fourth
quarter pension and OPEB remeasurement adjustment and personnel separations across North
and South America and Europe.
Slide 13 focuses on the regional results of our full year Automotive EBIT. Like the fourth quarter,
North America more than explained the profitability while we incurred losses outside of North
America. Compared to the prior year, and like the fourth quarter, the decline in Automotive EBIT
was essentially due to China and Europe. Unlike in the fourth quarter, North America was down in
the full year as well, due to the headwinds that I mentioned earlier.
Turning to our outlook for 2019, as shown on slide 14, we see the potential for year-over-year
improvement in key company metrics including revenue, EBIT margin, ROIC, cash conversion and
adjusted debt to EBITDA. This is based on what we control and the specific assumptions we've
made for key external factors as we shared last week in Detroit at the Deutsche Bank
conference.
From a business unit perspective, we expect North America, China and Europe, where results
were lower in 2018, to lead the potential EBIT improvement. Drivers of this would be the
favorable effects of new products, fitness initiatives as they gain greater traction, and a
turnaround, at least in part, of the major factors that led to our lower China performance in 2018.
Offsetting these positive effects in part will be higher investments in Mobility, both for our
autonomous vehicle business and mobility services development, as well as lower, though still
strong, earnings before taxes at Ford Credit. This reflects lower volume and margin, and higher
operating costs.
Now, before going to Q&A, Jim Farley is going to provide his insights on the actions that we're
taking in China and Europe to improve our near-term performance in both regions. Jim?
`James D. Farley, Jr., Executive Vice President & President-Global Markets, Jr. `
Thank you, Bob, and good evening. Let's turn to slide 15. Before I dive into the actions we're
taking in China and Europe, I would be remiss if I didn't put a finer point on the opportunity in
North America this year and our 10% EBIT margin target.
Last year, North America delivered $2 billion in favorable market factors, as was mentioned,
supported by positive mix and pricing from a largely carryover product lineup like F-Series and
modest new product launches like the new Expedition, Edge and Navigator. This year, we'rebeginning our complete refresh of our North America lineup. As Jim mentioned, we're adding
Ranger, which is off to a great start, to our truck lineup. We have the new reengineered rear
wheel drive Explorer, America's all-time best-selling SUV. We have brand new hybrid and
performance models of Explorer. We have a wonderful new three-row Aviator, which is a new
nameplate for Lincoln. And later in the year, we have the all new Escape and Escape Hybrid, which
will be a new product in the largest U.S. segment in our industry. We even have, at the end of the
year, another all new Lincoln utility.
So let's turn to China. Obviously, China is the largest automotive market in the world. And we
think it could be twice the size of the U.S. by 2025. So getting our business back on track is
essential, given our plan to grow both brands in China.
Last year, as we discussed with you, we identified a number of operating shortfalls including
inadequate dealer profitability. We had excess stock, especially of our high volume C-cars. These
deficits were exacerbated by the fact that we had not maintained a fresh lineup. In fact, all of our
volume cars were in sell down last year. Also, our structural costs were not aligned with our
volume, and we lacked a strong bench of local leadership. Well, we've been working tirelessly
and urgently to address each of these issues with a focus to restoring profitable growth
immediately. At the core is having an engaged and profitable dealer network. For example, by
the end of last year, just about a third of our dealers are now profitable. And we expect this
positive trend to steadily increase this year with our new lineup.
Relative to inventories, in the fourth quarter, we've reduced our aged inventories by roughly 60%
quarter-over-quarter. And as we prepare to clear the decks for all new product lineup, this is
critical. This includes as well the launch of the all new Escape and Focus, both of which produced a
double-digit increase in transaction prices last quarter. Well, these are really encouraging results.
We're also on top of these products, adding more than 10 new Ford and Lincoln products to
China through our distribution network. We're also aggressively tackling costs in China. Simply by
sourcing from true local Chinese supply base, we will cut our material costs and we are targeting
significant reductions in structural cost for our consolidated operations.
Lastly, to ensure China receives the proper focus, we've broken it out as a separate business unit
reporting to me, and we have local China talent in key management positions such as Anning
Chen, our new CEO, as well as new marketing and sales leads for both Ford and Lincoln.
Let's turn to Europe. I've said in the past, to deliver on our long-term target of 6% EBIT, we are
now redesigning our European operations. The core of this is to leverage our profitable light
commercial van and pickup business and aggressively attack costs and drive improved capital
efficiencies. Earlier this month on January 10, we announced our plan to achieve this, including
much more targeted vehicle lineup with three customer-centered business units. And most
importantly, we're standing up a dedicated light commercial vehicle group with its own general
manager. We're also addressing our cost structure head-on. We've already begun the formal
consultation process with our key union partners in Europe.
Turning to the core of our portfolio in Europe, last year marked our fifth consecutive year of
growth in share in the light commercial vehicle business. And we plan to extend that lead as
Europe's number one light commercial vehicle brand this year, including key product
improvements on Ranger and Transit later this year.
With passenger cars, we will reduce our lineup while focusing in higher margin series mix such as
our new Fiesta and Focus ST and Active derivatives. Now, relative to profitability, we are
prioritizing our higher margin markets like Germany, and we will improve or exit unprofitableproducts and markets. In addition, we're also targeting a significant reduction in personnel and
structural costs. You are going to hear more about specifics this year after the consultation
process is completed. Assuming a steady macroeconomic for our business units around the
world, we believe all the actions I've just shared with you will drive favorable mix this year with a
fairly flat cost structure, as investments in our all-new utility products across the globe are offset
by our specific cost actions.
With that, I'd like to turn it over to the operator for Q&A.
Q&A
Operator
Your first question comes from the line of `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC with Goldman Sachs.
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Oh, great. Yeah, thanks for taking my questions here. Jim, the way you kind of communicated
how you think about 2018 as a year and 2017 as a year of kind of planning from a redesign
perspective, if we're to fast-forward to the end of 2019 and maybe into the middle of 2020, will
2019 be known as an action year for Ford?
A - `James P. Hackett, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Oh, unquestionably, David. And it's worth pointing this out that the time in – I'm going to say in
2017, when we had our first investor conference to the beginning of 2018, we worked on this
strategy. We addressed the product portfolio from stem to stern. You've just heard from Jim how
important that was. We were constipated in product development. And when we did that, we
updated the way we thought about car architectures and propulsion. So we addressed three big
issues all at the same time. Got our cycle plan in shape and taking cost out to boot.
The second thing we did is, we – I was really pleased with the AV work with Argo. They really
started at the same time in June 2017. So they've only been in real action in 20 months. So in that
time that we were planning, we put a lot of work towards thinking about the evolution of the AV. I
can just share that, independently, lots of people looking at this business and looking at all the
competitors have rated Argo very high. It's not surprising given the talent that we've got there.
Then we started to tackle Mobility. And you've heard me talk about, David, that the idea of
building a cloud structure and connectivity, we had none of the vehicles really connected back
when the call-to-action was being asked for. So we had to get that through product development
and now the plan to monetize that. All those things are in shape.
And then, as I tour with you, if you look at North America, it's exemplary for me the way the
management team gathering to work and make all this stuff happen with Kumar has really gone
very well. They ran into some headwinds that they, frankly, offset a lot of it and then some they
couldn't. And then we had a foot fault with warranty this year that Joe can explain in more detail,
if that helps everyone understand, that we've arrested, we think, a lot of the issues, and some of
them were caused from the past that you just have to deal with.
When I think about, then, in October of 2017, the call from very smart people following the
industry saying, hey, what are you going to do about these markets that are underperforming?
Every one of them are being addressed. I also just want to confirm, in China, that I'm not happy
with the way we performed there. But the lessons also showing the market moved on everybody,
and it's changed. So we just got to be world-class at dealing with that. And you heard from Jimtonight. And we can talk more about that, what's going on in China. So that's my quick tour for
you that, from that thinking phase to the doing phase, all those things I just said, just from top of
mind – I'm not reading from a list – we're all over that.
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Understood. But my question's a little bit more around the restructuring side. If we kind of think
about...
A - `James P. Hackett, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Okay. So...
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
...Ford's footprint today and Ford's footprint – or what it's going to start to look like by the end of
this year...
A - `James P. Hackett, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah.
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
...will there be – you're expecting material changes is what you're implying?
A - `James P. Hackett, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, so let's cover that. So on the white collar work, hard to explain but going very well, is an
attempt, I think it's a modern attempt, I said this at Deutsche Bank, to involve the leadership in
architecting a new version of Ford that doesn't have as many levels and layers, less bureaucratic,
more team-oriented. We believe we'll have that work behind us by April of this year. We started
that last October. So it would have taken us five months. The Europe redesign is a little longer,
and we're going to start seeing benefits later this year.
You know, anyone of you that follow industrial companies, paybacks in those parts of the world,
because of strong social plans, are four to five years on average. But there's going to be some
quick wins and I think the confidence I can just cite is in our management team. We have a plan
that's starting to come together. I'm very, very excited about that turning out very well.
There's more news coming on South America. It's not a lack of planning or consideration. It's
managing the constituencies and all the different interest. But you don't have to wait long on that,
David, so you'll know more about the year there.
The Russian alliance is under review. When I sat in the boardroom that was done and we just did it
again, and want to come back with – given all these markets that Jim Farley has led the review of,
we will be done with that, and you'll expect – then as you are looking at our forecast, going
forward it'll be cleaner. A lot of this will be behind us.
A - `Robert L. Shanks, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Hey, David. It's Bob. Another way of thinking about it that will help you, I think, with what you're
trying get at, is that our EBIT charges that we've talked about, $11 billion effectively, they're almost
nearly spent by the time we get to the end of 2020. And when you think about the cash effectslag, as there often is, between the recognition of the charge and the cash going out the door. So
you can read from that that we've accelerated the plans from what we've shared with you earlier
in the year.
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Yeah. I think I would agree with that. Thanks for the additional color, Bob. I guess my second
question's really, quarter-related it didn't kind of go forward for China. Can you walk us through
the headwinds for that JV income which took another sequential step down to pretty seriously
negative for 4Q 2018, and how you think about the cadence to improvement, if that's the level
that we should probably start out in 1Q and as you launch new products and fill out that
wholesales and dealer pipeline, if that's going to turn around the business?
A - `James P. Hackett, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I'm going to ask Bob and Jim to tag-team on that. Bob?
A - `Robert L. Shanks, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yeah, I mean, it was volume. We also had negative net pricing as that's been a feature in China
for quite a number of years, but it was pretty simple and straightforward and the team actually
delivered some cost improvements, but not nearly enough to offset what we saw on volume. The
volume was largely, I call it, us although as we all saw in the fourth quarter in particular, the
industry really fell off very, very sharply, and Jim can...
A - `James D. Farley, Jr., Executive Vice President & President-Global Markets, Jr. `
Sure.
A - `Robert L. Shanks, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
...maybe add to that.
A - `James D. Farley, Jr., Executive Vice President & President-Global Markets, Jr. `
So we certainly have line of sight for improvement narrowing over losses this year. And as we
localize several key models this year, next year and coming years, we see a great line of sight for
very solidable (32:03) profitable business in China.
This year, to give you a flavor, we have those more than 10 new products. Our dealer network, as
you mentioned, has stabilized now and starting to grow in terms of profitability and engagement,
and a lot of those products come in the second half of the year. I mentioned the localization.
Those are really key. We have Explorer, three new Lincolns in three years. So the localizations will
really drive our profitability in the next few years. Anning and the team have already started on a
very serious effort on material cost as well as structural cost as well. We expect that to take hold
in the second half of this year and next year.
Q - `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Understood. And if I could just sneak one last one in, are there any type of legacy costs outside
of employment contracts that would impede Ford from fully exiting any particular region?
A - `James P. Hackett, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `I would like to look at the riddle that there's a lot of variables in that consideration, and legacy
costs would be one, David. But it's not the only thing that we've thought about.
Operator
And your next question comes from `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Good evening, guys. I just like to focus on one thing first on the big positive being mix and price. I
mean the industry has been more disciplined and things have been a bit better, particularly in
North America as you kind of highlighted. Just curious, when we look at your aged product on a
relative basis, what do you think the key driver was that gave you just such significant strong price
and mix through 2018 in North America specifically and even in the fourth quarter? The stuff going
on in SVT or other things, and what was the big driver there?
A - `James P. Hackett, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I'm going to ask Jim to address that.
A - `James D. Farley, Jr., Executive Vice President & President-Global Markets, Jr. `
Yeah, it's a great question. So relatively speaking, the F-Series is a carryover vehicle but it's still
relatively new. One of the big drivers was the impact of the Super Duty on North America. It was
really an important positive, and I would say as well, the team is really laser-focused on yield
management. We got a lot of really positive news on the controllables for series mix, product
mix, through different allocations, different kind of go-to-market strategies, and those are being
worked in these vehicle line rooms that we're now institutionalizing. But I would say a lot of it was
truck because that was still relatively new and is still, and a lot of it was controllable by the team.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. That's incredibly helpful. Then as a second question, I mean as we look at the cash flow in
the year, it was not the greatest this year and as we look at what we – the funding of the
dividend, it was largely off the cash on the balance sheet. I think there was some concern in the
rating agencies that if you don't get your plan worked out and really turn the cash flow around,
that you're going to continue to pay the dividend off the balance sheet and then fund the
restructuring from the cash on the balance sheet.
I mean, from where you stand right now, the balance sheet looks like it's in great shape. So it
doesn't seem like there's really significant risk, but the rating agencies seem to be a little bit
concerned about this. I'm just curious how fast you think you can get the cash flow turned so you
can fund the restructuring and the dividend out of operating cash flow as opposed to the cash in
the balance sheet and really solve the riddle for the rating agencies.
A - `Robert L. Shanks, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yeah, that's getting a lot of attention obviously, and I won't pretend to speak on behalf of the
rating agencies, but my interpretation of their concerns is that it's really the operating
performance. The balance sheet as you noted, John, is very strong. And we deliberately are
running the cash and the liquidity at levels that are above our targets in part because we saw this
period of lower cash generation on the horizon, and so we've been planning for that. But at the
end of the day, what we, as a team, have to do is we've got to deliver stronger operating
performance, and that operating performance includes stronger cash flow.As we've mentioned both at Deutsche Bank and today, we certainly see the opportunity for us to
deliver on our plan this year and that includes stronger cash generation. But, again, it's an
interesting – it's not so binary. As I mentioned to someone the other day if we didn't pay the
dividend right, we've got $25 billion of cash. It's really a question – it's not that cash level. It's the
ability of the business to generate, as we look ahead, positive cash flow, and we think that we're
going to be able to do that to a degree that is above and beyond what we delivered in 2018.
A - `James P. Hackett, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
And I'm going to rift with you on this, Bob, because `David Tamberrino, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC's question and John's
question are linked here. Because when Bob points the simple approach that's saying, you've got
to improve the operating performance to build confidence, David, your question about all those
things that we were doing is totally intended to do that. And that's why the team started with
we've got to get new product in the system. The new product has been observed, can do better.
But we had to fund all the development in that that's in some of our higher costs. But we're
happy that a lot of this is through the system and the new stuff is going to be coming. So it's the
intersection of all that hard work giving us a chance now to win with all these things in front of us
coordinated and happening now.
So that's why I would give us higher probability of improving operating performance because of
the mix and the kinds of things that we're bringing to bear here.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Jim, one just maybe big picture question, as you look at this – and I mean and you've kind of been
in this job and there's been some frustration of – that the plan and there's a lot going on in the
industry on AVs and EVs, and what's going on in China. As you look at sort of the North Star of
where you need to go going forward, is it ultimately really just product cadence that is 90% of the
game and the rest is 10%? And we just went through a pretty tough period for Ford on the
product cadence, and now we're staring at down the barrel at least in North America, and China
had some big stuff coming at us. I mean is it really – I mean that's very complicated stuff but I
mean is it really that simple, though?
A - `James P. Hackett, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Well, I would – I get to look backwards, right, with hindsight just like I feel I have to be studied that
way. When I look in hindsight, I wouldn't have traded some of the product deferral that happened
that caused some of the delays that we now are righting. So as I go forward, I have to look in the
mirror and say, I'm going be faced with moments of truth. I'm not going to starve product, so I
want to confirm what you said.
But I think the challenges of competing in China and the challenges of competing in Europe, the
challenges of competing in South America are also about design of business issues that we've
addressed. They have to do with the underlying car architectures, how complex the organizations
can get, how big they can get. We don't have the F-Series profitability in all those markets. And in
a way, that might have misled us about some of the potential. So it's the combination of product
and what I would say model design that we've addressed.
Operator
And your next question comes from `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC with Wolfe Research.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC `Hi, everybody. Can you hear me?
A - `James P. Hackett, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Rod, I get to tell them that your real name's `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC every time. You know that.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC `
I know who I am and you know who I am so that's all that counts.
A - `James P. Hackett, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, thank you.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC `
So thanks for taking my questions. First, just a housekeeping item, I presume that the $700 million
warranty item in the quarter was Takata and that the underlying North American performance
excluding that was closer to 10%? Is that right?
A - `Robert L. Shanks, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yeah, the $700 million that I referred to was for the full year. There was a big chunk of it that was
in the fourth quarter, but there was actually a couple of recalls. There were some other costs
associated with it that were spread through the year. So that was a full year. All those numbers I
gave you, Rod, were all full year numbers. But it's true that, that alone, if you think about the
revenue, it's maybe 0.7 point of full year margin in the case of North America. So they would have
been up in the mid-8s...
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC `
Yeah, the fourth quarter looked like it had a big number in it though, on a year-over-year basis,
but.
A - `Robert L. Shanks, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yeah. Just a chunk of that was Takata.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC `
Yeah, just at a higher level, you're talking about an 8% margin, presumably at some point beyond
2020. On your revenue base today, that'd be $13 billion of EBIT. You're doing $10 billion in trucks
and $3 billion in the finco, so that kind of makes sense. But to get from here to there, you need to
improve by $5 billion or $6 billion. Obviously, people have been a bit frustrated by how long it
takes to get some of these things together; the savings that you're working on. But I was hoping
you can maybe flesh out a little bit more on this and on how we should be thinking about the
cadence of improvement.
So it sounds like the first thing that comes through is product; not so much cost savings. Can you
maybe talk a little bit more about that and how that plays out in 2019? Because it seems like
there's some big products like Ranger that come in. And then as we look out to 2020, could
those other elements, the savings and the exits from certain markets, do those really start to
move the needle materially in just a year from now or does that take longer?
A - `James P. Hackett, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `Well, Rod, it's Jim. I want to help shape this question and tee this up for Bob because no doubt,
you heard me talk about the structural costs for five years kept accelerating. And we arrested
that. That didn't take us long. And we've actually turned it now to the second year. The structural
improvements that we're making in the white-collar area, the way I've described the car
architecture and what that's going do to product development, is coupled with the inference that
you make about, once you get Europe restructured, yeah, you start to see a big improvement.
And, Bob, I know there's more to that that we're doing in addition to the things I just mentioned.
But I want you to see that we are counting that as we talk to you. The frustration that I feel is felt
is why does it take long to get that done and through the system, and I respect that. But it is what
it takes to build an industrial model that we're talking about, to do it the right way and not have it
fall apart, not to have big disruptions and so on.
A - `Robert L. Shanks, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yeah, so if you think about 2019, I think clearly we've got a lot that's going to be going on, the top
line including mix, pricing, all the product stuff, building on very strong performance in that part of
the business in 2018 actually. So that would be something that you should expect to see from us
in 2019. Coming with that will be some degree of net product cost investment. That's always the
case with new products. But we do have in the year, a continued improvement in the level of – I
forgot the words that we used – the fitness initiatives. We said when we first started talking about
that, that that would gain traction a little bit in 2018 or start to grow in 2019. That certainly is the
case. That is included in our assumptions and then that continues to progress as we go forward
because a good portion of that was related to material costs that we believe that we'll realize as
we go into new models. So that certainly is something that you'll see featured as we go forward.
But I think your overall premise about there being a – put aside external things that could come
against us, yeah, we should be accelerating as we come out of 2019, because we will have gone
through a big step forward in Europe. There'll be other parts of the business that we will have
been taking actions on. There'll be more that comes in 2020.
Going back to the comment that I made earlier around the acceleration of the redesign and the
restructuring affecting some of our key regions, all of that should bear fruit. And then very
importantly, the improvement in China, because we had a very large loss in 2018, we expect that
to reduce in 2019 and we're moving very aggressively to get it back into a profit.
So that will really, really help, and don't forget the localization of some key imports into China
which – I mean, the effect of that is pretty amazing when you look at each of the Lincoln products
and the Explorer in terms of going from what now are quite substantial losses for those imports
to very attractive, locally built business cases. There'll be a number of different things, Rod, but
your overall premise of the business gaining traction, whether it's restructuring, redesign, fitness
initiatives, localization, fixing things like in the case of China, all that starts to gain momentum as
we move forward on this.
A - `James P. Hackett, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
And let me sneak in, that something like a simple metric, we don't want to spend beyond our
depreciation rates today in capital. So I mean, we've got to wash through some things that were
already in the system, but we're designing the business so that its capital appetite drops in the
future.
OperatorAnd your next question comes from `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC with JPMorgan.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. Firstly, following your autonomous vehicle demonstration in
Miami during the quarter, I'm curious where you think you are in terms of your autonomous
capabilities, both in relation to your 2021 targeted commercial rollout, and relative to key
competitors such as Waymo or Cruise. Do you think you are number one, number two, number
three in autonomous, et cetera? And then, Jim, following on your comment in Detroit last week
that you are open to investors in this area and have lots of interest, I thought to ask what you
would look for in a partner, as it sounds like you might have some options?
A - `James P. Hackett, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, and I mentioned in my comments that I've been very proud of, because of the interest in
investors, how Argo has been graded. So it's a strong, strong enterprise. You all saw that when
you went down to Miami. And Marcy has worked really hard at this question of, what kind of
partners make sense, how do we get one plus one equals three. I want to remark that you know,
last week we told you that we signed an MOU to have discussions – that's not coming from here,
we're having somebody's phone – that we started discussions with VW. I have nothing to report
tonight. But Marcy, what else would you add to this effort?
A - `Marcy Klevorn, Executive Vice President & President-Mobility `
Sure. Thank you for the question. First of all, I'll answer the first part of your question about how
we're feeling overall. Our message has not changed and our confidence level remains the same,
which is we are on track to have a purpose-built vehicle at scale by 2021. And we, I think, maybe
somewhat uniquely have said all along this is a very difficult problem and we'll be ready in 2021.
And we are also uniquely building the technology, along with building a business. And as Jim
referenced, the Miami experience, we demonstrated how we are building the tech and the
business side by side. It's very important when you see vehicles become available, we have
already figured out how we want to monetize them and establish key partnerships like Walmart
whom we announced in November, and already partnering with Postmates, Domino's and others.
And as far as the partnership and building on Jim's comment, we believe, and I know many in the
industry do as well, that there'll probably be maybe two, three-ish kind of winners left standing at
the end of all this. We're confident we will be one of those. We will pick partners that help build
that dominance and so building scale, continuing to learn how to build businesses, et cetera, will
be something that we would look for in selecting a partner.
Operator
And your last question comes from Adam Jonas with Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Adam Michael Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Hi, everybody. It's Adam. Thanks for taking my question. First, to go back to the balance sheet,
and investment grade priorities that you communicated in Detroit, what is a higher priority,
sustaining the current dividend or maintaining investment grade?
A - `Robert L. Shanks, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
I don't usually get to answer my questions to a beat but...A - `James P. Hackett, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, we're having some problems (50:03).
Q - `Adam Michael Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
You can rap it if you want, Bob.
A - `James P. Hackett, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Is that your background, Adam?
A - `Robert L. Shanks, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
I'm looking for the silver disco ball. So on a serious note Adam, I think I was very clear at Deutsche
Bank in terms of our overall financial strategy. It starts with a strong balance sheet, an investment
grade rating, maintaining our debt capacity, and ensuring that our global funded pension plan
stays funded and de-risked. So to me that is sort of like ground zero, and then what you have to
do, and it kind of goes back to the earlier question that I think Dave asked, which is – then the
business has got to generate the cash flow that enables us to fund everything else. Everything
else includes the traditional business, the new business opportunities, it includes obviously the
shareholder distributions. So I think that that's the foundation, and that's certainly how we're
looking at the business and running the business.
The dilemma that we're facing is the rating agencies are concerned about the operating
performance of the business and the trend that we've been on. We've had a lot of discussions
with them about that and the plans that we have in place to address that. At least my
interpretation, again, from chatting with them is it's not a concern around the balance sheet per
se. In fact, just the opposite, they make the same comments that I think some of you have made
around the strength of the balance sheet. It's really about the operating performance. So, again,
repeating what I said in Detroit, based on our view of what the year – we expect the year to be,
we would expect to generate a stronger level of cash flow. We expect to be able to fund all of
our business needs including the regular dividend, but we have to prove that.
Q - `Adam Michael Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Okay.
A - `Robert L. Shanks, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Just having more cash isn't going to help. We're going to have to – we already have more than
we're targeting. We have to demonstrate the business is turning on an operating performance
level including cash generation.
Q - `Adam Michael Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Thanks, Bob.
A - `James P. Hackett, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Hey, Adam.
Q - `Adam Michael Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `A - `James P. Hackett, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Adam, I just want to add because we've had this conversation when we first met when you were
thinking out loud with me. When you're facing this buffet of issues that you have to deal with, and
you're thinking about the cash question. I want you to think out loud with me how we've tried to
hedge some of that in some of these alliance structures. In that it gives us paths to new product
ideas that we can share our costs. And, of course, in the MOU and AV opportunity we can share
costs in there. And none of those have really flowed through to planning yet because they aren't
all secured yet. But those are highly likely things that will improve hedging what you might see as
a risk there.
Operator
That concludes the Q&A. I'd like to turn the call back over to Jim Hackett for closing remarks.
A - `James P. Hackett, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. I feel like Adam didn't get to ask all his questions. I apologize, Adam. And we don't know
what the noise is, so again, thank you for your tolerance of that. It's not coming from here. But I'd
like to just say I think I feel good that we got most of our comments out. 2018 was a year of
progress in terms of laying the foundation for the global redesign of our business. It was all about
sharpening the competitiveness, so we can better satisfy our customers while investing in the
future. We aren't mortgaging that.
Ford enters – this is my second point – Ford enters 2019 with a very clear vision, and we're
building momentum to improve profitability and returns. We're now in execution mode. Third,
we're taking decisive action in all underperforming parts of the business, and we're allocating
capital to higher return opportunities, as you know, what we did with the sedan issues this past
year. In the coming months, you can expect us to share much more about specific initiatives in
some of these areas that we're restructuring.
Finally, the work we're doing today to create this healthy, vibrant Ford for the benefit of all our
stakeholders, as I said earlier, is going to allow us to invest in a future that will be even more
rewarding in our mind for investors. We think this is a good time to invest in Ford. Our vision is to
become the world's most trusted company, designing smart vehicles for a smart world. In doing
so, we have the opportunity to participate in an exciting thing in a new huge addressable market
because of that. It helps create a better transportation, better world, that will improve lives.
Thank you all for joining us tonight.
Operator
This concludes the Ford Motor Company Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call. Thank you for
your participation. You may now disconnect.