Q4 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Holly, and I'll be your conference operator today. At
this time, I would like to welcome you to the Ford Motor Company Fourth Quarter and Full Year
2020 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background
noise.
After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions)
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to `Lynn Antipas Tyson, Executive Director, Investor Relations, Executive Director of Investor
Relations. Please go ahead.
`James D. Farley, Jr., Chief Executive Officer `
Lynn, you're on mute. If you can unmute? Thanks.
`Lynn Antipas Tyson, Executive Director, Investor Relations `
Thank you. Thank you. Presenting today are Jim Farley, our President and CEO; and `John Lawler, Chief Financial Officer,
our Chief Financial Officer. Also joining us for Q&A is Marion Harris, CEO of Ford Credit. Jim will
make opening comments. John will talk about our fourth quarter and full year results and then
we'll turn to Q&A.
Today's discussion will include some non-GAAP references. These are reconciled to the most
comparable US GAAP measures in the appendix of our earnings deck, which can be found along
with the rest of our earnings materials at shareholder.ford.com. Today's discussion includes
forward-looking statements about our expectations. Actual results may differ from those stated.
The most significant factors that could cause actual results to differ are included on slide 30.
Unless otherwise noted, all comparisons are year-over-year, company EBIT, EPS and free cash
flow are on an adjusted basis, and product mix is volume weighted.A quick update on our upcoming IR events. On Tuesday, February 9th, J.P. Morgan will host our
pre -- post earnings fireside chat, featuring Hau Thai-Tang, Chief Product Platform and
Operations Officer; and `John Lawler, Chief Financial Officer. On February 24th, Jim Farley will keynote at the Wolfe
Global Auto, Auto Tech and Mobility Conference. On February 25th, Bob Holycross, Vice
President of Sustainability, Environment and Safety Engineering, will speak at RBC's inaugural ESG
conference, highlighting how our achievements in sustainability will benefit our customers, the
planet and create a competitive advantage. On March 10th, Stuart Rowley, President of Ford
Europe; and Hans Schep, General Manager, Commercial Vehicles for Ford Europe will participate
in the Jefferies Auto Conference. And on March 23rd, Bob Holycross will speak about clean
technology at J.P. Morgan's Global ESG conference. Lastly, we continue to target late spring for
our Capital Markets Day and we'll provide more details on that later.
Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Jim Farley. Jim?
`James D. Farley, Jr., Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Lynn, and thanks everyone for joining us today. Last year was like no other, with COVID
dramatically and often tragically affecting all of us. But tough times can bring out the best in
people. And boy, was that true at Ford? I'm really proud of how our people mobilized with speed
and resolve to respond to this crisis. We harnessed our capabilities and we developed a lot of
new ones. Our team members put others above themselves in both returning to work, but also
to make life-saving equipment.
And I'd like to share just a few highlights of our pandemic response, including our new Finish
Strong initiative to help limit the spread of the virus and save as many lives as possible until this
pandemic is under control. To-date, Ford has manufactured 55 million medical-grade masks. And
by mid-year, we will have donated 100 million masks. In partnership with UAW, we've also
produced 20 million face shields, 50,000 patient ventilators, more than 32,000 powered
respirators in collaboration with 3M and 1.4 million washable isolation gowns.
More to the point of today's call, we relied on the same grit and resourcefulness to deliver a very
strong year financially under difficult circumstances. We improved our execution, while putting in
place a specific and compelling plan, backed by some important early actions that are
transforming Ford into a far stronger company, a company that competes and wins on behalf of
our customers and other stakeholders in this exciting new landscape, which will be defined by
electrification and connected customer experiences.
After safely and smoothly restarting our manufacturing production in May, following last year's
shutdown, we sharply rebounded in the second half of the year as we rebuilt our inventories to
meet strong pent-up demand. In fact, we more than doubled our second half adjusted EBIT from
the year before, yielding a 7.3% adjusted EBIT margin. In the fourth quarter, we successfully
launched three incredibly important vehicles that exemplify our new Ford and our direction. Our
first all-electric Mustang Mach-E, which we and more importantly others believe is the first
credible mass-marketed competitor to Tesla; and the F-150, the 2021 F-150, America's favorite
vehicle, it's now connected, you can sleep in it, you can work in it, it's incredibly capable and it is
such a fantastic product; and the Bronco Sport, the first member of our reimagined legendary
Bronco brand, which has generated as much excitement as anything to come out of Detroit in my
career.
Now, as we recap last year's results and discuss expectations for this year and beyond, I want to
underscore that everything we do is in service of our plan. Simply put, we're seeing real
improvements in our core automotive business and we are laser-focused on further progress thisour core automotive business as well as Ford Credit. We will allocate that capital to its best and
highest uses for creating sustained value.
To achieve that, we are competing like a challenger now, earning customers and must-have
products and services and rewarding customer experiences. We're moving with urgency to
deliver leading quality, reducing our costs and restructuring underperforming businesses. We will
start to grow again, but most importantly in the right areas, allocating more capital, resources and
talent to take advantage of our strength in pickups, commercial vehicles and utilities, being a
leader in the electric vehicle revolution around the world, where we have strength, but also where
we have scale, expanding our leading commercial vehicle business with a suite of software
services that earns loyalty and generates reoccurring revenue, and incubating then scaling then
integrating new businesses, some of them enabled by Argo AI's world-class self-driving system.
Today, I'll touch on a few of our plan highlights, with emphasis on capital allocation, electrification
and connectivity. Back in 2017, vehicle lines had accounted for just 60% of our company's revenue,
generated a 150% of our EBIT and most of the vehicles generating that EBIT earned a multiple of
the cost of capital. This imbalance was simply not sustainable and we immediately began
reshaping and rebalancing our business. We allocated capital to our strengths, we jettisoned
underperforming assets, we created a more focused portfolio and built the financial flexibility to
unleash significant untapped value at Ford.
We've already made a tremendous progress. Through last year, we've invested $7.1 billion in EBIT
and $1.6 billion in cash in our global redesign, reshaping our portfolio, our geographic footprint
and our industry footprint. In the first phase of our redesign in Europe, for example, we prioritized
profitable growth in commercial vehicles, where Ford is the number one vehicle brand in the
region, but also a smaller, more targeted portfolio of passenger cars in the strongest segments,
and exciting imports like Mustang and Edge that built our brand and make a solid return. We
shrunk our manufacturing footprint in Europe, we reduced regional headcount by 20%, we
lowered our annual structural cost by $1.1 billion through last year. And in the fourth quarter,
Europe delivered its strongest quarterly profit in more than four years, achieving an EBIT margin
of 5.8%.
Let's turn to South America. We've lost more than $4.5 billion over the last decade in South
America, not acceptable. In 2020, we exited our non-core heavy truck business in the region. We
discontinued Focus and Fiesta. And we further reduced headcount, in fact, by more than 40%
through the end of last year. And with these actions, last year we posted the smallest loss in
South America since 2013. And then in early January, we went further as Ford Brazil announced it
would end production and close three facilities. That decision will de-risk our business by
concentrating it on a more profitable asset-light model on our industry-leading Ranger pickup
trucks, our Transit commercial vehicles and key imports.
We remain committed to serving our customers in Brazil and South America, but now with the
portfolio of exciting, connected and increasingly electrified SUVs, pickups, including this amazing
new Ranger, and commercial vehicles sourced from Argentina and Uruguay and other markets.
Now, we didn't take these actions lightly, and Ford is working with all of our stakeholders in Brazil
to mitigate the impacts of these decisions. At the same time, we know they were right and
necessary and we are optimistic about our new business model for South America.
Now before John walks through the last year's results and how we see 2021, I want to update you
on Ford's connectivity and electrification plans. 2021 is a strategic inflection point for Ford. We
have hundreds of thousands of fully networked vehicles now in the field. And now, we're seeing
the evolving institutional capability inside Ford to leverage that data streaming of those vehiclesand also use our over-the-air updates to improve quality and revolutionize the Ford customer
experience. And importantly, that means commercial vehicles too and customers. We have more
than 100,000 subscribers to our telematics and commercial vehicle software business, we call
Ford Commercial Services, and we are just starting.
Ford's development and delivery of connected vehicles will be enhanced by a new six-year
partnership with Google that we announced earlier this week. The two companies are
establishing a collaborative group that we call Team Upshift to not only unlock personal consumer
experiences, but to create and make the most of data-driven opportunities in our industrial
system. The partnership will greatly enhance the Ford team's ability to innovate and deliver a
consistent world-class consumer experience and as well provide Ford with a powerful technology
and tools to modernize our manufacturing, our supply chain management and speed of our
implementation of the data-driven business models and innovation across our whole company.
Now, as I said a few minutes ago and many times before, Ford will be a leader in electric vehicle
revolution around the world. We will do this in areas where we have strength and great scale. It's
early in the transition, but the trend is clear. We watched one out of 10 vehicles sold in Europe in
December be pure electric. EV sales in China continue to grow and the reality is the customers,
including in the US, are increasingly giving E-mobility greater consideration. We have no intention
to cede ground to others in vehicle segments, where Ford is the established leader. We are
rapidly building on our electric vehicle plans and building out our manufacturing and our R&D
capabilities. We're also increasing financial flexibility, so we can accelerate and flex to keep pace
with the evolving EV needs of our customers.
Now, the Mustang Mach-E, our first dedicated BEV platform, which last month was named North
America Utility of the Year embodies how we lead in electric vehicles. It's on sale now, it has
stunning design, is fully connected and ready for the over-air updates with a tremendous
technology experience. It's delivering high-quality exceptional performance at a price in the mid-
30s. It's a fantastic vehicle, which also happens to be a full battery electric, and there are many
more dedicated BEVs like this one that are coming.
As you know, Ford is a global leader in commercial vehicles and we're on the leading edge of the
electric revolution there too. We are the first company to announce plans for an all-electric van
and an all-electric pickup truck. With the E-Transit coming later this year, it has three different
lengths, three different heights, we have a van, a strip chassis and a cutaway and there's more
coming on E-Transit. And then we're going to launch the BEV F-150 in the middle part of next year.
In a recent study by Cox Automotive, we -- they showed that the all-electric F-150 was the
highest consideration rate and is the most appealing among major EV pickups that are coming to
the market.
Our successful Ford Transit franchise is a critical pillar of our electrification plan. We understand
the needs of these customers, we're going to offer a wide variety of configurations dimension
and we are developing not just the vehicles, but a whole suite of connected vehicles to serve
them -- connected services. For instance, we know from our leadership position that the average
daily route driven in a transit is 74 miles, and they do not over-buy batteries. We've validated that
with over 30 million miles of telemetry data from our Ford customers. Now with that data, we can
forecast and optimize the battery life and provide over-the-air alerts, so when the vehicle needs
service before anything fails for a 100% uptime, we can do that. That van stays on the road,
working, where it belongs.
Those are just two of dozens of examples of how we're employing and using data to help our
commercial customers be safe and more efficient and to make more money, while at the sametime creating an incredibly competitive advantage for Ford. The value proposition for our
customers extends to customizing vehicles' interiors, digital experiences, E-service networks to
maximize uptime and lower their operating cost. These are very sticky annuity-like capabilities
that remove pain-points and create opportunities for our customers. No commercial vehicle
provider is better positioned than Ford to innovate and introduce services like these at scale.
We are accelerating our plans right now, breaking constraints, increasing battery capacity,
improving our costs and getting more battery electrics into our cycle plan. We're an [ph]
electrification supports a widening portfolio of BEVs on platforms from both Ford and alliance
partners. This electrification number does not even include the potential, of course, for vertical
integration of battery production whether alone or in a JV. As the size of our ICE manufacturing
footprint decreases, the scope of our dedicated global BEV manufacturing capacity is now
growing. So far, we're busy and we have included a whole new facility in Dearborn at the Rouge
to make the electric F-150, we're building the Kansas City facility for the E-Transit, Oakville,
Canada for several battery electric SUVs and in China and Cuautitlan, Mexico for the Mach-E and
there's a lot more to come. Our team is busy.
Thanks for your time and attention. And as you can hear, I'm very excited about our future. John
will now talk about our results in more detail and outlook for the year. Over to you, John.
`John Lawler, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Jim. So, when you analyze our fourth quarter results, or even our second half
performance last year, it's important to key in on the durable changes we've made to our
underlying earnings power, including in automotive business increasingly positioned to sustainably
generate strong free cash flow. Right now, our year-end liquidity of nearly $47 billion provides the
financial flexibility to opportunistically invest and grow and even accelerate investments if we
choose to in key areas like electrification, in connected services and then our 8% company-
adjusted EBIT margin, the target that we're aiming for, we believe we can generate healthy
annual free cash flow to fuel our growth.
When we initially set our 8% target, the secular forces accelerating today were still in their infancy.
EV penetration at scale was years out, connectivity and digital services were still nascent, and
autonomous vehicles, well, they were still largely in labs. So, you fast forward to 2021 and the
landscape is vastly different and so are the calls on our capital. Our goal remains to hit the 8%
margin and, in doing so, to reallocate profit and capital from a far healthier core business to
exciting growth opportunities that will unlock long-term value.
Let's take a look at the fourth quarter performance. In automotive, both wholesales and revenue
declined by 9%, while a lower industry influenced both of these metrics, so did the planned
changeover in North America to launch our all-new 2021 F-150. Our initial estimate was for a
decline of 100,000 units, and we came in right on that number. Fourth quarter revenue benefited
from broad-based gains in net pricing and product and series mix, especially in North America
and Europe.
Let's take a look at our individual regions in a bit more detail, starting with North America. The
North America business offset some of its decline in top line metrics with continued growth and
an increase in mix of commercial vehicles. Together, volume and revenue of Transit and Super
Duty vehicles were up 14% and 24%, respectively. With the launch of the new F-150 now
complete, we're building every vehicle we can. EBIT was $1.1 billion, up 53% with a margin of 4.9%.
This growth was driven by excellent yield management and the non-reoccurrence of the UAW
contract cost of the fourth quarter of last year, all of which was partially offset by the lower F-150In South America, wholesales and revenue declined 15% and 10%, respectively, reflecting industry
softness and Ford share losses as we refocused our portfolio on strengths in the Ranger pickups,
Transit vans and imports. On a full year basis, Ranger gained 1.8 points of share to 15.6%.
Revenue performance in South America was better than wholesale as we took aggressive price
actions to offset inflation and currency pressures. As Jim mentioned in 2020, we exited our non-
core heavy truck business in the region, discontinued the Focus and Fiesta and further reduced
headcount in total by more than 40% through the end of 2020. These actions and other actions
that we've been taking contributed to the fifth consecutive quarter of year-over-year
improvement in regional EBIT, and we posted the smallest loss in South America since 2013. With
our recent announcement to exit manufacturing in Brazil, we have fundamentally de-risked this
portion of our business and delivered another significant milestone in our global redesign.
Shifting to Europe. Europe wholesales and revenues were both negatively affected by lower
industry volumes. However, Ford's revenue in the region was up modestly aided by higher net
pricing and improved mix. Our commercial business in Europe strengthened its number one
position to a 14.3% share, which is a gain of 70 basis points. Ford has the broadest network of
commercial vehicle dealers in Europe, including close to 800 dedicated transit centers. And
during the quarter, the commercial, passenger and import vehicle businesses were all profitable.
And the reduced manufacturing footprint that Jim had referenced along with the $1 billion decline
in structural costs over the last two years allowed Europe to deliver its strongest quarterly profit in
four years, with an EBIT of $400 million and achieving an EBIT margin of 5.8%.
Now, turning to China. China delivered a 27% increase in wholesales. Retail sales grew 30%,
outpacing the overall industry sales growth of 12%. Ford's share in China grew by 40 basis points
to 2.4% with a 12 point increase in the mix of utilities to 36%. The mix of commercial vehicles
reached 45% in the quarter supported by strength in light trucks, pickups and other vehicles.
Importantly, our dealer network return on sales remains positive. Now while it's still a modest EBIT
loss, this was China's third consecutive quarter of year-over-year profit improvement aided by an
enhanced mix of vehicles, including locally-built Lincoln products. The China-specific Lincoln
models accounted for 76% of the brand's in-country retail sales, that's up from just 2% last year.
Wholesales and revenue results for the international market group varied, but it's retail sales
increase of 1.8% countered an industry decline of 3%. IMG continues to capitalize on its strengths
in Ranger pickups and Everest SUVs, and Ranger was the best-selling 4x4 pickup in Australia. And
just this week, we announced a $1 billion investment to modernize and upgrade our Ranger
pickup plant in South Africa, an important low-cost export hub that supplies 100 markets, including
Europe. This paves the way to significantly expand production for the next-generation Ranger
starting in 2022 and profitably grow this important business for us.
Excluding the impact of India, IMG was profitable in the quarter led by Australia and Vietnam. In
December, Ford and Mahindra jointly decided not to complete a previously announced joint
venture. This outcome was driven by the fundamental changes in global economic and business
conditions caused in part by the global pandemic. While we continue our independent operations
in India, we are actively evaluating alternatives and reassessing capital allocation for India.
Turning to mobility. We now plan to invest at least $7 billion in autonomous vehicles through 2025,
including the $2 billion we spent through 2020. Our plans include standing up our commercial AV
business by 2022 to move both people and goods, and we also believe that Argo AI's self-
driving system remains on a shortlist of leaders in the autonomous technology. With improving
unit economics, we continue to grow our Spin scooter network, which has become more relevant
in a COVID world as people explore alternative modes of transportation. In fact, indicative of thestrength of our city relationships, Spin won the overwhelming majority of all scooter permits it
applied for in the US in the municipalities last year.
Now let's turn to Ford Credit. Ford Credit delivered another strong quarter, with EBIT up almost
$300 million to $900 million, a record fourth quarter. Improved auction values drove the
performance and we continue to experience strong credit performance with a low loss to
receivables ratio. All told, we delivered $1.7 billion in adjusted EBIT in the quarter, up $1.2 billion
with an adjusted EBIT margin of 4.8%, which was up 3.6 points. Considering how the first half of
2020 unfolded, I'm incredibly proud of how the Ford team came together to finish the year with
such strength, setting a firm foundation for this year.
Let's turn to 2021. The global semiconductor shortage situation is fluid and we're evaluating and
updating the potential effects on our business in real-time. We want to be transparent and also
prudent. Therefore, we think it's premature to size what the ultimate impact will be on our full
year results. That said, we ended 2020 having achieved positive lasting change in the underlying
trajectory of our earnings power, including the ability of our automotive business to generate
consistent levels of strong free cash flow over time.
For 2021, we were on a course to earn between $8 billion and $9 billion in adjusted EBIT, including
a $900 million non-cash gain on our investment in Rivian. That scenario anticipated continued EBIT
improvement in each of our regional businesses, except for South America, which we expect to
be flat through their transition this year. We anticipate mobility to be flat and Ford Credit EBT to
improve. We also expect to generate between $3.5 billion and $4.5 billion in adjusted free cash
flow.
However, the global semiconductor shortage is creating uncertainty across multiple industries and
will influence our operating results this year. The situation is changing constantly, so it's premature
to size what the shortage will mean for our full year results. However, right now, our current
estimates from suppliers support a scenario, where we could lose 10% to 20% of our planned
first quarter production. If that scenario is extended through the first half, this could adversely
impact our full year adjusted EBIT by between $1 billion and $2.5 billion, net of reasonable cost
recoveries and some production makeup in the second half of the year.
So, we should expect full year cash and EBIT effects to be about equal with quarterly cash
implications more volatile given the mechanics of the company's working capital. So, our team is
working with our suppliers around the clock to optimize the constrained supply, minimize the
profit impact, while also prioritizing customer orders, new vehicle launches and compliance with
our CO2 emissions regulations. For example, similar to other actions we've already taken, we are
adjusting shifts next week at our Dearborn Truck Plant and Kansas City Assembly Plant. These
actions are contemplated in the 10% to 20% scenario for the first quarter volume that I just
mentioned. We will provide you with an update on the semiconductor issue when we report our
first quarter '21 -- 2021 financial results, and that's on April 28th.
So, before we open the call for Q&A, I will end where Jim began. It cannot be overstated, 2020
was a year like no other, no other in our life times. The Ford team responded exceptionally both
personally and professionally. We're exceedingly proud of all of our colleagues around the world.
We made tough strategically sound decisions in 2020 that have created durable beneficial
changes to our underlying earnings power, including an automotive business that is increasingly
positioned to sustainably generate strong free cash flows. And that financial flexibility will allow us
to make the right investments for long-term profitable growth and value creation.
Questions And AnswersOperator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Thank you. And our first question is going to come from the
line of `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JP Morgan with JP Morgan.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. It looks like even after adjusting for the Rivian gain, you're
guiding to 2021 profits well above consensus, presumably helped by the volume, pricing and mix
benefits of a number of highly anticipated new products, including the new F-150, the Bronco,
Bronco Sport and Mustang Mach-E. I know you have a lot of confidence in these vehicles, but are
there any objective measures that you can share with investors as to why they should also be
confident in the profit contribution of these models? So -- I know it's early days, but do you have
any anecdotes about how quickly the vehicles are turning on dealer lots, how the pricing has
been trending for the new F-150, what the early customer reaction has been to the Mach-E,
you're doing a lot of test drives, and I realize the Bronco still has yet to even launch, so maybe
there are fewer metrics there, but maybe you could tell us a bit more about the wait-list, for
example, whether it continues to grow or how trim levels or options have been tracking relative
to expectation or what the general community response has been?
A - `James D. Farley, Jr., Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks for your question. Just really quick on the F-150, some of the metrics -- objective metrics
we see that give us encouragement is obviously we're starting the year at a day supply level that
we haven't seen for a long time. That's one thing. So, lot of opportunity to build wholesale and
dealer inventory into the year. We are starting the year with 53 days supply. The mix of high
series, which is always a big indicator of demand for the vehicle is about 20 points higher than we
normally see in the outgoing model. So, Larry [ph] plus mix is extremely strong. You also look at
the Super Duty demand, Super Duty was up 14%. It had a great improved vehicle, but I think the
F-150 improvement is even bigger. And even during the sell down and the start up of the new
truck, that demand is -- we're turning vehicles in six days for the F-150.
If you turn to the Mach-E, really good demand so far. We have about 70% of the customers new
to Ford, so we have -- new to Ford being they haven't owned a Ford for 15 years. The cross-shop
vehicles, our Porsche Boxster, Porsche 911, Mercedes E-Class, we're also seeing in the
reservations as we turn them into orders, high all-wheel drive mix more than we thought, the
extended battery is much more popular than we expected. And don't forget, we have 127,000
federal tax credits that each were $7,500 each, and that is a big advantage on the pricing side.
So, really strong demand, early orders for Mach-E.
On Bronco, obviously, the Bronco Sport is turning, I think, in like six days. We sold everyone -- we
wholesaled through dealers in the fourth quarter, I think we sold over 5,000. It's just like the F-
Series turning incredibly fast, Ryan and I would say, the Bronco we're now just shy of 200,000
reservations and we're now starting -- well, in a little bit, we'll turn those into orders. The
encouraging thing about Bronco is just the interest. Not only do we have a lot of orders and
confident reservation, but the mix is stronger than we thought. It's encouraging to see the two-
door B3, a third, but the four-door is very, very strong mix and the demand is -- at the dealership
levels or even our reservation system are really, really strong. And I think we could pass on Bronco
Sport in January, I think we passed 1,000 units. So, I mean -- and that's a brand new model to our
lineup.So, that gives you a picture for the demand side. And maybe, John, any comments about the rest
of the performance?
A - `John Lawler, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I'd just say Ryan that when you look at it, Jim went through the portfolio transformation, but
the global redesign is really starting to take hold and de-risking the business. We're starting to
see some strength in China. The localization of key project -- products there, Lincoln, for sure,
improving our cost structure there by localizing. We're leveraging capacity at the JVs to build
Lincolns and commercial vehicles. Our partnering to share investments and improved scale, you
saw that with the South Africa announcement we had building the Ranger and a VW pickup now in
that facility.
So, I think we're starting to see strength across all the areas we've been talking about. We're also
focusing on the basics of the business, right. We renewed our focus on our quality improvements.
We're leveraging all of our connected vehicles to identify issues faster, improve our warranty
expense, improve our ownership experiences. We are also leaning into electrification now, as Jim
said, with Mach-E being on the road, the E-Transit coming, the F-150 BEV next year. And we're
really transforming the team as well. We're bringing in new talent, we're organizing ourselves to
grow our core businesses and expand that through connectivity and digital services. And so when
you look at all of that across the business and you start to see some of the strength take hold, it
gives us confidence in the year and it allows us to move forward with the confidence we're
projecting. So, I think there's a lot of good things going on here.
Operator
And our next question is going to come from the line of `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America with Bank of America.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
Good evening, guys. I just wanted to ask a question, Jim, just around the transition to EVs and
may be using F-150 as an example that we can maybe talk around. I mean, when do you think sort
of the tipping point is for the consumers where they see enough EVs on the road that your ICE
vehicles become somewhat obsolete and it depresses resids [ph]? And how do you kind of work
through that transition? And specifically also around the F-150, I mean, can you position this as a
performance enhancement particularly around torque for trucks that you can actually get paid a
tremendous amount of money for kind of like you did with EcoBoost? I mean, I think we joke
around EcoBoost, it wasn't really fuel economy that people loved, it was the low end fork [ph],
right? I mean -- so, I mean, just -- what's the tipping point where you kind of get hit a little bit on
your resids, on your outgoing ICE vehicles? How do you manage that transition and how do you
think about how position -- you're positioned in EVs?
A - `James D. Farley, Jr., Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you for your question. It's stunning how fast the industry is changing. I watch the market
really carefully in Europe and 10% in December pure battery electrics, amazing. Our time is now
at Ford. We're not talking about aspirations. We committed to California and Paris Accord and
carbon neutrality long time ago when it wasn't easy, and I'm very proud of that. This year, as you
mentioned, we're launching Mach-Es in the market now, we think it's a real competitor to Tesla in
their stronghold part of their price market. The F-150 electric, there is a lot of inbound interest
from our loyal customers. We sold 780,000 F-150s last year. We are going to find and we are
finding within that a duty cycle that matches electric for some of those customers. It's such a large
scale.In Transit electric, the inbounds on that vehicle are really high. This is our turf and we're not just
going to have one delivery vehicle, we're going to have three lengths, two-wheel bases, three
roof heights, a cut through, a cabin chassis and a van and we're not done. So, we are the leader
in the transit business. We have the body builder connections. 100% our of Transits get updated.
And we know every one of those updaters. So -- and we are getting more inbounds through that.
So, how do we manage the move? I think it's a really good question. I don't know if any of us have
the answer. The costs are coming down quickly, but for me and the team, the move to electric is
not about batteries and motors, it's about a digital vehicle and a new customer experience. And
that is universal. Whether it's a F-150 ICE or a battery electric, that digital experience that we're
talking about, we have 130,000 commercial solution customers now, we have 9 million FordPass
customers. That is universal. So, that's good news that we'll get back in all of our business. We
just have to be very flexible, which we have those large commercial vehicle manufacturing
facilities that are very flexible and we'll invest in both and we'll flex with the customers. So, I think
we're ready. This is our year. We're going to have great offers and I think it's really on us, the real
proof-point to me is not going to be how many we sell in the first year, it will be how much better
the vehicle is year or two after we launch it with the same customer.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question is going to come from the line of `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research with Wolfe
Research.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Hi, everybody. Thanks for taking my question. So, $22 billion is a pretty huge commitment to EVs. I
was hoping you can talk about the level of volumes you're aspiring towards. It sounds kind of like
it's similar commitment to another company that's targeting about 1 million units. Can you talk
about your -- Ford's cost competitiveness and the trajectory of cost for EVs? Do you agree with
these expectations of cost per kilowatt hour decline in the $55 to $80 range in five years? And
then lastly in the context of what you said earlier Jim about allocating capital towards businesses
that have strong returns, do you think that by 2025 you can achieve similar profitability and
returns in EVs that you achieve in ICEs?
A - `John Lawler, Chief Financial Officer `
Hey, Rod. Well, clearly, we need to see improvements in cost structure similar to what you've
been talking about in the $55 to $80 kilowatt hour for the pack. And that's going to happen over
time and we definitely are pushing in that direction. And that's going to be required. We're going
to see the ICE and the BEV converge as they transition. And yeah, we do see them being
profitable. In fact, Mustang is profitable today, the Mach-E. So, it's going to transition over time.
We're deeply focused on driving that cost structure down on our BEV vehicles. We're leaning into
our strengths where we see some synergies and taking advantage of that. So, it's definitely a
focus we have.
From a standpoint of the $22 billion commitment to EVs, as Jim said, as we lean into our
strengths, we are focused on BEV, we're focused on expanding that growth, we're focused on
the digital experience and the customer experience with those vehicles. And as that transition
takes hold over time, we're going after the larger segments. Right? These are segments that we
lead in, there is our strong customer base. And with that, as Jim said, there is duty cycles, there is
specific needs for these customers with these vehicles and we're going to continue to work with
them to give them the solutions they need from a battery electric standpoint. But at this point,A - `James D. Farley, Jr., Chief Executive Officer `
And Rod, I think just to complement John, expect us to be a lot more specific in the spring as we
move on. It's just -- this is not the right venue to go over those specifics, but please rest assured,
we are really excited to share all the specifics of our BEV plan. We just wanted to give you an idea
of how we're allocating the capital.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Okay. Thanks, guys.
Operator
And our next question will come from the line of `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets with RBC Capital Markets.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Thank you very much for all the detail. Just one question. You mentioned a couple of times the
landscape is quite different now and when you first laid out that timeline for 8% EBIT margins. And
now you're significantly stepping up the investment, which is objectively a good thing. So, I know
you're still targeting that level, but is the timeline shifting?
A - `John Lawler, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. What I can say is that we are continuously putting pressure on ourselves to pull that timeline
ahead as quickly as possible. And so, it is shifting. We're focused on it, we're focused on
improving the business as quickly as we can and continuing to invest in our growth areas. We see
a stepped up improvement in 2021. You saw that in the guidance and outside of the chip issue,
and we're going to continue to work that. And as we do move closer to that 8%, when we
achieve those targets, we're generating good healthy free cash flows that we're going to invest
in the business. So, yeah, we're putting tremendous pressure on the team to move that forward
and achieve that as quickly as we can.
Q - `Joseph Spak, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Thank you.
Operator
And our next question will come from the line of `Dan Levy, Analyst, Credit Suisse with Credit Suisse.
Q - `Dan Levy, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Hi, good evening. Thank you for taking question. Jim, I'd like to ask a question on partnership
because if we think about the tenure of Jim Hackett, it seems like one of the core focuses is
really on building out partnerships, I think, we saw with VW, Mahindra, Zotye again. If we look at
how things have played out in the recent months, we've seen you terminate plans with Mahindra
and Zotye, it seems like vehicle with Rivian has sort of been deemphasized. But on the flip side,
we also see you forming this partnership with Google. So, all-in, wondering, how you expect to
use partnership as you're setting your agenda? And specifically, I'd be curious to that view as it
relates to EV. Thank you.
A - `James D. Farley, Jr., Chief Executive Officer `Thank you so much for your question. This is a fundamental approach that we all committed to
and continue to be committed to. We love what RJ is doing at Rivian. It's a strategic investment,
it's not a transactional investment for this sedan. And so, we'll keep you updated, but that's a
very fundamental bet. And it looks like the market is liking what he's doing too, which is good for
Ford.
The partnership with Google is very fundamental, it goes far beyond -- we want our team working
on things that will differentiate us. Google's got a great platform for navigation and content
delivery, and we can co-create on top of that. And their -- the system is great, but we're going to
use Amazon voice and we're going to work hard with Apple on CarPlay and we're going to have
a great relationship with Microsoft on commercial vehicles, which we'll tell you about some other
day. But our partnerships in the technology area, including the Chinese partner -- technology firms
is just going to get deeper and deeper and deeper. And as far as our relationships, our
partnerships, they will change with electrification. And you should expect more work in that
regard. Anyways, I don't think you're going to have to wait too long to hear more about that
actually.
So, it's a fundamental approach. The technology partners are becoming more and more
important for us to deliver that digital experience, but also to build the capability inside our
company for large scale AIML deployment to our industrial system, the customer experience,
using the data of vehicles for quality improvement and we don't have all the answers. And these
companies can really help us and we can help them.
I hope that makes sense to you.
Q - `Dan Levy, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Great, thank you.
Operator
And our next question is going to come from the line of `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank with Deutsche Bank.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Hi. Good evening, everybody.
A - `James D. Farley, Jr., Chief Executive Officer `
Hi, Emmanuel.
A - `John Lawler, Chief Financial Officer `
Hi, Emmanuel.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
So, one follow-up question on the increased spending in -- towards electrification. I understand
you're not prepared to give specifics, but directionally speaking, I'm curious if you can give us
color on what you're trying to achieve with it. I guess, how will this be spent and what is the goal
here? Are you developing a dedicated flexible architecture for all your electric vehicles? Are you
accelerating the rollout of electric vehicles? I guess -- and just curious how this will be used. And
then a point of clarification on this as well. So, your slides seem to -- and your presentation
implies that you will focus on the areas that -- where you lead, all these pickups, utility,commercial vehicles seem to have some sort of commercial angle to it. Will your electrification
strategy be mostly aimed at commercial customers or will you have also high volume passenger
vehicles?
A - `James D. Farley, Jr., Chief Executive Officer `
So, thank you for your question. The answer is absolutely this accelerated spending is on
products and industrializing those products. And we recognized in the guidance for explaining
that that there is more spending to come on our battery vertical integration decisions. We just
don't have anything to announce today. We have -- we're not going to get into it, but we have
two battery electric dedicated platforms. They will include high-volume passenger cars, but as
we've always said, we're going to invest in the segments where we're the strongest. And you can
imagine what those nameplates are and what those segments are. And we will have a great
lineup commercial battery electric vehicles and as well importantly for me is the investment in the
digital experiences and the physical services to make that work.
We've learned over all these years that Ford's strength in commercial is far beyond the product.
In fact, the product is often regulated to be defined as it is. Our strength is our distribution
network, our ability to keep vehicles on the road, our up-fitters, our Bailment policies and all of
those strengths will come to bear as we electrify those lineup. And we have more ambitions as
you can see with the FCS software business, that business is growing very fast. It's a telematics
and commercial services business. And that's a good example of the kind of investments we're
making beyond the product -- the four walls of the product. So, as we electrify, we're not just
going to bring more products, we're going to get more digital and we're going to get into
physical services and digital services as well. But they'll be in the nameplates and the segments
that we have a great reputation, as John said, we have a good owner base.
Operator
And our next question is going to come from the line of `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Hey, Jim. So, first off, I just have to say the Mach-E kicks ass. I rolled up, and Lin can tell you, she
shamed me. I rolled up in my Y, I spent a half hour on the thing, I got back in the Y and I have to
admit, I have some regrets. I miss it. This thing is going to sell superfast, so bravo to the team.
A - `James D. Farley, Jr., Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
My question is on cell supply. What's your latest thinking on making your own cells or JV-ing with
someone or pure outsourcing? And I ask this Jim because as you can understand, many of us on
this call, right, are -- can see a situation where we have a potentially dramatic misalignment
between basically where demand massively exceeds supply of cells and this really could threaten
the commercial targets of an OEM's EV volumes unless you get this sorted out. Please tell me we
don't have to wait until late spring for that, but let me know where your head is. Thanks.
A - `James D. Farley, Jr., Chief Executive Officer `
All right, thank you. I appreciate the feedback on the product. And to me, the real test for our
fitness on Mach-E will be, as I said, how that product performs, it's range, it's capability, it's qualitya year or two from now for that same customer.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
It's got a lot of character, I was -- it was a riot. And I wasn't even driving the GT, it was a lot of fun.
A - `James D. Farley, Jr., Chief Executive Officer `
Well, that's the key, I was just going to say, when you see the GT. Look, our first inning -- if this is a
nine-inning ballgame, our first inning, I think we played it about right, which is to buy the best
technology at the lowest price out there during what you could argue in this first inning was an
excess supply of batteries. But now, the game has changed. And the next step is going to be a
much more aggressive electrification plan and subsequent impact on our battery strategy. And
we cannot afford to be in the situation we are with semiconductors right now, which is a good
metaphor for to [ph] bringing up. So, you can expect from Ford follow-on this battery electric
commitment more news on our vertical integration plans.
And there are options. We could do it ourselves, we can go to a JV and as well out there not too
far away is the solid state technology moving very quickly. There's a lot of bets to be made. This
company -- this team is in the midst of making those. And we'll let you know as soon as we can,
but we get it. We want to lock it up. We want to make sure it's not a constraint. And we also want
to pick the right technologies and the right partners at the right time and have the flexibility as
well as the technology changes, like solid state. I don't know -- we can't give you a date right now,
whether that would be the spring or tomorrow, but please understand we totally get the issue
and the opportunity.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Yeah, Jim. Thanks.
Operator
And our last question for the day will come from the line of `Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies with Jefferies.
Q - `Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies `
Yes, good evening. Thank you very much. I've got two questions. One for Jim and one for John.
Jim on this alliance with -- recently with Google is interesting and we had (inaudible) do the similar
arrangement two weeks ago in Europe. If I step back a few years ago, I remember Google being
seen as the enemy and the company that car makers had to stay away from, avoid seeing
Google get into the car. What has changed? Is it just simply that you looked at the cost of
developing software and you feel like it's too complicated, too costly and then Google is a better
solution to bring the connectivity to your customers? Or has the willingness to find commercial
arrangements Google will improve in terms of revenue sharing, for example, that made watching
Google maybe less threatening it might have been a few years ago?
And then I'll -- for John, I was just wondering, if -- you're the first OEM to give us some guidance
on the impact of semiconductor shortage on earnings, and I thank you for that. I'm just trying to
understand, you guide for the impact -- what the impact could be in the first half. Let's assume
things normalize from the third quarter. How much of that negative impact in the first half would
you build to make up in the second half or should we think that is a net loss that we should take
into account into our earnings forecast based on what you've given in terms of guidance? Thank
you.A - `James D. Farley, Jr., Chief Executive Officer `
So, to be really direct about your question, probably three things really changed our mind -- or
not changed our mind, but got us to where we were. First of all, it's not an exclusive relationship.
So, we want CarPlay to work great in all of the vehicles. We want Amazon voice products to work
great in our vehicles. But the Google -- three things really changed, to answer your question, or
evolved. The first one was we just -- the money we were spending to keep competitive on a
generic experience in the vehicle versus what they could offer in a stable robust platform, the
economics just worked better and we could take our team and instead of doing generic
capabilities, we can put them on really differentiation. And we found that in Mach-E, if you use the
Mach-E and we call it the Menlo [ph] Systems, we really started to understand that if we had a
stable digital platform inside a vehicle, we could really out-co-create and create better deeper
experiences for our Bronco customer or Mach-E or commercial customer. So, basically it was their
commitment to build and to dedicate resources to a really good digital ecosystem in the vehicle.
The second one is that we really started to feel a lot more comfortable with our customers' data
and how that will be protected. And that's really important. Ford is a very trusted brand. All the
data will be held and managed by Ford. Google won't have access to the Ford customer data in
the cloud. The third thing was their cloud. We're trying to move our enterprise and a lot of our
compute into the cloud very quickly for cost and capability, and we think their cloud is really
competitive, but so is Amazon's, so is Microsoft's. But we also saw that they were willing to make
a commitment on AI and ML. I mean, we are already using AI and ML throughout our company,
but we need to really accelerate that. And they have real resources. And we're willing to make
the commitment. So, those are kind of the things that really swayed us. I hope that makes sense.
But it's not a necessary exclusive and we really are excited about the subscription business and
the digital experience that come off of this and all the other bets we're making with the
technology companies.
John?
A - `John Lawler, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thanks. So, the scenario we laid out is based on the discussions we've been having with the
supply base over the last couple of weeks and it's very fluid and we know that it's an industry
impact. And what we see is that we could lose between 10% and 20% of the planned first half
production. And so, when you take that on an annual basis, the impact of that, full year could be
between $1 billion and $2.5 billion. And like we do and we did -- like we do and like we did with
COVID, we've assumed in there some reasonable cost recoveries and our ability to recover
some of the production in the second half. And so, the net impact on the year would be between
$1 billion and $2.5 billion depending on where this falls out relative to the production disruption in
the first half. And that's why we tried to frame it up to give a scenario around what it could be
because it's very fluid right now. And as we get through this quarter, in April, we will be able to
share more details, we think we'll have a lot more understanding of exactly how this is going to
fall out.
Q - `Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies `
Okay. Very clear. Thank you, both.
Operator
Thank you. At this time, we would like to thank you for dialing in for today's Ford Motor Companyask that you please disconnect.