Q4 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Jason, and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time, I would like to welcome you to the Ford Motor Company Fourth Quarter 2022
Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions).
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to `Lynn Antipas Tyson, Investor Relations, Executive Director of Investor
Relations.
`Lynn Antipas Tyson, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Jason. Welcome to Ford Motor Company's Fourth Quarter 2022 Earnings Call. With
me today are `Jim Farley, Chief Executive Officer, our President, and CEO; and `John Lawler, Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Financial Officer.
Also joining us for Q&A is Marion Harris, CEO of Ford Credit.
Today's discussion includes some non-GAAP references. These are reconciled to the most
comparable U.S. GAAP measures in the appendix of our earnings deck. You can find the deck
along with the rest of our earnings materials and other important content at
shareholder.ford.com.
Today's discussion also includes forward-looking statements about our expectations. Actual
results may differ from those stated. The most significant factors that could cause actual results
to differ are included on page 24. Unless otherwise noted, all comparisons are year-over-year.
Company EBIT, EPS, and free cash flow are on an adjusted basis, and product mix is volume
weighted. I want to call out a few near-term key IR engagements.
On February 15th, `Jim Farley, Chief Executive Officer and `John Lawler, Chief Financial Officer will participate in a fireside chat in New York with
`Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research at the Wolfe Global Auto, Auto Tech and Mobility Conference. On March 23rd at the
New York Stock Exchange, we will hold a Teachin about our new Ford Plus segment reporting.
This event featuring `John Lawler, Chief Financial Officer and Cathy O'Callaghan, our Controller, will be webcast.
And I'm also pleased to share that our next Capital Markets Day will be Monday, May 22nd at our
headquarters in Dearborn, Michigan. Please save the date. We'll have more information about thisover the coming weeks.
Now, I'll turn the call over to Jim.
`Jim Farley, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Lynn. And hi, everyone. We appreciate you all joining us. I'll start by addressing the
obvious. Our fourth quarter and full-year financial performance last year fell short of our potential.
And while we generated record cash flow, we left about $2 billion of profit on the table due to
costs and especially continued supply-chain issues. These are the simple facts and I -- and to say
I'm frustrated is an understatement because the year could have been so much more for us at
Ford.
Now, I know the question you must be asking, why Ford with an incredible product lineup and all
the restructuring overseas, why aren't you delivering higher profits and more competitive
margins? And it's the right question. So let me share my perspective. With Ford Plus plan, we are
executing a double transformation. While we're making progress, it's hard work as with any
transformation of this magnitude. Certain parts are moving faster than I expected and other parts
are taking longer.
Now, the first part of our transformation is to completely overhaul our industrial system, product
development, manufacturing, and supply-chain management to deliver better costs and quality.
This is critical because it provides the foundation for everything else we do. It funds our future,
that second transformation which we're aggressively building today. Building new and incredible
new growth businesses like Model e and of course, Ford Pro are huge bet on commercial vehicles
which will be high-growth, high-margin, not just products but software and services business.
Now, the second transformation the growth part is growing better than I imagined. At this point in
our journey, I did not expect to be number two in EV sales in the U.S. I didn't know that Lightning
would be completely sold out and I didn't predict the BlueCruise would be the best hands-free
autonomy system in the market or the Ford Pro software sales would be growing off the charts.
And that doesn't even touch all the incredible next-generation EVs and software platforms that
will soon be entering the market. Bottom-line, in a double transformation, we have to significantly
improve our costs and our quality but at the same time grow to fulfill that huge promise in Ford
Plus. And frankly, the first part of the transformation has not moved fast enough. Now, this is what
we should be known for. It's our legacy and we'll show we can do it again. We have deeply
entrenched issues in our industrial system that have proven tough to root out.
Candidly, the strength of our products and revenue has masked this functionality for a long time.
It's not an excuse but it's our reality. And we're dealing with it urgently. Over the past year, we've
made sweeping leadership changes and brought in world-class talent to reenergize and rebuild a
leading industrial organization. We've committed company-wide to implement a lean operating
system that will scrub billions of dollars of waste out of our company. And we are shining a light
on every inch of our legacy business with knowledge that we must do better every day. This has
been humbling for both me and our team. That said, I've never been more convinced about our
plan.
I cannot wait to get in to work every day because I'm so optimistic about our plan and what we're
creating here at Ford. Now, I respect our competition. But I would not trade our places with
anyone. Why? Because we have a real strategy to grow. We have incredible products both on the
road and the ones you haven't seen in the pipeline. And I believe we now have a world-class
leadership team made up of new and existing talent, ready to compete and win.These strings will shine through. Ultimately, the proof will be in our results. That's exactly how it
should be. We appreciate those who placed their faith in Ford and we are committed to creating
value for all of our stakeholders. So with that, let me quickly cover some areas of focus. First, we
remain committed to disciplined capital allocation. Now, you saw this in the actions we took in
Brazil, in India, and most recently in Argo.
And now, South America and IMG are healthy and generating sustainable profits. This work is
never done and will continue to be the focus for us going forward. Our balance sheet liquidity
remains strong and our ability to generate free cash flow has really improved significantly. And
this is allowing us to sell to accelerate our investment in growth. Of course, electrification but also
Pro and software, while importantly also returning capital to our shareholders. And we now
created three distinct customer-facing business segments; Blue, e, and Pro which has given us
greater clarity and insight into each of these businesses and how we can improve each of them
uniquely.
So let me cover a couple of highlights. I'm going to start with Pro, my favorite, the not so secret
weapon at Ford. Ford Pro embodies all of our growth levers and it capitalizes on our commercial
vehicle sales leadership and scale to build a world-class ecosystem that delivers great value to
our customers and profitable growth for us at Ford. In North America, our vehicle share is almost
twice that of our closest competitor. And in Europe, Ford has been the number-one vehicle brand
-- commercial vehicle brand for eight years in a row.
Let me bring this point home. Here in North America, our Home market Super Duty, our most
important Pro vehicle owns half the mining business, you don't have the emergency response
business and have the utility business and the requirements for all these customers are complex,
they're not going to commoditized, and they require a partner who deeply understands these
unique businesses and is dedicated to providing a mix of vehicles but also services that can
improve uptime and total cost of ownership.
And we know these customers will pay for software that will enhance their productivity. Now,
we're going to future-proof this business by leading the commercial electrification solutions as
well. Both the E-Transit and F150 Lightning today, E-transit is already America's top-selling electric
van with 73% market share, 60% of all of our U.S. fleet managers are going to add an electric
vehicle within the next two years to their fleet and that's even before the $7,500 IRA tax credit
that was announced and a price irregardless of location and raw materials of batteries. This year,
Pro really gets going. We introduced our most important vehicle gets refreshed, the new Super
Duty pickup, and in Europe, the Super Duty equivalent, we have an all new one ton Transit.
In Ford Pro's high-margin software business will continue to grow. Especially software for fleet
management, telematics, and charging. Last year these subscriptions for software grew over
70% reflecting new software offerings, better platform for our software, and in contracts and
growth in fleet charging attach rates, which are close to 50% now. We're also increasing our sales
of parts and services via a network of a 1,000 mobile service vehicles on the road in North
America and Europe and over 1,400 specialized commercial vehicle dealerships, many of which
opens 24/7.
In fact last year, mobile service repair orders increased 85% for us in Pro. And this improves the
customer experience while improve -- importantly increasing the attach rates of our high-margin
parts business. Now moving to Blue. The team is focused and has delivered the freshest and
most appealing product lineup in our industry. We know that typically the freshest the ICE
portfolio, the greater the pricing power.So our decision to move away from sedans and commoditized utilities to vehicles like Bronco
Sport and the Big Bronco, the Maverick, the Puma in Europe, and hybrid powertrains has really
paid off. Ford gained nearly one point of market-share here in the U.S. last year. And we expect
2023 to be another big strong year of sheer growth. Ford Blue is a growth business for the
foreseeable future with strong profits and robust free cash flow. And F series was America's
best-selling truck for 46 consecutive year now selling its second placed competitor by more than
140,000 trucks.
We're launching even new pickups, like the new Ranger here in North America and in South
America after we've already launched the new Ranger in Asia and Europe last year. In addition,
Blue is going after billions of cost improvements from engineering to manufacturing to our bill of
material. And in quality, we have work to do. Ford has been the number-one in recalls in the U.S.
for last two years. Clearly, that's not acceptable. We've overhauled our entire enterprise quality
operating system.
And we are already seeing improvements in initial quality for vehicles coming out of our plants
here in North America. And Model E, it's operating with a startup intensity to build profitable EVs
with differentiated industry-leading portfolios that customers are going to love. In the U.S., our EV
sales growth is twice the rate of the EV segment. And more than 60% of our Model e customers
are new to Ford. The F150 Lightning has been America's best-selling electric pickup since it
launched. And the Mustang Mach-E remains a huge hit for our customers. We remain on track to
reach our annualized EV production capacity of 50,000 units per month or 600,000 units
globally by the end of this year.
For reference, in the fourth quarter, our run-rate of production was more like 12,000, so 50,000
is a big growth. And by the end of -- and we are on plan for that 2 million units of the incremental
capacity by the end of 2026. Now to deliver this incredible growth, as we speak through our
facilities in North America, we're adding shifts, expanding our facilities, building out new battery
capacity, and assembly capacity. Construction is in full swing in Tennessee and Kentucky, and our
Blue Oval City, and our Free BlueOval SK battery plants. In Europe, we're moving ahead with the
new commercial vehicle battery facility in Turkey.
Now, critical to our plan is securing the necessary raw materials for these batteries to get to that
2 million unit rate especially lithium and lithium hydroxide and nickel. We expect to have a 100%
raw materials we need with a 2 million unit run-rate secured by the end of this year. Now we are
deep into development of our second-generation EVs, including our next-generation electric full-
sized pickup which by the way is awesome. These EVs will be fully software updatable. That
means a brand-new electric architecture and they're going to be wrapped radically simplified.
Imagine three body styles, each with volume potential of up to 1 million units and just a handful of
order book combinations. That's what we're doing at Ford for the second generation of products
and that means higher customer set, better quality, lower bill material, and lower manufacturing
costs. When we started reporting -- when we start reporting corning these new segments in the
first quarter, you're gonna have complete visibility in the Model E's margin trajectory, and
understand the key levers to achieve our Model e EBIT target of 8%.
We're already making the customer buying experience better with less friction. Now, this is only
going to accelerate when the new Model e dealer program takes effect in January next year. This
program has been adopted by nearly two-thirds of our 3,000 U.S. dealers and it's based on a
radical redesign on our customer experience. Next January, we'll be selling EVs and high-volume
with virtually no inventory, a simple e-commerce platform for our customers, non-negotiated
price set by the local dealer, and remote pickup and delivery for all customer experiences.We're also expanding BlueOval charging network at all of our dealers and we will have dealer
staff trained, not only on software but all the EVs. As I said before, software and experiences will
be the key differentiator for our industry. I mentioned earlier that BlueCruise, our driver-assist
hands-free technology was just tested by Consumer Reports and judged the best hands-free
autonomous system on the market. Let that sink in for a while, the best on the market. Now have
you not experienced BlueCruise, I challenge you to go out and do your side-by-side comparison
with our two major competitors.
And at the end of last year, our customers using BlueCruise have now travelled 42 million
enhanced free miles. So we're scaling incredibly rapidly. That's a four-fold increase and million --
millions of miles since the second quarter of last year. And we have incredible software talent,
making this system better every day including those 600 former Argo engineers who now
working full-time at Ford on our autonomous systems. Now before I hand it over to John, just a
few things.
Ford is a different company today. We're all about building a stronger customer-focused business
that generates sustainable profitable growth and returns above the cost of capital. While our
2022 results fell short of my expectations, I've never been more excited about our future
because we have the right plan, the right structure to succeed, the best team on the field, and
real strategic clarity. This year is about execution. It's time for us to deliver and we will with
relentless attention to our founding principles, drift in growth and we are hitting the ground
running. John?
`John Lawler, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Jim. As Jim pointed out, our performance in 2022 was below our expectations. And our
industrial platform is frankly not where we needed to be. The simple way I measure this is by
looking at our cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue and then compare it to our
competition. We've all done it, we're much higher. And this speaks to the significant operating
deficit we have in product development, manufacturing, and procurement.
And this is no different from the tough capital allocation choices we've made on our geographic
footprint and product portfolio. Choices designed to yield higher quality growth and improved
returns. And we are now applying that same level of discipline to our industrial platform with
urgency. Now on the positive side, our product portfolio has never been stronger. Our new
vehicles are a hit with our customers, our iconic vehicles remain market leaders, and we continue
to make strategic and capital allocations decisions to drive growth, strengthen our competitive
position, and produce returns above our cost of capital.
So turning to the year, we generated a record $9.1 billion in free cash flow, well above our cash
conversion target of 50% to 60%, and importantly, most of the free cash flow came from the
automotive business and this reflects more disciplined capital allocation, including the
restructuring of our operations outside of North America, which until recently was a significant
source of cash burn. Our balance sheet remain strong and we entered the year with $32 billion of
cash and $48 billion of liquidity.
This coupled with the improvement in free-cash flow provides us with ample flexibility to both
fund our growth and return capital to our shareholders. In fact, today, we declared our first-
quarter regular dividend of $0.15 per share, as well as a supplemental dividend of $0.65 per
share, reflecting our strong free cash flow and the monetization of our Rivian stake, which is now
nearly complete. Going forward, we intend to target distributions of 40% to 50% of free cash
flow consistent with our focus on total shareholder returns.Now for the year, we delivered $10.4 billion in adjusted EBIT with a margin of 6.6%. And as Jim
said, by better executing the things we control, we should have generated as much as $2 billion
more in adjusted EBIT. For example, the instability of our supply chain and production plans
caused us to not only deliver lower-than-planned volumes in the fourth quarter but also incur
higher costs through premium freight and other supplier charges.
Now let me give you a quick overview of how our 22 segments performed recognizing that
beginning with our first quarter 2023 results will no longer have the Automotive segments with
the regional breakouts. North America delivered $9.2 billion of the EBIT, an improvement of $1.8
billion, driven by higher net pricing and increased volume, which was partially offset by higher
commodities and other inflation-related cost increases. EBIT margin was 8.4%. We continue to
maintain a healthy -- maintain a healthy order bank and the team is busy preparing for the launch
of the all new Super Duty and our seventh-generation Mustang later this year.
And both of those are incredible products. In South America, we delivered a profit of over $400
million, and the region is now derisked and sustainably profitable. In Europe, we were slightly
above breakeven for the year but as our fourth-quarter results showed clearly below our target.
Given the changing macroeconomic environment and demand environment in Europe, we will
make the changes necessary to deliver a sustainable business that consistently generates returns
above our cost of capital. Our core strength in the region continues to be our leading commercial
vehicle business.
In China, we posted a loss of about $600 million, driven by increased investment in EVs. Lincoln
continues to be our profit pillar in the region but clearly, we have more work to do to ensure our
business is growing, sustainable, and delivering appropriate returns. Our International Markets
Group earned more than $600 million, driven by the launch of the all new Ranger and our
decision to exit India. And similarly to South America, the region is now prime for sustainable
profitability. And finally, Ford Credit had another solid year delivering EBT of $2.7 billion, which was
down $2.1 billion from the prior year, reflecting lower credit loss and lease residual reserve
releases, lower financing margin, and lower lease return rates.
Now, given the continued uncertainties in the macro environment, I want to provide some context
to how we're thinking about 2023. For the full year, we expect to earn $9 billion to $11 billion in
adjusted EBIT. And that assumes a size of 15 million units in the U.S. and 13 million units in Europe.
We expect to generate adjusted free cash flow of about $6 billion and for capital expenditures to
be between $8 billion to $9 billion. Our adjusted EBIT guidance includes various headwinds and
tailwinds that we believe could impact our business in the coming year.
And for example, when you think about the headwinds, they include an expected mild recession
in the U.S. and a moderate recession in Europe, higher industry incentives andsupply and demand
come back into balance, Ford Credit EVT of about $1.3 billion and that's about $1.4 billion lower
than in 2022, reflecting unfavorable lease residual and credit losses and the non-reoccurrence of
derivative gains. We expect a continued strong dollar. We also expect about $2 billion lower past
service pension income. And we're also going to continue investments in growth, including in
customer experience, connected services in CapEx as we build out our growth plan.
Now tailwinds include improvements in supply chain and industry volume, launch of our all new
Super Duty, and then, of course, lower cost of goods sold including efficiencies and materials,
commodities, logistics, and other parts of our industrial platform. Now, before taking questions,
let me briefly touch on our new financial reporting as well as plans for our next Capital Markets
Day. On March 23 -- March 23rd, we'll hold a teach-in at the New York Stock Exchange. And I'mreally excited about this opportunity because it will be our chance to take you through how the
new Ford Plus segments will alter our financial reporting.
The changes will include how revenue, costs, products, and assets are assigned to each
segment. At the teach-in, we will also share our recast financials for both 2021 and 2022, and we
hope many of you join us at the New York Stock Exchange in person. But we will also broadcast a
webcast live and will be -- and we'll post the toolkit and other materials to orient you around all
the materials, and help you migrate your models.
Now, the teach-in will not be a strategic update. That will come at our Capital Markets Day in
DearBorn in May when we will update you on our Ford Plus strategy. We'll do a deep dive into the
financial targets and KPIs for each of our new segments, as well as for software and services.
Now with this new level of transparency, which will be tracked and validated in our earnings
materials and SEC filings, we think investors will be better equipped to value how each of our
customer focus segments is contributing to Ford's overall growth and return profile.
And as Jim mentioned earlier, 2023 is a pivotal year for Ford. We have the plan, the talent, and
the product portfolio in place to take the company to an exciting new level, one that is both
differentiated from our past performance and our competitors. And going forward, our new
segmentation will provide unprecedented levels of transparency and insight into all aspects of
our business, making it easier to hold Ford leadership accountable for delivering superior growth
and value for all of our stakeholders.
Well, that wraps up the prepared remarks. And we'll use the balance of the time to address
what's on your minds. So, thank you. And operator, please open up the line for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
We will now begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) Our first question
comes from `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Hey, Jim. Hey, everybody. I appreciate the humility and the self-criticism and the spirit of that on
the cost and the execution shortfall. It's kind of refreshing to see that, but when you began the
description about it and how frustrated you are Jim and -- and how it's not good enough, we're
getting all excited to hear some details. And there's just not a lot here, okay? This I'm just going
to say is not a lot of details at all about what exactly the problem is and what you're doing about
it and how much getting get better this year.
You can disagree, if you want, that's my impression. I want to know what it is and -- because $2
billion on the table, frankly, that's a 130 bps of margin. I mean that's going to go to the consumer
anyway. So, tell us that's just the beginning and there's way more to go. Do we have to wait until
May for that or is there anything else you can tell us to help model the company in the year ahead
and what you're doing about it? I appreciate it.
A - `Jim Farley, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Adam. No, there's a lot more to go. And the industrial system at Ford is -- is a huge
opportunity for us. And we've spent the last several months really getting deep on where we
need to go. So John, maybe you could share. We're feeling comfortable in sharing but you'reA - `John Lawler, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So, Adam, I think if you just step back and look at the three elements of the industrial
platform, there's opportunities across each. If you look at our product development system in our
engineering, the level of productivity that we have. So think about a $1 of input then what you get
out for that $1 of input, is probably about 25%, 30% inefficient. So we should be either getting
more product through the pipeline or which our costs will be significantly lower.
Now we have to be very smart about how we go about doing that because we've got incredible
products in the pipeline. And there is a huge opportunity on that front but we also have to
balance the quality as well. And so when it comes to our engineering, I think you should think
about it that way and that's what we're going after.
Our supply chain, there are issues across the supply chain. It cost us as we talked about last year,
at least $1 billion in premiums that we had to pay. Increased freight, premiums on ships, premiums
on disruption that we caused our suppliers because our schedule stability was probably worst in
class and fixing that, and the root cause it gets to that will drive incredible opportunities for us.
And let's say that for 2023, it should be at least an incremental $1 billion, at least.
And then when you look at our manufacturing system and you go through our plants, you look at
the level of working capital we have in, you look at our production schedules, you look at the
complexity and what it does for the time that it takes us to build a vehicle. And you understand
just how inefficient that is and then you bring that back through that complexity back through the
supply chain, and you talked about the number of changeovers that our suppliers have to make
to produce the complexity that we have and the time that, that adds to production, and the time
that adds to cost and the issues that it drive through. So those are just some of the tip of the
iceberg, the things we're going after. And then if you go back and you look at it, as I said in my
remarks, just you look at the math and you look at our cost of goods sold, relative to our revenue
and then compare that to traditional OEMs -- let OEMs, let alone the new OEMs, and you see the
size of the price that we're going after.
And what's changed, Adam, I think the answer is, we just have to show you guys. I mean, that's
where we're at. We have to deliver it. But as Jim said, as we're taking this lean approaching
getting into it, there's a very systematic way we're going at it now, and we are very focused and
we know that this is the number-one thing that needs to get fixed in the first part of our
transformation.
A - `Jim Farley, Chief Executive Officer `
And Adam, I'd just like to add as the CEO, there's lot of choices. They're all very consequential
when it comes to the approach to do this. The most important thing for me is this is sustainable.
When you look at Ford, we have cut in the past and it grows back, or we have cut everywhere and
not really focused on the industrial system. So for me, the approach that we're taking it's very
different and very difficult, is that it has to be daily work. Gaps to competition, countermeasures,
action plans for those countermeasures, constant evaluation of the effectiveness of those
countermeasures, celebration of those KPIs in our status, and daily management. It has to be a
more fundamental approach than holding our breath or dealing with the output like people and
getting into the real industrial system's efficiency. And that is a cultural change as a leader. It's a
behavioral change, it is not just a program.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `Operator
Our next --
A - `Jim Farley, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank Of America from Bank of America. Please go ahead.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank Of America `
Hi. Good evening, guys. Just wanted to follow-ups, sort of on a similar vein, short-term and long-
term. Just for short term, when we think about '23 outlook, and you look at the $1.4 billion decline
in Ford Credit and take that is reasonably given number, something in that direction and then $2
billion of lower past service pension income, that's a $3.4 billion headwind, but sort of at the
midpoint of the range you're talking about EBIT being roughly flat. So that sort of indicates a very
significant $3 billion plus improvements in the core business, which is a lot to kind of believe when
you're looking at sort of the headwinds and the issues that you just faced.
I'm just curious if you can comment on that, and maybe kind of walk us to how we can get
comfortable like we'll see a $3 billion-plus improving the core business this year, I mean, and how
do you get the supply-chain issues fixed when some are bit outside of your control and what we
hear from suppliers is volatilities in schedules and it's not just specific to Ford, it is still pretty
volatile?
A - `John Lawler, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, thanks, John. It's a great question. That's exactly it. The headwinds are $4.5 billion to $5
billion. As we pointed out and we said we expect on the tailwinds our pricing to be about neutral.
The market forces I think are going to drive average transaction prices down. We think probably
around 5% and that will come some from the dealer margins, but also from higher incentives.
And then you step back from it and we do have the new Super Duty, and we expect that to be a
positive, and we also have a very strong order bank on our commercial vehicles. So we're looking
at pricing being about flattish. We said volumes, there is a slight opportunity as industry comes
along so the rest of that falls into cost reductions and that's exactly right.
When you look at those cost reductions, you have to see what's happening relative to the
material and in material there's two phases. There is one, it's -- we do expect commodity prices
to come off a bit to improve a bit. But we also have significant opportunities in a material cost and
we have several initiatives going on to identify those efficiencies. We also have quite a bit of cost.
When you talk about schedule stability, I don't have the exact data from the competition, but
when I look at our schedule stability, there are significant opportunities through changes that we
can take to improve that schedule stability, which will flow straight-through to lower surcharges
from the supply base because they have to deal with that instability. And there's costs that drives
as well as the significant premiums we paid in freight for expedites, air freight, et cetera to just
trying to keep the plants going and keep our suppliers' plants going.
So those are two immediate actions that we can take based on the inefficiencies we saw in '22
that cost us the $2 billion. And then on top of that, we have to build through the Core Industrialplatform just productivity and efficiencies to drive even more improvements. So that's how we're
thinking about it and that's how we're going about it.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank Of America `
Okay. That's actually incredibly helpful. And just on the long term, I mean you mentioned, Jim,
about scrubbing -- scrubbing things foundationally and really getting to some costs that are
excess, and I appreciate the three areas you've highlighted. But as we look around the world, I
mean, Europe is -- had fits and starts of making us all kind of excited that it's going to work and
then it doesn't from time to time. And China, you kind of been chasing competition there, and it
hasn't really paid out for you.
But there are two very important parts of Europe and China that are very strong for you.
Commercial vehicle in Europe is incredibly strong. So could we just strip Europe back to pure
commercial vehicle and could China just strip back to pure Lincoln? Two places we know you're
making money and cut out the other -- the other stuff so that you can actually fund the transition
that you're talking about?
I mean, it just -- we kind of all dance around this stuff and you've headed in this direction with the
global redesign, but there's -- there's real opportunities here to be really profitable.
A - `Jim Farley, Chief Executive Officer `
No, you hit on it. And I'm glad we're getting into some of the strategies. I mean I would think of
China business similar to what we've done in South America and IMG. Small but profitable,
focused. We've been in the past in China kind of small but focused on everything. And Lincoln and
our commercial with JMC is very profitable and an important business, but they have to make the
EV transition. And I don't think you can be globally successful in the EV business if you don't
compete with the Chinese. I mean they're going to come to Europe, they're already there.
They're going to come to the U.S. BYD is a powerhouse. Geely, there's so many others.
And so we believe China is very strategically important for us. But to win there, we have to make
those businesses transition profitably to EV, but I would think of it as kind of small and focused,
maybe even more than past. And Europe is definitely -- we have a great CV business, commercial
vehicle business that now is getting electrified. So we're like making that transition now. We have
a new Ranger, the electric version of Transit -- one-ton Transit, and all of them, we have a new
manufacturing site in Romania that's really scaling up now in commercial. So we have a really
strong business.
And the decision really is how much do we need, how much -- how many engineers, how many
people do we need in Europe, and how big of a profile do we need in passenger cars? That's the
decision. We've already electrified Cologne and that's really the decision. It's not the right time to
talk about where we're going to go, but we know exactly our strength in Europe, and we know
what we need to do. So -- and you won't have to wait long to hear from us on -- on these things.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank Of America `
Okay. I've got more, but I'll get back in the queue. Thank you very much, guys. I appreciate it.
A - `Jim Farley, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure, sure. Thanks, John.
OperatorThe next question comes from `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research from Wolfe Research. Please go ahead.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Hi, everybody. I think, John, you said that in response to Adam's question that variable costs
would come down by at least $1 billion. But at the same time, you're acknowledging that pricing
could easily be more than $1 billion negative for $100 billion North American business with five
points of average transaction price decline? Can you maybe give us a little bit more insight into
that? And can you provide a few specific KPIs that would demonstrate progress on structural
costs, they were up another $2 billion in 2022?
A - `John Lawler, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So on the pricing, we do see the broad market coming in at about transaction prices falling
about 5%. Some of that's going to come out of the dealer margins, of course. It's not all going to
come from us. But we also have upside, Rod, with some of the launch of the new vehicles. We
won't see as much of a price compression there. So we see pricing net-net for us next year being
about flattish. And so don't think about it as we're working through '23 as being a negative $1
billion.
And then I would say that when it comes to the cost reductions, I think what we've got to start
showing is, one, that we're getting leverage out of the business. If we're growing the business
that our cost of goods sold is growing at a much slower pace. And that as we're coming out with
new vehicles, our cost per units are coming down, so our margins are improving. When you look
at the design of our vehicles and you compare it to competition, I think if you go through those
benchmarks and you go through those teardowns, you can see that there's a tremendous
amount of opportunity for us to design out complexity.
And you should see that coming through complexity reduction KPIs on our vehicles. I think that will
be key. And it not only will be in the order combinations but also in the parts complexity in the
number of parts. And what we'll be doing is, as we move forward through this year, especially at
Capital Markets Day, we'll be providing more details on those KPIs. But it's the key areas you
should be seeing how much productivity we're getting out of $1 of engineering, and we should do
something around that from a KPI standpoint because these are the areas that we need to
improve.
A - `Jim Farley, Chief Executive Officer `
Rod, some of the things I think about -- some of the things I think about is a number of -- number
of complex sequencing centers we have. Our line side complexity, number of parts sitting on side
of the line, our inventory turns inside the plant. And on the supplier side, it's going to be
transparency. We have full transparency down to Tier 3 in our supply chain. It's very important to
operationalize better quality and costs.
On the engineering side, it's also indirect. What's the ratio of indirect to direct engineering that
we're spending, i.e., the productive -- the productive engineering that's resulting in customer-
facing products. And increasingly, I know it's going to sound a little bit weird, but it's the software
output. We are spending as a management team more and more time on our software platform
and the cost of creating software and the complexity of software.
And that's something that -- we have a lot of KPIs. They're increasing quickly and are increasingly
important for us. It may not be significant for structural cost, but we have to be careful to add a
lot of complexity in software.Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
So just to put a landmark out there, do you think a year from now we will be looking at structural
costs that are up or down, obviously, ex-pension because you have this $3 billion cost reduction
plan? And then I have a second question just on Model e.
A - `John Lawler, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Rod, I think it's beyond just structural cost. Our biggest cost element is our material cost.
We will continue to invest in our growth-related investments, so connected services. The
software, as Jim talked about, we're also continuing to invest, as you know, in our build-out of our
batteries. So our spending related costs are going to go up. Volume will drive manufacturing cost,
which is in our structural cost.
So there will be puts and takes on the structural costs. Our biggest opportunity is in our level of
material cost that we have. It's the largest cost element on our income statement, and it's where
we are most uncompetitive.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Yeah. Okay,
A - `John Lawler, Chief Financial Officer `
So We're going after everything, but I --
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Yeah. I -- I think I got the answer on that. Maybe just to switch gears on Model e, if I can ask Jim a
question. You've got this target of 8%. And that 8% margin target presumably has some
assumptions for where costs will go, but also where pricing is going to go. And just considering
everyone's aspirations for growth in EVs, do you think you can stand by those pricing
assumptions? And maybe a different way of asking this is, do you think you can sell a $40,000
electric crossover with a 20% gross margin?
A - `Jim Farley, Chief Executive Officer `
That is a very important question. The reality is we will -- we are structuring our portfolio to
compete in very specific segments. The two-row Crossover is turning out to be the core civic of
the EV business. And the last thing we want to do is commoditize our products by dropping the
price. Just look what happened to Henry Ford in the '20s in the early teens. And that's exactly
what we're seeing play out here.
We didn't have to touch the pricing at all for Lightning and E-Transit because we pick the right
segments. But the real driver of our future profitability on Model e is the second cycle products.
We didn't know -- we didn't know when we designed these first three products. We didn't know
that our wiring harness for Mach-E was 1.6 kilometers longer than it needed to be. We didn't know
it's 70 pounds heavier and that that's worth $300 a battery. We didn't know that we
underinvested in braking technology to save on the battery size.
We didn't know that we needed the world's best aerodynamics to get the size of the battery
smaller. And so now we have learned a lot and that second cycle of the product is in the factory
right now being developed with a lot of new talent. So I'm very optimistic about our 8% becausewe are not going to be playing in the two-row commodity SUV market because that's -- because
Ford's tried that in the ICE business, didn't really work out for us.
We want to play our hand, our strength, commercial, truck, larger vehicles on the category side.
We do not want to have too many top ads because that costs a lot to engineer. We want to have
minimum choice for customers, but we want to design the smallest possible battery for
competitive size, and we want to invest differently in our ICE business for radical simplification.
30%, 40%, 50% less fasteners, no brackets in the vehicle. I can go on and on.
We'll get into it at Capital Markets Day. I think we should expect all brands to protect growth when
it comes to EV. And that for we have to expect negative pricing. And that means software and
other items like that becoming even more critical. I can't wait to show you our new electric
architecture because to me, that's the most critical strategic investment the company is making,
not our batteries, not the EV platforms, but our new fully updatable electric architecture because
what we've learned on Pro is we can make real money on software.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan from JP Morgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. Maybe to follow up on that. I heard you say in the prepared
remarks that revenue for software services and charging rose 70% year-over-year in 2022. I
remember you discussing like a potential $20 billion market opportunity by 2030 with a lot of
excitement on Pro at the last Investor Day target for 33 million connected vehicles in 2028.
But have you dimensioned how larger profitable this business may be currently? Or are you able
to share any more interim goals such as what your expectations are for services revenue or
services revenue growth in 2023? Or what the next catalyst might be here for this business, such
as I don't know, the number of vehicles launching with Blue Oval intelligence or anything else we
should be monitoring?
A - `Jim Farley, Chief Executive Officer `
Right. Yeah, great question. We're going to see that on Pro first, and this year is a breakout year
for Pro because we have brand-new products, both core in Europe and U.S. are most -- the
highest volume, highest profit vehicles are all new. So a very important year for us. I would say we
absolutely have a fantastic business plan that's very specific about software and physical services.
The biggest opportunity for us in the short term is the aftersales business.
Only 10% of our Pro customers do business with us, and we hardly do any financing with them.
And so between financing and parts and service, we have enormous upside in the short term.
And those are very profitable parts of our business. So I would think of -- think of it this way, Ryan.
It's like the software is starting to drive a closed loop where the customer wants to do more
physical service with us. We have all those mobile units, more and more dedicated dealers and
more of our commercial customers because of the use of the software is coming back and
buying parts for us.And then the next level of performance is really going to be prognostics. When we could put
predictive failure in all the vehicles, like you see on John Deere and Caterpillar, and then drive
that into our physical repair facilities, we're going to see a much larger retention in parts and
service. So I think the basics of the business are, these are profitable vehicles. We've got new
ones coming out. We're going to grow that.
We're -- I mean, we blew through our parts and service profits and revenue for Pro last year. It's
almost like we can't even predict as this -- that software starts to really drive a different behavior
for our customers, the growth in parts and service. But that's the monetization in the short term
for these services in the integrated ecosystem. And then long term, the real game changer kind
of like autonomy in the retail space is going to be that prognostics.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from `James Picariello, Analyst, BNP Paribas from BNP Paribas. Please go ahead.
Q - `James Picariello, Analyst, BNP Paribas `
Hi, guys. So the third quarter negative pre-announcement had a narrative around it, right? It was
very high mix on wheels inventory that you couldn't ship and the additional $1 billion of supplier
costs. I know Adam hit on this in his question, but this quarter is missing that storyline. I know it
was mentioned that you have line of sight to $2 billion in profit that you left on the table.
But what could really turn around almost immediately in this first quarter in '23 here in terms of
like what operational mishaps you know will reverse in the coming months and quarter, whatever
the time frame might be?
A - `John Lawler, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I think it comes down to the key driver for the miss in the fourth quarter was the volumes.
And the volumes was on availability of key commodities, primarily chips and the fact that many of
our suppliers had equipment issues as they were ramping. We think we've worked through a lot
of those issues on the ramp in our supply chain. And as far as the rate inflow on the commodities,
the chips, it continues to be hand-to-hand comment. But we're putting corrective actions in place.
We've got better pipelines from brokers and spot buys, and we're working very closely with our
supply chain down to the Tier 2 chip suppliers.
So that's execution, it changes that we're putting in place on the rate and flow, and it's being
more efficient in our scheduling and the stability of our production to reduce expedited freight,
expedited costs at our supply chain, et cetera. So part of it's operational. Part of it's what we're
doing working with our supply chain partners. And part of it is getting through the hump on
ramping up run rates, et cetera, throughout the system.
Q - `James Picariello, Analyst, BNP Paribas `
Okay. Understood. And then -- that's helpful. And then in terms of the earnings bridge for this
year, with respect to materials and freight, that $9 billion headwind in '22. I know you mentioned
you're baking in commodity prices to come down. But all in relative to that $9 billion this past year,
what's assumed in the '23 guide here on this line item?A - `John Lawler, Chief Financial Officer `
Right. So if you look at that, it's at least $2.5 billion depending on where we fall within the range of
the guidance. So I think that would be a start point, and then we would go from there. And of
course, we're going to be working to do better than that. But that's what we see so far.
Q - `James Picariello, Analyst, BNP Paribas `
So, at least $2.5 billion positive?
A - `John Lawler, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah.
Q - `James Picariello, Analyst, BNP Paribas `
Okay, understood. Thank you.
Operator
Our last question comes from `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citi from Citi. Please go ahead.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citi `
Great, thanks. Good evening, everyone. Just two questions for me. First, I was hoping you could
maybe talk about the regional outlook in your 2023 guidance. I don't know that the segments are
about to change, but hoping touch on the regions. And then second, maybe for Jim. When we're
thinking about the software opportunity on your new electrical architecture on the consumer side
of the business, where do you see the biggest opportunity there from a revenue perspective? Is
it automated driving? Is it connected services? Just curious what is most interesting there?
A - `John Lawler, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I think what we would have to say is that given that we're moving to our segments for
2023, we're not going to be reporting the regions. And so we will give more color on 2023 by
each of the business unit segments. And so I'm not going to comment on regions anymore going
forward, unless there's a specific reason to do that within one of the segments.
A - `Jim Farley, Chief Executive Officer `
I think on the demand side, we see the U.S. around the 15 million range, Europe around 13 million.
We're going to see more incentives in the U.S. So we can go through the demand side if that's
what you're interested in.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citi `
Yeah, sure. That would be helpful. Yeah. Maybe pricing in Europe would be helpful as well.
A - `John Lawler, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I think in Europe, we're going to see continued pressure on the top line. We've got a 13
million unit in the industry. We think we still have such a strong order bank. We not think we know
we have a strong order bank on our commercial vehicles that we don't see as much pressure
there. More of the pressure will come on the passenger side. But pricing in Europe, incentivescontinue to be strong throughout this year. So I don't think you'll see as much price compression
in Europe, as you've seen in -- you'll see in North America and the U.S.
But I think definitely for Europe, it's the call on the industry and where do we think that will be
offset by the strength of the order bank we have on our commercial vehicles. Coming back to the
U.S., as we said, a 15 million unit industry, we think prices are going to come and the industry are
going to fall, transaction prices will fall about 5%. You think about that as about a combination of
incentives and lower dealer margins. We're starting to see dealer margins come down now as
our demand from the industry is easing a bit.
And we're starting to see the inflationary costs come through with the pricing. And so we're
starting to see those margins come off. And I think as we go through the year, particularly in the
second half, you'll start to see prices come down through higher incentives by the OEMs. When
you look at our International Markets Group, I think it's a little bit different there. Our key product
is Ranger, and that's all new, and that's launching, and so there's incredible demand for it.
And so we think we have some pricing power there as well. So I think the puts and takes around
the region, if you look at it on a macro basis. And I think it will be more insightful as we talk about
what's happening in each of the segments and then specifically what's happening in Pro Blue and
e in those segments around the world.
A - `Jim Farley, Chief Executive Officer `
On the software side, we were guessing before, but now we kind of know what the first three
shippable large TAM software revenue sources are for our industry. The first is partial autonomy,
the second is Safety and Security, and the third is productivity. And the star people in there, the
early leaders definitely ADAS on pricing and revenue growth. I mean, the growth we're seeing,
the demand we're seeing for BlueCruise and all ADAS features is really driving a lot of software
shipment.
We're about to ship our second cycle of BlueCruise already, and we are really starting to see --
that is clearly what customers want revenue-wise. And I do believe in this first three, four years of
software to the car that ADAS, that Level 2, Level 3 system is really the most remarkable TAM.
However, in the background, for Ford, the productivity software in Pro is really important. It's
maybe unique to us, but it is a very important part of our software revenue, which we will lay out
in May. You'll see more specifics on it, but it's very profitable.
The customers love the data, and they have a higher demand for the data and the software than
the retail customer. I think the slow burn, the one in the background that I'm super excited about
is the third leg of the stool of safety and security, not like someone stole your car, but it's video
content, a lot of it tied to insurance. So this is going to be a really interesting area. Kind of think of
your cars and extension of your ring and all the safety and security you have in your house now, all
that technology, the cars give me another note on that. It will go for everything from teenage
drivers to all sorts of things and that video capture is going to be the essence.
Another reason why we think our next electrical architecture is so strategically important for the
company because we want to embed that hardware and software and adaptability in the electric
architecture so we can ship the software, better software than our competition on safety and
security, even if it's a little fuzzy on what the features are today.
Q - `Itay Michaeli, Analyst, Citi `
Perfect, that's all. Very, very helpful. Thank you.Operator
This concludes the Ford Motor Company Fourth Quarter 2022 Earnings Conference Call. Thank
you for your participation. You may now disconnect.