Q4 2025 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, everyone. My name is Leila, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I
would like to welcome you to the Ford Motor Company Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings
Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the
speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions)
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to `Lynn Antipas Tyson, Chief Investor Relations Officer, Chief Investor Relations
Officer.
`Lynn Antipas Tyson, Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Leila. And welcome to Ford Motor Company's fourth quarter 2025 earnings call. With
me today are Jim Farley, President and CEO; and `Sherry House, Chief Financial Officer, CFO. Joining us for Q&A is
`Andrew Frick, President, Ford Blue and Model e, President of Ford Blue and Model e; `Alicia Boler Davis, President, Ford Pro, President of Ford Pro; Kumar
Galhotra, Chief Operating Officer; and Cathy O'Callaghan, CEO of Ford Credit. Jim will give a
high-level overview of the business and Sherry will provide added texture on the financials and
our guidance for 2026.
We'll be referencing non-GAAP measures today. These are reconciled to the most comparable
U.S. GAAP measures in the appendix of our earnings deck. You can find the deck at
shareholder.ford.com. Our discussion also includes forward-looking statements. Our actual results
may differ. The most significant risk factors are included on Page 21 of our deck. Unless otherwise
noted, all comparisons are year-over-year. Company EBIT, EPS, and free cash flow are on an
adjusted basis. Upcoming IR engagements include `Sherry House, Chief Financial Officer at the Wolfe Research Auto
Tech and Semiconductor Conference in New York City tomorrow, February 11.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jim.`James D. Farley, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Lynn. Thank you to the Ford team, to all of our dealers, to our suppliers, and all of our
partners. We executed very well last year. We managed through numerous challenges that came
our way, from multiple tariffs to supply chain disruptions, and delivered good results in all areas
within our control at Ford.
We continue to grow $187 billion of revenue. We also lowered material and warranty costs and
made significant progress in quality. Our U.S. market share climbed to 13.2%, our best
performance in six years. I'm pleased to say we delivered TSR of 42%. On the bottom-line, we
generated $6.8 billion adjusted EBIT for the full year. This includes $2 billion headwind for Novelis
fires and the net tariff impact of $2 billion. That's a $1 billion higher tariff impact than we
communicated just in October due to the unexpected and late year change in tariff credits for
auto parts. Without that, our full year EBIT on that one timer, without that one timer, would have
been $7.7 billion in EBIT.
The takeaway from my perspective is we closed last year a much stronger business with a solid
foundation to achieve our target of 8% adjusted EBIT target by 2029. Let's talk about that
foundation. We dealt decisively with the reality of the market and shifted our focus of our EV
business to a high volume, affordable end of the market. You'll hear more in a second. We made
big strides in cost and quality. And yes, that means we recalled many of our old vehicles to take
care of our customers.
We quietly, but very thoughtfully modernized the company, upgrading our talent, all of our IT tools
and enterprise tools, the culture of the company, and the facilities to unleash the performance
and efficiency of our team. We've looked -- we're now locked in a more vibrant and profitable
product and technology roadmap. No boring products is what we like to say, and boy, we can't
wait to see -- wait for you to see our next generation. We have another wave of sophisticated
and passionate vehicles for work, adventure, fun, and off-road, with a tech suite that will change
the experience of 1 our IS business.
Bottom-line, the earnings power of our business is accelerating, and our Ford Plus strategy
distinguishes us from the competition in clear ways. First is the revenue power of Ford Pro. It's a
durable commercial business. Our competitors cannot match. Global demand for super duty and
transit franchise is extremely healthy. In the U.S., Ford Pro's Class 1 through 7 market share is over
42%. Roughly the size of our two largest competitors combined.
In Europe, we're the number one commercial brand for the 11th straight year. But crucially, we're
diversifying that revenue. Software and physical services grew 10% and now contributes 19% for
Ford Pro's EBIT, rapidly approaching our 20% target. And we continue to deepen our competitive
moat, thanks to our dealers who are specializing and investing in more and forming new
partnerships like ServiceTitan to broaden our reach and integrate directly with the trades.
Second is our strength of our diverse truck and off-road lineup in Ford Blue. We have a powerful
position in pickup trucks, from the affordable Maverick all the way through the F-Series, including
globally the Ranger, and Ford just won the North America Truck of the Year for the sixth year in a
row, an unprecedented industry feat. We also have the highest share of revenue in the U.S.
pickup market, growing almost two full share points of revenue last year.
Furthermore, we are translating our off-road dominance directly into the profitability of the
company. Raptor, and importantly, our off-road performance trims now account for more than
20% of the U.S. sales mix. This gives us massive earning power, and with pending EPA changes,You see this all coming to life in improving customer loyalty and advocacy, as evidenced by our
net -- higher net promoter scores. Our corporate reputation is also getting stronger, important to
dealing with policymakers, our partners, and of course, our communities. In fact, Time Magazine
named Ford the most iconic company in America based on its very large survey base of its
readers.
We also expect to achieve the seventh straight year as America's number one auto producer,
and we produce more than five vehicles in America for every one that we input. This year, we
anticipate a more stable policy environment for our partnership with the administration this year,
especially given a reset in the emission standards. We also expect year-over-year profit
improvements driven by richer Ford Blue mix, Ford Pro growth, and reduced Model e losses.
We are also targeting another $1 billion of industrial cost improvements. And to drive strong
execution, the management's compensation is directly tied to hitting key milestones for cost and
quality and software for the vehicles that will come out in the next few years. Our Ford Plus plan is
now focused -- it is not just focused on near-term short-term profitability. Let me be specific
about some of the most important drivers for our long-term value creation.
First, affordable EVs. We aren't just building compliance vehicles at Ford. We're launching a cost-
efficient Universal EV platform that will drive profitable growth in the lower-priced segments
where the EVs have continued to thrive in America. We will launch multiple vehicles off that same
platform, starting with the midsize pickup, bringing younger and more diverse customers into our
brand. The Universal platform also gives us a scalable hedge against a potential regulation
snapback in the future.
Second is Ford Energy. This is a very strategic business. Our startup with a short payback period
that uses our manufacturing muscle and cost advantage with our LFP batteries to diversify our
revenue and de-risk the core automotive business.
Third, we're controlling the electrical architecture at Ford. By bringing this in-house, we lower cost,
cut our supply chain risk, and build the brain needed to enhance the user experience to
differentiate and expand our integrated services profit pool.
Fourth, smart partnerships. We continue to build on our partnership platform. We're looking for
ways to help us move faster, to get access to IP that will eventually become commoditized, and
to lower our capital expenditures and improve our scale. Our recent agreements with CATL and
Renault are different but good examples.
And finally, our product roadmap. We're doubling down on our icons, making the next generation
F-150 and Super Duty absolutely breakthroughs in terms of cost, technology, powertrain choice,
and functional features. We're also expanding our off-road and performance lineups across our
most important and popular franchises.
At the same time, we also plan to expand our market coverage with more affordable trucks and
SUVs. And we'll do it with a broad mix of powertrains, gas, different kinds of hybrids, and fully
electric. Customers want choice. Overall, we entered this year with the right portfolio, the right
strategy, and the discipline to execute.
Sherry?
`Sherry House, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Jim. Looking back at 2025, our performance clearly demonstrated two things, capitalfifth consecutive year as we continue to expand our share of revenue, including non-traditional
segments like hybrid trucks, while accelerating the growth of our higher margin paid software
subscriptions.
We also stayed disciplined on inventory, cutting U.S. growth stocks by 16% and ending the year at
56 retail days supply, the low end of our target range. We generated $3.5 billion of free cash flow
and ended the year with close to $29 billion in cash and nearly $50 billion in liquidity. We continue
to prioritize our balance sheet, a significant competitive advantage that provides flexibility to
accelerate investments into accretive opportunities, like Ford Energy and both software and
physical services. These are high margin, high growth opportunities grounded in disciplined
capital allocation that will drive a higher returning, more resilient business model over time.
We remain committed to our investment-grade rating, while also delivering top quartile
shareholder returns through both share price appreciation and dividends, including the
declaration of our first quarter regular dividend of $0.15 per share last week.
Now, turning to segment highlights, Ford Pro once again demonstrated its importance and
persistence is a key profit pillar for Ford by delivering more than $66 billion of revenue and EBIT
of $6.8 billion with a double-digit margin. Pro achieved this in the face of tariffs, production losses
due to Novelis, normalization in U.S. industry pricing and more commoditized areas like
government and delivery vans, and the challenging macroeconomic and regulatory landscape in
Europe where we achieved market share growth.
In the U.S., Transit hit record sales, up 6%, and Super Duty had its best sales in over 20 years, up
10%. Pro continues to evolve its business by diversifying revenue streams and building out its high
margin service infrastructure. Paid software subscriptions grew by 30% last year.
In 2025, we made meaningful progress in Ford Model e, improving structural costs, our mix of
higher margin products and driving adoption of affordable high volume vehicles. Model e
delivered revenue and volume growth of 73% and 69%, respectively, driven by new product
introductions in Europe. EBIT losses for the year improved to $4.8 billion loss, reflecting fewer
losses on Gen 1 products, partially offset by increased investment in our Gen 2 products as we
prepare for the launch of our UEV platform in 2027. The lower Gen 1 losses were driven by cost
reductions and higher volume in Europe, where margins are stronger.
Lastly, in December, we rationalized the role of pure EVs in our near-term product portfolio based
on changing market realities in the U.S. Our disciplined approach to capital allocation will
significantly improve the run rate of the business going forward. Our performance in Ford Blue
was supported by our industry-leading power of choice and strength of our truck and SUV
franchises. Revenue was roughly flat as higher net pricing and the strength of our product lineup
offset most of the 5% decline in wholesale sales, which includes disruption from Novelis.
In the U.S., Blue had the two best-selling hybrid trucks, Bronco had record sales, and Explorer was
the number one three-row SUV. Our higher-margin Raptor franchise also had record sales. Blue
delivered $3 billion in EBIT as lower warranty, other cost improvements, and growth in software
and physical services were more than offset by planned and unplanned lost production and
adverse exchange.
Ford Credit delivered full-year EBT of $2.6 billion and distributions of $1.7 billion. EBT was up 55%
for the year, reflecting improved financing margin. Ford Credit continues to originate a high-
quality book with U.S. retail and lease FICO scores exceeding 750. We are excited about the
recent approval of our industrial bank application. This long-term initiative will expand ourcapabilities, enabling us to offer additional savings options to customers, further diversify, and
lower our cost of funding over time.
So let me turn to our 2026 outlook. For the full-year, we expect company adjusted EBIT of $8
billion to $10 billion, adjusted free cash flow of $5 billion to $6 billion, and capital expenditures of
$9.5 billion to $10.5 billion as we shift capital to higher return growth opportunities across our
portfolio, including roughly $1.5 billion for Ford Energy.
Our full-year outlook for the industry assumes a U.S. SAAR of $16 million to $16.5 million in flat
industry pricing. Excluding Novelis, tailwinds and headwinds for Ford include positive market
factors, including favorable mix associated with the sunset of low margin nameplates and
benefits from changes in the U.S. regulatory environment. Flat cost, which I would like to unpack
further.
We expect lower tariff costs of about $1 billion, reflecting a full year's worth of credit expansion.
We also expect further material and warranty cost reductions building off our momentum in 2025.
These combined savings allow us to absorb about $1 billion of higher commodity prices, driven by
inflation and pressure of DRAM, as well as incremental investment in support of our UEV platform,
the ramp of Ford Energy and cycle plan actions that will drive higher return growth in 2027 and
beyond. Additionally, we expect our high margin software and physical services profit to grow by
about 6.5%.
Now, let me frame Novelis for you. We expect year-over-year improvement of about $1 billion,
which is back half weighted. This includes $1.5 billion to $2 billion of temporary costs, including
tariffs to ensure continuity in aluminum supply. These costs are not expected to be repeated in
2027.
From a calendarization perspective, we expect our first quarter EBIT to be roughly flat
sequentially as we continue to work through the impact of Novelis. We expect to approach a
more normalized EBIT in the second quarter, with a plan to hit our underlying EBIT run rate level in
the second half as volume stabilizes and our portfolio optimization takes hold.
To help you better understand this calendarization, we have included a first half, second half
bridge for you in our earnings deck. Our segment outlook anticipates another robust year at Ford
Pro with EBIT of $6.5 billion to $7.5 billion, the fundamentals of Pro's business are strong. In North
America, we expect continued share growth in an industry that's roughly flat, enabled by
conquest sales in a diversified channel mix, which we believe to be well-balanced at roughly one-
third large corporations, one-third SMB, and one-third government and rental fleets.
We still see untapped demand for crew cab and diesel super duty, and most of our contractual
deals for the year have already been agreed to. Ford Pro continues to improve its durability by
growing its mix of profitable software and physical services globally, through precision customer
targeting, demand generation initiatives, and Pro-specific solutions. While Pro's underlying
business continues to strengthen, we expect 2026 results to be dampened by the near-term
impact in Novelis, ramping Oakville to bolster super duty capacity in Canada, and a tougher
regulatory climate in Europe.
We expect losses of $4 billion to $4.5 billion for Ford Model e. This reflects about $1.6 billion of
improvement in Gen 1 products, driven by lower U.S. volume and cost savings from restructuring
the business. These savings will be partially offset by around $600 million in higher Gen 2 costs as
we near the launch of LFP batteries in Marshall, Michigan and our UEV platform in Kentucky, along
with roughly $400 million in startup costs for Ford Energy. The team is aggressively working onadditional Gen 1 cost reductions in ways to further optimize the market equations in the U.S. and
Europe. We continue to target Model e reaching breakeven in 2029.
For Ford Blue, we expect EBIT of $4 billion to $4.5 billion, reflecting improvement in the underlying
business as we recover from Novelis, favorable mix as we lean into our revenue and profit pillars
and continued progress in cost.
Exciting new products like Bronco RTR and Mustang Dark Horse SC will help us expand our off-
road leadership and grow our performance business. Furthermore, like Pro, we expect continued
growth in our software and physical service offerings for retail customers through increased
convenience and engagement. Lastly, Ford Credit's EBT will be about $2.5 billion.
Relative to special items for 2026, in December, we announced actions to rebalance our EV
portfolio and assets and launch more multi-energy platforms. In 2026 and 2027, we expect to
record about $7 billion in charges related to our updated EV strategy and the expected
disposition of our BOSK investment. Cash expenditures are expected to be up to about $5.5
billion, with most of this weighted in 2026.
As I mentioned at the beginning, our 2025 performance demonstrated progress against our Ford
Plus plan, not just in growth and profitability, but also quality, capital discipline, the right product
portfolio and consistent cash generation. Our underlying business is strong, and we are
relentlessly working to strengthen it further as we continue to focus on improving both quality and
cost, as well as returns and cash flow.
I'll now turn it over to the operator so we can start Q&A.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
We will now move to our question-and-answer session. If you have joined via the webinar, please
use the Raise Hand icon, which can be found at the bottom of your webinar location. (Operator
Instructions) And when you are called on, please unmute your line and ask your question. Please
limit to one question and one follow-up today. We will now pause a moment to assemble the
queue.
Our first question will come from `Dan Levy, Barclays with Barclays. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
Q - `Dan Levy, Barclays `
Hi. Good evening, and thank you for taking the questions. I want to first start with a question on
Slide 19 and some of the assumptions you have for 2026. And maybe you can help us unpack the
pieces on the market factors, which seem to be quite positive and what's driving the year-over-
year increase. Now, I know you said that there's $1 billion of Novelis, but maybe you can help
unpack the magnitude of other benefit you're getting on the mix side? And how all of this can on
powertrain and how all this can offset maybe some of the declines on volume from Escape
Corsair, and also the more competitive environment? And maybe if you could just a word on tariff
assumptions as well. Thank you.
A - `Sherry House, Chief Financial Officer `Yes, sure. Thank you so much, Dan, for the question. So let me just start with the Novelis
improvement of $1 billion year-over-year, and I'll unpack that slightly for you. That assumes $2.5
billion to $3 billion, reflecting the non-reoccurrence of 2025 losses and capacity actions at
Dearborn and Kentucky truck plants. So you'll recall that we had about $2 billion of losses last year.
The expectation is that would be non-recurring as we enter into 2026. Originally, we thought we
would make up about $1 billion of that. Now we think we'll make up $0.5 billion to $1 billion based
on the second fire in November.
That's going to be offset by $1.5 billion to $2 billion of temporary costs, and that's to ensure
supply continuity. There will be tariffs and premium freight associated with that supply continuity
of aluminum until we can get the Novelis hot mill back up and running sometime between May
and September.
With respect to the positive market factors, yes, it does include the sunset of low-margin
nameplates, namely Escape, but there's also benefits that we expect to achieve from changes in
the U.S. regulatory environment, and the biggest impact there would be about $0.5 billion less of
credits in the U.S. You'll note that we had about $0.7 billion of credits last year, but about $0.5
billion of that is attributed to the U.S.
Cost, roughly flat. Excluding the Novelis impacts, we had industrial cost improvements. We're
expecting a maybe around $1 billion, again, in material and warranty costs. We're expecting tariff
costs lower by $1 billion year-over-year, but again, that's going to be offset by the Novelis
temporary costs in '26. We'll have higher commodity prices, we think, and there's also investment
in UEV, Ford Energy, and the cycle plan that we spoke about. We also expect there to be
continued growth in the high-margin software and physical services businesses that we talked
about in Pro, but across all the retail, including Blue. Other factors are largely balanced, exchange,
compliance, et cetera.
Q - `Dan Levy, Barclays `
Great. That's --
A - `Sherry House, Chief Financial Officer `
And then, did you have a further question on tariffs, or did I answer it?
Q - `Dan Levy, Barclays `
No, I think you covered the tariff question. Thank you. As a follow-up, Jim, I'd like to just ask,
conceptually, how you're looking at the investment in EV and UEV. And really, just in the context
of, if we look at the arc of investment you had the past five years, we know that you and others
went through this very heavy push on EV, UEV software, sort of had mixed results, and you took a
big impairment. A lot of companies took a big impairment on the back of what happened with the
regs. But it seems like you're resetting strategy now. There's a fresh push on EV with UEV. You're
making more investments on ADAS and software. So, help us understand, in light of the
experience the last few years and how maybe capital inefficient it was for the industry as a whole,
how you're making sure that this new round of investments is being done in a more capital-
efficient manner?
A - `James D. Farley, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you for your question. So, I think the customer has spoken. That's the punchline. The
customers in their duty cycle have spoken. There's enough choice around the world onelectrification for us to cherry-pick customers' choices around the world and come up with the
right strategy, not only in the U.S. but around the world.
In the U.S., you hit it. Our bet is on the UEV. We believe this platform localized in LAP, will hit the
majority of profitable EVs sold in the U.S., which are $35,000 EVs, high volume. Tesla has shown
that we can make money in that market even without subsidy from the government at the right
cost level. But that's only part of our strategy.
In addition to that, we're betting on hybrid across our lineup and EREV where it makes sense for
our duty cycle, like a large trucks where towing is a real important application. And both FHEV and
pure electric will definitely not work. So we're looking to make CO2 reductions across our lineup.
We're doing it in a very efficient way. Overseas, the story is a bit different. Overseas, we're
looking to piggyback like in Europe with Renault and Volkswagen on capital efficient, high scale,
lower cost solutions like big car EVs in Renault.
We think that is a market depending on how the EU and the UK incentivize them where that can
be profitable. Elsewhere, we'll be opportunistic between PHEVs, hybrids for Ranger, our body-on-
frame and our growing export business from China will be opportunistic based on that customer
in Australia or South Africa or Brazil, exactly what they want.
I think the real question that I ask myself is how will the Chinese change the game with all of
these in terms of pricing power given the overly competitive subsidized reality? And for example,
in January, the Chinese market being down 25% year-over-year. If that persists, we will have to
future proof our costs around that pricing reality. That and the regulatory environment, I think are
the wildcards in this strategy, but that's the same wildcard every OEM has. And -- but I do believe
this is the right allocation of capital. It's a combination of partnerships where it makes sense,
efficient partial electrification investments where we have revenue power and really hitting the EV
market in the core of the market in our home market where there's not a lot of competition.
Operator
Great. Thank you. Your next question will come from `Joseph Spak, UBS with UBS. You may now unmute
and ask your question.
Q - `Joseph Spak, UBS `
Thanks. Good afternoon, everyone. Sorry to go back to this. So, quickly, sorry, but just to make
sure I got this. Novelis impact right in my head here, so it was a $2 billion impact in '25. You're
talking about that's lower by a $1 billion in '26, so $1 billion, but that's still inclusive of a $1.5 billion
to $2 billion of temporary costs, so the delta to get you back higher, I guess, is the volume portion
of it. So I guess, put another way, if all that temporary sourcing costs and logistics and higher
tariffs is really temporary. You're basically saying that that $9 billion EBIT is more like $10.5 billion,
or you're a little bit above that? Is that the right way you're thinking about that?
A - `Sherry House, Chief Financial Officer `
It is a fair way to think about it. Yes, so basically we'd have non-recurrence of the $2 billion from
last year, right? So that would start your 2026 better. And then we had planned on being able to
make up about $1 billion of that. Now we think it's probably $1.5 billion to $1 billion. So that's how I
said top-line $2.5 billion to $3 billion, but we have temporary costs and those are going to be $1.5
billion to $2 billion. So when you take that off, that gets you with the net positive $1 billion a year.
And I do agree that you would have some tailwinds on that going into 2027.A - `James D. Farley, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Given Novelis, this is so important. Kumar, do you want to say anything about the variability of
those costs and how reliable is our aluminum supply now?
A - `Kumar Galhotra, Chief Operating Officer `
Okay. So, two facts there, Jim. We expect the mill to start back up somewhere in the middle of
the year, the range between somewhere May and September. We have a team working closely
with Novelis on the ground there, so we know exactly where things stand. But the more important
part is the second part of your question. We have contingency plans to secure sufficient supply
for various scenarios, no matter where we end up with the start date between May and
September.
Q - `Joseph Spak, UBS `
Okay. Thank you for that. And then just the second question, another one, I guess, on market
factors, I want to focus, I guess, specifically on two areas. One is, you've got some competitors
out there that are sort of trying to regain share in North American trucks and European LCVs. So
how you think about the market impact there? I know you mentioned in your remarks some
affordable trucks and pro. And then even beyond that, like, is there any more granularity or color
you give us as to sort of what gets you comfortable with the forward-specific market mix factors
that can sort of aid profitability to help offset some of these costs.
A - `Andrew Frick, President, Ford Blue and Model e `
Yes, Joe, it's `Andrew Frick, President, Ford Blue and Model e. First of all, let me comment on the first part around full-size pickup.
That is always a competitive segment, so this is nothing new for us. And as the leader, we have to
be ready for challenges at all times. We have a great pickup lineup right now, great F-series
lineup. We cover the breadth of the entire segment and we've actually been growing. In fact, last
year, as Jim mentioned, we grew two points of revenue share and 1.5 points of volume share in
2025. And we've actually expanded our truck leadership position over our key competitors each
of the last two years and by a sizable margin.
But as we enter this year in '26, we, of course, always approach it humbly. Our dealer network is
really set up and is a real strength for us. They continue to invest in the truck business. Our stock
positions are on the low end of our day supply range right now. And our overall market approach
is to remain disciplined in our market equation, balancing the stock share and our incentive
spending. And we're going to continue to maximize series and powertrain mix as we approach
that segment.
And really, on the second part around broader market in our portfolio, we're looking to improve
our mix based on customer demand across the whole portfolio. And Sherry mentioned some of
the product mix impacts. We started making some of those in the second half of last year based
on the changing conditions. For example, we're increasing hybrids on Maverick to address
demand while F-150, we're increasing V8s, Lariats, Raptors, both again tied to customer demand.
So, part of our ongoing efforts to optimize the market equation, our approach is to balance our
mix while also increasing our revenue. And that was evident last year as we increased our share
revenue again on pickups and four-by-four vehicles.
Q - `Joseph Spak, UBS `Alicia, any comment from you on Pro for our assumptions this year for market equations? What
you're seeing given that we're competitively quoting for several months now?
A - `Alicia Boler Davis, President, Ford Pro `
Starting off, we've been a leader in Europe from a fleet perspective for the past 11 years. And it
was a very competitive market. Last year, we expected it to continue to be. Right now, we're
seeing a strong demand from an order's perspective on a light commercial vehicle side. We
absolutely have a very competitive environment, but we have very competitive products. And we
also have services that we're continuing to invest in and grow where we're offering our fleet
customers solution for uptime and productivity.
So we're seeing strong demand for orders coming through the quarter. And then we've also
seen just solid pricing, right? And so our initial assumption was that we'd see the small decline in
pricing to start the year. And we actually have not seen that yet, but we're very tied into what's
happening in the market and making sure that we're responding there for customers.
Q - `Joseph Spak, UBS `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question will come from `Emmanuel Rosner, Wolfe Research with Wolfe Research.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Wolfe Research `
Great. Thank you so much. My first question is on capital expenditure. So, you're making these
investments into higher return products and technology going forward. But I think at the income
statement level, it's roughly offset by ongoing cost savings. So you're investing, if I get the
numbers right, maybe an extra $1 billion, but then you have $1 billion in savings. At a CapEx level, it
seems like you're actually taking it up. And I was a bit surprised by this. So how should we think
about the CapEx needs for these investments over the next few years? Is this sort of like a new
run rate or is this sort of like an initial boost needed because of the energy storage investment?
A - `Sherry House, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Thank you for the question, Emmanuel. So guidance reflects an increase in capital spending
of a little more than $1 billion, as you noted. So $9.5 billion to $10.5 billion. That increase is driven
by our investment in Ford Energy, which is the largest portion of it is expected to be in 2026. We
had talked about a $2 billion investment in Ford Energy and $1.5 billion of it is planned for 2026.
The mix of our capital spending continues to shift. We have a new capital allocation process. It's
changed. It's really pushing our capital into more accretive areas of the business. And we've
consistently stayed nimble, adjusting to customer demand and changing regulatory environment
as well. So, what I would say is that roughly 75% of our capital over the planned period is going
into our higher return, larger truck and multi-energy portfolio. And in that balance, 25% is your
Ford Energy and continued Model e investments, like in UEV, EREV and things of that nature.
A - `James D. Farley, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And the goal for that capital allocation is very clear. It's to get to 8% EBIT margin for our company.
We are investing more in Blue as well, hybrid and new products that will be very profitable. And
we are decelerating the investment in Model e. And though it's still at high levels, as Sherry said,we are descaling that investment. So the goal is to set up the company over the next couple of
years to be that 8% margin company. And that's the kind of capital we need to invest.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Wolfe Research `
Thank you. And then as a follow-up still on the Model e then, I guess to get to this ultimate target,
you'll probably also have to execute on bringing back Model e to profitability. Can you talk maybe
about some of the levers and cadence between now and 2029? It seems like you're having a lot
of savings this year on Gen 1, but investments on the new generation. Is the improvement
towards breakeven, is that going to be back end loaded towards 2029? Or can we expect some
steady improvement throughout the time period?
A - `Sherry House, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Thank you. I think you can expect steady improvement throughout the time period. As the
UEV products come on board '27 and then get even more profitable in '28 and beyond with
additional variants, that's going to improve the profit margin as well the introduction of B vehicles
in Europe. That also will be coming on board as well. And all that's going to be happening as
some of the Gen 1 becomes lower volume.
Q - `Emmanuel Rosner, Wolfe Research `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question will come from `Ryan Brinkman, JP Morgan with JPMorgan. Your line is now open. Please
feel free to unmute.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, JP Morgan `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. I was intrigued by Jim's comment that full year 2025 tariff cost
track $2 billion versus the $1 billion that was communicated at the time of the 3Q earnings due to
a late year change in tariff credits on auto parts such that full year EBIT pro forma for this would
have been $7.7 billion, which is substantially better than the $6.0 billion to $6.5 billion that was
guided to on the 3Q call. Firstly, can you help on what exactly was the regulatory change? I'm
aware of the change to tariff on the non USMCA compliant parts. I thought that was a positive
though, allowing for a longer phase out to the offsets there.
And then secondly, the fact that full year EBIT pro forma for the unexpected headwind track, $1.2
billion to $1.7 billion better than expected. Can you talk about what is it that tracked so materially
better than at the time of 3Q earnings?
And then finally, as we head into 2026, you characterized the headwind as maybe one time. Is
there any headwind relative to the tariff credit change that continues with you or did it only impact
the fourth quarter? Thanks.
A - `James D. Farley, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Go ahead, Steve. I think we had all a great question and a very important question for Ford
because we're the most American company. We have a very different footprint than our
competitors. It's largely related to parts recovery and the timing. Go ahead, Steve.
A - `Steven Croley, Chief Policy Officer and General Counsel `Sure. Thanks. Yes, the short explanation is a credit that we have against tariff liabilities on parts
became effective on November 1. And we had understood it would become effective instead on
May 3rd. And so that delta is about the $1.9 billion that Sherry referenced. It will mean to your last
question that going forward, we can use this credit, and this is a one-time hit, but that was the
hiccup that we experienced in December and accounts for about $1 billion of the difference.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, JP Morgan `
Okay.
A - `Sherry House, Chief Financial Officer `
And then you had a -- sorry, you had a follow-up question about just Q4 must have been coming
in stronger, given that we would have been at $7.7 billion. You're absolutely right. It was crossed. A
lot of that was cost. And you might have noted that we said that we ended up with $1.5 billion of
cost improvements on a year-over-year basis versus what we originally were targeting at one.
And it's multiple elements of cost, a little bit of pricing in there too.
Q - `Ryan Brinkman, JP Morgan `
Okay. Very helpful. Thank you. And then just lastly, while I know you don't report EBIT by region,
could you speak to the performance in Europe, including how you would rate the strength and
profitability of both your passenger vehicle and commercial vehicle businesses there? And how
the outlook for the two businesses could be impacted by either the EV portfolio changes
announced on December 15, or the agreement that was signed with Renault on December 9
regarding the two incremental Ford branded EVs and cooperation on light commercial vehicles.
Thanks.
A - `James D. Farley, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Well, we've always been very consistent. The core of our European business, our Pro
strategy continues to be very profitable. And in fact, this is kind of the first year we've seen the
benefits of the VW scale with a one-ton van, where it's worth a lot of money to combine our
scale.
Your question obviously points to the growing concern around the profit pool for profitable
passenger cars in Europe. And that's exactly where the conversation should go when it comes to
Europe. We obviously are taking steps to address our profitability of our passenger car business
as we have for many years. Jim Baumbick and the team are very focused on using Renault's
platform, especially their B-sized EV, to dramatically reduce our costs and improve the profitability
of our EV business in Europe. And we see that as a very critical moment for us.
We also have plans, exciting plans for Europe on our passenger cars, but we will play very
carefully in specific segments to our strengths to make sure that not only we build a profitable
passenger car business, but we also support our dealers' profitability so they can invest even
more in growth in Pro.
Now the real rub is going to be how the UK and the European, the EU handle the choice between
CO2 reduction and jobs. And this is a place where Ford is quite outspoken because we're not a
national champion. We can really speak on behalf of the customers on what the right balance is
between CO2 reduction and where customers really stand, as well as job risk. And I will tell you
that most of the variability of that profitable passenger car market is going to come down to the
policies with the EU and the UK governments.Q - `Ryan Brinkman, JP Morgan `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question will come from `Andrew Percoco, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Andrew Percoco, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Can you hear me? Hello?
A - `Sherry House, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, we can.
Q - `Andrew Percoco, Morgan Stanley `
Okay. Great. Thanks for taking the question.
A - `James D. Farley, President and Chief Executive Officer `
We can hear you.
Q - `Andrew Percoco, Morgan Stanley `
Awesome. Thanks for taking the question. I just wanted to come back to energy storage and
hoping you can just provide a little bit more context around your capital allocation decision there.
And along with that, this is a -- I know you're two years away or so from really ramping up that
production, but this is a much longer lead time market than your traditional auto market. So I'm
just curious if you can share any feedback or context around what customers you might be
speaking to and maybe the feedback that you've been receiving and maybe where you see
yourselves really fitting into that market? Thank you.
A - `James D. Farley, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. It's early days, but at the strategy level, there is no doubt that the growth for battery
storage for both data center build out and grid stability, places like California, Texas and Florida is
exploding. Both for consumers and business users like data centers.
We have been deeply engaged with customers as we develop this business plan and we
continue to engage them in specific contracts for our 6-gigawatt -- for our 20-gigawatt hour
capacity in '27 and beyond. I would say this is not a -- this is not at the pace of auto industry. We
can build the factories faster than auto and we can scale our revenue much faster.
We also have a significant advantage technology wise. We have access working with CATL
licensing their technology, but in our own plants, we have a significant advantage with the LFP
technology compared to our competitors who either importing with high tariffs LFP or trying to
run this business with lithium batteries and much higher costs locally made.
We believe that Ford has the manufacturing expertise to scale this business. We have great
partners that can help us and we're really excited to be a customer facing business. We don't
want to be a contract manufacturer of batteries. We want to have end-to-end solutions for
customers where Ford Energy people will be calling, fulfilling, not just the sales contracts, butbusiness, fits right in the wheelhouse of our expertise. And given our advantage technologically,
maybe for a period of time before battery costs commoditized, we feel like the customers are
very excited.
When we come calling to large grid suppliers, energy companies, they're really excited about
Ford being in this business. We're a trusted company. They've been buying our vehicles for a long
time, and we've done our homework on this business.
Q - `Andrew Percoco, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Yes, that makes a lot of sense. And maybe just to follow-up with another question on
capital allocation, I mean, Jim, I think you've been a pretty big advocate of partnerships in the
past where it makes sense. So when it comes to your autonomy strategy, it sounds like you're
trying to do a lot of that yourselves in-house. Can you maybe just elaborate on why that's the
right decision, why a partnership doesn't make sense in this context? Thank you.
A - `James D. Farley, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Good question. BlueCruise is largely a supplier-based system that Ford basically perfected the
customer experience. But Level 3 is quite different. It's a very important safety critical system
where people are traveling in high speed on the highways with their eyes off. And we have real
expertise coming from Argo. The people that we got out of the Argo team that are now in
Latitude are very experienced people.
And we don't think the technology is exclusive. What we think, why we want to bring this in-house
is two reasons. Affordability. These are very expensive hardware solutions and software. By
bringing them inside the company, we can save thousands of dollars per vehicle in cost. That's
why we're launching L3 with the UEV. Many of our competitors are launching Level 3 with their
luxury brands. We're going to be doing it with our $30,000 to $35,000 vehicles. That's a big
strategy choice by Ford. We can do that because we did this inside the company and we had
control over the hardware and it wasn't supplier-based. So it was more affordable.
The second thing is experience. When you're driving down the highway with your eyes off the
road, it's very important to have safety critical systems where the vehicle re-engages the
customer, how that whole process works, and all the content sharing and all the other activities
that customers can be doing and not driving the car. So it's very important for us to control and
curate the experience on Level 3. Level 4 strategy could be quite different. I'm not going to go
into that today, but I think we look at Level 3 quite differently than -- Level 4 quite differently than
Level 3 upon.
Q - `Andrew Percoco, Morgan Stanley `
That's super helpful. Thanks so much.
A - `James D. Farley, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question will come from `Mark Delaney, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Mark Delaney, Goldman Sachs `Yes. Good afternoon. Thank you very much for taking the questions. I just wanted to talk first on
costs. You talked about $1.5 billion of progress this past year excluding tariffs and expecting
another $1 billion in 2026. If we go back to the '23 Investor Day, you talked about a $7 billion
relative cost gap with peers. And I'm curious with the progress Ford is seeing, where do you think
you are on that journey? And is $7 billion still the right number for investors to have in mind over
time?
A - `James D. Farley, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So, you're absolutely right. $1.5 billion last year, another $1 billion this year, most of it from material
as well as warranty. And obviously, we refreshed the cost gap scenarios as all the earnings come
out. We will redo that, but firmly believe that we're closing that gap quite rapidly.
A - `Andrew Frick, President, Ford Blue and Model e `
I just want to highlight the important work that Kumar and Doug are doing on the next generation
product. We're launching high volume, very meaningful products in the next couple of years, and
embedded in those products is much lower cost. So not only are we doing it kind of year-to-year
through BOM adjustments, negotiation with our suppliers, lower freight and duty, lower labor
content in our plans, we're also embedding that, all that thinking into our next-generation of
products. And to me, that is the ultimate work together, because that will change the culture of
the company.
Q - `Mark Delaney, Goldman Sachs `
Helpful. Thank you for those comments. My other question was around inventory. You mentioned
exiting '25 at the low end of your inventory target, obviously facing some challenges around
supply chain. But as you think about what's assumed in your '26 guidance and making up for a
degree of the lost volume from this past year, are you assuming you restock dealers as part of
your outlook for this year, or are you planning to shift to demand? And I ask in part to try and
understand around the extra shift of F-series production. Is that something that might be
sustainable into 2027? Thanks.
A - `James D. Farley, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Good question. We ended the year on the low end of our range. We reduced our stocks
dramatically year-to-year, leaving '25. So we were down 16%. We had about a 66 gross day
supply. We expect in '26 to remain within our targeted levels of the 55 to 65 retail days supply for
the year. We will be on the lower end of our F-150s for the first half of the year as we rebuild in
the second half of the year. But we'll stay within our overall range. And we have combined with
that is the demand side of the business. So that will allow us to do that, especially in our truck
business.
Q - `Mark Delaney, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you.
Operator
Your final question will come from `Colin Langan, Wells Fargo with Wells Fargo.
Q - `Colin Langan, Wells Fargo `Great. Thanks for taking my questions. Just to clarify on the balance, I think you originally said, you
lost 90,000, you're going to add capacity of 50. Sounds like, is that still the case that we should
see about 140,000-ish increase? Or I think your comments seem to imply that maybe it's a little
lower than that. Any color there on the actual volume recovery we should expect?
A - `Sherry House, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, so we had lost around 100,000 units last year. We're planning to increase by about 50 to 60
this year, is the plan.
Q - `Colin Langan, Wells Fargo `
Okay. Because I thought you originally said you expected a $1 billion and now it's $500 million to
$1 billion. So is that just the added cost to get the -- that's what's worse than you originally
thought in Q3, is the added cost to get that aluminum over?
A - `Sherry House, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, the added cost is definitely a factor and that came after the second fire in November. So
the added cost is different than when we had reported after the first fire.
Q - `Colin Langan, Wells Fargo `
Okay. And then if I look at the free cash flow guide, it's up $2 billion at the midpoint. Adjusted
EBIT's up $2 billion, but CapEx is up over $1 billion. What's the additional $1 billion sort of help to
free cash flow to kind of keep the adjusted up $1 billion without the CapEx being higher?
A - `Sherry House, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So we had -- you're talking about the cash flow from $3.5 billion this year to the midpoint,
which would be at $5.5 billion in 2026, right? So that's going to be driven by higher automotive
EBIT, that's going to be driving with your free cash flow conversion. We also had a receivable from
the U.S. government for $1 billion in tariffs, and we do have, as you said, higher capital spending in
'26 as we moved into these higher growth opportunities.
Q - `Colin Langan, Wells Fargo `
Got it. Okay. So the receivable from the government, okay. All right. Thank you very much for
taking my questions.
A - `Sherry House, Chief Financial Officer `
You're welcome.
Operator
This concludes the Ford Motor Company fourth quarter 2025 earnings conference call. Thank you
for your participation. You may now disconnect.