Q4 2017 Earnings Call

Presentations and will remain archived until our next quarterly call.
A replay of this call will also be available until February 4, 2018.
During the presentation, we will describe certain of the more significant factors that impacted
year-over-year performance. The supplemental materials describe additional factors that
impacted year-over-year performance. Unless otherwise noted, all references in these remarks
and supplemental materials to company-specific financial metrics relating to continuing
operations of the company and the fourth quarter of 2017, and all references to period-to-period
increases or decreases and financial metrics are year-over-year. We may also describe certainproducts and devices, which have applications submitted and pending for certain regulatory
approvals.
During the call, we will make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal
securities laws, including statements regarding events or developments that we believe or
anticipate will or may occur in the future. These forward-looking statements are subject to a
number of risks and uncertainties, including those set forth in our SEC filings, and actual results
might differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we make today. These forward-
looking statements speak only as of the date that they are made and we do not assume any
obligation to update any forward-looking statement, except as required by law.
With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Tom.
`Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
`Thank you, Tracy. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us on the call. With us today are, Matt, and good morning, everyone. Before we get into the details of the quarter, I'd
like to touch briefly on the announcement we made this morning regarding our CFO transition
plan. As I'm sure many of you saw, we announced that Matt McGrew, our current Group CFO of
our Diagnostics and Dental platforms will succeed Dan Comas as Chief Financial Officer of
Danaher on January 1, 2019.
Dan will continue on as an Executive Vice President and a member of the office of the Chief
Executive, post January 1, 2019, as he begins a gradual transition to retirement. Dan, it goes
without saying that it has been and will continue to be a privilege working with you. For the past 27
years, all of us at Danaher have valued your outstanding financial stewardship, thoughtful
guidance and long-time friendship. Danaher would not be where it is today without your
leadership, strategic vision and humility. We're also very pleased that you'll continue to work with
us post 2018 to ensure a seamless CFO transition and provide a strategic counsel we value so
highly.
Many of you know Matt McGrew from his time as Vice President of Investor Relations, but Matt
has had a number of important roles during his past 14 years with Danaher. Matt is uniquely
qualified to take on the position of CFO as he will be able to leverage his extensive Danaher
experience in internal audit, M&A, Investor Relations, and as Group CFO with operational
experience across four of our five platforms.
Throughout his tenure with Danaher, Matt has consistently demonstrated superior leadership and
played an integral role in the company's growth both organically and inorganically. We look
forward to helping Matt transition to this important role with Dan's guidance and strategic
counsel. With that, let's get to our results.
We're very pleased by our strong fourth quarter performance, as the team delivered 5.5% core
revenue growth, solid margin expansion and double-digit adjusted earnings per share growth.
These results capped a solid year for Danaher, and we are very encouraged by the momentum
we built throughout 2017.
2017 was a great example of how we run the Danaher playbook. We improved gross margins to
nearly 56%, lowered G&A, increased our investments in sales and marketing and R&D to drive
accelerating core growth, all while delivering 70 basis points of core operating margin expansion.
This operating model continues to demonstrate how we build a better, stronger Danaher.
For the full year, our differentiated portfolio, organic growth investments and good commercial
execution helped drive 3.5% core revenue growth, including mid-single digit growth in three outof our four reporting segments. Our total annual revenues are now nearly $18.5 billion.
We generated $2.9 billion of free cash flow in 2017, resulting in mid-teens growth year-on-year
that helps position us for more significant capital deployment in 2018. Our free cash to net
income conversion ratio was 117% and 2017 represents the 26th consecutive year in which our
free cash flow has exceeded net income.
From an M&A perspective, we deployed nearly $400 million of capital in 2017 on 10 strategic bolt-
on acquisitions, each of which will help enhance their respective platforms. We also remain
encouraged by the great performance at our most recently acquired larger businesses: Cepheid,
Phenomenex, Pall and Nobel Biocare.
Turning now to the fourth quarter. Sales grew 11% to $5.1 billion as the impact of currency
translation increased revenues by 3% and acquisitions increased revenues by 2.5%. Core revenue
increased 5.5%, led by four of our five platforms that grew between 5.5% and 7.5%.
Geographically, high-growth markets grew high single-digits with China and India continuing to
lead the way. In developed markets, we saw acceleration as both the U.S. and Western Europe
were up mid-single digits.
Gross margin for the fourth quarter was 55.8%, an increase of 130 basis points, while core
operating margin expanded 105 basis points, led by our Life Sciences and Diagnostics platforms.
These margin results are a testament to our team's consistent execution using the tools of the
Danaher Business System. Fourth quarter adjusted diluted net EPS was $1.19, bringing full year
adjusted EPS to $4.03, both representing double-digit growth year-on-year.
Now let's take a more detailed look at fourth quarter results across the portfolio. In Life Sciences,
reported revenue was up 12% and core revenue grew 7.5%, which marks the platform's highest
quarterly core growth rate in over four years. Life Sciences operating profit margin was 20%, with
both core and reported operating margins increasing over 300 basis points. This increase was
broad-based across the platform, driven primarily by outstanding DBS execution, new product
innovations and better than expected topline performance.
Beckman Life Sciences delivered high single-digit core revenue growth for the second
consecutive quarter, led by ongoing strong performance in our flow cytometry and particle
counting businesses. We believe the Beckman team continues to take market share, driven by
improved commercial execution and new product innovations. Over the past three years,
Beckman has refreshed its portfolio, launching approximately 20 new products. Several of these
new products address higher growth areas such as biologic and genomic workflows, setting the
business up well for continued strong performance.
Leica Microsystems core revenue was up low single digits, led by growth in Western Europe and
China, primarily in the medical and research end markets. Core revenue at SCIEX increased at a
mid-single digit rate, led by continued strength in the food, environmental and pharmaceutical
end markets.
In addition, Phenomenex had a very good quarter, growing core revenue high single digits as
both SCIEX and Phenomenex are starting to leverage each other's go-to-market capabilities. At
Pall, core revenue grew nearly 10%, its best quarterly growth rate since we acquired the business,
as our microelectronics and single-use technologies businesses continue to perform very well.
In addition, biopharma and process and industrial finished the year on a strong note, as these
businesses rebounded nicely from the hurricane disruptions that impacted third quarter results. In
October, our Life Sciences platform successfully closed the acquisition of IDBS, a softwareinformatics leader in the life sciences space. IDBS' software provides a data management
platform, enabling its research customers to better capture, manage and report on scientific
insights. This platform, in combination with our Life Sciences instrumentation, will enable
researchers to accelerate their innovation efforts, helping them make better and faster scientific
decisions.
Moving now to Diagnostics. Reported revenue increased 13.5% and core revenue increased 6%.
Core operating margin grew by 105 basis points and reported operating margin increased 690
basis points to 19.5%. At Beckman Coulter, core revenue grew at a low single-digit rate, led by
solid growth in our amino assay, urinalysis and clinical chemistry product lines. Regionally, the
growth was driven by China and Latin America.
At Radiometer, core revenue increased mid-single digits in the quarter as both our blood gas and
AQT product lines continued to perform well.
Leica Biosystems delivered high single-digit core revenue growth, led by increased demand in
both our advanced staining and core histology product lines. Growth was broad-based across
most regions with particular strength in North America and Western Europe.
Turning to Cepheid. The team had an outstanding quarter. Core revenue increased greater than
25% driven by growth in all major product lines and geographies. For the full year 2017, Cepheid's
core revenue grew approximately 20%, which is almost double the expected rate from when we
announced the acquisition. This outperformance was driven by a combination of strong
commercial execution, test menu expansion and an ever increasing installed base of instruments.
Overall, it was a tremendous first year at Cepheid with DBS helping to deliver improvements
across the company. Since we acquired the business last November, Cepheid has achieved 400
basis points of gross margin expansion, increased operating margins from just above breakeven
into the mid-teens and improved on-time delivery by over 1,500 basis points. The team has also
meaningfully embraced two key commercial DBS growth tools, transformative marketing and
funnel management. These tools have helped Cepheid expand its market visibility, generate
more potential leads and increase the number of new customers they're serving. As a result, we
believe Cepheid continues to expand its leading market position and gain market share.
Turning to our Dental segment. Reported revenue increased 2.5% and core revenue was down
slightly. Dental's operating profit margin was 13.1% as both core and reported operating margins
declined. By product line, performance was in line with our expectations.
Growth in our specialty consumables businesses, implants and orthodontics, was offset by
declines in equipment and traditional consumables. As expected, the declines in traditional
consumable growth rates have started to moderate. However, our equipment business was
negatively impacted by the recent realignment of certain distributor and manufacturer
relationships. We anticipate these difficult market conditions to persist through the first half of
2018. We continue to be pleased with the performance in our specialty consumables businesses.
Nobel Biocare in particular had a great quarter, growing core revenue high single digits driven by
North America and China. December marked the three year anniversary of the Nobel acquisition
and they have made tremendous progress. Not only has the team meaningfully improved
operating margins, but has also increased R&D spend by approximately 20%, launched more
than 25 new products and increased their sales force by 15% over the past two years. These
growth initiatives, along with the execution of DBS tools to streamline sales funnel processes and
increase new customer starts, has helped Nobel post mid-single digit core growth in each of theMoving now to our Environmental and Applied Solutions segment. Reported revenue grew 12.5%,
with core revenue up 6%. Core operating margin declined by 50 basis points and reported
operating margin decreased to 23.1%, driven primarily by increased productivity initiatives and
investment spend within our Water Quality platform.
In product identification, core revenue increased at a mid-single digit rate led by strong demand
for marking and coding equipment and related consumables. Solid growth in our packaging and
color solutions offerings was attributed to increased demand in North America and Western
Europe.
Videojet's core revenue increased high-single digits in the quarter with broad-based growth
across most major product lines and geographies. The fourth quarter capped off another great
year for Videojet as the business continued to compound returns and gain market share. Over
the past five years, Videojet has averaged mid-single digit core revenue growth, continued to
expand margins and also completed a number of strategic bolt-on acquisitions.
One of those acquisitions, Laetus had its best quarter of core revenue growth since we acquired
the business in 2015. As a reminder, Laetus is a leading supplier of track and trace inspection
systems for pharmaceutical packaging plants. With the help of DBS tools, Laetus has generated
greater market awareness and demand within the pharmaceutical tracking vertical and we
believe is well positioned for growth going forward. In our packaging and color solutions
businesses, core revenue at Esko was up mid-single digits while X-Rite was up low-single digits.
Finally, turning to Water Quality. Core revenue growth for the platform increased at a mid-single
digit rate. Hach had its best quarter of the year with core revenue growing mid-single digits. This
growth was driven by solid performance across our core municipal and industrial end markets
with strength in Western Europe and China. Hach also continued its healthy cadence of bolt-on
acquisitions, closing two deals in the quarter, AppliTek and Kipp & Zonen.
AppliTek is a leading provider of wet chemistry processing analyzers and integrated systems that
will help Hach offer a broader suite of parameters to its core industrial and municipal customers.
Kipp & Zonen specializes in making instrumentation that's relied upon by meteorologists for
applications such as climate research, water resource management and materials testing. Kipp &
Zonen will join Hach's environmental business and nicely complements our existing offerings,
providing us an opportunity to deliver enhanced customer solutions. We're excited to welcome
both teams to Danaher.
At ChemTreat, core revenue grew at a low single-digit rate driven by increases in the food, steel
and oil and gas end markets, primarily in North America. It's worth noting that 2017 marks
ChemTreat's 50th consecutive year of revenue growth, a tremendous accomplishment and a
testament to the team's commitment to continuous improvement and their best-in-class
commercial execution.
Lastly, Trojan had a great quarter, delivering double-digit core growth, driven by healthy demand
and increased bidding activity in the North American municipal market. Trojan continues to
execute very well, significantly improving customer win rates to help drive share gains relative to
its markets.
So to wrap up, we're very pleased with our strong fourth quarter results, capping off a good year
for Danaher and helping to build momentum as we start 2018.In 2017, the team delivered double-digit adjusted EPS growth, meaningful margin improvement
and cash flow generation and saw core revenue growth accelerate through the year. We also
executed on a number of strategic bolt-on acquisitions, continued to focus on integration of our
recent larger deals and we now have a balance sheet that positions us well for a more significant
capital deployment in 2018.
As we look ahead, we believe that the strength of our portfolio, combined with the power of the
Danaher Business System, provide us with the foundation to achieve long-term shareholder value
creation. We are initiating first quarter adjusted diluted net EPS guidance between $0.90 and
$0.93, which assumes core growth of 3.5% to 4%. We continue to expect full year 2018 core
revenue growth of 3.5% to 4% and adjusted diluted net EPS to be in the range of $4.25 and
$4.35.
`Matthew E. Gugino, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Tom. That concludes our formal comments. Tracy, we're now ready for questions.
Q&A
Operator
`Thank you, Tracy. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us on the call. With us today are. And we'll go first to `Scott Davis, Analyst, Melius Research LLC with Melius Research.
Q - `Scott Davis, Analyst, Melius Research LLC `
Good morning, guys.
A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
Good morning, Scott.
Q - `Scott Davis, Analyst, Melius Research LLC `
Congrats to Mr. Comas. It's been a great run. We will -- we'll miss you, man.
A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
He's not done yet.
Q - `Scott Davis, Analyst, Melius Research LLC `
It sounds like you -- you already put him out to pasture, but Dan, you're too young to fully retire,
so I'm guessing, we'll see you doing some other stuff.
A - `Daniel L. Comas, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
I'll be around for a while.
Q - `Scott Davis, Analyst, Melius Research LLC `
All right. Well, congrats. You've done a great job and best to Matt McGrew. I'm sure he'll do a
great job as well. So anyways, I wanted to give a shout out to my boy, Gugino too. He could – he's
ready for promotion, so don't forget about him.
A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `He's doing quite well.
Q - `Scott Davis, Analyst, Melius Research LLC `
Matt, you owe me $100, but anyway...
A - Operator
Thanks Scott.
Q - `Scott Davis, Analyst, Melius Research LLC `
Let's step back and just a bit, I mean, the step up in core growth was pretty exceptional really, but
can you walk us around the world? It wasn't clear where the positive surprises came from globally.
It was by business, it was clear, but let's clear globally?
A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
Well, Scott, it was really very positive on a global basis. Of course, I think we all know from a
macro perspective, we're in a unique time, right. We're in a time of globally synchronous,
economic expansion and I think in many respects, our businesses are well positioned to take
advantage of that growth rate on a global basis across all those many markets in which we
participate.
What we saw in the fourth quarter was continued good performance in the high-growth markets,
exceptional growth in China and India as we've seen consistently throughout the course of the
year, some improving performance in places like Latin America and Russia, and frankly still some
softness in places like the Middle East. But I think what was maybe a bit more noteworthy than the
continued good performance in the high-growth markets was the incremental strength that we
saw in the developed markets. In the U. S. and in Europe, both of those markets, up mid-single
digits is I think where the real difference is on a global basis.
Now clearly, our businesses were well positioned to take advantage of opportunities in each of
those markets. We saw obviously particular strength in our Life Sciences businesses and our
Diagnostics businesses, up north of 7% and 6% respectively, improved performance sequentially
in our Water Quality business, which we expected, and consistent performance in product
identification. So I think overall, pretty well in line with what's happening in the macro from a
geographic perspective, but I think clearly four of the five platforms incredibly well positioned
relative to those macro drivers.
Q - `Scott Davis, Analyst, Melius Research LLC `
Yeah, so that just begs the natural question of when you think about your guidance, 3.5% to 4%,
the first half of the year, you've got reasonably easy comps, you made positive comments about
the global macro. I mean, is there something you've seen in January that leads to be a little bit
more conservative? Or is it just the standard kind of Danaher, it's still early in the year, let's wait
and see before we raise that guide?
A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
Yeah. No, I wouldn't say it's anything in particular that we've seen on a near term basis, Scott. I
think it's much more to the latter point you made, which is it's very early in the year. We're
encouraged by what obviously the finish we saw. What little we've seen of January to this point
gives us encouragement as well. And I think it's just early at this point and, obviously, we'll beupdating throughout the course of the year, but I think for now we feel very good about the
guidance that we have and we'll watch carefully as this quarter unfolds.
Q - `Scott Davis, Analyst, Melius Research LLC `
Okay. I'll pass it on. Congrats, Dan and Mr. McGrew, and look forward to the future.
A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
Thanks, Scott.
A - `Daniel L. Comas, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Thanks, Scott.
Operator
And we'll go next to Tycho Peterson with JPMorgan.
Q - `Tycho W. Peterson, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Hey. Thanks. A question on, in terms of the delta relative to our model, Life Sciences certainly
stood out. You called out Beckman Life Science, Phenomenex. Can you quantify what Pall Life
Sciences was up, and then was there any catch-up effect from 3Q there that you can quantify and
any budget flush dynamic that you're willing to call out?
A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
Tycho, our best sense was the Life Sciences was up 7.5%. There was probably about a point
benefit for kind of hurricane recovery, so call it ex-hurricane recovery more like 6.5%. That was
also followed through with very strong orders. We were, I think as you went into the beginning of
January, slightly worried that there was some budget flush, but our January orders have remained
very strong, actually not only in Life Sciences, but more broadly.
Q - `Tycho W. Peterson, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Okay. And then a question on Cepheid, obviously this has done incredibly well. I'm just wondering
if you can provide a little bit more color on how much of this is coming from new cartridge
launches versus flu trends versus HBDC in some of these other markets?
A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
Tycho, thanks for the question and good morning. We saw really broad-based strong
performance from Cepheid. There were a number of factors that I think contributed to that, not
the least of which certainly was enhanced commercial execution.
One of the things we track at Cepheid is our installed base and our new customer additions. And
since we've acquired the business, our new customer additions are plus 15% since we acquired
the business. I think menu is certainly a contributor with Xpress Flu, with Flu/RSV, with Strep Test
all introduced in 2017, all making a difference. Yes, continued strength in the high burden
developing countries but very good strength in the developed markets as well.
Clearly, we are in the midst of, certainly from a patient perspective, a very challenging flu season
and, yes, that does drive growth at Cepheid. But I think if you step back and you look at the
performance in the fourth quarter, that performance is driven far beyond the early strength of theflu season and really represents, I think, a number of both commercial execution enhancements
and menu expansions that have driven growth in the installed base.
Q - `Tycho W. Peterson, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Okay. `Thank you, Tracy. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us on the call. With us today are. Congrats on the quarter.
A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
Thanks, Tycho.
Operator
And we'll go next to `Ross Muken, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC with Evercore ISI.
Q - `Ross Muken, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC `
Good morning, guys, and congrats to Matt and Dan. So maybe on Dental, right. Some of the
underlying trends particularly in the recently acquired business in Nobel seemed better, but
obviously some of the noise still exists with the channel and maybe on sort of basic consumables.
I guess, based on what you've seen, kind of closing the year to start the year, I mean in terms of
cadence and in terms of your thoughts on how some of the changes you've made over time are
starting to play out and the pieces where you've been able to influence it versus maybe some of
the market factors you don't have control on, what's your sort of updated thoughts on how that's
gone and in terms of maybe some of the small wins it seems like you're getting in pieces like
Nobel?
A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
Thanks, Ross. The fourth quarter played out pretty much in line with what we expected. I think we
all know that 2017 was clearly a difficult year in the industry, but there are a number of things that
actually are quite encouraging for us, starting with the specialty consumables business. I
mentioned in my comments earlier the terrific performance that we've seen at Nobel. We've
seen very consistent and good performance from Ormco as well, and those two businesses,
those specialty consumables businesses, represent half our Dental segment.
Mid-single digit growth across that group of businesses combined in the fourth quarter with
Nobel being high-single digits. And there's no question, I think those are some pretty attractive
markets to participate in. Could the strength there be taking a little bit of wallet share from some
of the more traditional consumables? Maybe, a little bit tough to pinpoint on that, but in general,
that half of our segment, we were quite encouraged by.
The high-growth markets have continued to perform very well. High single-digit growth in the
fourth quarter and throughout our 2017. And then operational execution. We've talked in the past
and I think we've just finished up our second year of talking about our Dental platform,
approaching the Dental platform as a new acquisition. And we've done a number of things to
right-size the cost structure while reinvesting over the last couple of years. We consolidated
operating companies from 10 down to four, reduced the manufacturing and back office sites by
nearly a third.
Gross margins up 100 basis points as a result of a number of those changes and yet we're still
reinvesting. R&D up 100 basis points as a percent of sales, up 20% in 2017 year-on-year, a whole
bunch of new products, 25 new products as I mentioned in Nobel. So this is a $3 billion platform
we have today and admittedly, that doesn't represent an enormous percentage of Danaher, andclearly where we've seen the weakness in about half of that platform is an even smaller
percentage of the overall platform, but these are strong brands and great franchises. Good
secular trends around digital dentistry and so on, and overall, we feel good about the operational
improvements and the progress we're making, and we continue to drive to create long-term
value out of that platform.
Q - `Ross Muken, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC `
That's super helpful. And maybe just on the capital allocation front. So you guys, free cash
continues to be really tremendous, 100% plus of net income. I guess as you're staring out over
the balance of the year, it looks like the leverage levels are going to get back to kind of a
manageable place. I mean how are you balancing kind of your sort of balance sheet capacity
versus sort of public market multiples, it looks like you're a little bit busy on the tuck-in side in the
last quarter or two, so help us just think through kind of how that environment looks like for you
right now?
A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
We feel very good about where we sit today, Ross. The 10 acquisitions that we did in the past
year were strategic enhancements to a number of our platforms and the spend that we
executed during the course of the year was certainly within the range of the spend that we
anticipated during the course of the year particularly in light of the capital deployment that had
preceded that over a couple of years of 2015 and 2016.
As we enter 2018, as I mentioned, I think the balance sheet is in great shape. It positions us now
to take advantage of opportunities as they come along. Optimally, we would deploy that capital
at or above our free cash flow and for deals that really are strategically important to any one of
our platforms today, we'd be willing to stretch that a bit.
So we feel great about how we entered the year. We've seen activity pick up a little bit. Second
half of the year, you saw a little bit more activity in those bolt-on than in the first half of the year,
and I think that bodes well for how things might open up here with people feeling good about
their own valuations, clearly as sellers, but I think it's also probably worth noting now that tax
reform has been determined, if you will, that takes a level of uncertainty out of the market, and
any time you eliminate uncertainty, confidence grows and that may help things out as well.
Q - `Ross Muken, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC `
Great, thanks and congrats guys.
A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
`Thank you, Tracy. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us on the call. With us today are.
Operator
We'll take our next question from `Steven Winoker, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC with UBS.
Q - `Steven Winoker, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Thanks. Good morning all.
A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `Q - `Steven Winoker, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
I want to echo Scott's comments, congratulating Dan and Matt. I know you'll hear it a lot, but I
don't think it's truer in any organization. So great to see you, and we'll miss you. Just on gross
margin, Dan.
A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
(35:10)
Q - `Steven Winoker, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Yeah, yeah, right. Well, that's...
A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
(35:13)
Q - `Steven Winoker, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Yeah, no, he still has to make the next four quarters. Dan, come on. Dan, could you maybe give a
little more color on the puts and takes around the gross margin, 130 basis points. Obviously, you
guys are less sensitive in your cost structure to material inflation than a lot of other companies,
but maybe just talk about the price, productivity mix impact versus other headwinds?
A - `Daniel L. Comas, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Sure. I mean, all up a big of the driver is the continued expansion of gross margins at Pall. It's,
obviously, been a multiyear effort, the big step up, the 400 basis points step up in gross margin
at Cepheid year-on-year are probably the two biggest drivers. At our 55% gross margin, we just
don't have that much impact from sort of commodities and direct labor inflation. It's a little bit of a
headwind right now, but at those levels, it's relatively modest. And clearly, when you put in
together 5.5% core growth, you get very good fall through including on the gross margin side.
Q - `Steven Winoker, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Okay. And then, so you would expect that to continue?
A - `Daniel L. Comas, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yeah, probably not at the – we're not going to get another 400 basis points step up at Cepheid
next year in gross margin, but yeah, I think we're very well positioned from a gross margin. And I
think you saw in the operating margin side, as many of you remember, we had negative OMX,
core OMX in the first quarter of this year and we still ended up at the high end of our range of 50
to 75 basis points of core margin expansion. I feel very good about how we're set up in terms of
core margins going into 2018, including some of the actions we took in the latter part of 2017.
Q - `Steven Winoker, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Okay. And then maybe just talk through a little more of the margin dynamics on the down 50
basis points at Environmental and Applied Solutions?
A - `Daniel L. Comas, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `Sure. That was primarily at Water, a couple of different factors. Trojan being very strong, a little bit
of negative mix, but the Water business particularly Hach came to us kind of early in the fourth
quarter with some opportunities both on the growth side and on the cost side to take some
actions. It was clear we were having a very good quarter. We let them execute upon those actions
both top and bottom line. You did see their growth accelerate. I just saw for January that a very
strong start to the year. So I think some of their growth investments still like they are paying off
pretty quickly here.
So I'm not that concerned. A fair amount of it was kind of orchestrated through the quarter, just
given the strength we've had. And granted we're not going to have the uplift we have in that
segment that I think we'll continue to have in Diagnostics and Dental, but I think you'll see more
normalized margin improvement across those businesses. PID had a very good quarter, very
good year in terms of margins and I think you'll see Water sort of back on track here, starting
early this year.
Q - `Steven Winoker, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Okay. Great. Thanks. I'll pass it on.
A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
Thanks, Steve.
Operator
And we'll go next to Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research.
Q - `Jeffrey Todd Sprague, Analyst, Vertical Research Partners LLC `
`Thank you, Tracy. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us on the call. With us today are. Good morning, everyone.
A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
Good morning, Jeff.
A - `Daniel L. Comas, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Good morning, Jeff.
Q - `Jeffrey Todd Sprague, Analyst, Vertical Research Partners LLC `
I'm not going to say anything about Dan or Matt, because everybody is getting way too misty-
eyed on this call.
A - `Daniel L. Comas, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
I appreciate that.
Q - `Jeffrey Todd Sprague, Analyst, Vertical Research Partners LLC `
We got a year. So, hi, just a couple of things. Just back to tax reform. You guys obviously do a fair
amount of bolt-ons and just looking at this provision on deals that are structured as asset deals
where you can get immediate expensing of the fixed assets of the target company. I just
wondered if you can give us a little context on this from a Danaher standpoint. Are a lot of your
bolt-on deals typically asset deals? And do you have the ability to structure them that way? Andbecause it – it kind of change the economic lens you're looking through when you look at these
properties?
A - `Daniel L. Comas, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Jeff, there's always been an advantage to acquire the assets as opposed to the stock of an
entity, probably even more so now.
I would say that we're sort of incrementally encouraged versus where we were two months ago,
generally around tax reform. We said in December, we thought our rate would be 21%. I think it'll
probably be close to 20% to 21% this year. We talked about a toll tax being probably in the
magnitude of $100 million a year for the next five years. We now think it's going to be more or
like $50 million to $60 million, so I feel like sort of incrementally. And finally, to your point, as often
been the case, often with acquisitions, particularly asset acquisitions, there's an opportunity to do
even more tax work to potentially lower that ETR even more over time.
Q - `Jeffrey Todd Sprague, Analyst, Vertical Research Partners LLC `
And then on the investment spend in Environmental & Applied, I'm just wondering, is that kind of
traditional restructuring or you're doing something to further drive growth? Obviously, the tempo
in the business seems like it's quite strong. I guess there's always some belt-tightening to do
around the edges, but is this more growth oriented? Or is it more a restructuring oriented?
A - `Daniel L. Comas, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
It's a little bit of both, more growth oriented, Hach adding both on the R&D side and the feet on
the street side. We've seen very good numbers on the municipal and the industrial side. They
actually got better through the year and we let -- we gave them some latitude to ramp it up even
more in Q4.
Q - `Jeffrey Todd Sprague, Analyst, Vertical Research Partners LLC `
And then finally, just on the distributor realignment in Dental. Are we just now kind of working
through the comparisons associated with the realignment that's happened in the last several
months or so, six months or so maybe it's longer than that, but, and so we're just kind of working
through the annualization of these dynamics? Or is there still some things shifting around in the
business?
A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
Jeff, those relationships changed in a formal way, at the beginning of September last year. So
we're about four, five months into what is a shift in largely exclusive arrangements that involved
our relationship with Henry Schein and Dentsply Sirona's relationship with Patterson. Essentially
changing places in terms of a number of equipment-related product lines particularly around
imaging. When that sort of thing happens, there's a series of adjustments that need to be made.
Some of that comes in the form of inventory. Some of that comes in the form of actually sellout
that is associated with sales teams, learning new products, shifting incentives, et cetera, which
can further, along with the inventory adjustments have an impact on sell in.
So it's a series of factors that come together that does take a number of months to work its way
through the system. At the end of the day, the market becomes a little bit more of a level playing
field when you have less exclusive arrangements between manufacturers and distributors. We
believe it'll still take a better part of the first half of this year for those adjustments to work theirIn the meantime, we're encouraged by seeing the traditional consumables side, which has been
challenged as well moderate a bit in the fourth quarter. We take that all together and we still think
our Dental business is likely to be flattish in the first half of this year with the -- especially
consumables business is continuing to perform quite well, high-growth markets continuing to
perform quite well and much of the operational improvements that we're putting in place
continuing to improve profitability.
Q - `Jeffrey Todd Sprague, Analyst, Vertical Research Partners LLC `
Great. Thanks for the color. Appreciate it.
A - `Daniel L. Comas, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Thanks Jeff.
A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
Thanks Jeff.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Derik De Bruin with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hey good morning.
A - `Daniel L. Comas, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Good morning Derik.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hey, just a couple, one quick one and then one follow-up. So net interest expense, interest
income, so what's the guide for 2018, could you remind me?
A - `Daniel L. Comas, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
$145 million.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great, thank you, okay. And I guess could you talk a little bit about more pharma demand. I mean
we're starting to see some big companies talking about increasing their capital allocations and
spending. Could you sort of talk about what you see in the pharma space and order pickups in
that area. On the equipment side, less so on the bioprocess side. I'm just wondering if some of
the stuff you're seeing is directly related to some of the commentary that we're hearing on them
stepping up some of the spend.
A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
Derik, we feel good about the overall pharma market today, not just in bioprocessing and
biologic-driven pharma demand, but across small molecule as well and we would point to the
continued good performance in our equipment businesses at SCIEX, at Beckman Life Sciences, at
Phenomenex, at Leica Microsystems, each of those businesses on the equipment side continuingto perform very well. And not all of those businesses have as significant exposure to the biologic
side of Life Sciences or certainly pharma as we do, say, at Pall.
Where, by the way, we saw some improved performance clearly in the fourth quarter, obviously
not all a function of the recovery from the third quarter hurricane disruptions, but in fact, we saw
good order rate trends around biologic and small molecules, good order rate trends around our
single-use technologies as well. So on balance, I would say the overall pharma market, biologics
and small molecules combined, continues to be in pretty good shape.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
And the Diagnostics side, any possible CapEx to allocate any PAMA blowback?
A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
Not really, Derik. Again, it's early relative to PAMA. Those rates, as you know, are just going into
place. As I mentioned previously, our exposure there is relatively modest with 60% of our volume
outside the United States, this being only a U.S. impact and limited to Medicare reimbursements
for outpatient spending, which again further mitigates the impact on us.
So it's certainly reasonable to think that customers will leverage the reduction in reimbursement
associated with PAMA more broadly, but then again, I don't think that's necessarily anything new. I
think anytime there are competitive dynamics in a market like the diagnostics market, certainly in
the central lab, there's going to be some pricing pressure. PAMA will create a little bit of an
additional rationale for that, but on a fact basis, the exposure there, again U.S. only, hospital
outpatient and Medicare reimbursement would suggest it's relatively modest.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
`Thank you, Tracy. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us on the call. With us today are.
A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
`Thank you, Tracy. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us on the call. With us today are.
Operator
And we'll go next to `Steve Beuchaw, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC with Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Steve Beuchaw, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Hi, good morning. And thanks for the time here, guys.
A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
Hey, Steve.
Q - `Steve Beuchaw, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
First question is a geographic focus question. We've talked a fair amount here on this call about
the developed markets. I wonder if we could spend just a minute or two on China as it didn't get
as much attention on the call. Where in China do you think that we have a particularly good 2018,
how are things evolving there? Where in China, given some of the liquidity news items out there,
should we maybe budget in something that is a little bit more moderate relative to 2017?A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
Steve, China has been an important growth driver for us for a number of years. Today, we do I
think in excess of $2 billion of revenue in China. We have strong positions across each of the
platforms and there are extraordinary, I think, secular market drivers in China that support
obviously our Water Quality platform with the environmental concerns in China. Product ID even
with the growth of the middle class and consumer packaged goods.
Diagnostics and Life Science both receiving significant amount of investment from the Chinese
government. And as I've mentioned a number of times, our Dental business continues to grow
high single digits and in certain quarters, double digits pretty consistently in China. So I think if you
step back, you would say, boy, this is a portfolio that really lines up well with a number of key
growth drivers in the Chinese market. In terms of any changes, you have the impact of a relatively
new five-year plan in China. Again, I think that's going to be supportive broadly across most of our
platforms. I don't think there's much of a change there. So in general, we feel pretty good about
continuing contributions from the Chinese market in each one of the platforms.
A - `Daniel L. Comas, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Steve, one of the things that was encouraging in China was we were up double-digit for the year
and we were basically 10%, 11% every quarter through 2017. So it feels like we have pretty good
momentum. It's a bigger base now, so could that tick down a point or two, sure. But things are still
feeling pretty good over there.
Q - `Steve Beuchaw, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Good to hear. Good to hear. One more big picture question for Tom. It's hard not to look at the
improvement of organic growth here, core growth in the last couple of quarters, and hear the
really encouraging commentary on new product flow and execution across the businesses and
think, hey, wow, these guys have seen some step-up in R&D, step-up in commercial investment,
really pay off. It'd be helpful just to hear what you've learned and how this success, or at least the
way I perceive it as a success, downstream of an investment effort, how's that changing your
thinking if at all about the medium or long-term appropriate levels of spend on R&D and sales
and marketing in the organization. Thanks so much.
A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
Thanks, Steve. Well, clearly, this has been an evolution for us. Part of that evolution, Steve, is the
evolution of the portfolio. Many of the changes that we've made in the portfolio over quite a
number of years, not just in the last two years or so, but really over the last probably better than
five years, have set up a portfolio that is really aligned to markets that have great growth drivers.
I think secondly, we've seen an evolution in the Danaher Business System. As the tools of DBS
have evolved beyond Lean into leadership and most importantly, into growth, then we see the
tools of DBS, which by the way continue to evolve even in 2017. We've developed incremental
growth tools that are having an impact on each of our businesses from a commercial execution
perspective, but also in terms of driving higher rates of innovation.
And I think finally on innovation, I think it has and will continue to play an increasingly important role
in our growth rates, and those investments in R&D have paid off and we could point to a number
of those examples in our businesses where we see new products incrementing their growth
rates. I'd point specifically for example to Videojet who's got probably the most robust new
product pipeline in its history today with the 1860 now fully sensored and wired to the Internet forgreater levels of customer service, Hach's launch of the Claros System, leveraging the Internet of
Things as well.
So I think the portfolio evolution, the evolution of the tools in the Danaher Business System,
continued investment in R&D to drive higher rates of innovation and then finally inorganically,
obviously, the deals we've done over the last couple of years have been incremental to our
growth rates. You clearly look at the impact of Cepheid and Phenomenex, our most recent
acquisitions, but certainly Pall and Nobel, having an impact.
And those 10 strategic bolt-on acquisitions, each of those have strategic impacts on our
businesses and the ability to drive incremental growth over time, through what, at times there's
kind of early-stage investment that can drive long-term innovation-related growth. So it's really a
combination of things. Have we learned a lot in the process? Certainly, we have, but I think that
learning has come really as a function of executing a plan.
Operator
And we'll go next to Richard Eastman with Baird.
Q - `Rick C. Eastman, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. `
Hi, guys. Good morning.
A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
Good morning Rick.
Q - `Rick C. Eastman, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. `
Good morning. Could we just circle back, if you will, to the Life Sciences op margin here in the
quarter? And maybe just speak a little bit to Pall, the strength at Pall and the impact of mix on that
op margin? I'm curious, Dan, you flagged Pall's gross margin improvement as a big factor in
overall margin improvement and expansion, but could you maybe just give us a sense to what
Pall's gross margin improvement during and for the full year in calendar 2017?
A - `Daniel L. Comas, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
As you know, Rick, when we purchased the business, it was a high-teens op business, and we're
up circa 1,000 basis points since the time of the acquisition. And a big chunk of that has been
improvement in the gross margin. I would say that one of the things that was encouraging in the
quarter was the gross margin improvement in Life Sciences was pretty broad-based and a
number of the businesses grew mid-single digits. Beck Life Sciences improved their gross
margins and in turn their operating margin.
We're seeing the same thing at SCIEX, good margin expansion. So though I noted Pall as a big
driver of the Life Science improvement, it was this broad-based, particularly to put up that sort of
number as I've seen it and clearly the better core growth helps. And all those businesses are
doing a good job of expanding the gross margins, leveraging G&A, all stepping up their R&D and
sales and marketing, so we're getting those margins step up, back to Tom's point, about
investing and grow while stepping up our growth investments.
Q - `Rick C. Eastman, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. `I see. And again, when you look at the op margin here, for the fourth quarter, assuming Pall, both
Pall Life Sciences as well as PI, stepped up and rebounded, how do you look at the gross margin
in the fourth quarter here as maybe a new structural level here to grow off of and leverage off of
with core growth going forward for Life Sciences?
A - `Daniel L. Comas, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Rick, I'd have to look at it more carefully. I mean as you know, there is some seasonal benefit in
the fourth quarter in Life Science with equipment sales, which were very strong, but I believe we
made a lot of structural changes in the cost profile across Life Science. So I'd have to look at it
specifically kind of go into the next couple of quarters, but the step-up is real.
Q - `Rick C. Eastman, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. `
Okay. And then just last question, follow-up on Dental. When we look at the Dental, I think Tom,
you had suggested maybe first half of 2018 would see flattish revenue so perhaps a little bit of
growth in the back half, but I'm curious, when you look at the margin expectation around Dental
for 2018, do we have enough restructuring? Do we have enough growth investments without a
great deal of topline to drive 50 to 100 basis points of margin improvement in 2018? What does
the plan look like given the sales outlook?
A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
Rick, I think we've balanced that pretty well over the last couple of years and we'll continue to do
that in 2018. We've applied restructuring dollars to drive enhanced productivity in a number of
different areas, but at the same time, we've invested in R&D, and we've invested in sales and
marketing and have cited those numbers as you may recall. And so I think it's a balance, and I
think we've struck that balance pretty well in 2016 and 2017. And I don't anticipate that we will
approach that any differently in 2018.
Q - `Rick C. Eastman, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. `
Okay, very good. `Thank you, Tracy. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us on the call. With us today are.
A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
Thanks Rick.
Operator
And we'll take our final question today from `Doug Schenkel, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC with Cowen and Company.
A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
Hey Doug.
Q - `Doug Schenkel, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Hi good morning. I'm going to start on Pall. You guys had a solid quarter even normalized for
hurricane effects. Your commentary on order trends is encouraging. Specific to bioproduction, is it
safe to say that you have seen an improvement in demands or at least a normalization
subsequent to some of the customer inventory rebalancing dynamics you mentioned earlier in
2017?A - `Thomas P. Joyce, Jr., President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Jr. `
Doug, it is safe to say that. It was solid performance even normalized. The order trends are good,
and those order trends do point to an improvement in the demand profile. As I think you and
others know, we saw a number of customers in that market adjust inventory levels, in a couple of
cases, slow down production during the course of 2017, and I think in the late third quarter and
into certainly the fourth quarter, we saw order trends improve. So we're encouraged by that.
Q - `Doug Schenkel, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Okay. And maybe just to close out by going back to something we covered at length earlier in the
discussion, the topic of 2018 guidance rationale. You were clear in saying that based on what you
saw in January, you don't think there was any pull forward of revenue from Q1 into Q4 and we
know you have a history of tending to be prudently conservative with guidance especially early in
the year.
That said, I just want to confirm two other things. One, the current FX rates would seemingly cut
out as much as $0.10 to full year EPS relative to when you originally guidance at least based on
our amount, that those are not fully reflected in current guidance. And second, that you've not
fully adjusted guidance for the lower tax rate dynamic that you mentioned in response to an
earlier question? `Thank you, Tracy. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us on the call. With us today are.
A - `Daniel L. Comas, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Doug, it's Dan. Let me try to answer that. We have a – we've been in this world, 13, 14 years,
we've sort of avoided adjusting December guidance when we get to January. Just feels too early,
too quick. I also recognize that the January call next year will be Matt McGrew's first call, so I'm
not suddenly looking to sort of change things up here. But you're right, there is some tailwinds
out there.
Q4 demand, December demand, January numbers, they all play – they all point to good
numbers. We are benefiting from the further weakness of the dollar, and we are a little more
optimistic on the tax rate. Yes, a little – a few offsets there, probably higher share count, but that
offsets are modest. So net-net, we're feeling pretty good about where we are, and if those good
things continue, we'll have plenty of opportunities to update you through the year. I hope that
helps.
Q - `Doug Schenkel, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Okay. That's very helpful. `Thank you, Tracy. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us on the call. With us today are.
Operator
This does conclude today's question-and-answer session. At this time, I would like to turn the call
back to Mr. Gugino for any additional or closing remarks.
A - `Matthew E. Gugino, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Tracy, and thanks, everyone for joining us. We're around all day for questions.
Operator
This does conclude today's conference. We thank you for your participation. You may now
disconnect.