Q4 2014 Earnings Call

Operator
Good morning. My name is Kevin, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I
would like to welcome everyone to the Teradyne Q4 2014 Earnings Conference Call. All lines
have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there
will be a question-and-answer session. Thank you.
Andrew Blanchard, Vice President of Investor Relations, you may begin your conference.
Andrew Blanchard `
Thank you, Kevin. Well, good morning, everyone, and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's
most recent financial results. I'm joined this morning by our CEO, Mark Jagiela, and our Chief
Financial Officer, Greg Beecher.
Following our opening remarks, we'll provide details of our performance for the fourth quarter
and full year 2014, as well as our outlook for the first quarter of this year. The press release
containing our fourth quarter results was issued last night. We are providing slides on the Investor
Page of the website that may be helpful to you in following the discussion, and those slides can
be downloaded now or you can follow along live. If you don't see the download icon, simply
refresh the page. In addition, replays of this call will be available via the same page about 24
hours after the call ends.
The matters that we discuss today will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors
that could cause Teradyne's results to differ materially from management's current expectations.
We encourage you to review the Safe Harbor Statement contained in the earnings release, as
well as our most recent SEC filings, including with respect to our dividend and share repurchase
programs, which may be discontinued depending on general economic and market conditions
and other considerations. Additionally, those forward-looking statements are made as of today
and we take no obligation to update them as a result of developments occurring after this call.During today's call, we'll make reference to non-GAAP financial measures. We've posted
additional information concerning these non-GAAP financial measures, including reconciliations to
the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, where available, on the Investor Page of
our website. Also, between now and our next earnings call, Teradyne will be participating in
investor conferences hosted by Stifel Nicolaus, Goldman Sachs, Susquehanna and Bank of
America.
Now let's get on with the rest of the agenda. First, Mark will comment on our recent results and
the general market environment as we enter the first quarter. Greg will then offer more details on
our quarterly financial results along with our guidance for the first quarter. We'll then answer your
questions. And you should note that we intend to end this call after one hour.
Mark?
Mark E. Jagiela `
Thanks, Andy, and good morning, everyone. Today, I'd like to cover three topics with you. First,
our performance in 2014, second, the outlook for our markets in 2015 and, third, our capital
allocation plans for 2015. Greg will then review the numbers and our capital plans in detail.
2014 was a very good year for Teradyne, with sales up about 15%, and non-GAAP operating profit
up over 25%. Most of this gain came from our Semiconductor Test business, where sales and
profits grew 27% and 50%, respectively. A strong SoC test market in 2014 of about $2.35 billion
combined with our 2-point share gain to 50% in this segment led to most of our year-over-year
increase.
Mobility devices, such as applications processors, wireless transceivers and power management
ICs all posted above-average demand in the year, as a combination of new nodes, higher-than-
average complexity advances and a wider proliferation of new product introductions drove
demand.
Our strong share position in these device segments was responsible for much of our year-over-
year revenue increase. During the year, our R&D pipeline introduced new RF, digital and
collaborative software products in this segment. The software, called Oasis, is particularly
appealing as it allows widely dispersed teams of tens of development engineers to collaborate
on increasingly complex test program development. This yields time-to-market advantages that
are key in the fast-moving mobility space, where complexity grows dramatically every year and
volume ramps get even steeper.
The memory market was about flat year-over-year, at around $500 million, and here we picked
up about 1 point of share, to 27%. 2014 marked our highest level of Memory Test revenue since
the year 2000. Our new Magnum V memory tester won numerous design-ins and began to ramp
in 2014. The product is now well positioned at four of the top-five flash manufacturers.
Additionally, at the end of 2014, we secured two design wins for our new high-speed DRAM
tester for known-good die. Known good die is a developing trend, as more bare die get tested
at speed to allow for more die-on-die mounting in future mobile devices.
Looking forward, we see the 2015 SoC test market in the $1.9 billion to $2.2 billion range. Coming
off an above-average year for mobile device test tooling in 2014, we expect to see the same
pattern we've seen over the past five years, where this year's capacity adds will fall below the
average, as mobile device test additions from 2014 are digested and optimized.We then expect another surge in 2016, as more aggressive technology node migration and more
complex functional content combine to drive test intensity. Other SoC segments, like linear,
mixed signal, automotive and MCU, should be flat to up 3% year-over-year.
Stepping back to a broader perspective, as I mentioned last call, we still see a nominal $2.2 billion
SoC market growing 3% to 5% over the mid-term, assuming an 8% unit growth rate in
semiconductors. At the same time, we expect this pattern of year-to-year and seasonal swings to
remain a part of the SoC test market over the next few years.
In Memory Test, we see the market in 2015 as essentially flat, at $500 million. Higher speed
interfaces in both flash and DRAM continue to grow and swing more of the market to the sweet
spot of our product offerings, and our plan is to pick up two points to three points of share in
2015.
Turning to Wireless Test; last year our LitePoint business gained market share and scored
significant design wins in cellular and NFC testing. We are now qualified and positioned in eight of
the top 10 handset manufacturers. Despite this, revenue was down year-over-year as the market
compressed even more than our earlier forecast due to the continued tester productivity and
pricing pressures. We estimate the Wireless Test production market was in the $500 million
range in 2014.
Looking forward, we expect modest market growth in this segment over the next few years as
handset growth rates, while still high, continue to slow. We expect this market to be in the $450
million to $600 million range in 2015, with LitePoint gaining a few points of share, building off our
design wins in 2014. LTE, LTE-Advanced and 802.11ac adoption will continue at a fast pace. And
this, combined with new standards, like NFC testing, are the opportunity for LitePoint. Further, the
proliferation of reliable high bandwidth connections in vehicles over the next five years will be
another driver of test intensity, as quality and reliability of these connections will be paramount.
Our System Test business saw about a 6% year-on-year increase in revenue and solid profitability.
This was due to strong customer pull for our newly introduced Multi-Site Inline board tester and
an increase in our Storage Test business. Storage Test continues its recovery, as revenue more
than doubled year-on-year and the group returned to profitability in the fourth quarter. Steady
progress in SSD testing has led much of the recovery, and the traditional hard disk drive test
business is also showing signs of recovery.
As we look to 2015, we see a return to buying in the enterprise and cloud-based storage drive
market, as well as continued demand in the SSD space. We expect double-digit revenue growth
and the group to be back at model profit for the year.
Our Production Board Test business grew over 15% in 2014, due to the success of our new in-line
test product. It's also notable that bookings in Asia grew 47% year-over-year. After many years of
decline, 2014 was a turning point to growth in this business, which we expect to continue in 2015.
Our Defense & Aerospace business saw a revenue decline in 2014 due to the anticipated wind-
down of some legacy programs in the DoD. Despite this, the group still delivered above-model
profits and enhanced its product portfolio with the acquisition of AIT in the fourth quarter. AIT
brings advanced test instrumentation into the testing of high-speed communications interfaces,
increasingly found in all forms of military hardware, from aircraft to drones to ground vehicles to
smart munitions. As legacy weapons systems get retrofitted and new systems come on line, this
product will play an increasingly important role in our Defense & Aerospace Test business. We
expect the combination of new DoD programs ramping and AIT to put us back on a growthFinally, let me turn to capital allocation. 2014 was a strong year for cash generation at Teradyne,
with over $300 million of free cash flow. During the year, we paid off our convertible debt and
initiated our first quarterly dividend. We've also been very active on the business development
front, working on select attractive M&A candidates to enhance our strategic position for the long
term.
Technology businesses evolve quickly, and capitalizing on turning points both in organic R&D and
M&A is vital for long-term success. A balanced approach of capital return and investing in the
business is our recipe for long-term success of the company and the shareholders.
As we enter 2015 and look at the total portfolio of opportunities ahead of us, we've decided to
increase our stock buyback authorization to $500 million while maintaining our quarterly dividend
at its current level. We plan to execute $300 million of this total authorization in 2015. As we move
through the year, we will continue to assess our M&A pipeline and core business cash generation
to determine if a buyback above the $300 million level in 2015 is warranted.
Let me now turn it over to Greg.
Gregory R. Beecher `
Thanks, Mark, and good morning, everyone. I'll start with the key highlights of 2014 and then I'll
detail our 2015 capital allocation plans and how those plans reconcile to our cash requirements,
our M&A prospects and longer-term plans. I'll then cover the fourth quarter results and first
quarter outlook, and close with some perspective on 2015.
On the financial highlight front, 2014 goes into the annals of Teradyne as our fifth consecutive
year of exceeding the ATE industry model profit rate. In 2014, we achieved a non-GAAP operating
profit rate of 19%, 4 points above the model rate of 15%.
Over the last five-year period, our non-GAAP operating profit rate has ranged from 18% to 28%
and averaged out at a 22% annual rate. This stellar 2014 and multi-year performance places us
right alongside the best-run semi equipment suppliers.
In 2014, we achieved sales of $1.648 billion, up 15% from the prior year and inked (12:24) non-
GAAP operating income of $321 million, up 26% from the prior year. We also generated $323
million in free cash flow after investing about $75 million in leased testers and contributing $30
million to fully fund our U.S. pension plan. Over the last five years, our annual free cash flow has
averaged about $290 million or 19% of sales.
The Teradyne of today is a far less volatile performer than in the past, with our lean OpEx and
variable manufacturing model. This optimized model has allowed us to stay in the black even in
the seasonal fourth quarter troughs, where sales are often down about 40% from the peak
quarter.
SoC test buying cycles have ebbed and flowed year to year between on and off mobility test
buying rather than sizeable overbuying followed by prolonged corrections. Mobility buying was
very strong in 2012 and 2014, and we averaged a 21% non-GAAP operating profit rate in these
on-years. In the off-buying years of 2011 and 2013, despite sales being down about $200 million
company-wide, we nonetheless earned above the 15% industry model profit rate.
Though I previously described the market and product strategy behind our strong financial
performance, I'll quickly summarize it again now, as it's how we plan on growing earnings looking
ahead. First, we're highly selective and target the most attractive markets and we likewise avoidwork closely with the leading and most demanding players to tease out their future test
challenges.
We then design new products with lower cost of test through higher device throughput while also
reducing their time to volume production with faster programming and debugging tools. We
often also deliver greater accuracy and, therefore, better device yield, as there is less guard
banding needed. This combination of a very efficient and optimized model with lean OpEx and
variable manufacturing coupled with identifying sub-markets and customers that are attractive,
both in growth rate and the ability to differentiate, continues to set us apart.
By executing the strategy, we set another semi-test share record in 2014, reaching 46% share in
the combined SoC and memory market, up 2 points from last year's record. You may recall from
prior calls that about half of our market share gains come from being in healthier markets, which
capture a growing share of the total test wallet, and the other half are net share wins from head-
to-head battles.
In 2014, we also benefited from higher than normal application processing buying, so we'd
expect 2015 segment shifts to be less favorable for us and expect to hold share about flat for
the year. Our largest Semi Test competitor has about 41% share, so the two largest players have
a combined 87% share of the market. However, this market remains as competitive as ever. This
has had a direct impact on our operating expenses. After aggressive reductions in 2008 and
2009, our Semi-Test OpEx has trended back up due to that competitive environment.
These investments have been fundamental to our 10 points of share gain over the last four years,
and our product and support lineup is stronger than ever. Still, we continue to look for
opportunities to scale this OpEx investment back and expect our 2015 spend in both Semi Test
and at the company level to be equal to or lower than 2014.
Turning now to a quick summary of the strategic highlights of 2014. We fielded over 10 new
innovative products and enhancements across the company. Mark noted a few key products in
Semi Test that have driven our share forward.
At LitePoint, we introduced and shipped in volume a new product for NFC radiated test and
extended our connectivity share position with the leading 802.11ac MIMO and beamforming test
solution. In System Test, we have successfully entered the 3.5 and SSD storage markets,
expanded our reach in Defense & Aerospace with the AIT purchase and established a profitable
growth path for the Production Board Test business.
Now, moving to our 2015 capital allocation plans. The $500 million buyback approved by our
board is based upon our strong business model and confidence in Teradyne's future. We plan on
buying back $300 million in 2015, either through an ASR, open market purchases or a
combination of the two. I should point out, though, we also have a healthy pipeline of attractive
M&A opportunities, which require that we preserve some balance sheet flexibility. Of course,
we'll continually review the returns we can achieve from our M&A pipeline and gives (17:22) an
even greater capital return.
We've also included a schedule that shows our total cash and marketable security balances along
with our minimum cash needs. You'll note that similar to some other peer companies, we need
about a year's worth of OpEx, or roughly $500 million, as our minimum cash, of which $400
million is needed in the U.S.
Hence, the planned 2015 buyback of $300 million is quite significant against our beginning U.S.
balance of $683 million. The $300 million is, of course, in addition to about $50 million that weexpect to spend on dividends in 2015. You can also see that we have $616 million offshore, well
above our $100 million minimum foreign balance. This is a result of the lower offshore tax rate
that we have enjoyed over many years for a portion of our foreign sales.
We may find a foreign acquisition that meets our strict acquisition criteria where this excess cash
can be efficiently deployed. Barring this, we'd look to bring this foreign cash back when and if
there is a repatriation holiday. Longer term, absent a cataclysmic environment, we plan to
generate additional U.S. and foreign cash each year. We plan to update you each January on our
current year capital return plans rather than setting a rigid long-term formula now.
Okay, so moving to the details of the fourth quarter. Our sales were $323 million, the non-GAAP
operating profit rate was 11% and non-GAAP EPS was $0.14. We had two 10% customers in the
quarter. Non-GAAP gross margins were 53%. You'll see our non-GAAP operating expenses were
down $9 million, to $136 million, compared to the third quarter due to lower variable
compensation accruals.
Moving to our segment-level details. Semi Test bookings were $226 million, in line with the
familiar consumer seasonal patterns and the strong first half pull-in. SoC Test orders were $201
million and Memory Test orders were $25 million. Semi Test service orders were $61 million of the
total.
Before leaving Semi Test, I'd like to quickly update you on the UltraFLEX leases, which have a
one-year initial term. In 2014, we invested approximately $75 million in leased testers. Currently,
we expect about 20% of these testers to be bought out in the first quarter. In 2015, we expect
our gross CapEx to fall back to about $90 million to $100 million. Shifting now to Wireless Test.
We booked $49 million and shipped $40 million in fourth quarter, the highest fourth quarter
revenue in history.
I'd like to now quickly cover the LitePoint goodwill charge. As you can see from our release, we
recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $99 million. This was triggered primarily by
the reduction in the wireless market size in 2014, which in turn tempers our longer-term view of
the Wireless Test market size. There was a large step-function change in the market size due to
aggressive pricing, parallel test efficiencies and customers optimizing their existing equipment. As
Mark noted, the Wireless Test market, which came in at about $500 million in 2014, still offers
growth opportunities looking ahead with LTE proliferation, test time expansion and unit growth.
However, this lower starting point of the Wireless Test market drives the goodwill impairment
charge.
Now moving to System Test. Orders were $67 million in the quarter and shipments were $46
million. Defense & Aerospace orders more than doubled from Q3 on the strength of DOD
system orders and annual service renewals. And in Production Board Test, while Q4 orders
softened after a strong Q3, we finished 2014 with the highest full-year bookings in three years.
Sales for the first quarter are expected to be between $320 million and $345 million, and the
non-GAAP EPS range is $0.09 to $0.14 and 220 million diluted shares. Q1 guidance excludes the
amortization of acquired intangibles, a gain on the sale of an equity investment and the related
tax impact. The operating profit rate at the midpoint of our first quarter guidance is about 11%.
Our 2015 tax rate is expected to be about 27%. If the R&D Tax Credit is reinstated for 2015, that
rate will drop to about 25%. Post-2015, we expect our long-term tax rate to be in the high 20%s,
assuming no R&D Tax Credit.
Before we completely close the book on 2014, it's worth highlighting one last time some of theindustry model profit rate, we achieved our highest-ever ATE market share position, we scored
the highest-ever VLSI score for customer satisfaction for any semi equipment provider and we
initiated our first-ever quarterly dividend. We now enter 2015 demonstrating our long-term
confidence in our business and future earnings growth with our planned $300 million buyback in
2015 against the announced $500 million authorized repurchase program.
With that, I'll turn the call back to Andy.
Andrew Blanchard `
Thanks, Greg. Kevin, we'd now like to take some questions. And as a reminder, please limit
yourself to one question and a follow-up.
Q&A
Operator
The first question comes from the line of Timothy Arcuri from Cowen & Company. Your line is
open.
Q - `Tim M. Arcuri, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Thank you so much. I guess the first question, Greg, is just on the buyback. This has been
discussed for some time, obviously. You've been getting a lot of pressure on that and you're
certainly buying back more than your cash flow this year. And you always said that you wanted to
keep cash on hand for deals. But sort of what changed and why now? I mean, this could have
been done last quarter or the quarter before. Is it that the asset prices of the stuff you want to
buy are not coming down the way you thought? So I guess the question is, why now?
A - Gregory R. Beecher `
I think last quarter on the call I did indicate that it's not an either/or. We do intend to pursue highly
strategic, very good fits into Teradyne, and M&A we can grow companies faster and return
capital, so if we can do both.
We also wanted to get a good look at the mid-term plan, which we pulled together about this
time of year, and we want to spend enough time with our board to go through all the
alternatives, tradeoffs our M&A pipeline. But we tried to signal to you guys last time that we can
do both.
Q - `Tim M. Arcuri, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Okay, thanks. And then I guess a question on Wireless Test. It seems like a really terrible market.
We're hearing pricing is down 70%, 80% the last 12 months to 18 months. It just sounds really bad.
And I guess what's going to change the competitive issues there? There's still five large
companies trying to compete in a market that is really not big any more at all. So what's going to
catapult you back into the technology lead? Do you have to make another M&A deal there? And
what's your assessment broadly of what the competitive issues are? And, importantly, what's
going to make it better?
A - Mark E. Jagiela `
All right, I'll take that one, Tim. You're right in terms of the fact that the market has contracted
dramatically. I wouldn't say pricing is down as much as you've suggested, but it has been down.it will be a continued tough market. There's some technical innovations in how handsets and such
get tested that we believe will break out over the next two years to three years and allow
Teradyne, we plan, to sort of emerge from that.
So as long as the market stays in its current algorithm around how it's testing the handsets, it will
be a tough, slow growth market. But we do see some things coming with the proliferation of
more bands in phones and the premium on how does that phone switch bands, hand off voice to
Wi-Fi, get voice-over-LTE going. All of that complexity probably requires a rethink on how phones
get tested, and we've got some work going on in that direction.
Q - `Tim M. Arcuri, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Okay. And then maybe last thing. Greg, can you give us just a sense of what you think gross
margin is going to be for March? Thanks so much.
A - Gregory R. Beecher `
Gross margins – for the year, I think gross margins for the year will be about flat with last year. Did
you ask just for the first quarter?
Q - `Tim M. Arcuri, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Yeah.
A - Gregory R. Beecher `
The first quarter – 52% to 53%.
Q - `Tim M. Arcuri, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Okay.
A - Gregory R. Beecher `
So, 52% to 53%, similar to starting out last year (26:32).
A - Andrew Blanchard `
Could we have the next question please, Kevin?
Operator
The next question comes from the line of Jim Covello from Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
Q - `James V. Covello, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Great. Good morning, guys. Thanks so much for taking the question. I appreciate it. First question
for Greg. Greg, the chart on your U.S. cash versus your foreign cash is really helpful. Thank you for
that. Could you give us some sense of what dictates where the difference in where the cash is
generated? Year-to-year there's some pretty dramatic changes as you laid out the fiscal 2012,
2013 and 2014 in terms of where the cash flow is generated and therefore domiciled. If you could
give us some sense on that, that'd be great.
A - Gregory R. Beecher `Sure, Jim. What drives the foreign cash high as a percent in some years is UltraFLEX and J750.
Those are both very successful, high runner products, huge installed bases. Those profits for
foreign customers end up in Singapore. So that's the foreign cash that gets trapped. Our other
businesses, whether it's LitePoint, Eagle, Nextest, Mil/Aero, Production Board Test, that would be
U.S. cash flow. And it's the mix of how those businesses perform year-to-year affects the cash
flows in one location versus the other.
Q - `James V. Covello, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
That's incredibly helpful. Thank you. And if I could just for my follow-up, congratulations on
announcing the buyback. It's a great buyback, buying back 7.5% of the company this year. It looks
like you're kind of matching the current year buyback with the previous year's cash flow. Is that an
intentional issue or is that just more coincidence? Because I remember you did something
relatively similar with the dividend that you announced last year – match – the outlay was
consistent with the previous year's cash flow. Is that how we should think about maybe the capital
allocation incrementally going forward? Thanks.
A - Gregory R. Beecher `
I wouldn't think of it that way, per se, Jim. After this $350 million, the buyback and the dividend, if
you model Teradyne – and it's hard to model U.S. versus foreign cash flow, but no matter how you
do it, you're going to see that there isn't really any excess cash in the U.S. at the end of this
buyback. So that's how we thought about it. And we have a foreign cash trap problem, which is a
result of a lower tax rate. So it's more about bringing our U.S. cash closer to the minimum balance.
Q - `James V. Covello, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
That's terrific. I really appreciate the color. Thanks a lot and good luck.
A - Gregory R. Beecher `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `C.J. Muse, Evercore ISI with Evercore ISI. Your line is open.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Evercore ISI
Yeah. Good morning. Thank you for taking my question. I guess first question, your System Test
orders reached a roughly, what, three-year peak here. In your prepared remarks, you talked
about HDD and SSD. Curious if you could expand on that. And is that what's driving the strength in
the order book, and how should we think about the businesses in 2015 and beyond on the hard
drive and solid-state drive side?
A - Mark E. Jagiela `
Yeah. So, most of the growth in the system SaaS business did come from Storage Test, and in
2014, we endeavored to get a good position in SSD testing. That worked in our favor. We ended
up with over $20 million of test business in SSD test in a year. So, that was a significant part of the
growth, and the other part was the Production Board Test side.
Now, if you think about this year, the good news in Storage Test is it looks like, on top of the SSD
business, we will see a return to buying at some level for hard disk drives for enterprise andcloud. So there's a trend there that looks good. Mil/Aero should also grow this year. So, I think
after many years of that section of the business being weak to down, we are back and going to
see sequential years of growth.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Evercore ISI
Okay, that's helpful. And then as my follow-up, on the SoC Test side, can you walk me through
what gives you the confidence that we'll see a nice recovery in 2016? And I'm assuming there
you're talking about the two-year cadence on AP. And as part of that, can you weave in your
thoughts again on the buy rate bottoming and potentially moving higher, as you discussed last
call, as well as what you're seeing in terms of the weakening yen versus the dollar and how that
might be impacting or not impacting the competitive landscape?
A - Mark E. Jagiela `
Okay. A lot of topics there. Let me start with the yen and the dollar issue. So, our competitor
being a yen and euro-dominated currency in terms of their OpEx, certainly we'll see a benefit
from the exchange rates over time since the tester market worldwide is predominantly a dollar-
based transaction.
We haven't seen any pricing changes as a result of that. And as they've indicated, hopefully they'll
take all of that to profit and will have a healthy ecosystem. But, so on that front, nothing new and
so we just watch and see what will happen.
In terms of the year-to-year swings in the SoC market and around mobility, it's really more than
just applications processors; it's a whole series of parts that includes the base band, the RF and
the pin mix (32:20) and a variety of other things that have coincidentally been on this even-
year/odd-year cadence. And, for example, in 2014 what drove it above average I would say was a
series of things happened in that year. The diversity of new products introductions in the year was
quite larger than normal. We had more flavors of new handset products coming to market than
would be typical. And inside those handsets there was more innovative capabilities and silicon
than in a typical year of, say, the prior year 2013, so those two things combined to drive test
demand.
The other thing that happened in 2014 is there was I would say pent-up demand to refresh
handsets in the consumer base. And so the level of ramp around those new product
introductions to meet the surge of demand for the handsets was quite high. And if you look
through the year, the level of shipments isn't flat for handsets; it kind of peaks perhaps in the
fourth quarter and so people have the tool for that peak.
In a year where the introductions may not be as, let's say, a lot of change in technology or
diversity, a lot of that capacity can be smoothed out and reabsorbed. So I would say the fourth
quarter peak last year in handsets was probably higher than normal. So that explains why last year
was high. This year we think will be more like a 2013 market, where there certainly will be change
but not at that level.
So when we look forward to 2016, why are we confident that 2016 will be another surge year?
And it really gets into what we see are the underlying new designs and the technologies and the
complexity of the new designs that are currently in sort of a test chip mode that won't show up
for another year and a half. And when we look at that and just from that extrapolate, we said,
boy, 2016 should be another big year of a more complex introduction of more diverse products
and that should drive our market. So a long-winded answer, but that's how we look at it.Q - `C.J. Muse, Evercore ISI
Very helpful. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Krish Sankar, Bank of America Merrill Lynch with Bank of America. Your line is open.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Yeah. Hi. Thanks for taking my question. I have two of them. Mark, if I look at the LitePoint
business, I think we all know that the challenges that you see and the competition. And it looks
like you guys had a layoff in that division. So my question is, was it profitable on an operating level
in Q4, the Wireless business? And then I have a follow-up.
A - Mark E. Jagiela `
Well, first of all, on the Wireless – yes, good questions. In the Wireless business last year, we
didn't really have any significant layoff. We made a few adjustments, less than a couple of percent
of the total workforce and...
A - Gregory R. Beecher `
And for the profit rate, it was profitable in the fourth quarter, and for the year it was profitable
above the ATE industry model target of 15%. It was above that. So, while the market has been
compressed, LitePoint, as I think we've said in the past, has manufacturing production optimized
testers, which generally means lower cost of goods sold and better throughput and easier to use
in production because they don't use a general purpose tester or an R&D tester and try to
convert it.
So the gross margins and the operating profits are still good, but they're down from the record
levels. Prior to this year, we were averaging a much higher operating profit rate. But, again, we're
still north of the 15%.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Got it. That's really helpful, Greg. And then as a follow-up, with all the focus on IoT and things like
that, I was wondering if you look at the analog mixed signal test market, are you actually seeing
any of the traditional rack and stack guys or some other disruptor coming into that market and
trying to, for lack of a better term, pull the LitePoint competitive situation in that segment?
A - Mark E. Jagiela `
Yeah, rack and stack equipment has always played a role at the simple device end of test for
semiconductors. And so for things like power amplifiers or discrete semiconductors, that's always
been a situation that they've persisted in. I think there is a trend for them trying to move further
up the food chain, so that's happening.
But the complexity of these devices – in other words, in order to get really innovative products at
a low cost that a consumer would crave requires some functionality that typically can't be
produced in a simple device. So producing an advanced, let's say, Bluetooth or Wi-Fi embedded
microcontroller with a bunch of sensors and converters to do something significant for a
consumer is a complex chip. It's not an expensive chip, per se, but it's complex. And the ability for
the rack and stack guys to move in and test those I think is limited.Q - `Krish Sankar, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Got it then. Thanks a lot. Very helpful.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Siran Thames (38:02) with Credit Suisse. Your line is
open.
Q - `Farhan Ahmad, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Hello. Hi. This is Farhan from Credit Suisse. Thanks for taking the question. And my first question is
regarding the capital allocation. Can you just talk about the choice of buyback over dividend?
Wouldn't it be better if you had raised the dividend and maybe added buyback in addition to
that? So, just wanted to hear your thoughts on, why not do some dividend plus buyback rather
than just allocating everything to buyback?
A - Gregory R. Beecher `
Yes, well, we look at the total capital return first in total and then we see it's, you could increase
the dividend and/or buy back the stock. But we thought a very meaningful stock buyback really
depleting our U.S. cash to the minimum level would be the strongest signal we can send to our
long-term investors to really show the confidence that we have sitting here. So we thought that
was a stronger move. And we also said each January we will update you on our next year's capital
allocation plan. So stay tuned next January. We'll update you what the plan is then.
Q - `Farhan Ahmad, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Got it. Thank you. And then my second question is for Mark. The test market has consolidated
from what used to be five to seven players down to two large companies. And, Mark, you
mentioned that the competitive dynamics continue to remain strong in the industry. And I guess
my question to you is, if it's a two-player market, how much of the competitive dynamics in the
market is affected by your own actions and would the market be less competitive if you were a
little less aggressive on OpEx and maybe tried to optimize the company for margins rather than
market share.
A - Mark E. Jagiela `
Well, we have optimized the company for margins, so it's a question of how much. And as Greg
mentioned in his remarks, we scaled back significantly in 2009 and 2010 on OpEx. And what we
found is that our competitor didn't. And that situation over the long course of time, we've been
increasing our R&D in a few other places in the company as a result.
Now that's all proven successful. We've been able to have a large profit headroom over the
competitor even with that increase in OpEx. But since this is a long-term battle, we have to make
sure that our product portfolio and our customer-facing support is competitive.
Q - `Farhan Ahmad, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Got it. Thank you. That's all I have.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `David Duley, Steelhead Securities LLC with Steelhead. Your line is open.Q - `David Duley, Steelhead Securities LLC `
Yeah, thanks for taking my question. A question on the SoC Test market projections that you just
made, I think. It looks like you're calling for the overall market to be down about $250 million next
year. Is the vast majority of that the application processor piece? I know there are some ancillary
parts that go along with those that could also in unison be down. But just trying to figure out is the
big piece that's down the application process piece? And outside of that, what would you expect
the rest of the market to do?
A - Mark E. Jagiela `
Well, I would say the vast majority of it or the majority of it is applications processors. But I would
say the associated mobile chips that go with that are also we're thinking going to be down. So,
those would be the wireless, whether it's Wi-Fi or whether it's the LTE RF transceivers and base
band chips, they'll also be down compared to last year. So in the end markets, the devices
themselves will grow; they just won't grow as much as last year and, therefore, the test needs will
be down a bit.
So outside of wireless and mobility, areas like analog and automotive and even image sensor,
which is actually a mobile product, will grow this year. So those are all going to grow. And it's just
that the relative magnitude of the swing in the mobile devices is quite large and that underlying
growth of these other device segments really cushion a little bit but not the whole swing.
Q - `David Duley, Steelhead Securities LLC `
So I guess I'm trying to interpret what you're SoC revenue will be next year based on your market
commentary. It sounds, if this segment is going to be down $250 million or so, right, you have a
vast majority of market share there, does the rest of the market make up for this and you end up
somewhat, let's say, flat to down 5% in SoC?
A - Mark E. Jagiela `
I think that's hard to predict that mix. But I think one way to think about it is our overall market
share is about 50%. And if the market is going to come down $200 million, $300 million, you
could reasonably assume that we're not overly highly concentrated in those mobility segments. I
would say that if our 50% share on average is spread around, we have higher share in analog and
microcontroller and such. And in mobility, it's probably a little bit below 50%. So, but, rough math,
you might say if the market comes down $200 million, maybe $100 million of that comes out of
us.
Q - `David Duley, Steelhead Securities LLC `
And does the rest of the market make up for it do you think?
A - Mark E. Jagiela `
Some of it. Some of it will be made up, but not all of it.
Q - `David Duley, Steelhead Securities LLC `
Okay. And then just as my follow-on, could you help us understand who your 10% customers
were, what segments they were, what the ultimate percentages were? Any other information
that you can give us would be helpful.A - Gregory R. Beecher `
Other than the customers that are in the mobility space, there's really nothing else we can say.
Q - `David Duley, Steelhead Securities LLC `
Both SoC test customers or...
A - Gregory R. Beecher `
There's a LitePoint and an SoC.
Q - `David Duley, Steelhead Securities LLC `
Okay. Thank you very much.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Patrick Ho with Stifel, Nicolaus. Your line is open.
Q - `Patrick J. Ho, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Thank you very much. Mark, maybe just going on the Wireless Test market for a second. You
provided a pretty wide variability of the overall market outlook. I guess one of the key drivers for
both the low end and the high end of the range, is it driven more by the cellular test market and
seeing growth there that can either get you to the high end, or if you experience more pressures
there that gets you into the low end?
A - Mark E. Jagiela `
Yeah, good question. In Wireless Test, the volatility in the market is much higher on the cellular
side of test than it is on the Wi-Fi side of test. So one of the factors there will be in Asia, and
primarily in China, how will the year play out with incremental volume and who and which supplier
of handsets in China will capture that incremental volume. There's a wide variation in terms of
test intensity among different suppliers of handsets. So that's something that's hard to call. That
is part of the reason the range is a bit wide. And like as I mentioned, we're positioned pretty well
across a large number of those, but what each might invest in terms of test and quality assurance
is different.
Q - `Patrick J. Ho, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Great. That's helpful. Maybe going to the SoC test market, I know you gave a broad outlook of
2016 with the hopes that the next generation devices will create the demand once again for an
uptick in the SoC test market. Big picture, how much can your customers reuse the capacity that
they bought in 2014 for the next-generation devices? What gives you confidence that you'll see
another buying wave for the 14-nanometer FinFET devices that are likely to come out later this
year and into 2016?
A - Mark E. Jagiela `
Well, first on the reuse thing, in Semi Test, the platforms that we sell tend to be utilized for 10
years or so. There is some obsolescence that occurs along the way and the systems get
refreshed with new instruments. And as the devices increase in complexity that typically meansthere's more power supplies and more digital pins needed in the tester to test the parts, so
they're upgraded.
That's not new. That's been going on forever and we expect that to be the case in 2016. So the
products that we've installed in 2014 and will in 2015 will certainly be utilized and upgraded for
use in 2016 and in addition to new systems. So if the world is adding, let's say, 250 million new
smartphones a year, that gets serviced by predominantly new testers. And then the current
testers get upgraded.
The other thing that happens with each new complex device is the test time goes up. So that
tends to require additional capacity as well. So it's not just the incremental 250 million that needs
to be serviced, but the other 1 billion units of devices that are being produced need more
capacity as well.
So that's sort of the flywheel effect that keeps going. And the real wildcard, I'd say, under all of
that is, well, what's the level of incremental jump in complexity coming in 2016 versus 2015 versus
2014. And we triangulate on that by just looking at the standards – the chips that are running in a
sort of test chip environment that are maybe nine months to a year from production and try to
extrapolate off of that.
Q - `Patrick J. Ho, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Diffely with D. A. Davidson. Your line is open.
Q - `Tom R. Diffely, D. A. Davidson & Co. `
Yes. Thank you. Maybe just a quick follow-up on Patrick's question there. So when you look at 2016
on the SoC side, does your demand require the move to FinFET or would you see that demand if
you stayed at, say, the 20-nanometer node and just had increases in the number of design
activity?
A - Mark E. Jagiela `
Yeah. I think there's an assumption in that that it will be FinFET in 2016, I would say.
Q - `Tom R. Diffely, D. A. Davidson & Co. `
Okay. All right. And then just looking over at the memory side, if we saw actual DRAM wafer starts
increasing this year, not just upgrades to the existing wafer starts, would that change your view
for the size of the test market for memory?
A - Mark E. Jagiela `
Yes, a bit. But Memory Test has been in a pretty tight control band for a while now. I'd say there's
more upside in memory than in prior years because with the move to LPDDR4 for mobile
devices, that's a frequency jump again that's a challenge and it limits the reuse of existing testers.
So to the extent the shift toward LPDDR4 tends to be harder, that will move the market up.
And then the SSD side on flash. That's another potential upside balloon that if that shift occurs a
little bit faster, it can drive upside there. So I think it's a good point. The memory side this yearQ - `Tom R. Diffely, D. A. Davidson & Co. `
Okay. And is much of that upside on the wafer test side or the final test side?
A - Mark E. Jagiela `
Probably on the DRAM question I'd say it's kind of evenly split, although known-good die is
starting to get some traction. I think it'll be on both wafer and package. And then on the flash test
side, package test probably is a little more upside because of the – that's the spot where the
frequency validation and certification occurs.
Q - `Tom R. Diffely, D. A. Davidson & Co. `
Okay. Thank you very much.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Sidney Ho, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. with Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.
Q - `Sidney Ho, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Thanks for taking my question. Understanding the SoC market will be down roughly 10% at $250
million this year, are you still expecting your overall revenue to grow this year? And can you
remind us your aspiration of share gains by each segment?
A - Mark E. Jagiela `
Okay, well, just to go back and refresh, the SoC test market in 2014 was $2.35 billion. And this
year what we said in the remarks here was that we expect it to be somewhere between $2.2
billion down to $1.95 billion. So, we expect it to come down based – for the reasons I mentioned
earlier.
And then inside that, we every year have a goal of trying to gain 1 point to 2 points of share in
SoC. We've been on that trend line now for quite some time and being successful, although it's
lumpy year-to-year. So 1 point to 2 points of share in SoC. And then in memory this year, we're
looking at around 3 points of share to pick up. So those are our goals. Those are the goals we've
had for several years running now.
Q - `Sidney Ho, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
But how should we think about the other businesses, the memory as well as the system
business? Would that be able to make up the difference for the decline in the Semi Test call it?
A - Mark E. Jagiela `
Well, if you think about memory, if memory is a $500 million market and we pick up 3 points of
share, that means $15 million of additional revenue out of the memory business. If memory has a
very strong year of $600 million, it would actually be quite a bit more. But it's not going to make
up for the fall off in the overall SoC business, where we have 50% share of a $2.2 billion market.
Q - `Sidney Ho, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Okay. Maybe switching to wireless for a second. I know you guys talk about the taking a charge
(53:07) and all that. But in terms of profitability, I think this business, the gross margin actually hasabove-average gross margin. How should we think of the operating margins for this business on
a go-forward basis? And at what level will it get to kind of the corporate average run rate?
A - Gregory R. Beecher `
This year in this down year, it operated above the 15% ATE industry model profit rate. So it's
above that. The prior three years, it was considerably, considerably above that. I think the model
for LitePoint probably is about – long term it's probably a 20% EBIT business. So, that's where I
expect them to operate plus or minus a few points and it will be lumpy.
Q - `Sidney Ho, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Okay. Great. Thank you.
A - Andrew Blanchard `
And, operator, we have time for just one more call.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `C.J. Muse, Evercore ISI with Evercore ISI. Your line is open.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Evercore ISI
Hey, thanks for fitting me in. I guess to follow up, two quick questions. The first one is how should
we think about share count given the $300 million buyback plan for the next 12 months? And I
guess within that, how should we think about share grant and dilution from there offset by that?
And then secondly, on the tax side, if you look at TI, they have a 28% tax rate and they have
access to almost 100% of their cash. You guys are at 25%, including the R&D Tax Credit. Curious if
there are tax strategies that you are pursuing to enable you to repatriate more cash and sustain
the similar tax rate where you are today. Thank you.
A - Gregory R. Beecher `
C.J., I'll start with the second question first. You're right, our tax rate has gone up in 2015, but
we're going to have more U.S. cash flows. It goes hand in hand. But it did go back the prior few
years, our tax rate was 18%. It was also lower than that, it was 13%. So it's fluctuated in the teens.
And that's when a lot of cash got offshore, which is a good problem to have.
But if you look at the snapshot of 2015, yes, it's looking more like a TI-type rate. But at this rate of
27%, that's a high rate for us, given our mix of businesses. We are constantly looking at tax
planning. The only kind of gotcha with tax planning is the more profits you put offshore, the less
cash that's available to increase a dividend or to buy back stock. So we have to navigate how
much we want offshore for a lower tax rate versus how much we want to return to our
shareholders.
And the former question was – I lost track.
A - Mark E. Jagiela `
Share count?
A - Gregory R. Beecher `Well, the authorization is about 7% of our share count, so I would expect by the end of the year
we'll take those shares out, whether it's 16 million shares, thereabouts, and then the normal
dilution should occur that's happened the last couple of years.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Evercore ISI
Great. Thank you.
A - Andrew Blanchard `
Okay, well this concludes our call for today. Thank you all for your interest in Teradyne, and we
look forward to speaking with you in the days and weeks ahead. Take care.
A - Mark E. Jagiela `
Thank you.