Q4 2016 Earnings Call

Operator
Good morning. My name is Ginger and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I'd
like to welcome everyone to the Teradyne Quarter Four 2016 Earnings Conference Call. All lines
have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there
will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you. Mr. Andy Blanchard, you may begin your conference.
`Andrew Blanchard, Vice President-Corporate Relations `
Thank you, Ginger. Good morning, everyone and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's most
recent financial results. I'm joined this morning by our CEO Mark Jagiela and Chief Financial
Officer Greg Beecher.
Following our opening remarks we'll provide details of our performance for the fourth quarter
and full year 2016 and our outlook for the first quarter of this year. The press release containing
our fourth quarter and full year results was issued last evening. We're providing slides on the
Investor page of the website that maybe helpful to you in following the discussion. Replays of this
call will be available via the same page after the call ends.
The matters that we discuss today will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors
that could cause Teradyne's results to differ materially from management's current expectations.
We encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statement contained in the earnings release as well
as our most recent SEC filings. Additionally, those forward-looking statements are made as of
today and we take no obligation to update them as a result of developments occurring after this
call.
During today's call, we'll make reference to non-GAAP financial measures. We've posted
additional information concerning these non-GAAP financial measures, including reconciliation tothe most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, where available, on the Investor page of
our website. Also between now and our next earnings call, Teradyne will be participating in
investor conferences hosted by Goldman Sachs and Susquehanna.
Now, let's get on with the rest of the agenda. First, Mark will comment on our recent results and
the market conditions as we enter the first quarter. Greg will then offer more details on our
quarterly financial results along with our guidance for the first quarter. We'll then answer your
questions, and this call is scheduled for one hour. Mark?
`Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, Andy. Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining us today. I'll be providing the
summary of our Q4 and 2016 results and describe the trends we see driving our markets in 2017
and beyond. Greg will then provide additional details on our financial results followed by our
outlook for the first quarter of 2017.
2016 was a very good year for Teradyne. We finished the year with our strongest Q4 sales in over
15 years and set a new record for Q4 orders. Our $380 million of sales in Q4 puts our full year
sales at $1.75 billion; our third consecutive year with sales over $1.6 billion.
The earnings power of our business model was evident as we delivered a non-GAAP EPS of $1.51,
up 19% over 2015. We generated $360 million in free cash flow and returned $195 million to
shareholders in buy backs and dividends. We ended the year with $1.6 billion in cash and $460
million in long-term debt.
Our fourth quarter order surge follows the similar pattern to 2015's Q4. Once again, customers
booked major tooling orders for mobile products early to ensure a smooth, manageable ramp
over the spring and summer. Additionally, strength in microcontroller, image sensor and analogue
test demand contributed to stronger bookings when compared to Q4 of 2015.
Overall, we estimate that the SOC Test market in 2016 was about $2.4 billion, up 16% from the
$2.1 billion in 2015, driven primarily by strong Mobility spending. This Mobility demand falls into the
complex SOC portion of the market served by our UltraFLEX platform, which set a new annual
shipment record. Although our microcontroller and image sensor shipments were down for the
full year, bookings for both were up strongly in Q4, a positive sign for 2017. For 2016 our SOC
sales totaled about $1.2 billion, up 15% from 2015. I'll step back to put these results in context
when I talk about the industry trends shortly.
Turning to Memory Test, we pegged the 2016 market at about $425 million, down from about
$500 million in the prior year. However, our concentration is in flash package test, which remains
strong in 2016, resulting in Memory Test sales of $147 million, up 5% from 2015. Of particular note
is the success of our Magnum tester in the growing high speed interface flash market. The use of
UFS and similar high speed interfaces will continue to expand as devices demand more
bandwidth from their growing onboard flash storage. The Magnum is well positioned to ride the
flash wave after successful deployments in five of the six major suppliers in 2016. Combining SOC
and Memory, the total Semi Test market was about $2.8 billion, up 11% from $2.5 billion and we
estimate our share grew a point to 48%.
Turning now to 2017, we expect the SOC market size to be in the range of $2.2 billion to $2.5
billion, down about $50 million from 2016 at the midpoint. Significantly, this midpoint is up 13%
from the last off cycle odd year of 2015 and up 25% from 2013. The reduced impact of parallel
test on the Semi Test market is set to continue in 2017 as we remain above our trend line
forecast of 1% annual SOC market growth.For 2017, we expect Mobility, which includes all the devices you'll find in a smartphone, to remain
the biggest end market driver. But our Q4 bookings also show an improving outlook for
automotive end markets.
In Memory Test, we expect the market to be in the $450 million to $550 million range with most
of the growth coming from improved DRAM test demand. Universal Robots continues to shine,
Q4 sales were $34 million, up over 50% from the year-ago quarter. For the year, sales were up
over 60% to $99 million on a calendar year basis.
In 2016, we expanded our customer facing sales and support staff, reinforced the management
team, grew the distribution channel and launched a range of initiatives to extend our ease of use
advantage and build industry awareness of the power of UR's collaborative robots.
For UR, Q1 is typically sequentially down from a strong fourth quarter and we expect the same
this quarter. However, for the year, we continue to see growth of 50% or greater in this exciting
segment.
System Test 2016 sales were $190 million, down $22 million from 2015 on lower spending and
storage test. The defense and aerospace test and production test units both saw single-digit
growth for the year and we expect similar results in 2017. Overall, due to the lumpy nature of
storage test, we expect the entire STG Group's 2017 sales to be similar to 2016, plus or minus
10%.
LitePoint sales – sorry – LitePoint sales for 2016 were $96 million down nearly 50% in a market that
was down by a similar percent. As we noted in our last call, we resized our cost to align with lower
market size and operated profitably in the second half of 2016.
Our R&D efforts are going full steam ahead as we position ourselves for the new wireless
standards expected in 2018 and beyond. For 2017, we expect the market to be similar in size to
last year, about $200 million.
So overall 2017 is shaping up to be another strong year for Semi Test and UR, while System Test
and LitePoint should be about flat year-over-year.
Stepping back, the macro trends that drove the business last year, and which we expect will drive
it going forward, are very familiar. Increasing electronics complexity and increases in human scale
automation. Roaming electronics complexity helps us across all segments of our test businesses,
but most dramatically in semi-conductor test.
Here, complexity has been increasing from the moment the first transistor was created nearly 70
years ago. What's different now, compared to the 10 years prior to 2014, is the complexity, which
drives increasing test time and correlates with tester throughput, is now growing faster than the
productivity gains of the test equipment.
The industry is now routinely shipping in high volume devices with more than 2 billion transistors,
often with multiple processing cores and a disparate collection of IP blocks. This complexity is
amplified as devices are fabbed with advance process nodes using finer pitches and using
advanced packaging technologies.
The consumer performance and cost benefits that come from these technologies require small
offsetting test intensity increases to optimize the overall balance of cost and quality. As we've
discussed before, tester productivity advances, through the use of increased parallel test, offset
much of this complexity trend up until about 2013. At that point, the diminishing economic benefitof the next doubling of parallelism, combined with the nonlinear time and cost escalation of
producing reliable fine pitched tester interface boards and probe cards, changed the equation.
Increasingly, the lowest overall cost approach and fastest time to ramp comes from spending a
little more in test capital to manage this growth. Thus simplifying interface board and probe card
design for lower overall cost and better yield. Additionally, test program complexity is reduced,
both shortening the development time and reducing debug.
This slowdown in parallel test is having a positive impact on the size of the SOC market. We
noted this trend several years ago and the market data since continued to support the outlook
for modest SOC trend line growth going forward.
2016 was a larger market than 2014, and we expect 2017 will be larger than 2015 and 2013. This
growth in device complexity and associated longer test times, especially at the high end of the
market for devices used in premium smartphones, was a major driver of our record Q4
semiconductor test orders.
Complexity is also important for our wireless test business at LitePoint. However, last year and in
2017 we're on the other side of the coin, as wireless standards have not grown significantly more
complex since the introduction of 802.11ac Wi-Fi and 4G cellular. However, we expect that will
change with the adoption of new Wi-Fi standards in 2018 and 5G cellular later in the decade.
For human scale automation, we are at a point where the fast setup time, safe operation and low
cost of UR cobots are enabling their use across an ever-broadening set of geographies and
sectors of the global economy.
The combination of lowering production costs and rising product quality continues to be the key
attraction for this new class of automation. For example, we've recently highlighted a customer in
India who uses UR cobots in the production of artificial lenses for cataract patients in the
developing world. Operating at a low cost region, the customer saw a 15% increase in product
output after the addition of cobots to their process, making these lenses both more affordable
and higher quality.
The growth rate of UR cobot shipments is a testament to this expanding wave of adoption, and
our ambition to grow is even faster. Increasingly, customer awareness of UR cobots' benefits and
capabilities, as well as increasing the channel resources necessary to execute the customer
specific requirements for a given application, has been our focus. At the same time we continue
to innovate to further reduce the time to deploy our cobot. With these investments, we see UR
continuing to grow at 50% or more for years to come.
Finally, let me turn to our capital allocation plans for 2017. As you know, we began a balanced
approach in 2014 with the initiation of our quarterly dividend. We further added annual share
buybacks while pursuing discipline M&A such as Universal Robots. With much of the cash in our
balance sheet being offshore, we issued convertible debt in the fourth quarter to raise additional
U.S. cash to continue this balanced approach. In 2017, we plan to buy back a minimum of $200
million of shares and increase our quarterly dividend from $0.06 to $0.07.
With that, I'll turn things over to Greg for additional comments and the financial details. Greg?
`Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `
Thanks, Mark, and good morning, everyone. I'll start with the highlights of 2016, then offer some
comments on 2017, including our capital allocation plans, then provide perspective on thestrategic position and market trends at the operating segment level along with fourth quarter
results and first quarter outlook.
On the financial highlights front, our $1.75 billion of sales in 2016, up 7% from 2015, and $1.51 of
non-GAAP EPS are solid steps towards the $2 EPS plan we outlined in recent calls.
In 2016, we accomplished our key objectives. We gained share in Semi Tests for the fifth
consecutive year, with strong Memory Test performance. We grew Universal Robots' top line over
60% from calendar 2015. And we allocated capital in 2016 where we had the highest return
through buybacks and dividends, bringing our three-year capital returns to $583 million. This
includes buying back 446 million of our shares at an average price of $19.87 and returning $137
million in dividend payments since the start of 2014.
We raised $460 million of seven-year convertible debt with 1.25% coupon rate. Factoring in the
call spread overlay, shareholder dilution will not begin to occur until our stock is above $39.95. As
we've described in prior calls, an increasing portion of our annual cash generation is offshore,
which in 2016 reached 80% of the $380 million of total cash generated.
As you can see from our cash resource slide, we have $1.6 billion of total cash resources with the
convertible debt proceeds. Raising our U.S. cash balance allows us to continue our capital return
programs rather than slowing down to wait for a potential repatriation holiday. Our offshore cash
and marketable securities of $768 million provide additional dry powder for possible foreign
acquisitions or to be added to our U.S. balances if a repatriation holiday occurs.
We have a new $500 million share repurchase authorization from January 1, and as noted we
expect to repurchase a minimum of $200 million worth of stock in 2017 and have increased our
quarterly dividend 17% to $0.07 a quarter, subject of course to ongoing board approval. Our
strengthening growth prospects and tight operating model comfortably support this move.
We're also maintaining dry powder in the U.S. for attractive M&A adjacencies, principally in
industrial automation where the intersection of enabling technologies and higher labor cost
provide new automation opportunities. We'll continue to compare the risk adjusted returns from
possible M&A against buying back even more of our stock. As I've noted in past calls, we don't
need to fill any holes in our portfolio, so we will remain very selective.
Now I'll do a quick rundown of the segment level highlights and trends. Starting with Semi Test.
We had another year of ATE market share gains, bringing us to an estimated 48% share for 2016.
Memory Test gains provided the lift this year. As described in the past, about half or more of our
share gains come from focusing on the healthier segments that have long-term tailwinds versus
trying to cover every possible bet. Part of (17:26) the new high speed flash protocols with our
Magnum product line and its frequency head room and outstanding economics drove our
Memory share to over 30%.
We also scored some meaningful DRAM wafer smart business with Magnum. Across the Semi
Test market, the steadily rising complexity trends that we've described are expected to continue
driving up test intensity along with the addition of more stringent quality requirements being
placed on our customers from the major brands further driving up test demand.
As Mark noted, another key point to help explain the overall improvement in our core SOC
market is that for complex Mobility devices, parallel test efficiencies can no longer mask the
underlying complexity increases. Also parallel test productivity naturally diminishes as the biggest
productivity gain arises from going from one device to two devices rather than, say, four devices
to eight devices, as in the latter, the system base cost has already been cut in half twice. We'rewell down the parallel test path so the impacts of this compression force on the test market
should continue to decline. The net of all this is we tried to capture in our slide deck is the SOC
Test market has shifted to a more favorable trend line trajectory with the more current even
years or odd years such as 2016 and 2015 exceeding the predecessor even years or odd years
of 2014 and 2013, more than 1% annual growth rate that we've used for modeling purposes.
As you can see from the SOC range Mark noted, we expect 2017 to be a larger market than
2015. Also noteworthy, as that (19:07) the prior multi-year cycles have been replaced with annual
cycles or seasonal cycles, driven by the love of new smartphone functionality and holiday
electronics buying.
Now shifting to Universal Robots. We grew calendar year sales 62% from $61 million in 2015 to
$99 million in 2016. We, along with third party forecasters, expect the cobot market to grow from
about $100 million in 2015 to $1 billion or more by 2020.
The ROI payback with our easy-to-deployed cobots is often about six months and sometimes
even faster. UR cobots are designed for easy deployment, high repeatability and safety, with the
target user being the shop floor operator on the manufacturing line. This ease of use enables UR
cobots to literally be moved from one task in the morning to another in the afternoon.
This, along with a lower initial cost to implement, makes UR cobots a compelling automation
solution. As Mark noted, the constraint to even faster cobot growth, apart from the general
awareness, has been the need for more sales and trained field resources to follow up on the
diverse opportunities across the many verticals and geographies. While we still have work to do,
we've made good progress investing in our sales and distribution channel to lessen that
constraint and increase the velocity of business through each channel partner.
Shifting to System Test; we operated at model profitability in 2016. Mil/aero avionics testing is the
bright spot, with smart weapon system driving better upgrades, while in Production Board Test
we're getting a string of design wins at automotive suppliers with our high throughput tester
designed for high panel count applications. In Storage Test, the business was down about 40%
from 2015 levels, as customers digested the large capacity additions put in place in the prior year.
Turning to Wireless Test at LitePoint, we repositioned the business back in the black for the
second half of the year. We expect between $90 million and $100 million of sales in 2017, about
flat with 2016, and thereafter expect the next Wi-Fi retooling waves to offer some market lift in
2018. Longer term, 5G cellular is expected to drive a large retooling.
Now to the more granular fourth quarter numbers; Semi Test orders were $524 million, a record
for the fourth quarter driven by Mobility and Automotive Test demand. SOC Test orders were
$501 million and Memory Test were $23 million. Semi Test service orders were $73 million of the
total.
Semi Test sales were $271 million in the fourth quarter with SOC making up $214 million and
Memory Test the balance at $57 million. Semi Test service revenue totaled $59 million.
Universal Robots had orders and sales of $34 million. Geographically, fourth quarter UR sales
were 44% in Europe, 27% in North America, 22% in Asia and 7% in the rest of the world. Our
largest channel partner was only 3% of our total 2016 sales. So again, we have very wide diversity.
System Test orders were $47 million in the quarter and sales were $50 million. Wireless Test
orders were $23 million and sales $26 million in the fourth quarter. At the company level, our
fourth quarter sales were $380 million. The non-GAAP operating profit rate was 19% and non-GAAP EPS was $0.32. We had no 10% customer in the fourth quarter and two 10% customers for
the full year.
Non-GAAP gross margins were 57% in the quarter with favorable product mix. You'll see our non-
GAAP operating expenses were down $2 million to $148 million compared to the third quarter
due to lower spending in Semi Test.
Non-GAAP gross margins were 55% in 2016, an improvement at a level seen in the last two even
years when Mobility buying was also especially strong.
Non-GAAP operating expenses were up $20 million versus 2015, driven principally by distribution
investments in Universal Robots along with their inclusion for a full year in 2016 versus only a
partial year in 2015.
In our test businesses, our total 2016 OpEx spending was under 2015, principally with reductions
in wireless test. Cash and marketable securities totaled $1.6 billion or $8 per share. And 52% is
onshore, reflecting the proceeds of the December convert and 48% is offshore.
We bought back $61 million of stock in the fourth quarter at an average price of $24.30 a share.
Our convertible debt is recorded on the balance sheet at $353 million, which is net of imputed
interest and operating fees. At its face amount of $460 million, our debt is about one times our
2016 pro forma EBITDA.
As planned our inventory increased $21 million in the fourth quarter as we added materials to
maintain attractive lead times. While most of the Semi Test product orders in Q4 will ship in the
first half of 201, they're weighted toward the second quarter.
Shipments or acceptances can be concentrated late in a quarter or early the next quarter and
swing our quarterly reported results but have no impact on our internal operations.
Our sales for the first quarter are expected to be between $420 million and $450 million, our
highest Q1 guidance range in over 15 years. Non-GAAP EPS range is $0.33 to $0.40 on 202 million
diluted shares.
The first quarter guidance excludes the imposition (24:46) of acquired intangibles and the non-
cash imputed interest on the convertible debt. First quarter gross margins are estimated 57%.
about flat with the fourth quarter due to favorable product mix. For the full year, we'd expect
gross margins to operate at about 55%, right in the middle of our historical range of 54% to 56%.
The first quarter OpEx, running at 36% to 39% of first quarter sales is up about $15 million from
the fourth quarter due to further investments at Universal Robots, higher variable compensation
accruals on higher anticipated profits, and Semi Test engineering NRVS concentrated in the first
half of the year.
Overall, OpEx in our test businesses in 2017 should remain about flat with 2016 levels, while we
will continue to make incremental investments in Universal Robots to further strengthen our
distribution and ecosystem lead.
We also expect inventory to step-up significantly in the first quarter to support the second quarter
shipments. The non-GAAP operating profit rate at the midpoint of our first quarter guidance is
about 20%. Our 2017 tax rate is expected to be about 15%, down from prior guidance due to a
higher mix of offshore profits and the favorable impacts from the convertible debt and call
spread overlay.Our non-GAAP interest expense, excluding the non-cash imputed interest from the convert, is
expected to be de Minimis, as the 1.25% annual coupon material debt should be offset by
interest income on our cash balances.
In 2017, we've earmarked $80 million to $100 million for CapEx – up slightly at the midpoint from
2016, $85 million. We start 2017 with strong momentum driven by SOC Test and Universal Robots
and with device complexity and quality standards increasing we see a healthy long-term demand
picture for Semi Test even before considering ongoing and targeted share gains.
Adding Universal Robots' 50%-plus annual growth, healthy performance in System Test, and a
leaner and more focused Wireless Test Group, we see a very bright future.
With that, I'll turn the call back to Andy.
`Andrew Blanchard, Vice President-Corporate Relations `
Thanks, Greg. Ginger, we'd now like to take some questions. And as a reminder, please limit
yourself to one question and a follow-up.
Q&A
Operator
Your first question comes from `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. from Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Hi, guys. Thank you for taking my question and congrats on the strong results. My first question is
on Semi Test and kind of regarding the full year 2017. When we take the midpoint of your guide
for both the SOC Test market and the Memory Test market I think you're forecasting overall Semi
Test, your town (27:48), to be kind of flattish if not up a little bit. Given that you've been
consistently gaining share in the Semi Test market, is it reasonable to assume you could actually
grow Semi Test revenue in 2017, which is something that we haven't seen in odd years in the
past?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, Toshiya, so. It's certainly possible. A couple of things have happened since our last call. The
market has strengthened a bit, which is why we've moved the midpoint of our 2017 guide up a
bit. And the market share gains pretty much have been consistent year-over-year for many, many
years. And if you go back over 10 years, we've picked up 20 points a test share. So although we
talk about a point, any given year can be flat to up 2%. And we think we can continue to average
that 1 point net gain per year. So I wouldn't be surprised if it was up during the year, year-over-
year revenue. The second half of course is still something we don't have a lot of visibility into. But
the visibility we have through the first half is quite strong.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Great, great. Thank you. And as my follow-up, I had a question on the competitive landscape in
industrial automation. Clearly, the market is growing and you guys are doing an amazing job
growing Universal Robots. But what are you seeing in terms of competition? What happened to
market share in 2016 relative to 2015? And what are your thoughts on pricing and margins as we
head into 2017? Thank you.A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Well competition we expect as this market develops will continue to grow. I think the good news
is that the market terrain is so vast and wide, that the competition is a little different here than
most industrial businesses. The head-to-head competition is less evident and it's more the
competition of mindshare and ROI awareness and integrator capability to deliver that to the
customer are the bottlenecks, not competition.
But on the competitive front, we've seen, several years ago the large industrial companies begin
to try to develop lower price point robots to move down into this human scale automation space.
None of them have yet come close to the capabilities we have with the UR product.
On the other end, you have emerging companies, start-ups around the globe; China, Taiwan,
U.S., other place, that are coming at it from the other angle. But those companies, copying the
hardware maybe the most easy thing to do, copying the software, ease of use, the ecosystem,
the distribution system is really hard. So we continue to see that. We are confident this year on
the competitive position, margins should hang in. So things are still looking pretty good.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Great. Thanks so much.
Operator
Your next question is from `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group from SIG.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
Yes. Thanks for taking my questions. Two follow-ups. Just going back to cobot and given your
2016 performance it seems like you have around a 50% market share. Should we assume that
you should be able at a minimum maintain that market share given your market forecast for
2020, market reaching $1 billion of TAM? And I have a follow-up.
A - `Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `
Mehdi, this is Greg. Yes, that is a fair assumption. It's hard to know exactly what our market share
is but it's – could be 50%, it might be closer to 60% but it's in that neighborhood. And as Mark
outlined, we have a big first mover advantage in our cobot, in repeatability, safety, and particularly
ease of programming, which is a huge advantage the flexibility provides, and the last year we've
invested considerably in the distribution and ecosystem.
So we have many third parties developing their solutions on our platform and it integrates with an
API into our cobot. And we've developed...
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
Got it.
A - `Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `
...the distribution channel extensively. So when others come out with a capable cobot, and they
will, it does take time to get that channel in place and get the channel productive. So we feel
confident that we can maintain this market share looking at the next year and the year after.Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
Got it. And then on System Test, two follow-ups there; how should we think about overall market
trend in 2017? And how does the mix change within the System Test going to impact – I'm
assuming that at some point you're actually going to do more of the SSD Test. Is that true or not,
and if it's true, how would that change the mix of the System Test and would that have a margin
impact?
A - `Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `
Right. In the short-term for this current year we're in now, we think System Test will look similar to
what it looked like last year. The Storage Test business, which is the wild card, because we have a
new platform there that we've taken to different places, as you might recall, 2.5, 3.5 to SSD. So
that's a versatile platform that has high automation and asynchronous slots. But it's going to take
time to see if we can take that platform to other places. So I think it's more of a late this year,
maybe even 2018, we'll get a better read; can we expand the market for that platform? But in the
short-term Storage Test should be hitting model profits similar to last year.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
Got it. Thank you.
Operator
The next question comes from Tom Diffely from DA Davidson.
Q - `Thomas Robert Diffely, Analyst, D. A. Davidson & Co. `
Yes. Good morning. So, getting back to your Mobility strength, I'm trying to figure out how you
view the world as far as end market Mobility demand versus the change of manufacturing or the
change of the foundry customer that's actually building the products and what is the bigger driver
right now?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Is the question what's the bigger driver for the test market?
Q - `Thomas Robert Diffely, Analyst, D. A. Davidson & Co. `
Yeah. For the tester market, how much of your growth has been driven by the change in the
manufacturing location, change in manufacturing customer, versus the actual end market demand
driving the tester demand?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I'd say very little's been driven by the change of location, and for the past several years location
has been pretty stable and the growth has come all from increases in complexity and therefore
test time.
Q - `Thomas Robert Diffely, Analyst, D. A. Davidson & Co. `
Okay. Good. And then on the DRAM side, you said DRAM was going to drive some of the – a lot
of the growth in 2017. I'm curious how well you are leveraged to those portions of the DRAM
market that you think are growing.A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yes. So we are less – our market share is lower in DRAM. So to the extent DRAM grows, we won't
grow proportional to the total market. So we're more concentrated in flash. So we do participate
in DRAM. But let's say our total share in Memory is 30%, mid-30%s right now, flash might be in
the 40% to 50% range and DRAM might be in 15% to 20% range.
Q - `Thomas Robert Diffely, Analyst, D. A. Davidson & Co. `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Edwin Mok, Analyst, Needham & Company, LLC from Needham.
Q - `Edwin Mok, Analyst, Needham & Company, LLC `
Great. Thanks for taking my questions. So first question I have is on, go back to SOC Test. I think
on the prepared remarks you guys talked about some growth in MCU and Image Sensor booking
for the quarter. Just curious if that's just some big customer come in to place order or is it more
broad based?
And then, I guess just tied to that, also, how are you guys positioned in China right now?
Obviously, we hear a lot of investment on the front end on China, then they eventually drive their
back-end test market. Just curious how you're positioned in China and how do you think that
could potentially progress as you go to 2018, 2019, that longer term timeframe?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Okay. So on automotive microcontroller and image sensor, that is a broad based strength that we
saw in orders in the fourth quarter and continuing into the first quarter, so that's good news. The
whole ecosystem around automotive is getting increasingly healthy. It's been – automotive tends
to be stable overall and what we're seeing more is a little pickup in the growth rate of automotive
electronics.
In image sensors, there's a little more diversity now in I would call the image sensor technology
that's going to emerge over the next few years. And that's also driving some – a spreading
around of the supply base a little a more and more tests for that.
And then your other question? I'm sorry.
Q - `Edwin Mok, Analyst, Needham & Company, LLC `
Regarding China, and where you guys are positioned and how you think the market progresses?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, so China is characterized by – the indigenous semiconductor companies in China, there are
some large powerful companies there. We picked up market share last year in China and we see
that as a growing faster than average market for quite some time. But it will be highly
concentrated around a few customers and a few technologies. So I'd say it's a strong position,
growing position, and Memory is a wild card at the moment. We're in position there with some of
the investments going on, but when that might turn into volume production is kind of anybody's
guess.Q - `Edwin Mok, Analyst, Needham & Company, LLC `
Great. My quick follow-up on UR, you mentioned that you expect to continue growing investment
in UR. Just is there a way to kind of think about it, are you increasing OpEx to similar growth rate
at the top-line, less than top-line, any kind of metric or any way to think about how fast you're
growing investment in UR?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Right. We recently increased UR's OpEx from about $7 million to $12 million between 2015 and
2016. And looking at 2017, we could take that $12 million up to about $17 million. So we see
another step-up to support the much higher sales growth rate. We've talked about in the past we
were taking Universal Robots' profit rate down to 10% to get further ahead in distribution and
ecosystem partners in anticipation of eventually running into more meaningful competition. So
we're still doing that and we expect in 2017 we're going to move from about a 10% profit rate
towards 15% profit rate. But we're more focused on capturing the growth and getting further
ahead which we've been doing more recently.
Q - `Edwin Mok, Analyst, Needham & Company, LLC `
That sounds great. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question is from `Farhan Ahmad, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC from Credit Suisse.
Q - `Farhan Ahmad, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. I had a question in terms of your uptick in SOC market
expectations for next year, how much of incremental strength are you seeing for AB versus other
markets and how should we think about the gross margins within SOC Test for next year?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Well, the SOC Test margins by and large have been consistent for us for many years. We have
also I think mentioned that in some of the even years when we have the large customer directing
more buys because there's a bigger jump in their phone that that can and has pulled our margins
down a bit.
But more recently we've also described that complexity is helping even in the odd years so this
even-odd year phenomena is moderating. So we're seeing good demand because of more
transistors, more test time in the odd years. So there's far less moving around of our gross
margin in Semi Test. Of course in any particular segment they could be a few points higher or
lower. But overall, we're finding ourselves staying within this tight band.
Q - `Farhan Ahmad, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Got it. And then one question on the long-term trend for the test complexity. If I think back like
long time ago, like in late 1990s, there was a very clear trend that the testing complexity was
rising so much faster that the test market was outpacing the Semi revenues by a significant
amount. Do you see, is that a trend, any kind of trend that we may even see an acceleration in
the complexity going up so much faster or the test times are decelerating a lot more that actually
the test market could inflect a lot higher going forward?A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah so. I don't expect the craziness we saw at the end of the 1990s to happen. That I don't think
was a systemic thing around technology as much as driven by a unit growth set of expectations.
Right now, complexity growth is – looks to be, on a beat rate that's relatively I would say
consistent for the foreseeable future, the next let's say two years at least, where we have
visibility. I don't think there's a lot of time in the ecosystem of design to deal with that complexity
in some of the ways that complexity has been dealt with in let's say, Memory Test back 15 years
ago or microprocessor tests 20 years ago, which was optimized test structures in the designs to
try to reduce the time on the tester. That is an investment in time and money that has marginal
returns.
And as I said in my prepared remarks, people are really looking at the overall cost to ramp, and a
little bit more test intensity simplifies dramatically the tooling and software and debug needed to
ramp apart (43:08), and improves the yield. So I think that's, for the foreseeable future, the track
people are going to be on at the high complexity end of the market.
Q - `Farhan Ahmad, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Got it. Thank you. That's all I have.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, Cowen and Company, LLC from Cowen & Company.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, Cowen and Company, LLC `
Thank you. I had two. One is a follow-on to what just got asked. But last year the big orders in the
fourth quarter were driven by info and this year it sound like it was a little more of a pull-in versus
kind of a new technology that's going to get implemented. Is that the right way to characterize it?
I guess the reason I'm asking here is because it looks like something structural happening beyond
just the parallelism effect. Because if you look at the buy rate, it's sort of, at least in SOC, it's sort
of just bounced around between 105 bps to 115 bps between 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016. I mean, is
there something bigger happening here such that in your modeling maybe you're assuming that
the buy rate goes to 120 bps, 130 bps, 140 bps. Why can't that not happen? Thanks.
A - `Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `
I'll start with that one. The buy rate has stabilized and improved a bit from several years back. So
there is good news there. But in terms of the bookings coming in earlier, when there's a
concentration of sizable demand, it's not uncommon for a customer to put bookings in earlier
with us to schedule deliveries over a longer time period. So they can be assured that that stream
of products is going to come when they need it. Our lead times tend to be very short for
ordering one tester, two testers, three testers. But if it's a sizable amount of testers, likewise, you
need to put orders in at a different pace than a small number of testers so it's not much more
complicated than that.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
And just to comment a bit on the – there's something else more fundamental going on; we
modeled a 1% growth rate in the market after a decade of minus 3% CAGR. That's been very
difficult to model and we're actually running for the four year period here ahead of that rate. So
it's certainly possible that we could get back to that 125 bps, 130 bps range. But I'd say it's a littletoo early to call. I'd like to see a little more evidence in some of the device segments that are
less digitally intensive before we'd be that bold.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, Cowen and Company, LLC `
Got it. Okay, thank you. And then I guess my next question is, if you run a screen on some of the
proposed changes coming out of DC, you guys screen pretty well in most of those. And one
particular side would be if there's going to be a lot of jobs brought back to the U.S., my guess
would be that that's not really going to be very people intensive. It's going to be pretty cobot
intensive possibly. So I'm wondering if have seen any, sort of if your sales people in your channels
have seen any increase in activity or in inquiry activity because there's the potential for all these
jobs to get brought back to the U.S. Thanks.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Tim, there is a lot of activity and interest with using cobots everywhere in the world, whether it's
North America or Asia. Most manufacturers know if they don't use this new tool, they will be
uncompetitive. But in terms of the U.S., we've had some very good demand more recently and
we've built out the sales team and the technical support team.
So our coverage is much better like we have done in other parts of the world and we've gotten
some sizable orders from some large U.S. companies. We historically tend to get orders of two
cobots or three cobots and then they add to it and add to it. But more recently there's been
some sizable bigger orders. So I don't know if that's the beginning of a trend or it's just one
situation. But we are – the good news is we are prepared in the U.S. for these changes that may
be upon us.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, Cowen and Company, LLC `
Awesome. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question is from `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC from Evercore.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC
Yeah. Good morning. Thank you for taking my question. I guess first question, is you look at the
57% gross margin for Q1, curious what is driving that within the mix. Is that higher Eagle Test
content and/or should we be thinking about perhaps the new SSD tester coming in at a higher
rate or perhaps earlier seasonal uplift from UR? Would love your thoughts around that.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
C.J., it's even simpler than that. We've talked about our large customer driving demand through
their partners. We don't have much from the large customer scheduled in the first quarter. That's
largely after the first quarter. So just like the fourth quarter was, there wasn't a lot from the large
customer in terms of the shipments in the fourth quarter or the first quarter, therefore our
margins are higher. It's similar to the phenomena we described years ago, in even/odd years the
margins improve when sales are down because the large customers are buying less.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore Group LLCOkay. So there isn't sort of any sort of change in terms of better mix from your higher margin
businesses helping as well?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Correct, no. The mix – yeah, the margins in all of our businesses have generally stayed consistent.
LitePoint has very strong margins but their volume is down so that's hurt us a bit. But it's not
significant in the grand scheme of things. So I think in the long run we'll stay in this 54% to 56%
range and occasionally we'll deviate out at 57%.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC
Gotcha. Okay, very helpful. And I guess as a follow-up, as you look at perhaps this tick-tock going
away as the AP becomes more complex and I'm assuming here we're talking greater capabilities
around graphics to support AR/VR. Curious if that creates a greater opportunity for you across
other AP makers, particularly as you look perhaps to Korea and others. And does that create a
revenue opportunity for you and/or share gains within the SOC bucket?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Its well, I think, first of all, it creates an opportunity for the market to grow and for us to grow kind
of proportional with it. Whether it's AR/VR or let's say processing 4K video from multiple cameras
in the phone, other kinds of sensors we're going to see in the next couple of years coming into
phones, all of that let's say data intensive processing, is driving up AP transistor counts, core
counts, and complexity, which dovetails right into the trend we've been talking about here, so I
think it's all positive.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC
Excellent. Very helpful. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question is from `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. `
Yeah, hi. Thanks for taking my question. I have two of them. The first one is if you look at your
quarterly profile for Semi Test revenues, typically Q2 is the strongest from a revenue standpoint.
Given the fact that the SOC Test market is stronger, you're gaining traction in Memory, do you
think the profile is going to be different this year or is it going to be a similar profile as in prior
years that, Q2 being the strongest for revenues for Semi Test? And then I had a follow-up.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I think recently in the first half of the year, we ship 50% to 55% of the company's annual revenue. I
don't think this year is going to be significantly different from that, as best we can tell now. As I
mentioned though before there is, the back end of the year is opaque at the moment for us in
general. There are some things in Memory that I think will most likely kick into high production in
2018, but there's a possibility that begins to ramp at the back end of this year. So you're right,
perhaps Memory is a little bit of a wild card in upside on the back half. But I think in terms of SOC,
we should expect to see the same pattern we've seen in past years.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. `Got it; got it. That's very helpful. Then as a follow-up, the SOC Test market that you described
last year and this year -- can you tell us how much of that do you think was Mobility within the SOC
bucket last year and how much do you think Mobility is going to be for this year?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. So Mobility, I think year-over-year Mobility is flat. And maybe Mobility, if, in the broadest
definition, you roll image sensors into it and other things, is running between $900 million to $1
billion of test demand a year.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. `
Got it. Thanks, guys.
Operator
Your next question is from `Patrick Ho, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. from Stifel Nicolaus.
Q - `Patrick Ho, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Thank you very much. Maybe just following up on the question on Memory Test, Mark, you talked
about potential upside as the year progresses. Given your strength on the flash side of things
and with a lot of new fabs out there, is that where you're targeting some of that potential upside,
or as you mentioned on your prepared remarks, that the upside will come from the DRAM side?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Well, I think we certainly see DRAM increasing this year compared to last because it was so weak
last year. But on the flash side, the key thing for us is the rate of deployment of these high speed
interfaces such as UFS and a few others into mobile and SSD devices. As that grows, we will grow
disproportionately faster than our native share, so we'll pick up share. And the deployment of
those in high volume is what we're trying to gauge right now. So my comments were more
specifically to when will UFS and others really kick into high growth.
Q - `Patrick Ho, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Great. That's helpful. And as a follow-up on the UR side of things, you've talked about the
expense increase over the last couple of years to establish the foothold with your distribution
partners in the channel. Longer term, do you see tactically using the gross margin on your cost of
goods line to also protect that share as the marketplace grows? And what I mean by that is as
more competition enters, will you be able to use the gross margin line as a tactical maneuver to
protect that share?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
We don't think that is necessary. We are in the low 50%s now and we have material cost down
actions underway leveraging the Teradyne supply line group. So there is opportunities to improve
that gross margin, and yes, there is a chance that those improvements get used in pricing, should
we find competition. So the good news is we're going to have a buffer.
But I don't anticipate us deviating from low 50%s. Because we have this buffer and we have a
very large lead and usually if you're going to do automation, most companies want to go with
somebody who has done that type of automation before, has a recipe for it, has integrators that
are trained for it. You find there's a better price because it's been done before. So there's a lotof advantages that are accumulating on our side of the ledger. So I don't think we're going to
need to use price.
Q - `Patrick Ho, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question is from Stephen Chin from UBS.
Good morning. Thanks for taking my question. This is Neil (55:41) on for Stephen. Sorry if I missed
it, but can you let us know what the non-GAAP operating margin is for Universal Robots in the
quarter?
A - `Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `
Universal Robots non-GAAP operating margins; for the year, I'll tell you the year: for 2016 they
averaged about 10% operating profit margin.
Q - Operator
Okay. And the way to think about that would be relative to the $7 million increase to OpEx that
you talked about for next year? (56:17)
A - `Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `
Yes. So if we increase it $7 million again and get our growth, the operating profit margins, it
depends what growth we get to. And we can meter some of the spending. The $7 million is if we
see high growth, if – which we believe we will. If we think some of that growth will take a little bit
longer, we might not go the full $7 million. But regardless we expect Universal Robots to operate
within a 10% operating profit rate range plus working its way towards 15% over time.
Q - Operator
Thanks. And one follow-up. You mentioned strong demand from automotive customers. Can you
give us an idea of what percent of your SOC business is from automotive, if that's possible? And
we're seeing some strength in the industrial segment – some recovery there. Can you talk about
whether that factors into your outlook for 2017?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, so for Teradyne's business, automotive-related electronics represent roughly, let's say, 15%
or so of our total revenue.
And, sorry what was your second question?
Q - Operator
I was just wondering if you're seeing any strength in industrial segment, if you have exposure
there given some of the strengths ...
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `Yeah, I would say that is relatively stable flat but not growing at the moment. The real growth has
been – Mobility looks like in 2017 being an odd year will be flat to slightly up over last year. And
automotive and microcontroller will be up. So those are the kind of three pieces, and analogue by
the way a little bit. So those are the three pieces that we see growing.
Q - Operator
Great. Thanks.
A - `Andrew Blanchard, Vice President-Corporate Relations `
And operator, we have time to sneak in just one more, please.
Operator
Okay. Your final question will be from `David Duley, Analyst, Steelhead Securities LLC from Steelhead.
Q - `David Duley, Analyst, Steelhead Securities LLC `
Thanks for taking my question. First question is when you look at the incoming orders in the
Mobility space, were those concentrated with one customer or was this broad based demand?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Well, let's see. Our business in Mobility every year for the past three years to four years has had a
certain degree of high concentration around let's say a specific driver, but the overall Mobility
segment is – the demand is broad based, so we do see pickups in demand from all the
components you might find in a smartphone going into – coming through fourth quarter into first
quarter.
Q - `David Duley, Analyst, Steelhead Securities LLC `
Okay. I guess more specifically than on the applications processor side, was this just one
customer or two customers? Or was this more of a broad-based demand for the more complex
testers?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
For applications processor specifically, that is dominated by one customer. The other customers
for applications processes, however, also had a pickup. But just proportionately speaking, a much
smaller proportion of our bookings.
Q - `David Duley, Analyst, Steelhead Securities LLC `
Okay, great. And then you've made an argument about essentially the SOC Test market is
starting to grow again because the parallel test efficiencies are going to decline. Do you see that
potentially happening in the Memory market? I guess, specifically my question is, it seems like
there's pretty rapid bit growth in flash and 3D NAND. And kind of curious why or when the market
will grow at a higher rate to match the bit growth in that market?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. Memory, the bit rates have been growing rapidly in Memory for decades, and the thing
that's been different about Memory is the complexity there is not really complexity. A lot of what
has happened is lithography strengths and 3D vertical structures to add more capacity to thepart. But the complexity of those devices isn't necessarily growing. So they've been able to,
because of the regular architecture of Memory, do things with the design to optimize test and
reduce test intensity.
The thing there that could change this, in terms of complexity change in Memory, are these high
speed interfaces. So the high speed interfaces are quite sophisticated and do require more
extensive testing and obsolete existing testers. So, if both on the – primarily on the flash side I
would say, as flash devices, whether its vertical structures or bit density is less important to us
than a step function change in the IO bandwidth, which is why I keep speaking about UFS and
other types of interfaces. That complexity will drive retooling and test time increases, it could
bump the Memory Test intensity over the next four years to five years.
Q - `David Duley, Analyst, Steelhead Securities LLC `
Okay. Great. And just as a housekeeping, can you give me an estimate as to what you think the
size of the image sensor test market is?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
So that market varies year-to-year quite a bit. But let's say an average number to use might be
$100 million.
Q - `David Duley, Analyst, Steelhead Securities LLC `
Okay. Thank you so much. Nice quarter.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Okay, folks. Thanks so much for joining us and we look forward to talking with you in the days
ahead and those remaining in the queue, I'll be back to you within the next 90 minutes or so.
Thank you.
A - `Andrew Blanchard, Vice President-Corporate Relations `
Thank you.
A - `Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `
Thanks.
Operator
This does conclude today's conference call. Thank you for participating. At this time, you may now
disconnect.