Q4 2018 Earnings Call

Operator
Good morning. My name is Tiffany, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I
would like to welcome everyone to the Teradyne Q4 2018 Earnings Conference Call. All lines
have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there
will be a question-and-answer session. Thank you.
Andy Blanchard, Vice President of Investor Relations, you may begin your conference.
`Andrew Blanchard, Vice President, Corporate Relations `
Thank you, Tiffany. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's most
recent financial results. I'm joined this morning by our CEO, Mark Jagiela, and CFO, Greg Beecher.
Following our opening remarks, we'll provide details of our performance for 2018's fourth quarter
and full-year along with our outlook for the first quarter of 2019. The press release containing our
fourth quarter results was issued last evening and we're providing slides on the Investor page of
the website that may be helpful to you in following the discussion.
Replays of this call will be available via the same page after the call ends. The matters that we
discuss today will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors that could cause
Teradyne's results to differ materially from management's current expectations. We encourage
you to review the Safe Harbor statement contained in the earnings release, as well as our most
recent SEC filings. Additionally, those forward-looking statements are made as of today and we
take no obligation to update them as a result of developments occurring after this call.
During today's call, we'll make reference to non-GAAP financial measures. We've posted
additional information concerning these non-GAAP financial measures, including reconciliation to
the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, where available, on the Investor page ofthe website. Also, between now and our next earnings call, Teradyne will be participating in
investor conferences hosted by Goldman Sachs, Citi and Susquehanna.
Now, let's get on with the rest of the agenda. First, Mark will comment on our recent results and
the market conditions as we enter the new year. Greg will then offer more details on our quarterly
and full-year financial results, along with our guidance for the first quarter. We'll then answer your
questions, and this call is scheduled for one hour. Mark?
`Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Good morning and thanks for joining us. Today, I'll provide a quick summary of our fourth quarter
and 2018 results, discuss our outlook for the quarter and year ahead, and outline our latest
thinking about the long-term growth trends in Industrial Automation. Greg will then take you
through the financial results, our updated earnings model and our guidance for the first quarter.
As you saw in last evening's press release, we had a very strong finish to the year with company
sales up about 8% from the fourth quarter of 2017 and non-GAAP EPS up over 35%. These both
exceeded the top-end of our guidance, as Eagle Test's analog and LitePoint's wireless sales
were particularly strong on the revenue side and our EPS benefited from both higher sales and
record gross margins. For the full-year, despite a significant drop in sales to our largest customer,
all other parts of the business showed strong results, bringing our sales to about $2.1 billion with
non-GAAP EPS of $2.37 a share.
Looking more closely at the results, I'll provide a high-level summary of each segment and Greg
will take you through the detailed numbers. Overall, Semi Test sales in Q4 were up about 8%
from the year-ago quarter and SOC Test sales were up nearly 18% on continued demand from
analog, image sensor and high performance SOC. In analog test, we had record Eagle Test
shipments in both Q4 and for the full-year. In addition to the continued expansion of automotive
and industrial applications, smarter consumer products are also boosting analog sales.
Applications like smart speakers, smarter appliances, home security, combined with the wireless
connections they require, all drive increased analog content and increased test demand.
Along with every clever complex SOC controller that finds its way into these smart products
comes a multitude of analog sensors, power managers, motor controllers, actuators, audio/video
drivers and enhanced displays. In Memory Test, strong markets and new products resulted in our
highest annual Memory revenue in history. Our leading position in the flash final test market,
combined with the successful product introduction and expansion into the wafer test segment of
the Memory market delivered over 46% sales growth for a total of over $270 million in Memory
Test revenue for the year.
It's not only bit growth that's driving the market. The trend toward even higher speed interfaces
in both flash and DRAM continues unabated. Combined, these trends drive more test complexity,
more test seconds and a higher rate of memory tester obsolescence. In 2019, we plan to
continue to expand our wafer test share position and we plan to introduce a high-speed DRAM
test version of our Magnum platform, giving us full coverage of the Memory Test market.
Looking at 2019 for Semi Test, there are conflicting indicators at play, making forecasting difficult.
On the one hand, we have not seen any indication of a broad pull-back in demand from
customers and the increased complexity trends and new design activity remains very high. On the
other hand, we've seen three very strong years of test demand with market growth rates well
above our modeled 2% to 4% CAGR. We've also seen a pull-back in the front-end CapEx
spending that began last year.Taking these factors into account, in SOC Test, we expect the market to be in the $2.3 billion to
$2.7 billion range, and for Memory Test, we expect the market to be in the $650 million to $750
million range. Both of these are down about 15% to 20% from 2018. While we also expect
Teradyne Semi Test revenue to be down, we expect it to be down less than the market drop due
to planned share gains in both Memory and SOC, as well as secular buying shifts balanced in our
favor.
At LitePoint, Q4 sales were up 43% from last year's Q4 and up 18% for the full-year. We are now
entering the early stages of market growth driven by both new Wi-Fi standards and 5G. We're
seeing early production test system buying for Wi-Fi 6 and we're having early success with our 5G
millimeter wave test products in the labs of leading silicon providers as they prepare for future
production ramps. We expect continued market growth in 2019, driven mainly by wider
deployment of these new connectivity standards with 5G production test growth becoming more
meaningful in 2020 and 2021.
In our System Test group, sales in the quarter were down about a third from last year's fourth
quarter due to a very tough compare in the Storage Test business. As you recall, we received
customer acceptance and recognized revenue for accumulated shipments of our new system-
level test product in that quarter last year. For the full year of 2018, the group grew sales by 12%
and operated above-model profitability. We expect another strong year from the group in 2019.
Shifting to Industrial Automation, 2018 was an important year for IA at Teradyne. We added MiR to
extend low cost, easy-to-train safe collaborative robots to the mobile robot market. Secondly, we
added Energid and their team of motion control software experts to extend the bounds of
addressable markets for UR's innovative arms. These extensions will begin hitting the market in
2019. Third, our UR+ open API platform continue to expand from about 60 to over 130 certified
plug-and-play partner applications.
Fourth, we expanded our product reach with major new product introductions at both UR and
MiR, substantially expanded our global organizational capabilities and delivered another year of
mid- to upper-teens operating profits. From a starting point of $42 million in sales in 2015, IA
delivered over $0.25 billion of sales in 2018. Although annual revenue of $261 million was up 54%
from 2017, it was about $20 million below our target for the year.
Continued softness in China and in the automotive sector resulted in Universal Robots growth
rate of 38% for the year and 28% in the fourth quarter compared to the year-ago periods. We
have not experienced any meaningful competitive headwinds, but rather see economic
slowdown and uncertainty weighing on UR growth. On the other hand, MiR had both a fantastic
quarter and year, growing close to 200% in the quarter compared to the year-ago quarter and
150% growth annually on a pro forma basis.
As we did in 2018, this year, we will continue to increase investments in Teradyne's high-growth
Industrial Automation businesses to widen and deepen the moats around our leading positions in
fixed and mobile collaborative robots. Given the 38% growth rate for UR in 2018 and the
likelihood that softness in China and automotive will persist in 2019, we are modeling IA growth in
2019 at about 35% to 40% and bringing our mid-term IA growth model down to a 30% to 40%
range. This pushes out our $3.50 to $4 a share earnings target out about one year from 2021 to
2022. Greg will cover this in more detail.
On the capital allocation front, we'll continue to buy back shares in 2019 with a planned
repurchase of at least $500 million in shares, while maintaining the dividend at the current level.
We also continue to actively look at a wide range of M&A opportunities, primarily centeredaround Industrial Automation. Before closing, I'd like to announce that after 18 years of
transformative leadership as Teradyne's CFO, Greg Beecher is planning for his retirement and
Teradyne is planning for a smooth transition. Greg has a very flexible timeframe and will continue
on as CFO as we run a succession process that includes both internal and external candidates.
With that, I'll turn things over to Greg.
`Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `
Thanks, Mark, and good morning, everyone. I'll start with the quick highlights of 2018 and then
offer some comments on 2019, including our capital allocation plans. I'll also offer some
perspective on our strategic position and the market trends at the business segment level, and
update you on the changes that we've made to our mid-term financial model. And then, I'll close
with the fourth quarter results and first quarter outlook.
On the 2018 financial highlights front, our $2.1 billion of sales and $2.37 in non-GAAP EPS was quite
good. We grew EPS $0.03 over 2017 despite slightly lower sales and increased strategic
investments in Industrial Automation, where we grew OpEx over $50 million. This included folding
in two acquisitions and further scaling our sales, support and development resources across the
Automation businesses. On the other side of the EPS ledger, we picked up 1 point of gross
margin, shaved our tax rate 2 points and reduced our diluted shares by 5%. So, the net is a slight
gain in EPS and a much stronger Industrial Automation strategic position.
In 2018, we also achieved growth in all of our businesses, except SOC Test, which experienced
an off year due to lower mobility buying by a large customer. As expected, the highest annual
growth was in our Industrial Automation segment, which includes Universal Robots, MiR and
Energid, where sales grew 54% to reach $261 million. Universal Robots saw annual growth of
38%, reaching $234 million. As Mark noted, this was below earlier expectations with strong
headwinds in China and some slowdown in Tier 1 automotive buying.
MiR, the industry leader in autonomous mobile robots, grew full year sales over 150% to $31
million, up from $12 million in 2017. We recorded $24 million of those sales in our 2018 results, as
the MiR acquisition closed partway through 2018. Memory Test was a stand-out performer within
Semi Test with sales growth of 46% to $273 million for the year in an overall Memory Test market
which exceeded about $950 million. Gross margin for the full year was 58%, a new company
record. Favorable mix, along with material cost reductions at UR, drove this result.
For example, our Industrial Automation gross margins expanded from 56% in 2017 to 59% in
2018. Teradyne's supply line group continues to play a key role in both improving IA gross
margins and our ability to scale up these fast-growing businesses. At the company level, we
achieved a very healthy non-GAAP operating profit rate of 25% even with the significant
expansion of our Industrial Automation portfolio and head count. 2018 IA hiring, which reached
nearly 250 people, helped us extend our cobot product lead, develop and market more
applications, cover larger accounts, generate more qualified leads and better support our
channel partners.
We also increased our stock buyback beyond our $750 million target to $823 million in 2018,
buying back 22 million shares. Since the start of 2015, we've repurchased 50 million shares at an
average price of $29.44. So, apart from our healthy financial performance, we strengthened the
company principally by expanding our served markets, adding new products and scaling our
Industrial Automation businesses. I'll highlight these as I go through the segments. First, in Semi
Test, the expansion in memory wafer level test delivered nearly $40 million of new business in2018. In SOC Test, we're seeing high demand for 5G millimeter wave test capability from leading
customers for development and early pre-production volumes.
Shipping this year, we expect these 5G engineering testers will position us quite nicely for the
subsequent volume production starting in late 2020 and 2021. As Mark provided our ATE market
size estimates for 2019, I'll just simply add that in the mid-term, we see numerous positive trends
for test with 5G millimeter wave, autonomous vehicles, AI devices, augmented reality, big data.
While we'll ride these positive inflections, we expect the market will remain somewhat volatile as
manufacturers effect annual tester buying. These include chip complexity, unit growth, yields,
customer-specific test strategies, utilization levels and so on.
I'll remind you that this volatility is not new and we built our operating model to flex up and down
with market demand swings and still deliver solid financial performance. The other quick reminder
in Semi Test is that annual buying shifts at individual customers can favor us or our principal
competitor. In 2018, the shift significantly favored our primary competitor. So, for the first year,
after six consecutive years, we didn't gain share this year. However, our long-term plan remains to
get back on that share gain trend line.
In Industrial Automation, MiR had the expected 2018 breakout year with standalone sales of $31
million, as more industrial companies take advantage of our next-generation automation to move
both piece parts and heavy pallets. We're also seeing some early hospital applications, moving
medicine and supplies from stock rooms to nursing stations throughout the hospital. This is an
entirely new vertical with a potential to grow nicely given the increasing cost pressures on
hospitals. On the new product front, the MiR500 was added to the product line-up and in the
fourth quarter was autonomously moving pallets at multiple customers with greater safety and
lower cost than the traditional forklift transport method. We expect that MiR will deliver upwards
of 100% growth in 2019.
Through 2018, Universal Robots grew at 56% cumulative rate from 2015 full-year sales of $61
million, but for 2018 alone growth slowed. We saw a sharp drop-off in China during the second
half along with some softness in Europe, principally tied to the automotive sector. On the
competitive front, we extended our cobot lead with the e-Series, which enables faster training,
higher safety, more compute power and a sense of touch. We also broadened our application
reach now fielding over 130 certified third-party plug-and-play accessories in our UR+ program.
We'll continue to expand this number as we strengthen the technical and commercial support for
the hundreds of independent developers in the program around the world.
We're launching a number of new initiatives in 2019 to accelerate our lead generation and expand
our direct customer touch, which should yield in the second half of the year. We also expect
multiple waves of adoption ahead with larger companies gravitating to cobots. We also expect
new enabling technologies such as low cost 3D vision and path-finding to expand the cobot
served market into more complex pick-and-place tasks. New applications using AI for training and
fast adaptability in manipulating objects should also expand the range of cobot applications. In
addition, we expect steady forces such as labor shortages, higher quality requirements, cost
pressures including inflation, FX, will continue to stimulate wider UR adoption.
Shifting now to System Test, which includes our defense and aero, production board test and
storage test businesses, sales grew 12% to $216 million over the 2017 levels and the segment
operated above-model profitability. We expect strong performance again in 2019 as defense and
aero continue to benefit from new program buying and the ongoing upgrade of legacy defense
systems. In production board test, we pioneered high-throughput in-line panel testing and that'snow becoming more mainstream. In storage test, both our semiconductor and the 3.5-inch hard
disk drive customer are forecasting healthy 2019 demand.
Turning now to Wireless Test demand at LitePoint, the group grew sales 18% and operated
above-model profitability in 2018. Over the mid-term, we expect continued healthy growth in
Wireless Test with 5G cellular providing the biggest added lift. Now, to the fourth quarter wrap-
up, at the company level, our sales were $520 million. The non-GAAP operating profit rate was
26% and non-GAAP EPS was $0.63. We had no 10% customer in the fourth quarter and one for
the full-year. Non-GAAP gross margins were 60% in the quarter with favorable product mix.
You'll see our non-GAAP operating expenses were down $2 million to $175 million compared to
the third quarter due to lower variable compensation accruals and a one-time $3 million credit,
partially offset by IA hiring, principally from bringing on more than 20 very talented people from
Rethink Robotics. The tax rate was 16% for the year on a GAAP basis. We also benefited from
more favorable tax treatment for repatriated cash than we had expected. We bought back 7.8
million shares for $261 million at an average price of $33.51 in the quarter, and we end the year
with cash and marketable security balances of $1.2 billion. We increased the IA earn-out accrual
balance to $71 million, an increase in the quarter of $10 million based principally on strong MiR
performance.
Shifting now to our mid-term earnings model, factoring in both recent history and our latest
outlook, we've updated the earnings target of $3.50 to $4 of non-GAAP EPS to slip out a year
into 2022 rather than 2021. We've provided an updated slide in our investor deck. But at the high
level, we've pulled back on UR's growth rate and have set the IA mid-term growth rate to 30% to
40% going out through 2022. We've also reflected an 8% lower share count due to a lower
buyback price in 2018, and we're also adding another year of buybacks by going out a year.
So, keep in mind that some of the numbers change as we're adding a year, but the takeaway
should be that we're confident that our test businesses have secular growth and strong
profitability and our high-growth IA businesses should be approaching $1 billion by 2022 with 20%
or better PBIT. Shifting now to capital allocation, we're targeting to buy back $500 million of our
stock in 2019. As in the past, there is a programmatic and an opportunistic component to the plan.
At the same time, we have a very active IA M&A funnel, which is why we maintain dry powder on
our balance sheet.
Let me quickly talk about OpEx, as that's an area that we are strategically growing in our Industrial
Automation businesses to expand our competitive moats to remain the leader and capture the
highest amount of the available profit pool. We plan to grow IA OpEx from $33 million exiting the
fourth quarter to about $50 million a quarter in the second half of 2019. Similar to last year, we
plan to operate the IA business around 15% PBIT for the year. In Test, we plan to keep OpEx
approximately flat in 2019 apart from normal changes in variable compensation.
Shifting to our outlook for the first quarter, sales are expected to be between $460 million and
$490 million. The non-GAAP EPS range is $0.39 to $0.47 on 177 million diluted shares. The first
quarter guidance excludes the amortization of acquired intangibles and the non-cash imputed
interest on the convertible debt. First quarter gross margins are estimated at 58%, down 2 points
from the fourth quarter due to product mix. The first quarter OpEx running at 38% to 40% of first
quarter sales is up about $10 million from the fourth quarter due to further IA distribution and
product development investments, principally at Universal Robots and some one-time Semi Test
NRE expenses.The non-GAAP operating profit rate at the midpoint of our first quarter guidance is about 19%.
Our tax rate for 2019 is estimated at about 16%. Looking a bit closer at 2019, we expect gross
margins to be in the range of 57% to 58%. Non-GAAP interest income, excluding the non-cash
imputed interest from the convert, is expected to be about $3 million a quarter factoring in
interest income on our cash balances, partially offset by the 1.25% annual coupon on the
convertible debt. And we've earmarked $90 million to $110 million for CapEx.
So, we start 2019 with a portfolio of healthy test businesses and a much stronger Industrial
Automation portfolio. We'll remain disciplined in capital allocation and in our fixed costs in our
mature test businesses, while also aggressively scaling Universal Robots and MiR given the long-
term high growth rates. Remember that we long ago led the automation of the testing of
integrated circuits. Now, we're helping to relieve humans of the most tedious and repetitive task
with safe and easy-to-train cobots. From where we sit, the future of Teradyne looks quite bright.
With that, I'll turn the call back to Andy.
`Andrew Blanchard, Vice President, Corporate Relations `
Thanks, Greg. Tiffany, now we'd like to take some questions. And as a reminder, please limit
yourself to one question and a follow-up.
Q&A
Operator
Your first question comes from the line of `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch with Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Your line
is open.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thanks for taking my question, and congratulations and best wishes to Greg on his retirement.
For my first question, IA has been a very strong growth driver for you. But over the last year, we
have seen some downshifting of growth assumptions. I understand the China aspect, but I
believe you mentioned China is only about 15% of sales, if I recall. So, what are the trends outside
of China that are driving the demand? So, that's the near-term question. And longer term, if IA
growth is in the mid-30s right now, how do you plan to organically maintain this exact growth rate
over the next three years? Thank you.
A - `Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `
Okay. I'll start with that. The other place that we mentioned that there's some near-term softness
is in auto. The auto sector and Tier 1 have hit some headwinds, and that's principally in Europe.
But what we're doing and what we can control is we see, for example, enabling technologies that
can open up new markets that haven't been served very well. And the best example I can quickly
give you is with the Energid path planning and low cost vision modules, combine that with our
arm, you can do more sophisticated pick-and-place applications all the way into a bin, emptying a
bin out and then taking some part and moving it to the next step in the production line.
There are many tedious tasks in manufacturing where people do that and it's not really suited for
a person. It's mind-numbing and it's more of a robotic-type task. So, we expect on that front to
have a bin-picking solution towards the end of this year through beta. So, then I think that would
probably start to ramp in 2020. So, that's not in 2019. That's in 2020, but that's illustrative of how
we can, with enabling technology, open up another market. Another quick example I'll give you is
MiR, our mobile robot, which is growing at 100%, and that takes a little bit of – it obviously helpsus with the IA growth rate considerably. But MiR has opportunities to get into hospitals, and
there's many hospitals in certain countries, in Asian countries that may be built and they're going
to perhaps heavily automate those hospitals.
So, we see there might be other verticals that these next-generation technologies can work quite
nicely in because they're so easy to use. You don't need to be an engineer. So, there's many new
verticals. We have a lot of developers opening up other applications that we might not have
thought about. So, we're also shifting a bit more resources in North America. So, if China is soft,
there might be a little bit more activity elsewhere that's making up for some of the softness. So,
we see some opportunities in North America in the near-term, and North America grew very
nicely last year. So, we're going to continue to put the foot to the metal there.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
All right, thanks. And for my follow-up, I think you mentioned for this year, the addressable market
could be down 15%, 20%, I believe is the number and sort of in line with the front-end. But is that
the experience from prior cycles, because when I look at last year, the Semi Test business was
below what we saw on the front-end WFE side? So, what is the visibility in the addressable
opportunity this year? Thank you.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. This is for, again, Semi Test. So, the visibility is not great. Again, from a bottoms-up point of
view, we have customers who talk about their plans, but they change – as they did last year on
the upside, they can change dramatically through the year. But it's not really modeling prior
downturns as much as looking at the bottoms-up activity levels and design and test time trends
and what customers are telling us that kind of give us that range.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
All right. Great. Thanks very much.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC with UBS. Your line is open.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Hi, guys. Thank you. I had two. Greg, the SOC TAM assumption that you gave, what does that
assume for your largest customer? How much of a snapback are you assuming in that TAM? Are
you assuming that there's not much snapback this year and it's more of a next year thing? Thank
you.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. So, our largest customer – this is Mark. Our largest customer in 2017 was roughly in the low-
20s as a percentage of our overall revenue. 2018 largest customer is going to be in the low-
teens, and we expect this year to be the same. So, we think there's not a big snapback. It's about
the same year-over-year for that customer.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Got it. Great. Thank you. And then, Greg, I guess just a question on IA OpEx. So with a slower
longer-term growth rate, how do you think about how to gear down OpEx? Seems like there'snot that much of a change this year, but sort of what would it take for you to materially slow down
IA OpEx as the growth over the longer term continues to slow? Thank you.
A - `Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `
Right. That's a good question, Tim. The way we're running Industrial Automation, particularly
Universal Robots, less so MiR, because MiR is such high growth, at least for the next couple of
years, is we're starting with a plan and we're putting a target of 15% operating profit with the
understanding if the sales grow lower than, let's say, 28% or some number like that, then they
have to meter the OpEx and not bring it all on-board. So, we're going to adjust OpEx. Now, as
you know, OpEx can get in front of the sales. So if we get in front of the sales too much in the
early half, we're going to have to hold back much more aggressively in the second half. So, this
will probably be the first year where there'll be a bit more pressure to prioritize if we find that
we're not, at UR, hitting 28%. I think we can hit 28% or that neighborhood. So, we're metering it is
the answer in short.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Great. Thank you so much.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of John Pitzer with Credit Suisse. Your line is open.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Yeah. Good morning, guys. Thanks for letting me ask the question. Congratulations on the solid
results in the difficult environment. Mark, just related to your prepared comments that you think
your Semi Test business will do better than the overall market, to Tim's point, if you're not
expecting a large snapback from the big customer, I guess what are the puts and takes? How
much better than the overall market do you think you can do? And I guess I understand your
comments about market share gains, but you also made a comment about secular buying
patterns favoring you. Maybe you can elaborate on that as well as you answer the question.
Thank you.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. So, there's a couple of things there. So, last year, there were several events, I would say,
that benefited, as Greg mentioned, our competitor that didn't benefit us that we think will revert
more to the mean in this year. So, although our largest customer is sort of flat year-over-year, for
example, in 2018, there were some of our competitor's customers that made a shift in foundries,
and that required a one-time tooling bump at the new foundry for test equipment for that
supplier. So, that's a one-time effect that will revert back to the norm this year, as an example.
The other example is the RF and 5G products that are starting to build momentum tend to favor
us. That's a sector where we have high share, quite a bit above the norm. And as that grows in
proportion to the overall market, we will benefit disproportionately. So, that's two examples.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Well, Mark, if you add it all up, if the market's overall down 15% to 20%, how much better do you
think you can do?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `It's probably a range, but we're not going to be immune to being down probably. But we could
be in, let's say, somewhere in the 5% to low-teens down.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Perfect. And then, maybe as my follow-up, just on the IA resetting of the growth rate in the mid-
term, I'm just kind of curious, to what extent is that just a reflection of the macro uncertainty today
versus other factors. Is it just that as you went through 2018, the prior growth rate just didn't
seem doable, or is this really a reaction to the macro? And if it's not just a reaction to the macro,
what are the puts and takes that are kind of having you bring down that growth rate a little bit?
A - `Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `
John, I would say, the single biggest thing is sort of the here and now, meaning the fourth quarter
growth rate over fourth quarter of a quarter ago, at UR, was 28%. Now, the prior quarter was
46%. Quarter before that was 45%. And then for the year, it was 38%. So, we just want to be a bit
more cautious and we don't want to be on the side of defending a high growth rate. We'd rather
be on the side of a very credible growth rate with possibly upside. That's how we thought about
it. We don't want to be resetting the model every year. We'd like to reset it now, and this model
can stand the test of time, we hope.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
But, Greg, (00:33:52), but from a bottoms-up perspective, the opportunity you see today longer
term no different than six months ago.
A - `Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `
Absolutely. The opportunity is incredibly large. We have no doubt it will be $1 billion business. It's a
question of what year. I think we've talked about it in the past, large companies tend to be slow in
adopting. But at some point, they're going to be forced to adopt to be competitive. If there's
more jobs in higher cost regions, the way they can do that with is automation. If there's inflation,
you're going to need automation. So, there's so many factors. There's demographics, workers
shortages. So, all the ingredients are there. It's just the adoption rate, what is the adoption rate.
There's always waves of adoption. And as we bring new enabling technology that opens up other
solutions, I think you're going to see other people jump on board.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Perfect. Thanks, guys.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group with SIG. Your line is open.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
Yes. Thanks for taking my question. But before I ask my question, I wish Greg the best, and
hopefully, he changes his mind and stays on board.
A - `Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `
Thank you, Mehdi.Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
Thank you. Over the past five, six years, your calendar year revenues were more weighted
towards the first half. Second half revenues would be down low-teen compared to the first half.
Last year was an anomaly. And in that context, my first question is how do you see the revenue
progression throughout the year? Would 2019 be similar to the trends prior to 2018 or would it
have its own unique trend?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I think that part of the issue with 2018 was we didn't get the big second quarter bump we typically
got from the mobility tooling because of the large customer effect. And as Industrial Automation
becomes a larger portion of our business, they tend to be bumping up in the fourth quarter. So,
over time, we're going to see, I think, more of a shift toward the second half of the year because
of IA. And one other point, I think, even in this last most recent quarter, LitePoint had a very strong
second half of the year. So, IA, less lumpiness in mobility, I think, will kind of start to balance out
the full-year more, with a little bit of a trend toward a fourth quarter bump.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
So, how will it look like this year? Should the second half be down less or...?
A - `Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `
It's hard to be certain. But if we had to say the contour, it would probably look more like 2018 than
2017 is how we think about it.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
Okay, great. Thank you. And just, Mark, going back to IA, it's – we have all been going through the
learning curve. You see industrial auto out there weak, but you're still able to grow the business,
now granted at a lower growth rate. So, can you just maybe help us understand how this growth
rate, the secular nature of it is defying the overall industrial auto that is very weak out there? I look
at industrial laser is very weak. But what is it with IA that still enables you to grow? What – and in
that context, is it the replacement? What is it that hasn't really felt a meaningful slowdown, now
granted a slower growth rate?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Right. So, first of all, I'd just contrast. There's traditional industrial automation that is tightly, tightly
tied to macroeconomic effects. The segment we're in, which is emerging and still quite small and
growing rapidly, although not immune from it because we've talked about automotive and China,
has such a vast ROI opportunity set ahead of it that it's really not going to be subject to the
strong macroeconomic effects.
So, for example, we're talking about $260 million of IA revenue last year for cobots, both mobile
and fixed. When we look at the bottoms-up analytics of how many opportunities there are out
there in small, medium and large enterprises to achieve automation using our products with ROIs
well under 18 months and in most cases under a year, we're talking about tens of billions of
dollars of opportunities today with the capabilities of today's cobot.
When you add some of the new capabilities that Greg alluded to around vision, the ability to pick
pieces out of bins without human interaction, that doubles. So, we see this opportunity set ofthat's the overarching sort of pull for the product that will not be immune to macroeconomic
effects but will, over the long-term, certainly run the growth rate well above the mean.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
Got it. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore ISI with Evercore. Your line is open.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore ISI
Yeah. Good morning, and I guess let me echo the thoughts. Greg, definitely, we'll miss you and
thanks for everything. I guess first question on the IA side. I just want to confirm, in terms of the
growth rate of 35%, 40% for calendar 2019, that is off of pro forma of $269 million, not what you
recognize in $261 million? And as the second part to the question, how should I think about the
linearity of the business first half versus second half? I would assume the growth rate year-on-
year would be slower first half given the uncertainty we're seeing out of China.
A - `Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `
Hey, C.J. It's Greg. Thank you for your nice comment. It's $261 million, so it is the actual, not the
pro forma, just to clarify that first point.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore ISI
Okay.
A - `Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `
Okay. And then, the growth rate does pick up in the second quarter. And similar to last year,
second and third are kind of similar. And then – this is our estimate, in fourth quarter, we have our
strongest quarter. So, it does pick up through the year.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore ISI
Okay, great. And then, I guess if you think about overall business trends, you've put up a very
stellar gross margin in the December quarter. Were there any one-time sort of issues to think
about there or how should we think about the trajectory for gross margins into calendar 2019?
A - `Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `
C.J., there were no one-time things. We didn't have a large customer buying, which could – pulls
margins down. So, we had more favorable mix. But our supply line group has done a lot of work
with Universal Robots and is starting with MiR next to get better supply arrangements, dual
sources, lower material costs. So, I think it's good pick-and-shovel work that has improved the
company's P&L. If you go back several years, we were 54% to 56% gross margin year-after-year.
So, we've really moved it up a couple of points. So, it's good performance and we're going to
continue to working the material costs down and try to get more. But sometimes when we get
more, it ends up going back to the customer in competitive shootouts, but we're still glad that we
got the more, so we can at least hold the margins where we are.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore ISIGreat. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Atif Malik, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. with Citi. Your line is open.
Q - `Atif Malik, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Hi. Thank you for taking my questions, and Greg, congratulations on a stellar career. First
question, Mark, can you remind us what is your market share in the Memory market today and
what your aspirations will be with the launch of the high-speed DRAM tester this year?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. That's a good question. So, 2018, roughly 29% market share in Memory Test. That was the
beginning of penetrating wafer test in 2018. So, in 2019, we expect to bring that up to sort of
33%, in that range. And then, in the mid-term, we can get to 40% with the introduction of this
high-speed DRAM package tester as well as continued expansion into wafer test.
Q - `Atif Malik, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Okay. And then, I'm really encouraged by the growth you're seeing in the Wireless Test market.
Can you tell us what your 5G sales percentage is of the Wireless Test sales and where do you
see it going? And the reason I'm asking that is we're seeing a pretty substantial growth in 5G-
related equipment sales at Anritsu and Keysight. Thank you.
A - `Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `
The Wireless business this year, we have gotten some 5G key strategic design-in business.
They're less about the dollars. It's more about we're in the key chipset players, and therefore,
when it does go to production in 2021 or thereabouts, we've got the best position because we're
the best in production. So, we're a little less focused on the dollars, but it's millions of dollars
we've gotten in 5G.
We have had very good business from other standards, and in Wireless Test, there's a plethora
of new technologies, new standards. There's multiple even 5G technologies. There's Wi-Fi 6
coming. So, we've talked about LitePoint being in a lull and having pretty good financial
performance for being in a lull, having good profits and good gross margins. I suspect for the
next several years, LitePoint is going to have tailwinds at their back after having headwinds for
three years or so with all these new standards coming out and you need new testers for these
new standards, and LitePoint is the leader in production. So, I think LitePoint's in a great spot for
the next several years.
Q - `Atif Malik, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Thanks.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Chin with Stifel. Your line is open.
Q - `Brian Edward Chin, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Hi. Good morning. I have a few questions. But first, congratulations on the strong finish to the yearA - `Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `
Thank you.
Q - `Brian Edward Chin, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
First – sure. First, I had a question on Industrial Automation. In terms of the new long-term growth
rate, you are clearly the market leader in the space. But I can make the counterintuitive argument
here that you would benefit from the emergence of another good competitor, which to-date
hasn't materialized. And by that, I mean it's a lot for UR to have to shoulder the load virtually
alone in terms of marketing, training and the development of future collaborative robot
applications. Would be interested to get your perspective on that.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Well, I think I would never directly wish for that, but you have a – there's a bit of truth in what
you're saying. We are developing the market in terms of creating market awareness and creating
demand, a latent demand is out there, but there's no precedent here to ride on. Now, early in the
cobot era, the company Rethink Robotics that recently folded led some of the evangelism
around the cobot market that UR rode those coattails and then surpassed them dramatically. And
we're at the tip of the spear now blazing that trail, and it is one of the principal challenges we
have that – it's awareness. It's market awareness that limits growth. All that being said, we're
working on a lot of things this year to enhance that. Our lead generation capability is developing
rapidly, and we're not going to wait for a competitor to do that work for us. We're actually – a lot
of the OpEx that Greg's talked about here is toward that end.
Q - `Brian Edward Chin, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Sure. Yeah, that's helpful. I have one question on the Wireless Test as well, but just a part B to just
IA. In terms of that 35% to 40% growth in 2019, what does that imply for UR growth? And then, let
me ask the Wireless Test question and then you can answer that. It was a $1 billion TAM earlier
this decade. It sounds like some 5G cellular is starting to kick in a little bit in 2019, but that's really
a 2020 probably go-forward. What could that TAM go to, at least $500 million, $600 million and
maybe higher even? What is a reasonable expectation for LitePoint market share?
A - `Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `
Got it. Okay. Starting with the first question – what was the first question?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
The UR component
A - `Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `
Oh, yes.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
You see why he's got to retire here, right, yeah.
A - `Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `That's a good question. All right. You threw me off. In the 35% to 40% growth, UR would be
about 20%, because MiR is about 100% growth, so MiR is helping UR. And keep in mind 28% is
probably the lowest growth rate UR has ever had and that was the quarter from Q3 to Q4 and
that's a very short time period. So, we think we've got UR in at a reasonable, maybe cautious
level, but there are some uncertainties ahead in the next quarter or two.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
5G TAM.
A - `Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `
The 5G TAM, there's a couple pieces to it. LitePoint, we think, starting in 2021, there's a little bit of
activity prior, tens of millions. But the TAM for LitePoint is probably $100 million to $150 million
higher for several years starting in 2021. This is a production portion for 5G. And then in Semi,
when you put it all together, it's probably $300 million to $400 million. That includes $100 million
to $200 million for the RF piece, and then the data processing piece makes up the balance to get
you to $300 million to $400 million. And our share is very healthy in Semi. We probably get half of
that. And then in LitePoint, that will be determined. We were not big players in 4G, but we're early
in 5G and we're working with a number of the key chipset players. So, we expect to have
meaningful share in 5G cellular at LitePoint. And there's also multiple standards at LitePoint.
There's a sub-6G coming first and millimeter wave coming later.
Q - `Brian Edward Chin, Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
All right. Great. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Cowen and Company, LLC with Cowen. Your line is open.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Cowen and Company, LLC `
Yeah. Hi. Thanks for taking my question and congrats, Greg, on a great career. I had two
questions. Number one is on the Memory Test market, if I look at your commentary, is it fair to
assume that Memory Test this year is going to be down about 25%, but your revenues in Memory
might be down only 10%? I just want to check if the math is right.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. The market itself last year will have finished in the $900 million to $1 billion. We'll sort it out
in the next few months as to what it really was. But yes, if the market's going to be in that sort of,
let's say, nominally $700 million range, it's down low-20s. I think we will be down much, much less
than that because of the share gains we picked up. So, roughly, the math you've done is right.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Cowen and Company, LLC `
Got it, got it. Thank you. And then, a follow-up on IA. It looks like bin-picking seems to be the next
big killer app for cobots. And it seems like you guys have a bin-picking beta solution coming out
later this year, and you've spoken about in the past about a 2020 ramp for that. Are you seeing
any indication from customers that this is going to be a pretty steep ramp next year and what are
the main industry or the main verticals driving this bin-picking uptick? Thank you.
A - `Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `Bin-picking, if you look at the number of people that are doing these tedious, mind-numbing bin-
picking tasks, it's close to the number of all other tasks. It's a very high number of tasks. Now, the
first bin-picking machine or solution we're going to provide is going to be able to do much more
than any other bin-picking machine, because it has path planning in it. So, it can pick the object up
at the right pose, doesn't have to put it down again, is more likely to be able to empty a bin, and
place parts with precision. So, it's going to be a step function above what's available today. Now,
it'll take time to train the distributors and the integrators. So, there's a roll-out period that'll take
time.
There might be some parts, whether they're too shiny or they have an odd configuration, that we
may not go after right away. But it's a very large market that I suspect it's going to be a beginning
of a multi-year large wave of bin-picking. And there'll probably be new advanced grippers
developed by some for the capability we're providing. But we're excited about it, because we
saw this many years ago as an enormous untapped market that was hard to get to. And with
Energid, that was the missing piece, and low cost vision modules have come to market. So, the
pieces are there now to do it. Now, we're just finishing up the user interface and making sure it all
works seamlessly at the right speed and so forth. So, very excited about it, and I think you'll see
2019 the beginning of early part of that wave – I'm sorry, 2020.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Cowen and Company, LLC `
Thanks, folks. Thank you very much, and congrats, Greg.
A - `Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Eastman with Baird. Your line is open.
Q - `Richard C. Eastman, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. `
Yes. Mark, could you maybe – and maybe you provided this. But could you just speak to where the
SOC Test market ended up in 2018?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
In terms of size of the market, yeah.
Q - `Richard C. Eastman, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. `
Yes, correct.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Again, like Memory, we're still a few months away from having final numbers on that. But our
estimate, it's in the $2.9 billion to $3 billion range is how it ended.
Q - `Richard C. Eastman, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. `
Okay. And then, just a question – we're seeing some of the analog chip vendors kind of throw up
warning flags, as well kind of hear STMicro, TI. And I'm curious, as you look out to 2019, I've got
this $2.3 billion to $2.7 billion was kind of your estimate for the market. But I'm curious, the shift inobviously, I think you kind of suggested might be flattish to down a little bit. But I'm just curious
how you think the pieces within the marketplace, where the strength might lie vers where the risk
might be.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Okay. Yeah. So, I think let's start with mobility, because it's the biggest piece of the market still.
So, in 2019, mobility, I think, will be down a little bit because of some of the one-time effects I
alluded to earlier. I think our business will be roughly flat year-over-year, but the market itself
could come down a couple hundred million because of some of this one-time tooling that
occurred in 2018 around some foundry shifts.
So, that's a significant part of that reduction. The automotive and linear, I think, are going to be
pretty – from what I can tell today, linear could be off of this sort of all-time high it was in 2018, but
not much. It may be – certainly 10% or less is what it would look like in the model. And automotive
looks still pretty healthy, so flattish. So, that leaves other areas such as PC-related, GPU, cloud-
related things, and that should be down in that sort of 10%, 15%, 20% range. So when you add
those up, because of that $200 million-ish drop in mobility, because of these one-time effects,
that's how you get to the TAM.
Q - `Richard C. Eastman, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. `
I see. Okay. Okay, that's really helpful. And then, just one last question around the IA business.
What do acquisition prospects look like there? Is there still a healthy pipeline and do they slant
software? Or just maybe just characterize that a little bit perhaps, Greg.
A - `Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `
It's an incredibly healthy pipeline. This is a space where there's many start-ups. It's a whole new
greenfield. So, there's next-generation technology. There is a number of software players. It's
hard to synthesize precisely what's out there. But what we see is companies that can fit with our
next-generation automation that is automating tedious tasks, and there's other pieces that could
fit into our portfolio, but I'll add there's nothing we need. And what I'm really excited about is, in
some of our products, you take MiR this year. MiR has expanded into the MiR500. So, they've
expanded their product line-up into heavier payload. They've also expanded into hospitals.
Now, the more we can take our existing products and get into new markets or submarkets, that's
probably the highest ROI. But there very well may be some other nice pieces, another Energid is
possible. The path planning should open up bin-picking. That's more of an emerging technology
that no one else had. Vision was available. We weren't going to get into vision. So, there's other –
it's a little bit of a chess game. There's other pieces that may be possible that we buy them and
accelerate them or we just work with them as a partner. So, there's a lot of that work going on by
our BDL group to try to figure out what's the next best chess move to make.
Q - `Richard C. Eastman, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. `
And mostly, again, from your comments, this is around expanding applications, a little bit more
software, there's not a lot of hardware that you're really looking at?
A - `Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `
Correct. Correct. Yes.Okay. Thank you. And best of luck, Greg. Thank you.
A - `Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `
Thank you very much.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC with Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Great. Thanks. Thanks so much for taking the question. I had a follow-up question on your analog
test business. Mark, you talked about the upside you saw in Q4 and the strength you saw
throughout 2018 as it relates to Eagle Test. How should we reconcile that commentary with some
of the trends that your customers are speaking to in terms of weakness in the near-term? Is it the
complexity kind of dynamic offsetting the unit weakness or is it timing? Is it a little bit of both?
How should we think about that?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I think it's timing. In terms of the recent commentary, the effects of that, to the – the magnitude
and the effects of that would be we're probably still three months away. But in 2018, the unit and
complexity growth both were very encouraging. And things like unit growth could be tempered
here. Complexity growth, I don't think is abating whatsoever. So, the recent quarterly
announcements from some of the key analog players, if in fact there's an effect that we're going
to feel from that is probably yet to be – it's probably from second quarter.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Got it. And then, my follow-up was on long-term gross margins. You guys came in at 58% in 2018.
You're guiding long-term gross margins to, I guess, kind of stay where they are today in the 57%
to 58% range. It feels like you guys continue to make progress in terms of improving gross
margins at UR. You talked about, I guess, upside at MiR. I think LitePoint, which has a nice
trajectory historically, has had very nice gross margins when things were good. So, I guess the
question is, is 57% to 58% more of a conservative target or are there kind of minuses that I'm not
aware of? Thank you.
A - `Gregory R. Beecher, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer `
There aren't minuses right now that we have in mind. There is – I'll say there's more new accounts
in Semi Test around AI that is a whole new battlefield that are jump balls. But I think what I had in
mind when I put those numbers in is, in Universal Robots, there are going to be very large
customers buying cobots in some volume. And I expect when that happens, there'll be better
competition we'll be up against and we'll be competing for kind of the design-in for the next 100,
500 or some higher number of cobots. And that's what I'm thinking that, while it will get material
cost down, some of it will be diminished by some of the large account negotiations.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Got it. Thank you.
A - `Andrew Blanchard, Vice President, Corporate Relations `And operator, we can sneak in just one last question, please.
Operator
Your last question comes from the line of Thomas Diffely with D.A. Davidson. Your line is open.
Q - `Thomas Robert Diffely, Analyst, D.A. Davidson & Co. `
Yes. Good morning. I'd like to ask one more question on the Memory side. I guess in general,
what percentage of the DRAM test market does high-speed make up today? And it sounds like
with speeds going up across the board that they become a bigger part of that market going
forward. So, just your views on the high-speed part of DRAM.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. It does shift year-to-year quite a bit depending on the pricing of the commodities, are
memory manufacturers going to shift investment toward NAND or for – toward DRAM. But I would
say as a general rule of thumb, the final test of DRAM is about 20-ish-percent of the overall
Memory Test market.
Q - `Thomas Robert Diffely, Analyst, D.A. Davidson & Co. `
And then the high-speed portion of that versus commodity DRAM?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Most of it in terms of new investment is high-speed. For sort of commodity old-school DRAM,
there's not a lot of capacity expansion. Old generation equipment can sort of be a waterfall back
there, so anything being bought tends to be for high-speed.
Q - `Thomas Robert Diffely, Analyst, D.A. Davidson & Co. `
Okay, great. And then finally, when you look at the NAND market or I should say the hybrid market
with things like crosspoint, what type of test do you need for that market and is that changing
over time as well?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
I'd say one of the things we've seen in memories and flash especially and sort of derivatives of
flash is a lot of diversity in the protocols of I/O. The internal cell structures and such aren't
significant in the impact to the tester, but the I/O protocols are. And the products that we
developed for flash, the thing that's allowed them to be so successful is how quickly we can
adapt them for these higher and higher speed emerging protocols. So, that applies not to the
crosspoint type products and all these products.
Q - `Thomas Robert Diffely, Analyst, D.A. Davidson & Co. `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Andrew Blanchard, Vice President, Corporate Relations `
All right. Well, great, thanks everybody, and we look forward to talking to you in the days and
weeks ahead. This concludes the call.
OperatorThis concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.