Q4 2019 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Teradyne Q4 2019
Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speaker
presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) Please be
advised that today's conference is being recorded. (Operator Instructions)
I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker, Mr.Andrew Blanchard. Please go
ahead, sir.
`Andrew J. Blanchard, Vice President of Corporate Relations `
Thank you, Sherry. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's most
recent financial results. I'm joined this morning by our CEO, Mark Jagiela; and CFO, `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer.
Following our opening remarks, we'll provide details of our performance for 2019's fourth quarter
and full-year, along with our outlook for the first quarter of 2020. The press release containing
our fourth quarter results was issued last evening.
We're providing slides on the Investor's page of the website, that may be helpful to you following
the discussion. Replays of this call will be available via the same page after the call ends.
The matters that we discuss today will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors
that could cause Teradyne's results to differ materially from management's current expectations.
We encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statements contained in the earnings release as
well as our most recent SEC filings.
Additionally, those forward-looking statements are made as of today and we take no obligation
to update them as a result of developments occurring after this call.During today's call, we'll make reference to non-GAAP financial measures. We've posted
additional information concerning these non-GAAP financial measures including reconciliation to
the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure that were available on the Investor page of
our website. Also, please take special note of the Safe Harbor (Technical Difficulty) and slide deck
for risks associated to potential changes in U.S. export regulations.
Looking ahead between now and our next earnings call, Teradyne will be participating in
technology or industrial focused investor conferences hosted by Goldman Sachs, Citi, Barclays,
and Susquehanna.
Now, let's get on with the rest of the agenda. First, Mark will comment on our recent results and
the market conditions, as we enter the New Year. Sanjay will then offer more details on our
quarterly results along with our guidance for the first quarter. We'll then answer your questions,
and this call is scheduled for one hour.
`Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President of Teradyne Inc. `
Thanks, Andy, and hello, everyone. In today's call, I'll note our Q4 and 2019 full-year highlights and
comment on our outlook for 2020. Sanjay will then provide the financial details (Technical
Difficulty) and as we do each January, update you on our earnings model and capital allocation
plans.
We ended the year on a very strong (Technical Difficulty) with over sales up 26% from the fourth
quarter of 2018, and non-GAAP earnings per share up 40%. That brought our full-year sales to
about $2.3 billion, up 9% and non-GAAP EPS to $2.86, up 21% versus 2018. Looking back at 2019,
our test businesses performed well above our plan.
Industrial automation showed solid growth, but came in below plan on manufacturing sector
headwinds in the U.S. and Europe. And Semi Test, the above planned results came primarily from
three areas. First, 5G infrastructure build out in China. Second, significant smartphone complexity
growth. And third, memory test share gains.
We estimate the 5G infrastructure build out contributed about $200 million to the $3.3 billion
SOC TAM in 2019, and we captured a sizable portion of that spending. As stated in prior calls, this
build-out has for the moment been mostly concentrated in China. In smartphones, complexity
growth was very strong, driving up test intensity and therefore, tester demand. The growth is
largely unrelated to 5G, as 5G handset volume was insignificant in 2019. Rather, the steady
increase of features like multiple (Technical Difficulty) cameras, enhanced photo and video
processing, and new connectivity features drove (Technical Difficulty) demand. In particular, image
sensor test demand was very strong as there was broad adoption of three to four back side
cameras in a wide variety.
Third driver was memory. While the memory market declined as expected by about 35% from
2018, our sales were down about 3%. As NAND test -- but NAND test spending was buoyed by
(Technical Difficulty) for higher speed devices and by investments from emerging suppliers in
memory.
Less significant in 2019 revenue, but a significant impact going forward was our successful break
into the DRAM (Technical Difficulty) a new Magnum Epic LPDDR5 DRAM tester. This expands
Teradyne's TAM, we now serve all four (Technical Difficulty) test market with our Magnum
platform.Our system test and light point test businesses also delivered above plan results. In system test,
defense and aerospace production, board test and storage test all delivered strong growth for
the full year. Storage test performance has especially known (Technical Difficulty) 70%, coming
from the increased test intensity of Terabyte HDD drives, and a growing business in the system
level test of complex semiconductor devices.
(Technical Difficulty) point new connectivity standards, along with early buying for the 5G handset
test market were the principal drivers of 19% growth for the full-year. Well, our tests businesses
operating (Technical Difficulty) plan, our IA business performance was solid, but below planned
for the year, growing 12% on a pro forma basis. Individually, UR grew 6% and MiR grew 43% on a
pro forma basis.
As we've discussed, at UR, we've had high exposure to the global automotive supply chain and
general European manufacturing sector, both of which face strong economic headwinds
throughout the year. On the other hand, MiR's mobile robots served a more diverse range of
end-markets and shows solid growth in the year. 2019 was also a big year for Teradyne on the
new product front.
These new products, both strengthened our core positions and set us up to profitably grow in
the future. In Semi Test, we introduced the UltraFLEXplus platform, targeting the AI and big data
markets. The Magnum Epic platform for LPDDR5 -- DRAM final test, and the MX44 instrument for
5G millimeter wave device test. At LitePoint, we introduced new members of our IQ GIG and IQXL
families of production testers, our 5G handsets and (Technical Difficulty) Wi-Fi respectively.
System tests, we ran production of the spectrum, high speed tester for complex defense
electronic systems. In industrial automation, we introduced the UR16e cobar for higher payload
and began delivery of our bin-picking solution to multiple beta site customers in Q4. In mobile
robots, we introduced the MiR 1000 for increased payloads and the MiR AI camera system that
utilizes AI to improve robot traffic flow in busy industrial settings.
And our engineering pipeline is full of future products across all groups. Rounding out 2019, our
balanced approach to capital allocation resulted in the strategic acquisition of AutoGuide, serving
the nascent autonomous mobile forklift market. We also continued our capital return program of
$500 million in share buybacks and $61 million in dividends.
Looking forward to 2020, we see continued strong momentum in our test businesses and an
improvement in our IA growth. Early returns on our new products are positive with the
UltraFLEXplus, winning significant competitive design end during Q4 in the mobility space, and
the Magnum Epic tester, winning an LPDDR final test at a major memory make.
These early wins in Semi Test contribute to our strong outlook for the first quarter. I'd like to give
you some context on how we're looking into 2020. First, we expect our smartphone test demand
to be strong and back to level similar to what we saw in 2016 and 2017. As then, we expect our
2020 revenue will be first half weighted in the year.
Second, we expect storage test to be especially strong in the first half for both HDD and system
level test applications. For the year, it's expected to grow about 40% from 2019. Third, the design
wins for the Magnum Epic and the UltraFLEXplus will begin to ramp in Q1, and this represents new
customers and new segments that we expect to contribute revenue growth over the midterm.
Balancing the strength, we are seeing the expected pause in the 5G infrastructure test buying
that power our 2019 sales. At a high level, we're seeing the 5G demand evolve from
infrastructure to smartphones, as we outlined in past calls. The global 5G infrastructure build outis still in the early innings, and we expect test demand will cycle at various geographies build -- as
various geographies build out their networks.
5G smartphone related test demand will begin in 2020, but it will be somewhat modest as it's
mostly low band or sub 16 technology rolling out. Millimeter-wave investments are still to come
over the mid-term. Additionally, we do not expect to see any significant recovery in the
automotive or analog markets in 2020.
As Sanjay will describe, we will be increasing our 2020 OpEx in test to expand these design wins,
accelerate some new products and take advantage of what we now expect to be a faster
growing test market over the midterm. Taken altogether, our outlook for the 2020 SOC Test
market is in the $3.1 billion to $3.4 billion range, and Memory Test is in the $650 million to $750
million range.
Of course, this assumes no change in the current global trade regulatory environment. We'll
update you on this outlook as we move through the year. For reference, this compares to about a
$3.3 billion SOC and about a $600 million Memory Test market in 2019.
Turning to Industrial Automation. Recall our strategy is to use the power of advanced technology
to democratize automation and make industrial warehouse applications more productive and
safer.
We remain confident of the growth opportunity, as we execute this strategy, and the addition of
AutoGuide gives us access to an even broader set of opportunities. While we expect the
automotive and general manufacturing markets in Europe, and the U.S. to remain weak, we do
think this headwind has dissipated.
This combined with our expansion into the electronics manufacturing sector, other consumer
goods manufacturing, bin-picking and the industrial forklift automation markets, gives us
confidence that a higher IA growth profile in 2020 is likely.
Additionally, the UR Plus ecosystem continues to grow, and we ended the year with 206 certified
plug and play solutions, available, up from about a 130 at the start of 2019. A similar program for
our mobile autonomous robots NearGo, launched in 2019, and will expand in 2020. Overall, we
expect our 14% IA growth in 2019 to increase to above 20% in 2020.
In summary, we entered 2020 very optimistic. While uncertainties remain in trade policies and
global economies, the overall technological and economic trends that fuel our business are
strong. Our new products are opening new markets and gaining new customers.
Test market growth is strong, and we are still in the early innings of 5G. IA growth is solid in the
environment of a U.S. and European manufacturing slowdown, and we expect that this headwind
is dissipated. This, plus a strong M&A pipeline and a commitment to capital returns remains our
strategy.
Sanjay will now take you through the financial and modeling details. Sanjay?
`Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Mark. Good morning, everyone. Today, I'll cover the financial highlights of Q4 and
review the financial details of 2019. Looking forward, I'll provide an update to our midterm model,
Q1 outlook, and color around 2020, which will include our capital allocation plans.Now to Q4. Revenues were $655 million, which was $25 million above the high end of our quarter
guidance range. Semi Test revenue of $439 million, led the quarter-over-quarter growth, driven
by memory and SOT -- SOC Test demand, enabling 5G infrastructure and higher speed flash and
DRAM devices.
System test group had revenue of $83 million, which grew quarter-over-quarter, driven by our
storage test solutions, enabling system level test for SOC's. Industrial Automation or IA, revenue
of $88 million, had a seasonal increase in revenue over Q3 and grew year-over-year in an
environment where significant auto industry headwinds exist.
LitePoint revenue of $45 million, grew quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year with new
connectivity standard Wi-Fi 6, and cellular 5G driving revenue. Non-GAAP gross margins were
58.5%, a bit above our plan and slightly down quarter-over-quarter, due to the product mix.
You'll see our non-GAAP operating expenses grow up $19 million to $204 million for the for the
third -- from the third quarter, due to a higher variable compensation on higher profit, increased
test spending to support design wins and an ongoing IA investments.
Non-GAAP operating profit is 27% and non-GAAP EPS was $0.88. The tax rate, excluding discrete
items for the quarter and the year was 15.5% on a GAAP basis, and 16.5% on a non-GAAP basis.
We bought back 2.1 million shares for a $131 million, at an average price of $62.44 in the quarter.
For the full year, we bought back 10.9 million shares at an average price of $45.89. Since the start
of 2015, we have spent $1.97 billion to repurchase 60.8 million shares with an average price of
$32.38, which delivered significant shareholder returns over the five-year period. We ended the
year with cash and marketable security balances of approximately $1 billion.
Turning to the full-year results of 2019. Teradyne revenues of $2.295 billion, grew a $194 million, or
9%. A $157 million of the growth was from our test portfolio and $37 million from IA. We had two
customers with 10% or greater revenues in 2019, who will be disclosed in our 10-K filing.
Gross margins were 58%, and operating profit was 25%, which is consistent with 2018. EPS was
$2.86 or 21% growth year-over-year. Breaking down the components of 2019 revenues. As Mark
outlined, the SOC test revenues grew $67 million or 6% on strength in 5G sub-6 infrastructure,
increased complexity in mobile devices, and millimeter wave development demand.
In Memory, revenues were $266 million, down 3% in the down market. Demand for higher speed
NAND testers from existing customers and new entrants, combined with DRAM wafer test
demand, highlighted the year. Later in the year, we also received initial revenue for our Magnum
Epic LPDDR5 DRAM packaged testers. In system test, sales grew for the third year in a row.
Revenue of $287 million grew $71 million or 33% year-over-year. Primarily on growth and storage
test, for both system level test and HDD test, which had sales of $115 million, up from $67 million
in 2018. We also saw annual growth in our defense and aerospace and production board test
components for the STG.
I'd like to point, sales grew for a third year in a row as well. Revenue was a $157 million, 19% above
2018's level. New connectivity standards were the biggest driver of demand, but we also saw a
surge in 5G cellular demand in Q4. IA revenue of $298 million, grew 14% from 2018 on as
reported basis or 12% on a pro-forma basis.
Universal robots revenue of $248 million or 6% year-over-year growth was below our original
plan. As discussed by Mark, UR's demand has 40% plus exposure to manufacturing in Europe andthe automotive industry, both of which faced significant market headwinds in 2019.
Recent eurozone PMI data suggests a moderating trend but no indication of improvement in the
near-term. The auto outlook is similar. MiR revenues of $44 million, grew 43% on a pro forma
basis or 84% on an as reported basis. Recall, we acquired MiR in April of 2018. IA in total had a
non-GAAP operating profit of 10% for the full-year, a rate that we're modeling for 2020 as well.
Shifting to our midterm earnings model. Factoring in both recent history and our latest outlook,
we've updated the high end of our $3.50 to $4 earnings target to $4.25 of non-GAAP EPS in
2022. We have growing confidence in the Semi Test end market drivers, such as greater product
complexity for performance, 5G sub-6, millimeter wave driving capacity needs and infrastructure,
phones and IoT devices.
We also expect a continuation of the growing performance trends in memory devices. This along
with some specific mobility and memory share gains and device unit growth, give us confidence
to raise the semi test revenue growth rates from 3% to 5%, to 4% to 8% from our baseline 2019
revenue.
At the same time, to reflect near-term industry conditions, IA's model growth rate has been
reduced to a range of 20% to 35% off of our 2019 baseline revenue, as Mark noted. We expect
above 20% growth in 2020.
In 2019, we experienced a significant slowdown in sales growth, tied to macro conditions noted
earlier. However, our long-term outlook remains positive, and we'll continue to invest in scaling
the business. Specifically increasing our distributor capacity, sharpening our focus on marketing
efforts for lead generation and closure, investing to expand our reach to major accounts, and
continuing to invest in software solutions, needed to scale our portfolio.
The net result of these updated growth assumptions is a greater revenue contribution in 2022
from our test portfolio versus the prior model. Our gross margin target has increased roughly 1%,
which drops down to operating profit. Increasing that to 26% to 28% at the top end of our EPS
range, and increasing the top end of our EPS ranged $4.25.
Now to our outlook for Q1. Sales are expected to be between $670 million and $710 million. Non-
GAAP EPS range of $0.86 to $0.96, on a 174 million diluted shares. The first quarter guidance
excludes the amortization of acquired intangibles and non-cash imputed interest on the
convertible debt.
First quarter gross margins are estimated to be between 57% and 58%, down slightly from the
fourth quarter due to mix. The first quarter OpEx running at 30% to 31% of first quarter sales, is
up about $6 million from the fourth quarter, due to further IA distribution and product
development investments, including the addition of AutoGuide along with incremental test
investments, I'll discuss shortly. The non-GAAP operating profit at the midpoint of the first quarter
guidance is 27%.
Now turning to some color around the full-year outlook to help your modeling. As Mark noted, we
expect the strong first half similar to 2016 and 2017, when the first half revenues were 55% and
54% of the full-year sales respectively.
Key drivers of the first half revenue include handset test demand, system level testers being sold
to enable key product ramp in our Storage Test segment, and early ramping of LPDDR5 DRAM
memory test capacity. Unlike 2016-17, based on our very early estimates, we expect roughly
similar sales levels in Q2 as in Q1.Regarding our OpEx plans for 2020. We expect our OpEx to grow 10% to 12% from 2019's $758
million. This is driven by investments across the business. In IA, we'll continue to invest to
reinforce for competitive position across the sector, as noted earlier. In our test portfolio, we plan
to increase our spending in engineering, sales and marketing, primarily in Semi Test.
The engineering efforts will include memory and SOC investments to maintain our leadership
position, as well as invest in areas of the market where we believe, there's opportunity for us to
grow. Increased sales and marketing investments are driven by share gains, which require effort
to convert and ramp customers on Teradyne's products, and then provide ongoing support.
Beyond 2020, we modeled test OpEx to have flat to GDP growth.
Capital expenditures in 2020 will increase above our normal run rate. In 2019, our CapEx was a
$135 million, used primarily for customer demonstration, equipment, operations and engineering.
In 2020, we have earmarked an incremental $40 million or so for real estate investments in
locations where we plan to grow significantly over the next several years. We are buying land and
developing it to eliminate lease costs and enable more cost-efficient spend profile over the mid
to long-term.
The projects will take two years to complete, with the majority of the spending this year. Our
GAAP and non-GAAP tax rate for 2020 is estimated at 16%.
Shifting to capital allocation. We'll continue to balance the strong cash position to support our
operating investments and potential M&A with direct shareholder returns through dividends and
share repurchases. Recall, we have a $460 million face value convertible bond that matures in
2023.
Regarding direct returns. We will be increasing our dividend by 11% to $0.10 per quarter, which
reflects our confidence in our operating level and growing markets we serve. With regards to
share repurchases. We cancelled the unused portion of the prior program and replaced it with a
$1 billion share repurchase program. We plan a minimum of $250 million of share repurchase in
2020.
The program does not have a fixed end date, and as in the past, there's a program --
programmatic and opportunistic component. Recall, in 2018 and 2019, we spent approximately
$1.3 billion in share buybacks, driven by a 2017 tax reform, which enabled offshore cash to be
repatriated efficiently.
Our 2020 target represents are getting back to a more normal level of share repurchases. In
summary, we closed out 2019 very strong and entered 2020 with good momentum, powered by
our strong test portfolio. Our updated capital allocation plan and earnings model reflects our
confidence in test and industrial automation, while acknowledging the short-term impacts of the
global slowdown in industrial spending.
We'll continue to invest in R&D, distribution and internal capabilities to improve our competitive
position and drive profitable growth across the business. While, we can't predict what lies ahead
for the full year, we have the products, the team, and a proven flexible business model that can
efficiently scale demand, during a fluctuating time period, and the strategy to thrive in the New
Year.
With that, I'll turn things back to Andy.
`Andrew J. Blanchard, Vice President of Corporate Relations `Thanks, Sanjay. And Sherry, we would like to take some questions. And as a reminder, please limit
yourself to one question and a follow-up.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Merrill Lynch with Bank of
America.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thanks for taking my question. For the first one, in the press release, you called out Huawei and
HiSilicon as significant customers. I'm wondering how big were they directly or indirectly in 2019,
and if you have a number for 2018 as well? And do you have a sense how much of that related
capacity is being utilized versus any extraneous effects due to tariff or trade or other issues?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President of Teradyne Inc. `
Yeah. We're not going to give specific numbers for any specific customer. But what I will say is that
certainly they are a significant customer of Teradyne and utilization is 100-plus-percent. There's
strong demand, there was demand all through the year, utilization high. And at this point, that
situation continues with the exception of 5G infrastructure, which represents a subset of the
demand, being weaker now than it was running in the second half of last year.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
All right. And for my follow-up, on the 5G side, you maintain the $200 million or so contribution or
the market size for last year; and I think in the past, you had mentioned $300 million to $400
million opportunity. How do you see your share playing out, which areas you think you are
stronger versus your competitor? Thank you.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President of Teradyne Inc. `
Yeah. Good question. So, that $200 million number for 2019 was predominantly infrastructure
related. And I think our shared there was probably 70-plus-percent. As we enter 2020, there will
be a shift toward handsets, and infrastructure will come down a bit. And I'd say, our share as a
consequence of that, will probably be somewhere between that 50% to 75% -- 50% to 70%
range in that kind of a mix.
But longer term as more millimeter wave comes online, again we're talking probably post 2020,
that's when the total market should grow to that $400 million-ish range for SemiTest. And then
on top of that in LitePoint, there's probably we've been talking about $100 million-ish adder for
5G handset test, that's the way we see it now. It's likely that could be a bit higher, that may peak
at around $150 million or so. So that's how it progresses out through the next few years.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thank you.
OperatorQ - `John W. Pitzer, Credit Suisse `
Yeah. Good morning, guys. Congratulations on the solid results. Mark, I'm just kind of curious, your
view of the calendar year '20 half-on-half being 55/45. To what extent is that just lack of visibility
into the second half, and conservatism versus actually having visibility that the second half is going
to be down? And I guess, help me understand why '16 to '17 is the right analogy year to compare
calendar year '20? And as you answer the question, if we're going through a pause in 5G
infrastructure currently, when's -- what's the expectation for that to come back?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President of Teradyne Inc. `
Yeah. That's a good question. So, I just like to point out that we have very little visibility into the
second half. So the 55/45 split is purely based on a historical model or precedent, where in 2016
and 2017, we had significant mobility handset test tool in the first half. And we simply looked at
that and said, everything else being equal, let's assume that year follows that pattern, but we
don't have any data points that I would say are strong on that.
And then with no infrastructure, we expect, because most of the build-out in infrastructure was
concentrated in China last year, it ran very hot, it's in a pause right now, but there's plenty of
geographies that still need to build out. So that has to come back at some point, if you don't think
it's in the first half of the year where we do have visibility, but it could be in the second half of the
year or early next year.
Q - `John W. Pitzer, Credit Suisse `
That's helpful. The meaning for my follow on to kind of add on to the Vivek's first question. I
understand the desire not talk about absolute levels for a specific customer, but I'm kind of
curious just relative to some of the concerns investors have that might be a change in the de
minimis rule from 25 to 10, would that change as you understand it, impact your business to
Huawei, or how should we think about that in the investment community?
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Hi, it's Sanjay. So, the first thing is, is that, I'll just say that, Teradyne is going to be compliant
with whatever the regulations are. And then the revenue impact I'd say, is a little bit hard to call
and let me give you some color around there. Depending on -- there could be a lot of conjecture
about what the rules could be and whatever they are, I think that if there's and our inability to ship
to Huawei for whatever reason, you have to consider, if you consider the end market to be the
end market, we believe that there would be a shift in -- to other providers, and that would have a
time gap as that process takes place. But I think it's very hard, A, we don't actually understand
know what the regulations are going to be; and then B, the end market impact I think it over the
mid-term we kind of work itself out, but there would be this fluctuation before term.
Q - `John W. Pitzer, Credit Suisse `
Thanks guys. Appreciate it.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Timothy Arcuri, UBS with UBS.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, UBS `Hi guys. Thanks. The first question, Mark, I just -- I'm going back to your comment that the $200
million extra SOC TAM that came from 5G this year, your share was about 70%. But total SOC
share, if I take a $3.3 billion market this year, you actually lost like 300 basis points worth of share
for the year. So why would that be if you captured sort of an abnormally high portion of that
incremental 5G? Thanks.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President of Teradyne Inc. `
Yeah. So, there's lots going on under the covers in SOC Test. So the 5G bump was one
component of it, but analog and automotive were at a very low level of, which is another place
where we have very high tier. So those two, you might say, sort of -- almost negated each other
in terms of share -- net share gain.
Then the other effect going on is the -- there's a segment of the SOC Test market, it's probably
the only segment we don't serve, which is LCD driver, display driver that market has grown quite
dramatically in 2019. It added I think about $100 million to $150 million of market. It's pretty that all
went to Advantest in that kind of makes up that their difference in your calculation.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, UBS `
Okay. Got it. And then I guess just a follow-up question on the topic around export control. So if I
take a flat June, which you're sort of implying is going to be flat, and then if I assume that the
year sort of plays out that the first half is 55 and back half is 45, that sort of says that you're going
to be at around 2.5 for the year. Does that guidance -- what does that assume in terms of export
control rule changes? Because if the threshold goes to 10% and they remove the sensitive
content requirement, does that assume that you'll still be able to ship to Huawei or does that
assume that there will be some impact? Thank you.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President of Teradyne Inc. `
Yeah. I think with what we believe is being contemplated at the moment, and again, this is still in
daily discussions obviously, and the Commerce Department and the Department of Defense and
everything else, that it would not have a significant impact to our plans for 2020.
But what Sanjay said is true, is that, let's assume for a minute that something more draconian that
we expect happens with restrictions, the demand in the market won't change, so the supply will
shift to other suppliers, (Technical Difficulty) well positioned at the likely other suppliers that will
shift to. So it's simply a movement of one place to another.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, UBS `
Okay. Awesome. Thanks so much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs `
Hi guys. Congrats on the strong results. Mark, you guys lowered your long-term growth
assumptions around the IA business from 30% to 40%, to 20% to 35%. I appreciate the near-
term environment in Europe in automotive from an end demand standpoint remains pretty weak.
But why the change? Have you sensed any change of the competitive landscape? Or how you
think about the economics around the adoption of cobots or what's changed there? Thank you.A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President of Teradyne Inc. `
Yeah. It's no competitive and no long-term change, it's simply math. Meaning, we've got another
ticket to that 2022 year. We've got three years to get there. We think 2020 is going to be better
than '19 in terms of growth, but not in that 30% to 40% range that would make that viable. So, we
think we're going to, again, move back north on growth rates this year, will be north of 20% for
the group. And we would expect subsequent years to improve beyond that. But when the
average it out over three years, that's kind of the range we think will be it. Longer term, nothing's
changed.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs `
Got it. And then as a follow-up I had a question on Memory Test. Can you confirm what your
market share was in 2019 in NAND and DRAM relative to 2018? And then for the TAM for 2020, I
think you guys are thinking 15-ish percent growth on a year-over-year basis. That seems a little
conservative you are seeing in terms of the memory market. What's kind of pulling that down, if
you will? Thank you.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President of Teradyne Inc. `
Well, let's see. So, first of all, my share in 2018 were roughly 30% share, and last year we think will
be around 43-ish percent share, 43%. Looking to 2020 market, we're thinking $700 million
roughly would be the market. We said the long-term average should be about $750 million. I
wouldn't be surprised if it was a bit higher, but it's again at this point, it's hard to forecast.
Now, in terms of our share in 2020, the success we had, all last year we talked about this target
of cracking in the final wedge of the Memory Test market, DRAM final test that we didn't
participate in. And that was a year-long project that finally came to fruition in December. So, that
sets us up going into the 2020 to serve all four segments of the market. China will continue to be
pretty aggressive, so that's a balloon. And I think our share, I think in the last call I said expect our
share to fall back into the high-30s, 35% to 40% range as DRAM snaps back in 2020. But now
that we're playing in that market, we think where the share is going to stay up in that 40% range
in 2020.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Atif Malik, Citigroup, Inc. with Citi.
Q - `Atif Malik, Citigroup, Inc. `
Hi. Thanks for taking my questions, and congratulations on strong results and guide, and also a
good job in winning the LPDDR5 design win at the Korean memory makers. Mark, my first
question is respect to your expectations on the industrial auto demand not recovering this year.
Can you remind us how much is that Semiconductor Test demand down from the prior peak?
Then as my follow-up Sanjay, can you comment on the profitability of your Memory Test business
relative to your overall Semiconductor Test business?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President of Teradyne Inc. `I'm sorry, Atif, I didn't get your first question. Could you just ask it again please?
Q - `Atif Malik, Citigroup, Inc. `
Yeah. Mark, what I'm asking is, how far is your Industrial Auto Test business down from the prior
peak? And then for Sanjay, the memory profitability (Multiple Speakers) --
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President of Teradyne Inc. `
Got it. Thank you. Yeah. So automotive and analog tends to peak at around $500 million or so of
the market by $500 million to $550 million. Last year, we expect that it was somewhere in the
$300 million to $325 million range. So, it's down by about $200 million.
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
And from the memory profitability standpoint, we see the margins in profitability similar to the
SOC market.
Q - `Atif Malik, Citigroup, Inc. `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `C.J. Muse, Evercore ISI with Evercore.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Evercore ISI
Yeah. Good morning. Thanks for taking the question. Curious on your new test outlook of 6%
growth at the midpoint versus your prior view of 4%, and that's off of a higher base in '19. How
much of that outlook is based on just what you're seeing overall test [ph] as in complexity versus
some of the share gains on the gaming console, DDR5, et cetera?
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I think that's (inaudible). I think that you can view that as we see over the mid-term growth
really driven by as you said complexity in end devices, 5G kind of both sub-6 and millimeter wave
as well as share gains. So I'd say it's more, 25% like 30% tied to market and 70% tied to share
gains roughly over the mid-term.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Evercore ISI
Very helpful. And then on the IA side, MiR clearly helped, but UR grew 23% sequentially on its
own. Curious, what signal that sends to you? I mean, how much of that was programmatic as
opposed to perhaps an early indication of cyclical recovery on the manufacturing side?
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, I think on the UR front some as well as MiR, seasonally Q4 is a generally high quarter if you
look back overtime. So, that's encouraging. And it was actually one of the drivers of that's being
higher than our guidance range.
However, as we look into the first half, we are seeing that seasonal pattern come down from IA
perspective, and I think it's really early innings to call a recovery in those in the industrials and
automotive at this point from our standpoint.Q - `C.J. Muse, Evercore ISI
So, when you're thinking about growing that business 20-plus-percent in 2020, is that really an
indication of kind of the programs that you see for MiR, or what's the underlying assumption for
UR?
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So, we see MiR and UR both contributing obviously to the 20-plus-percent growth that Mark
articulated. And we are investing, and as I said, growing in distribution. As you know, MiR is coming
from, it is a little bit later in years as coming from a smaller base. But we see both contributing
quite significantly to that 20-plus-percent growth.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President of Teradyne Inc. `
And C.J., I just -- I would just add on that a bit. UR is -- has higher exposure to automotive and sort
of the general manufacturing issues that we're seeing in the market. But the fact that we did see
the strong sequential performance that you've alluded to, we did see a little bit of year-over-year
gain. We introduced a new product last year with the 16 kilogram payload version that's just
starting to ramp, and we're just now actually in April going to be rolling out the Bin Picking solution
in North America. So, new products, bottoming of the headwinds and the manufacturing sector in
Europe and North America are strong-strong indicators for us.
And the other thing is that last year, we saw really good performance in China in terms of growth.
We grew -- I think it was 40% or so in China last year where those headwinds were absent. So UR,
in a very competitive region, is still showing that kind of leads. So we're really confident with the
new products and the sort of diminishing headwinds.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Evercore ISI
Very helpful. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group with SIG.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group `
Yes. Thanks for taking my question. I want to take a more of a broader outlook. If I just look at
your commentary for 2020 and the 55/45 mix, it seems to me that on the earnings side, you
would come in at or slightly above the midpoint of your longer term target. And I also under
impression that millimeter wave could be a big TAM for SOC, but that's most likely a 2022
catalyst.
So given this kind of a thought process, could we see some fluctuation in the annualized earning
as you think about the longer term of maybe a best case 425? And I'm just trying to better
understand the dynamics of different parts of the company, especially with the change of outlook
on IA and how SOC market is going to play out.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President of Teradyne Inc. `
Yeah. We've been blessed with a pretty stable non-volatile test market here for quite some
number of years. And so it's certainly possible on our way to 425 and beyond, we could see a
drop down. We haven't seen that our EPS have been monotonically growing here for quite sometime. So there's still likely volatility. It doesn't seem imminent. So, the drivers here, especially
around 5G are going to be pretty big balloons.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group `
Yeah.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President of Teradyne Inc. `
But at the same time, you and I both know being around for as long as we've been in this
industry, something like a 20% corrections occur. That in no way changes the fundamentals of
where 5-nanometer, 3-nanometer are going to take us with complexity and what these device
can -- the 5G transceivers and antennas and such that are going into our phones over the next
few years, they are going to go into the test wheel. So, I'm not -- we don't plan or try to, we're on
a trend line projection as you know and that's what we believe.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group `
Thank you. And thanks for being sincere. Just as a follow-up. I'm just thinking that for millimeter
wave, there will be some changes to the bases station to the networking, and that would have to
happen before there will be an SOC upgrade cycle. So -- and bases station TAM is like 200 for
test and ATE is 400. How do you see the impact of millimeter wave on a networking versus the
phone itself, given the kind of picture that I just laid out?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President of Teradyne Inc. `
Yeah. So I think that from a test intensity point of view, handsets will matter more. So the thing
that made last year incredible in terms of infrastructure was the concentration in a very short
period of time. So to roll out China sub-6G or low band to put in the infrastructure to do that,
tremendous amount of capacity was built out in one year to make that happen. Millimeter wave is
going to be spread over many years. I don't think that it's going -- it'll be marginally more tests
intensive than at the base station level than sub-6G. But it's not going to have the same sort of
$150 million, $200 million bump in TAM like we saw last year.
On the other hand, the handset side of this is where the real money will be, for both LitePoint and
SemiTest. And it is going to be a tipping point that we need to reach specifically in the U.S. on
deployment of millimeter wave base stations to shift, let's say, half the domestic supply of
handsets to millimeter wave capable. And we still think that's probably 2021 or 2022. It may --
we're a little more optimistic that it's coming sooner on millimeter wave. But if we go back to that
$400 million bump to the SOC market, if you're thinking about 2022, it's probably $300 million
plus of that is going to be handset related.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Susquehanna International Group `
Got it. Thank you so much, and thanks for all the details.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Krish Sankar, Cowen and Company with Cowen & Co
Q - `Krish Sankar, Cowen and Company `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. I have two. First on Mark, thanks for the color on millimeter
wave. Do you think that when you look at millimeter wave, now that you have a dual opportunityboth on the test side as well as LitePoint side, do you think they happen in tandem, or does
LitePoint lead or lag the ATE business? And then I had a follow-up on cobots.
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Its Sanjay. I think they can note in similar opportunities. I think what you're seeing right now in
millimeter wave on the SOC Test perspective is a lot of engineering work and testers associated
with that. And then you do have the LitePoint end device tester in parallel for what millimeter
wave devices that are out there.
And then when the -- as we say, it comes -- as we've said, we believe it comes in waves and
arguably 2021 and 2022, I think you'll see both of them come up. Obviously, the chip guys on the
SOC Test will be slightly ahead, but I think they'll mainly come in -- comes in early time.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President of Teradyne Inc. `
One more thing about LitePoint that we haven't mentioned that. Well, LitePoint's traditional
strength has been Wi-Fi connectivity test, and there's a lot going on in the next few years in Wi-Fi,
that's really encouraging to us. So finally 802.11ax or what's now been rebranded Wi-Fi 6 is rolling
out to phones, that's going to propel our connectivity business. Then, we're going to open up the
7 gigahertz, 6 gigahertz to 7 gigahertz band for Wi-Fi. That's another new need to retool the
tester installed base for that frequency band.
And then, we'll -- and the industry is working on this new 802.11be standard that is 16x16 MIMO,
360 megahertz of channel bandwidth, once again requiring new test capacity. So unlike the past
four years where connectivity has been kind of dormant, when we look over the next four years,
connectivity is also going to see significant retooling we think.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Cowen and Company `
Got it. That's very helpful. And I just had a follow-up on the cobot side. A two part question.
Where are we on the installation time reduction for cobots? I think it'd be used to be four to six
weeks, but you guys are trying to reduce it. And also do you have any update on the partnership
redding with -- on the vision sight for cobots? Thank you.
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
I think on the deployment time, yeah, we that's -- I alluded earlier to where we're investing. We
continue to invest on have a specific metrics around that, but we continue to see improvement,
and improvement in the initial deployment as well as the follow on deployments at an existing
customer.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Cowen and Company `
And in vision?
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
And the second question was tied to --
Q - `Krish Sankar, Cowen and Company `
Of vision partnerships.A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Vision partnerships? I think answer is, we have a lot of new UR first partners that are suppliers.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President of Teradyne Inc. `
Yeah. I think we're fielding a Bin Picking solution that has a vision system embedded in it that we
will kind of be a reseller for. But there's a wide variety of partners already in our Europe bus
ecosystem that are natively embedded in our operating system. So, all of that is sort of business
as usual. No real, new trends there.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Cowen and Company `
Got it. Thank you, guys. Thank you very much. Appreciate it.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Richard Eastman, Robert W. Baird & Co. with Baird.
Q - `Richard Eastman, Robert W. Baird & Co. `
Yes. Good morning. Just a quick question around the Industrial Automation business in general.
And how did that -- how did their P&L or gross margin, and I think finished the year, and then also
-- I think you referenced a non-profit contribution and contribution margin there of 10% and that
was the expectation going forward into '20 as well. So I'm curious, is there a kicked-up
investment there, below the gross margin line as a gross margin line kind of held around 60%?
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. It's Sanjay. So, I think the gross margin is roughly as you'd expect it to be, there's been no
degradation at all, and I did comment that our operating profit in IA in general is 10%, you should
expect that next year.
I think the -- when I think about the Industrial Automation business and our strategy towards it,
fundamentally as we have significant growth, we plan on investing to improve our competitive
position, we believe in this nascent market and our outlook in the long-term as Mark said earlier is
unchanged.
I think when you -- you should start thinking about it when, when you expect or when we expect
growth in single-digits, that's when you'd expect us to be at or above kind of our model profit or
let's say 20% operating profit plus, as growth tends to slow, but as we see the market and as we
believe that we're going to grow significant double-digits and into the future, we're going to
continue to invest to drive the top line. And then when we see the growth table off, you'd expect
our operating profit to improve.
Q - `Richard Eastman, Robert W. Baird & Co. `
So the -- so in the 50% that's OpEx there, is that kicked-up on the R&D side, or is this still kind of
go-to-market support costs and expansion of the distribution base? Or where do you pull that
50% out to drop the contribution margin at 10%, because they've been riding, 15% to 20%.
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `Yeah. It's a combination of both I'd say. The other point I put -- I'd add in there is that our 2020
forecast includes auto debt. But it's both, really investments and lead generation and closure
distribution, our partners we're really putting forward the go-to-market. But then also things like
fleet management, system software and different software capability to help drive the scalability
of our solutions to customers.
Q - `Richard Eastman, Robert W. Baird & Co. `
Okay. And then just as my second question. Just Mark, I want to return to something you talked
about the 5G infrastructure business in the SemiTest. You referenced there that the market there
and the demand there is pausing in the China market. I'm trying to get my arms around a little bit
around the timetable here, just from the standpoint of you continue to see some fairly
aggressive production and deployment numbers around base stations in China, in the Asian
market and general. And so, is your reference to the test demand that that is in place ahead of
the production? So, in other words, are some inventory of the chip content into the base
stations? Or how do we reconcile the aggressive forecast around production and deployment of
base stations with your commentary about the market pausing out?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President of Teradyne Inc. `
Yeah. It's exactly what you said. So in advance of deployments of the actual base stations, a lot of
silicon test capacity goes in place. So now those base stations are turning out like mad out of the
factories, which is why utilization of test equipment is very high. So, it require an additional bump
in deployment rate of base stations to drive the next round of test equipment. So U.S., Europe,
the Rest of the world, and China as well, there's not enough really capacity in China to totally
facilitate, China where it has to get to, but what they need to do for 2020 is probably sufficient.
Q - `Richard Eastman, Robert W. Baird & Co. `
I understand. Okay. Great. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Sidney Ho, Deutsche Bank Securities with Deutsche Bank.
Q - `Sidney Ho, Deutsche Bank Securities `
Great. Thanks. You talk about second quarter revenue to be flat quarter-over-quarter in Q2, and
that's different from how it was a few years ago 2016 and 2017. Can you head a little more color,
what are some of the factors that make it different than those two years?
A - `Andrew J. Blanchard, Vice President of Corporate Relations `
Yeah. Hi, it's Andrew. So I think in Q1, we've had -- we'll have some significant drivers outside of
SOC Test and then inside. The first one is our storage test, the system level test and HDD, where
we'll have a significant revenue in Q1 which will decline in Q2. The second comment I'd make is
that, within SemiTest, we've got some share gains that require some initial tooling in Q1, that are -
- we will be moderating in Q2. The last point I'd leave you with is that it's still early stages of Q2,
this is roughly where we think we're going to end up.
Q - `Sidney Ho, Deutsche Bank Securities `
Okay. That's helpful. My follow-up to -- is that you guided the SOC TAM to be call it roughly flat in
2020. How do you think about the different moving parts in terms of end market? And related tothat, how do you expect your share in SOC Test to do this year? I think last year was around 40%.
Any color, end market, customer mix, product mix, that's driving the shares will be helpful?
Thanks.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President of Teradyne Inc. `
Yeah. So our expectation this year is that the mix, the combination of some of the design wins I
alluded to it in my remarks around the UltraFLEXplus platform, plus a little bit I would say of a shift
toward our customers in this year will bring our share likely up into the mid-40 area is what we
expect.
Q - `Sidney Ho, Deutsche Bank Securities `
Okay. Thanks.
Operator
Thank you.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President of Teradyne Inc. `
Okay. Sherry [ph], we have time for just one more question.
Operator
Okay. Sounds great. Our final question will come from Tom Diffely with D.A. Davidson.
Q - `Thomas Diffely, D. A. Davidson & Co. `
Yes. Hi. I hope if you could talk a little bit more about the service component in Semi, in particular
going forward and how you see that playing out?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President of Teradyne Inc. `
Semi?
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President of Teradyne Inc. `
So this -- Semi service for us for years has been very strong part of the portfolio. It's roughly runs
around 20% of Semi revenue, and it's something does a $300 million range, we don't expect as
a percentage of revenue, it will vary good that much, but that's roughly where it is.
Q - `Thomas Diffely, D. A. Davidson & Co. `
Okay. So, is that a view into that increasing markedly over the next few years and as you get to
target model?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President of Teradyne Inc. `
Yeah. I think it'll scale with system revenue. I think on the Industrial Automation side, that's an area
where service will go from when we acquire these companies having essentially no servicebusiness. We're now growing service in those businesses at a faster rate than the top line. So that
will be a story that evolved through over the next few years, but in Semi it should stay consistent.
Q - `Thomas Diffely, D. A. Davidson & Co. `
Okay. That's it. Thank you.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President of Teradyne Inc. `
Thank you.
A - `Andrew J. Blanchard, Vice President of Corporate Relations `
(Technical Difficulty) everybody. Thank you so much for joining us today. I apologize for the static
in the front end of the call, and we look forward to talking to you in the days and weeks ahead.
Bye-bye.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.