Q4 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. And welcome to the Q4 2020 Teradyne, Inc.
Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the
speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions)
I would now like to hand the conference over to Mr. Andy Blanchard, Vice President of Investor
Relations. Please go ahead, sir.
`Andrew Blanchard, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Sharon. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's most
recent financial results. I'm joined for our discussion this morning by Teradyne's CEO, Mark
Jagiela; and CFO, `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer. Following our opening remarks, we'll provide details of our
performance for 2020's fourth quarter and full year along with our outlook for the first quarter of
2021. The press release containing our results was issued last evening. We're providing slides on
the Investor page of the website that may be helpful to you in following the discussion. Replays
of this call will be available via the same page after the call ends.
The matters that we discuss today will include forward-looking statements that involve risk factors
that could cause Teradyne's results to differ materially from management's current expectations.
We encourage you to review the Safe Harbor statement contained in the earnings release as well
as our most recent SEC filings.
Additionally, those forward-looking statements are made as of today and we take no obligation
to update them as a result of developments occurring after this call. During today's call, we'll
make reference to non-GAAP financial measures. We've posted additional information
concerning these non-GAAP financial measures, including reconciliation to the most directly
comparable GAAP financial measure where available on the Investor page of our website.technology or industrial focused investor conferences hosted by Goldman Sachs, Citi and
Susquehanna.
Now let's get on with the rest of the agenda. First, Mark will comment on our recent results in the
market conditions as we enter the New Year, Sanjay will then offer more details on our results,
along with our guidance for the first quarter. We'll then answer your questions and this call is
scheduled for one hour. Mark?
`Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President `
Good morning and thanks for joining us. In our call today, I'll summarize our Q4 and 2020 full year
highlights and provide some initial comments on our outlook for 2021. Sanjay will then provide the
financial details, Q1 outlook and review our updated earnings model and the capital allocation
plans.
Fourth quarter capped off an amazing year for Teradyne with sales up 16% from the fourth
quarter of 2019 and non-GAAP earnings per share up 25%. That brought our full year sales to just
over $3.1 billion, up 36% and non-GAAP EPS to $4.62, up 62% versus 2019. These annual results
driven by strength in all of our test businesses more than made up for a soft industrial automation
market that was impacted by COVID.
For the full year, our Semi Test business was especially strong, driven by investments in
smartphone-related test capacity, our expansion into the compute sector of SOC with our new
UltraFLEXplus product and the ramp up of our Magnum EPIC product for DRAM test. In
smartphones, global unit shipments contracted in 2020, but the growth in chipset complexity
continued driving tester demand higher. Each subsystem on the phone cellular, power
management, connectivity, display, cameras and application processing has its own cycle, and in
2020, both the processor and the cellular carriers took big steps up in complexity.
We use transistor count as a proxy for complexity and the leading phone applications' processors
now exceed 10 billion transistors, growing double-digits each generation. In 2020, we also saw
the beginning of meaningful 5G silicon content, which necessitated a build-out of new tester
capacity. Together, these lifted the mobility test market in 2020 roughly $200 million to about $1.7
billion. This continuous refresh of smartphone silicon should be a tailwind for the semiconductor
test business for the foreseeable future.
In 2020, we also ramped our UltraFLEXplus product in the compute portion of the SOC market.
Recall, this has historically been a $500 million to $600 million market, we will -- where we've had
a relatively low share. With the emergence of more players and applications in the processor
market, including the hyperscalers and AI, we expect this sector to outgrow the general market.
The plus brings a powerful value proposition in managing the unique complexity, power
dynamics, yield learning and time to market requirements of this segment.
For 2020, we estimate the SOC market was in the range of $3.4 bIllion to $3.5 billion, up from
about $3.3 billion in 2019. We estimate our SOC test market share moved up 15 points to about
54%. However, our internal view of share smooths out year-on-year swings due to the unique
timing of investment cycles of both our and our competitors' customers. By that measure, we
estimate our normalized 2020 SOC share had about 50%.
Another notable growth segment of our Semi Test business in 2020 was memory. In this call a
year ago, we noted a significant design win for our Magnum EPIC product, the LPDDR5 portion of
the DRAM market. This new entry into DRAM test ramped through the year and combined with
healthy growth in our traditional NAND business drove a 41% increase in memory sales from 2019.We estimate the market was about $900 million in 2020, up from $600 million in 2019 and our
normalized 2020 memory share at about 42%.
Beyond Semi Test, our System Test Group also had a great year, delivering 43% growth with the
Storage Test business more than doubling from 2019. This is the second consecutive year of
hyper-growth in Storage Test, driven by steady test intensity growth of Terabyte HDD drives and
similar growth in the system level test of complex semiconductor devices.
In our Wireless Test business at LitePoint sales grew 10% from 2019 with solid demand for both
our connectivity and cellular end markets. WiFi 6, ultra-wideband test and increased investments
in 5G related handset tests all contributed. The performance of our test businesses more than
offset the weaker results in our Industrial Automation business which contracted 6% for the year.
The global slowdown in manufacturing activity led to a 12% decline in sales at our Universal
Robots unit. MiR, on the other hand, grew 1% as makers of ultraviolet disinfecting products
recognize the value of an easier to deploy, fully autonomous mobile robot.
On a pro forma basis, AutoGuide also grew for the year. While the environment in IA was weaker
than expected, the business troughed in the second quarter of 2020 and has improved
dramatically in the second half, including record sales at UR in the fourth quarter. Collectively, the
businesses return to year-over-year growth in Q4 with UR growing 6% year-over-year and 41%
sequential growth. With test slowing -- with test showing continued strength and Industrial
Automation returning to growth, we are set up for another exciting year in 2021. Specifically, we
are expecting a strong start to the year across all our businesses with Q1 showing greater than
6% growth at the midpoint compared to Q1 of '19. Sorry, Q1 of '20.
As you know, full year visibility is always a challenge as evidenced by our missing [ph] -- the
strength of the test market and the decline in the IA market in our forecast just one year ago.
That said, let me describe how we see things today and of course, we'll keep you updated in
future calls. I will preface my remarks with a note that the well-publicized surge in the forecasted
semiconductor CapEx in 2021 is a very bullish sign. However, the impact on test is likely to be felt
in 2022 and beyond as Fab capacity built this year will drive additional testers in future years
aligned to Fab commissioning and ramping volumes and yields.
In SOC test, the dynamics that made 2020 such a strong year continue into 2021. In addition, we
have strengthening demand in the long dormant Automotive Test market with orders for our
Eagle Test product line surging. Smartphone shipments are expected to grow in 2021 after
contracting about 10% in 2020. And 5G content should increase. On the other hand, the SOC test
market in China will likely be down in 2021 due to the expanded and full year effects of trade
restrictions that were widened in 2020. Also, as always, tester demand from our largest
customer will remain opaque until sometime in Q2. Additionally, the global economic impact of
COVID and its impact on electronics demand after a surge in 2020, it's hard to forecast with
arguments for both positive and negative effects. Taking all of that into account, we have a bit
wider range in our SOC market size estimate for 2021 at $3.3 billion to $3.8 billion, up slightly
from 2020 at the midpoint.
In Memory Test, the transition to LPDDR5 and DDR5 should gain momentum in 2021 and beyond.
After growing about 50% in 2020, we view the memory market to be in the $800 million to $1
billion range in 2021 about even with 2020 at the midpoint.
In Storage Test, the underlying demand drivers of increased density in HDD and increased
complexity in semi devices driving system level test remain in place. However, visibility is limitedexpect 2021 sales to be in a band of plus or minus 20% from the 2020 level. For the rest of our
test businesses, we expect growth in the 5% to 10% range in 2021.
In Industrial Automation, 2021 is starting off on a strong footing, barring [ph] any additional COVID
related manufacturing sector shutdowns, we expect to deliver the highest ever first quarter sales
in each of our automation businesses and we are well-positioned to grow an excess of 30% for
the year.
2020's results well on Teradyne's strategy, execution and efficiency. Our test businesses show
the successful results of R&D bets made in years past and enable us to increase those bets for
the future. Our Industrial Automation investments continue undeterred by short-term impacts of
COVID and we are well-positioned to capitalize on a world emerging to invest even more in
automation to improve resilience and productivity.
Equally significant, 2020 showed the resilience of Teradyne employees, our global suppliers and
our operating model. In the face of unimaginable challenges across communities worldwide, the
team dealt with health, safety and operation obstacles daily, met R&D milestones, executed
steep new product ramps, and delivered record shipments of SOC, memory and storage test
products to meet our customers' needs. We did all this while exercising the cost and scheduled
discipline expected at Teradyne. This is truly extraordinary, and I'm very grateful to be a part of
such a powerful team.
As we move into 2021, the outlook appears bright across all our markets. As Sanjay will detail, we
are returning to our share repurchase program and have an active M&A pipeline. As 2020 taught
us, no matter what comes our way in the short term, I am confident our global team and market
strategy will deliver exciting long-term returns for our customers, investors and employees.
Sanjay will now take you through the financial and modeling details. Sanjay?
`Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Mark. Good morning, everyone. Today, I'll cover the financial highlights of Q4 and
review the financial details of 2020. Looking forward, I'll provide our Q1 outlook, an update to our
mid-term earnings model and our capital allocation plans.
Now to Q4. Revenues were $759 million, which were $19 million above the high end of the
guidance range. We delivered a non-GAAP operating profit of 30% and EPS of $1.10. Semi Test
revenue of $524 million was driven by SOC and Memory Test demand enabling 5G handsets and
higher speed flash and DRAM devices.
System Test Group had revenue of $104 million down quarter-over-quarter driven by lower
storage test shipments. Industrial Automation or IA revenue of $92 million had a seasonal
increase over Q3 and delivered year-over-year growth for the first time in 2020. LitePoint
revenue of $40 million was approximately flat with Q3 and down year-over-year with a decline in
trailing edge connectivity products, partially offset by new sales of new connectivity technology
like WiFi 6 and emerging UWB technology.
Non-GAAP gross margins were 59%, on plan, and up quarter-over-quarter due to product mix.
You'll see our non-GAAP operating expenses were up $14 million to $224 million from the third
quarter due to increased test spending to support design wins, higher payroll due to four extra
days in the quarter and ongoing IA investments. We generated $222 million in free cash in the
fourth quarter. The tax rate, excluding discrete items for the quarter, was 13% on a GAAP basisand 14.5% on a non-GAAP basis. For the full year, it is 14.75% on a GAAP basis and 15.25% on a
non-GAAP basis. We ended the year with cash and marketable securities of $1.55 billion.
Turning to the full-year results of 2020. Teradyne revenues of $3.12 billion grew $826 million or
36% year-over-year. $845 million of the growth was from our test portfolio while IA contracted
$18 million due to the pandemic related slowdown. We had one customer that accounted for
more than 10% of our revenue in 2020, which we'll disclose in our 10-K filing. Gross margins for
the year were 57% and operating profit was 30%, which is up from 25% in 2019. Non-GAAP EPS
was $4.62, an increase of 62% over 2019. We generated $684 million in free cash in 2020.
Breaking down the components of 2020 revenues. As outlined by Mark, SOC Test revenues
grew $595 million or 46% on strength and mobility market driven by, increased by device
complexity and new standards like 5G along with growing -- growth in computing. In memory,
revenues were $383 million, up 41%. While LPDDR related DRAM revenues were a significant
contributor to our results, we also continue to see strong NAND test demand through the year.
In System Test, sales grew for the fourth year running. Revenue of $410 million grew $122 million
or 43% year-over-year, primarily on growth in Storage Test for both hard disk drive and system
level test. Storage Test sales were $242 million, up from $115 million in 2019. We also saw annual
growth in our defense and aerospace component of STG.
At LitePoint, sales grew for the fourth consecutive year to $173 million, 10% above 2019. In 2020,
IA revenue was $280 million, a decline of 6% from 2019 on an as reported basis or 9% on a pro
forma basis. As Mark noted, the COVID-related driven slowdown in manufacturing, impacted
Universal Robots, reducing revenue $219 million, down 12% year-over-year. After troughing in Q2,
UR grew in the second half of 2020 versus the first half of the year. In Q4, revenue grew 6% year-
over-year, giving confidence heading into 2021. MiR grew slightly year-over-year with annual sales
of $45 million and AutoGuide full year sales grew on a pro forma basis.
Now to our outlook for Q1. Sales are expected to be between $720 million and $780 million. Non-
GAAP EPS range of $0.95 to $1.11 on 175 -- $179 million diluted shares. The first quarter guidance
excludes amortization of acquired intangibles and the non-cash imputed interest on the
convertible debt. First quarter gross margins are estimated at 58% to 59%. First quarter OpEx
running at 29% to 31% of first quarter sales is about flat with Q4 at the midpoint of guidance. The
non-GAAP operating profit rate at the midpoint of our first quarter guidance is 29%.
Regarding our OpEx plans for 2021, we expect our OpEx to grow 8% to 10% from 2020's $840
million, approximately 2 points of the spend will be in the back half of the year related to travel,
which we expect to resume to pre-COVID levels along with trade shows. In our test portfolio, we
plan to increase our spending in engineering, sales and marketing, primarily in Semi Test. In IA,
we'll continue to invest to reinforce our competitive product and ecosystem position across the
sector. Also in IA, go-to-market investments will be made to support expected revenue growth.
Turning to capital expenditures. In 2020, our CapEx was $185 million. This was used primarily for
customer demonstration equipment, operations, engineering and initial spending on new
facilities to replace leased ones in locations where we plan to grow over the next several years.
We'll continue to invest in these new facilities in 2021, so CapEx is expected to be similar to 2020.
Recall, we are buying land and developing it to eliminate lease costs and enable a more efficient
spend profile over the mid to long-term. For 2021, GAAP tax rate is estimated at 15.5% and our
non-GAAP tax rate is estimated at 16% based on current tax laws.
Moving to our mid-term earnings model. As you've seen with 2020, our non-GAAP EPS of $4.62,We continue to have confidence in the long-term growth outlook for test and we expect IA to
return to high growth as the global industrial economy improves.
When building our mid-term model, given our year-on-year demand swings, we've seen both in
test and IA, we use the average of 2019 and 2020 revenues as the baseline for our growth
projections. From that baseline, we expect test revenue to grow 4% to 8% compounded and IA
revenues to grow 20% to 35% through 2024. In Test, we expect that growth will be driven by
steady increase in device complexity across our businesses along with the high single-digit
semiconductor unit growth trend line.
In IA, market penetration of cobots and autonomous mobile robots and forklifts remains low,
while the range of applications they economically serve continues to expand, resulting in an
attractive long-term growth opportunity for Teradyne. We expect this will drive 2024 company
revenue to $3.9 billion and non-GAAP EPS to $6 at the midpoint of our estimates. Gross margin is
modeled at 58% to 59%, OpEx as a percentage of sales will decline to 28% to 29% and non-
GAAP operating margin will improve to 30% to 31%. The model assumes the current tax laws are
in place.
Shifting to capital allocation will continue to balance, a strong cash position to support our
operating investments and potential M&A with direct shareholder returns through dividends and
share repurchases. We are raising our minimum cash levels from $1 billion to $1.25 billion with the
$250 million increase tied to the increased valuations of potential acquisitions. Recall, we held
$500 million for M&A and $500 million for severe economic downturn. We will also be increasing
our cash balance in 2021 through 2023 to service our convertible bond, which comes due in
December 2023. To date, $51 million of that bond has been redeemed early with payment
planned in Q1 with the remaining face value of $409 million.
Regarding share repurchases. In 2020, we bought back $1.5 million -- sorry, 1.5 million shares for
$88 million at an average price of $58.32. Recall, we suspended our share repurchase program in
April due to COVID-related uncertainty. We are replacing our prior approved program with a new
share repurchase authorization of $2 billion with no fixed end date. We plan a minimum of $600
million of repurchases in 2021. As in the past, the plan has both of programmatic and
opportunistic components.
In summary, 2020 inflicted incredible human and economic hardship on society across the world
[ph] and we're respectful of the widespread pain and loss. When the pandemic hit, I noted our
priorities were the safety of our employees, supporting our customers, continued execution and
achieving our financial objectives. The Teradyne community responded with the collaborative and
supportive spirit, incredible energy, ingenuity, and purpose, which delivered on all three of these
priorities. I'm incredibly proud and thankful to be part of this team.
We enter 2021 in the strongest position in our history. The work in 2020 has made us more
resilient and prepared us for the strong market demand that we currently see in both test and IA.
While our visibility for the full year is limited, we're confident in the underlying market
fundamentals, our competitive diversified portfolio and our team, which will enable long-term
growth prospects for the markets we serve. Collectively, we're excited to turn our new financial
model into reality.
With that, I'll turn things back to Andy.
`Andrew Blanchard, Vice President of Investor Relations `Thanks, Sanjay. (Technical Difficulty) now like to take some questions. And as a reminder, please
limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) First question comes from `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Cowen and Company with Cowen.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Cowen and Company `
Yes, hi. Thanks for taking my question. Mark, I have two of them. First one, thanks for the color on
calendar 2021. I'm just kind of curious if you could peel the SOC test market a little more to say
how much do you think mobility will be and how much do you think auto test would be this year
on SOC? And then I had a follow-up.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President `
Yeah, so good question. Certainly, auto is going to be up sequentially in 2020. And we've talked
about that market being at a normalized, let's say, maybe more of a peak run rate in the $400
million to $500 million range. It's been (inaudible) sort of $200 million last year. So this year, that
should be up at least $150 million, maybe $200 million. It's really right now a bit of a rush for
capacity and we don't know exactly when the demand profile of the quarters are going to taper
off here. So it could go higher if this persists. So that's the color on auto.
In mobility, I think it's harder for us to see that at the moment because of the significant impact of
our largest customer on both us and the market, which doesn't really become solidified until
April-ish of the year. So we're looking at it sort of flat plus or minus $100 million in mobility.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Cowen and Company `
Got it. Got it. That's very helpful, Mark. And then just as a follow-up on the IA side, you mentioned
30%-plus growth, should we assume a big driver of that is going to be UR? In other words, UR
should be higher than 30%, that you think UR going to be in line with Industrial Automation
growth?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President `
Yeah. I think that's a good question. I think all of the groups are going to be better than 30% and
now some of them like AutoGuide are small. So I think I'll pull up the average, I'll be ahead of UR.
And MiR and UR should be about the same for the year.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Cowen and Company `
Got it. Thank you very much, Mark.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President `
Thanks.
Operator
Next question comes from `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group with SIG.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `Yes. Thanks for taking my question. Just want to go back to your SOC commentary. I'm a little bit
surprised with your kind of flattish outlook. And I say that because millimeter wave is expected to
account for a larger mix of 5G phones and I believe last year was just an early investment. So why
isn't the increased penetration of millimeter wave phone not giving you that incremental
confidence? And I have a follow-up.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President `
Yeah, I think that's certainly a balloon for the year, Mehdi. Maybe we're going to double the
number of millimeter wave enabled phones in 2021. But yes, last year, if you recall, there was also
a significant step up in the hundreds of millions of units of millimeter wave enabled phones were
brought to market last year. So if you add another 200 million to 300 miliion additional millimeter
wave enabled units this year, and let's say that brings the global total to 600 million units out of
1.4 billion, you're essentially adding about as much capacity, maybe a little bit more because it'll
be more than, let's say last year added 250 million, this year might add 350 million units. So, yes,
there will be a little bit of growth in additional millimeter wave test capacity, but last year was a
pretty big year too.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
Got it. And then looking at the mid-term model of 2024, what are the key underlying assumptions
for market share, especially as you try to capitalize on the synergies between semi and system
Semi and System Test, and in that context, are you accounting for any incremental share shift in
the GPU end market?
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Hi, Mehdi, it's Sanjay. Yeah, so in the earnings model, we see obviously growth in the
market, as Mark alluded to, more players are coming into the compute space that we can
address. And with that we feel that with the UltraFLEXplus solution, we're very well positioned
and we are projecting share growth. When we think about from a memory perspective, if you go
back, let's say 10 years, we've been on this steady increase of memory share growth where, as
we continue to execute, we see continued share growth on that perspective as well. So really
growth in end market size as well as continued share growth of our drivers.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
That includes the synergy between different sectors or segments?
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Wait. Do you want to expand on that question?
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
Yes. Just going back to the question, I see opportunities between your Semi and the System
Test, especially as the system level test diversifies and I'm just wondering if that's baked into your
2024 model?
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Okay. Thanks for the clarification. Yes, it is, with device complexity, we were going 5-
nanometer and then to 3-nanometer. I think both system level test as well as ATE test, take that
into account.Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
Got it. Thank you so much for detail.
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
All right. (inaudible)
Operator
Next question comes from `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Good morning. Thanks so much for taking the question. Mark, I wanted to ask about your largest
customer. I appreciate things will remain pretty fuzzy or opaque as you said until sort of the April-
ish timeframe, but can you sort of walk us through the potential range of outcomes you're
thinking internally? Obviously, you've got units, you've got transistor density as it relates to the
new chip. Also curious if there are efforts on the notebook side of their business in-sourcing CPUs
could have impact on your business as well? And then I've got a quick follow-up. Thank you.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President `
Okay. I always am a bit reluctant to be too specific on any one customer. So I'm going to speak
more to the segment a bit, which I'll bundle compute and mobility together here. So yeah, last
year was incredibly strong in both our traditional mobility market because of the complexity
growth of phones, which we alluded to and the fact that we did enter compute as the new
segment. So we ended up with additional revenues in compute last year that north of $50 million
for the first year in that market. So as we think about this year, the issue of smartphone unit
growth and complexity growth of the apps processor, the camera systems and such in the
phones is part of the equation and we have a reasonably good read on that,
On the compute side, there is a lot of moving parts there, and there's a lot since it's a new
market for us and a new market for some of our customers that has the bigger range of potential
outcomes for the year. So that's the one we're triangulating on and that could be up significantly
over last year, it could be up modestly over last year. But at this point, we really can't be too
specific.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Got it. Thank you for the color. And then as a quick follow-up, on Industrial Automation, I wanted
to ask about the profit margin profile of the business. Where does it stand today, I guess as of
2020? I mean you guys have done a great job in improving gross margin at UR and the other
businesses that you've acquired over the past couple of years and at the same time you've been
aggressively spending from an OpEx perspective. So in your 2024 model, what sort of margin
profile for IA is embedded in your numbers? Thank you.
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Hi, it's Sanjay. So IA as a whole this year was roughly just a bit better than breakeven.
Obviously, with the COVID impact on multiple businesses and the contraction in UR, we're just
above breakeven. But fundamentally, we continue to invest in the portfolio, the ecosystem, the
go-to-market for product differentiation, ease of implementation. And so you should expect thatto continue over the mid-term and we're focused on driving the revenue growth and the
investments.
And so with that, we expect the margin profile to be roughly consistent with the current profile as
we -- as AutoGuide is relatively new to the organization just over a year, we expect that to
improve with our Teradyne supply chain as well as other quality processes we step in.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President `
Just one thing I want to add on to that commentary around the Industrial Automation business to
remind people that what we focus on right now during the high growth phase of that business is
sales growth and gross margin. And the bottom line, as Sanjay mentioned, if we're at breakeven,
we're happy as long as we can sort of adhere to or exceed the Rule of 40. And through the mid-
term, we think we expect to be close to that kind of up topline growth rates and what we bring
down to the bottom line or kind of depend on the size of the growth, what we see ahead of us,
and if we're growing at 50% and breakeven, we are happy as clams. And if the growth rates
come down below 20%, we'll start dropping more and more down to the bottom line.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you.
Operator
Next question comes from Joe Moore with Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thank you. Following on the last question, can you just characterize the tone of business
for the Universal Robotics business? And I guess in the context of -- it feels like a lot of the
business activity in the last 12 months is business continuity and supply chain disruption, maybe
that's negative for new technologies and manufacturing. At the same time, I would think social
distancing and stuff like that as an opportunity for you. So to [ph] just kind of characterize this puts
and takes and just what that tells you about what the trends may look like over the course of this
year?
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, sure. It's Sanjay here. So in the short run, we actually saw a contraction, as evidenced by
how our revenues were. However, I think your comments hit home with regards to plant and
warehouse decision makers seeking to build resilience into their supply chains, and we view that
over the mid-term as a tailwind. We are seeing the market, obviously, come back with Universal
Robots. We've talked in our prepared remarks about the automotive and electronics industry. And
then we're also seeing strength in a couple of other verticals.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Okay. Thank you.
OperatorNext question comes from `CJ Muse, Analyst, Evercore ISI with Evercore.
Q - `CJ Muse, Analyst, Evercore ISI
Yeah, hi. Thanks for taking the question. I wanted to follow up on Mehdi's question regarding your
2024 model. So if I look at your implied Semi Test revenues versus 2020 actual, you're about
$250 million to $350 million, which seems conservative, particularly when you reflect on what
you're doing with system level test, new UltraFLEXplus. So can you, I guess, walk through what
assumptions you're making in terms of market share for both SOC and Memory implied in that
number? And where you might point to us as areas like that might be conservative?
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I think that as I articulated from -- I'll touch on memory first. Our share right now is in the
lower [ph] 40s, we see that -- we could see that growing to the mid-40s in the plan and then
from an SOC perspective Mark talked about, our normalized share level of about 50% and we
see that increasing over the mid-term.
Q - `CJ Muse, Analyst, Evercore ISI
So within the implied model, are you assuming the 50% or the 60% that Mark spoke about back
in July as to what a goal could look like here [ph]?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President `
So yeah, I think what we've been saying CJ is that we can get about 1 point to 1.5 point of share
growth a year. So by 2024, as I mentioned, I think our normalized share is somewhere around 50,
we should be up around 55, 56 by then in SOC. And in memory, it felt -- share moves a little
chunkier because there is only a few players there. So on the memory side, we could be in the
mid to upper mid-40s by the, I would say is one way to think about it, but the other piece of color
in terms of aggressive versus conservative that I'd add here is the recent investment profile of
the front end with CapEx moving up into the $70 billion range is something we haven't modeled
into our mid-term plan. We've assumed that incremental Fab capacity across the mid-term would
be sort of consistent with the rate that it's been added for the prior four years. But if $70 billion-
plus of investment in WFE is the new normal for the next four years, that's certainly going to drive
more tests than we modeled.
Q - `CJ Muse, Analyst, Evercore ISI
Very helpful. As my follow-up, can you speak to what we should be thinking about for SOC test
gross margins here in '21 versus 2020? I'm trying to get a sense of what uplift might look like,
particularly from Eagle Test.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President `
I mean, gross margins, we -- you should expect a relatively consistent with how we've guided Q1
and then in our long-term model.
Q - `CJ Muse, Analyst, Evercore ISI
Okay. Thank you.
OperatorNext question comes from `Brian Chin, Analyst, Stifel with Stifel.
Q - `Brian Chin, Analyst, Stifel `
Hi, there. Good morning. Thanks for allowing us to ask a few questions. Maybe the first question,
that's [ph] (inaudible) to [ph] Industrial Automation. Automotive has historically been a key portion
of sales here and I was curious, do you expect or even need the auto portion of your sales to
grow 30% year-over-year given sort of the increasing breadth of market adoption that you might
be seeing?
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I think that with an emerging market, there's still a lot of footprint to cover. So we expect
that to continue in the automotive vertical as well as electronics and industrials as well as other
verticals.
Q - `Brian Chin, Analyst, Stifel `
Okay. Yeah, I was just sort of get -- trying to gauge whether you're seeing a lot of adoption
outside of auto and is it -- in terms of visibility, you're starting the year with pretty good visibility.
Does auto kind of starting from a similar point or is it kind of more -- a little bit more on the whole
to start the year and you're expecting a bigger snap back later in the year?
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. We are seeing also -- we're seeing market drivers and verticals adoption and education,
R&D, pharma, as well as life sciences. But from a starting point, obviously, we have a very, a very
strong incumbents installed base over the years that we've built in the auto vertical.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President `
Yeah. And I'd just add to that certainly, automotive was one of the most hard hit aspects of UR's
business. Automotive has been running in the high 30s, 40% of the business coming into 2020,
that contracted dramatically because of COVID down to the point that it was in the low 20s. And I
would say it's certainly at this point, although back and growing, it hasn't come back yet to where
it should be in our portfolio. This has issues around the semiconductor supply chain and other
things have sort of crimped, some of the ambitions of car companies to ramp volumes here,
there's a little bit to go still.
But our footprint over time since we acquired UR has been reducing in the automotive segment,
not so much because automotive is not growing, of course, but it's just that our expansion into
other areas that Sanjay mentioned has been. And we expect over time that automotive
component will continue to decline as a percentage of our sales.
Q - `Brian Chin, Analyst, Stifel `
Great. I was sort of get in maybe at that and then in the 2024 model, granted [ph] four years out,
but could you give us sort of a rough sense of how much of the IA sales might be AMR or mobile
vehicle driven? I think the split roughly is kind of 80% UR, 20% mobile at the moment. Could that
be sort of like a two-thirds, one-third in that timeframe?
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `Yeah, I think that obviously, UR, we've had for a little bit longer and it is a larger percentage, but I
think you're spot on that the AMR portion will grow with AutoGuide and MiR as a percentage of
revenue.
Q - `Brian Chin, Analyst, Stifel `
Okay. Great. Thanks so much.
Operator
Next question comes from `Atif Malik, Analyst, Citigroup with Citi.
Q - `Atif Malik, Analyst, Citigroup `
Hi, thanks for taking my questions, and good job on the results and guide. Mark, the first one,
following up on the last question, AutoGuide, how is the adoption going at larger enterprises and
warehouse customers? And then I have a follow-up.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President `
Yes. Good question. So, to be frank with you, we had a good year. We grew 50%-ish in the year,
but we didn't hit our target. And part of this is extended evaluations at the larger accounts that
you're referencing, and it's been very difficult in a small business like AutoGuide's case in a
COVID area to acquire new customers and get the pilot production validation work done in the
same timeframe that we could have gotten it done in a non-COVID world. So we've seen some
extension of those e-valves.
But we're in the some of the boutique name brands for e-valves that you would hope we are in,
in both the industrial manufacturing side as well as the e-commerce side and logistics side of life.
So we're hoping that this year is going to be the big breakout year. It's the kind of business that
should at least be doubling, if not more once these big accounts latch, but we did -- if any place
sort of had a big impact from COVID last year, it was AutoGuide because of the whole -- new
customer acquisition is the whole gain there at this point.
Q - `Atif Malik, Analyst, Citigroup `
Great. And then as a follow-up, you mentioned the China SOC test to be down this year, which
makes sense given the restriction from last year, but some of the front-end peers have talked
about maybe flattish China investments on the front end and back-end is different. Can you just
walk us through the components and where China investments are down and why you aren't
benefiting on some of the mature technologies and nodes?
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President `
Yeah. So if you look at China, I think you need to separate Memory and SOC because it's quite
different. On the Memory side, there will be growth in China this year in test as well. And we -- or
we expect that at least. And so that's a healthy growing mid-term profile I'd say for China.
On SOC, it's really a little bit more difficult to see growth occurring this year because the impact
of the trade restrictions on Huawei and HiSilicon are tremendous in terms of their buying power in
the market historically. What they buy in both silicon and then test capacity for that silicon has
been severely hampered. And then further restrictions on other companies like SMIC and such
are much smaller factors but tail -- or headwinds against growth. So I think SOC is likely tocontract, memory is going to grow, but net-net, it's not going to be hugely down, but it will
probably be down a little bit on the test side of life.
Q - `Atif Malik, Analyst, Citigroup `
Thanks.
Operator
Next question comes from `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch with Bank of America.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thanks for taking my question. I have two. One on operating leverage and the second on M&A.
On the operating leverage, Sanjay, I believe you mentioned OpEx growth of 8% to 10% this year.
Do you think there is a potential to still drive leverage with that kind of growth?
And then when I look at your 2024 model, you're keeping operating margins at about 30%, 31%,
kind of where you are already even though sales are expected to grow and market outlined a
number of interesting growth drivers. So I was hoping you could talk to operating leverage this
year and then what would be the drivers as you look at your '24 model.
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Okay. Sure. Yeah. So obviously it's another -- it's an investment year. And I think in my prepared
remarks, I noted that we're getting back to travel and trade shows, which is a key point. You
really, if you look at it in two portfolios, we -- for the year, we're going to have leverage in the test
business where the growth in OpEx as a percentage will be lower, but the growth is up in the IA
space, but the OpEx growth is higher. And so the leverage from a -- like we're growing in the IA
space, but we will see -- we should see a degree of leverage in the short term in the test
business. When you cascade that out to 2024, obviously, with the revenues that we're predicting
in IA, I think Mark described it well, if we're growing at 50% and have a forecast to continue to
grow, we'll continue to drive the investment but as the growth starts to go down, let's say, below
the Rule of 40 then we'll start to drop more to the bottom line. That's how we're thinking about
it.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
But when I look at that '24 model right there, you're forecasting overall sales to grow at 6%
CAGR from the 2020 level. So that is below the 16% CAGR you've been at. And you're saying
operating margins are going to stay pretty much flattish versus I'm just puzzled as to if you're
saying sales are not really going to grow as much as they have grown in the last three, four years,
and operating margins are not going to expand from here, is that model very conservative or
what needs to be done to either grow faster or drive more operating leverage?
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I think that we'll, and that's why in my prepared remarks I comment, we looked at the
model, not just off of a point of 2020 but off of an average of '19 and '20 just given the significant
balloon in 2020 tied to the mobility space and then the contraction in IA. And when you look at it
from from an average of '19 and '20, we believe in that growth -- overall growth of the 4% to 8%.
And then we are, during that period, going to be growing out the investments in the IA portfolio.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President `And I would just say, if you go back to what we said, if you look at that pie chart of the mix, when
we get up to 2024, IA should be a bigger mix of our revenue than test. So test will continue to
grow, it will have a very high drop through, it will be very efficient. And if that's all you're looking
at, yes, bottom line profitability should increase.
But on the IA side, it's more likely that we'll be growing more rapidly, and we'll be pulling up gross
margins for the enterprise with the IA business. But on the bottom line, we're being a bit
conservative on how much we plan to drop through there because we want to keep investing for
more and more growth. So it kind of just depends on what's the investment profile in IA and
we've modeled in, we're not going to optimize for profit in the mid-term there, we're optimizing
for growth.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Understand. And Mark, just a follow-up to that, you mentioned the prospects for some additional
M&A, I presume it's in the IA side of the business, but I was hoping you could talk to that. Do you -
- are you contemplating kind of smaller tuck-in technology type transaction that you're thinking
about something that could be bigger and could require the use of stock, just how we should
think about what the M&A pipeline is and how it could impact this baseline model that you have
set for us? Thank you.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President `
Yeah. So most of what we have in our pipeline is consistent with the kind of things we've been
investing in and acquiring in the past five to six years. Industrial Automation, modestly sized
investments, let's say, relative to our market cap. However, we have expanded our aperture a bit
to look in the test space and areas that are correlated to test, which bring with it potentially some
larger M&A things, it's always governed by the same rich, internal rate of return metrics that we
always use on these things. So whatever we do is going to be something that's more attractive to
the invest -- our investors than buying back our stock or those kind of met our internal weighted
cost of capital. So that's about all I think I can say about that.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Got it [ph]. Thank you.
Operator
Next question comes from `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS with UBS.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS `
Thanks. I had a couple. So for OpEx this year, you're saying it's going to grow about 8% to 10%.
So at the midpoint, you're going to grow OpEx about $76 million. I'm wondering Sanjay, if you can
tell us how much of that's going to come in IA? And I guess another way of asking that is sort of
what sort of op margin do you think you can do this year in IA? I mean, you're basically breakeven
last year, can you get to high single digits this year and is 10% to 15% still the long-term target for
that business? I know that Mark's commenting that of course slows. You can sort of crank back on
OpEx and you can drop more but just wondering if you can comment there. And then I had a
follow-up.
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `Sure. Yeah. I think you hit it spot on. I think when you take out the travel and the trade shows, the
majority of the spend will come in OpEx from on a year-over-year basis. And from a profit
perspective, we're assuming growth and we expect to improve back to our original growth plans,
like if you think about 2020 as the anomaly and you look at the jump off point of 2019, we were
about a 10% profit level with our growth, we should be in at similar level going forward in 2021.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS `
Okay. Got it. So you think you can get to 10% op margin in this year.
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, plus or minus, but yeah.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS `
Okay. Great. And then I guess a question for you, Mark. So when you were going to be a top
customer, you presented a couple of scenarios. I know it's very tough to predict, but the scenario
you presented didn't include that revenue from that customer is down. I get that the compute
piece is going to be up, but they're also not going to shrink this year and in the past, that's been
sort of a harbinger of a potential decline in the number of testers they buy unless they want to
live with a much larger die size, which may or may not be the case.
So I'm just kind of wondering, I'm not asking for any specifics on that customer. I'm just sort of
wondering if you can look back in the past and draw on your past experience and say, well, yeah,
in the past, when that happens that is sort of a harbinger of the potential that it could be down
because you didn't present that as a down or as a possible outcome this year. Thanks.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President `
Yeah. I think it's a possible outcome, but let me go back to what I was outlining in my remarks.
When you look at the phone, there is various elements of the phone in terms of technology, the
apps processors, the modem, the cameras, the memory, those areas of the phone refresh and
take leaps of complexity in different cadences. And in 2020, the apps processor and 5G basically,
the apps processor had a big jump in complexity and 5G proliferated throughout all the phones.
So if you look at 2021, the need for incremental 5G capacity, whereas in 2020, several let's say
100 million units worth of phones needed 5G capacity. This year, it will be less because the
incremental unit growth there is one factor in incremental 5G capacity plus complexity growth of
the 5G modem itself. So 5G is big in 2020 not as big in 2021. That leaves what's happening with
the cameras, what's happening with power management, what's happening with the screen
resolution. Other things could be balloons that pull it back up. But I do think you do have that 5G
has happened for that one area of our mobility customer base.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS `
Yeah. Agreed. Okay. Thank you.
A - `Andrew Blanchard, Vice President of Investor Relations `
And operator, we have time for just one more question, please.
OperatorQ - `John Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Hey, Andy. Thanks for sneaking me in and congratulations, guys. Mark, my first question is just on
the whole China dynamic. You're clearly guiding it to be down this year. I'm kind of curious if there
is a date on between US-China relations. Is that a zero-sum game and exercise in market shift?
Or do you think it would be accretive? And I guess, more importantly, we're now seeing the US
government kind of incentivize domestic production of semis. I'm just kind of curious as to
whether or not you could benefit that from that either indirectly as some of your customers build
capacity domestically or directly as we think about your long-term tax rate. And then I've got a
quick follow-up.
A - `Mark E. Jagiela, Chief Executive Officer and President `
Okay. So China if for some reason, the restrictions on China ease and more indigenous Chinese
makers start to grow again. I think it's neutral. As business shifted out of China in 2020, it was
pretty much neutral to us. There was -- the customers that picked up the manufacturing of let's
say applications, processors or modems that would have been done by indigenous Chinese
suppliers are Teradyne customers and Advantest customers and a proportion that isn't that
different than it was in China. So is it ebbs and flows back and forth? I wouldn't say there is a big
ramification.
On the US domestic supply question, I think it's going to take a long time and many, many years
of a steadfast set of incentives from the government for that to mature. It is something significant
to our business. If we stick at that in the US for seven, eight years and really build up an
infrastructure to manufacture semiconductors domestically, I think it could have a bit of a positive
impact, but I think it's small. I don't think because semiconductors might be manufactured in the
US, all of a sudden, there is a propensity that they're going to buy more Teradyne equipment, it's
at the margin, but nothing I would bake in as a trend line to count on.
Q - `John Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
That's helpful. And then just as my follow-up, coming back to the 2024 model, your explanation is
to kind of how you're getting to the op profit target you're getting to, it makes a ton of sense. I'm
just kind of curious to the extent that the top line proves to be conservative, how should we think
about incremental operating margins above sort of the high end of the target model or maybe
another way of thinking about it as IA get scale, where do we think the longer term op margins of
the business can go?
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I think that if the test business -- if what drives the incremental revenue of the test
businesses come to fruition, I think you'll see a higher drop through. If, and again just to repeat
myself, if we are growing and we see continued growth and we're going to continue to invest in
IA that drop through maybe lower, but let's say it comes -- let's say, the revenues grow
significantly over the first couple of years and then at the end, they start to -- the growth starts to
tail down, you may see a little bit more leverage. But it's really -- we have to see how the market
unfolds in IA but over the short term, we are planning a significant investment.
Q - `John Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Helpful, guys. Thank you.
A - `Andrew Blanchard, Vice President of Investor Relations `All right, folks. That wraps us up for today. Look forward to talking to you in the days ahead and
those that are still in the queue, I'll get back to you straight away. Thanks so much.
Operator
This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.