Q4 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Greetings, and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2024 Teradyne Inc. Earnings Conference Call. At
this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the
formal presentation. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce `Traci Tsuchiguchi, Vice President of Corporate Relations, Vice President, Investor Relations. Thank you,
Traci. You may begin.
`Traci Tsuchiguchi, Vice President of Corporate Relations `
Thank you, Operator. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to our discussion of Teradyne's
most recent financial results. I'm joined this morning by our CEO, `Greg Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer; our CFO, Sanjay
Mehta. And following our opening remarks, we'll provide details of our performance for the
fourth quarter and full year of 2024 and our outlook for the first quarter of 2025.
The press release containing our fourth quarter results was issued last evening. We are providing
slides as well as a copy of this earnings script on the Investor page of the Teradyne website that
may be helpful in following the discussion. Replays of this call will be available via the same page
after the call ends.
The matters that we discuss today will include forward-looking statements that involve risks that
could cause Teradyne's results to materially differ from management's current expectations. We
caution listeners not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this
presentation. We encourage you to review the safe harbor statement contained in the slides
accompanying this presentation as well as the risk factors described in our Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 31st December 2023, on file with the SEC. Additionally, these
forward-looking statements are made only as of today.During today's call, we will refer to non-GAAP financial measures. We have posted additional
information concerning these non-GAAP financial measures, including reconciliation to the most
directly comparable GAAP financial measures were available on the Investor page of our website.
We hope that you plan to join us for our financial analyst meeting, which will be webcast
beginning at 1:00 PM. Eastern Time on, March 11, 2025.
Following, Greg and Sanjay's comments this morning, we'll open up the call for questions. This call
is scheduled for one hour. Greg?
`Greg Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Traci and thank you all for joining us today. I'll start off by summarizing our fourth quarter
and full year 2024 results and provide some context for our initial view of 2025. Then I'll provide
the context around our updated mid-term earnings model. I'll describe the trends that we expect
to -- we expect to drive the markets and Teradyne's strategy to drive highly leveraged earnings
growth through the mid-term. Sanjay will then go into greater financial detail on all of these topics.
Our fourth quarter came in at the high end of our guidance range as trends we noted previously
continued through the end of the year. Cloud AI has been the dominant driver of our
Semiconductor Test business, and we have seen some short-term improvement in the Mobile
space, driven by supply chain shifts in our customer base. In Industrial and Automotive, our fourth
quarter benefited from customer-specific equipment purchases. Strength in our Test business
more than offset the continuing weakness in the industrial automation market which impacted our
Robotics business.
In 2024, after two years of semiconductor test market declines, our SOC and Memory test
revenue grew 17% year-over-year, excluding DIS. AI was the dominant driver of our growth,
specifically AI Accelerator ASICs, Networking and HBM DRAM. We have previously described a
class of customers called VIPs, or Vertically Integrated Producers. We use this term because these
customers develop custom silicon to provide differentiation in their end products, whether they
are phones, cars, or Cloud AI computing. In the first half of 2024, we saw VIP strength for Edge AI
in Automotive. In the second half, strength was driven by Cloud AI compute VIP customers. Our
goal in 2024 was to achieve a 50% market share in Computing VIPs, and we believe that we
achieved that goal. This is particularly notable because much of the VIP test demand in 2024
came in the form of upgrades to systems left underutilized by the weak mobile market. If this
demand had come in the form of system sales, our VIP --- 2024 VIP revenue would have been
more than double what we recognized in the year.
At the company level, we grew 5% in 2024. If one excludes the divestiture of the DIS business,
our total revenue growth was 8%. We grew earnings per share by 10% year-over-year and
generated over $470 million in free cash flow. Our full year financial results reflect an inflection in
our business, both in terms of semiconductor test cyclical recovery, but more importantly, a
successful pivot to diversify our customer base and reduce customer concentration. In 2020 and
2021 timeframe, our business was dominated by mobile with high customer concentration in that
market. Back then, we were highly exposed to Mobile in SOC, Memory and Wireless test. Now in
2024, the Compute end market was a larger component of our revenue than Mobile as our SOC
business in the Compute market grew more than 3.5 times the prior year. We have been
investing to capitalize on the secular shift towards VIP ASICs and that yielded roughly 50% share
in what we believe was around a $300 million TAM in 2024. We have seen growth driven by our
historical strength in the networking space. And we see opportunities in System Level Test for AI
Compute.The pivot we have executed in SOC over the past couple of years is remarkable. In 2023, 11% of
our SOC product revenue was in Computing and 51% was in Auto and Industrial. In 2024, 34%
was in Compute and 34% was in Auto and Industrial, a balance that underpins our longer-term
model. Recent advancements in AI Inference, which appear to reduce the cost and time to
develop AI applications, may be a catalyst to accelerate Edge AI development. We think this
could directly benefit the markets where we have historical strength, Mobile and Automotive. It's
early days, but we believe that the lower cost, lower power, and faster time-to-market AI
solutions, can drive complexity growth and increased unit demand at the Edge, which are key
inputs for improving demand for test equipment.
Looking forward to 2025, we expect the SOC TAM to continue to grow, roughly 7% year-over-
year. While some of this growth is driven by AI Compute, we expect a modest recovery in Mobile,
Automotive and Industrial in the back half of the year. We believe that we are positioned to gain
share in the low single digits in SOC test.
Now shifting gears to memory. In 2024, our Memory business grew over -- grew to over $500
million, up 30% year-over-year. Strength in the market and our growth was fueled by AI Compute
demand for HBM DRAM. In the second half of 2024, we were qualified for HBM performance test
at a major memory supplier. Our higher throughput and forward compatibility created
competitive differentiation, enabling us to capture significant share of the HBM performance test
market in the second half of 2024. We expect the HBM device end market to be strong through
2025, however from a test equipment perspective, we are expecting the market to soften as
customers absorb capacity with higher productivity tools. We expect the HBM TAM to recover in
2026. As a result, we expect the entire Memory test market to be flattish in 2025 although we do
expect to gain share in the low single digit range.
Beyond AI Compute, we believe that there are other segments of the semiconductor test
market that offer the opportunity for accelerating long-term growth. One of those areas is power
semiconductors. These devices will continue to grow long term with the crossover to EVs and the
demand for more efficient power generation, storage and distribution. We are announcing a
strategic partnership with Infineon, the market leader in power semiconductors to acquire their
internal tester development team in Regensburg, Germany. This group will enable us to
accelerate our roadmap in the power semiconductor space, specifically in areas like silicon
carbide and gallium nitride at the scale needed to serve the automotive and renewables markets.
While the Semi Test business was strong through 2024, Teradyne's other product test
businesses, which include our System Test and Wireless Test operating segments continued to
be impacted by weak end market conditions. Within our product test businesses, we saw some
programs push out from 2024 into 2025, but scored key program wins that we expect to drive
healthy growth in 2025. We expect our Wireless Test business to return to growth in 2025 after
securing 74 out of 80 tracked Wi-Fi 7 design win opportunities in 2024.
Turning to Robotics. The industrial automation market continued to be weak in Q4. We typically
see strong fourth quarter seasonality as customers place quick turn orders in the back half of the
quarter. Visibility is inherently low in this high turns business. In Q4 of 2024, this seasonality was far
more muted than in prior years, and we ended the year down slightly for UR and roughly flat for
MiR. This underperformed our expectations but outperformed our industrial automation peer
group. Despite the headwinds, there were highlights for robotics. The UR channel transformation
continues to progress, with the OEM channel delivering 20% growth and MiR Large Accounts also
delivering 24% growth year-over-year in 2024. In the fourth quarter, as part of our multifaceted
partnership with Nvidia, UR launched its AI Accelerator. Late in the fourth quarter, MiR's new
flagship product, the AI enabled MiR 1200 Pallet Jack began shipping to customers. And mostrecently, Teradyne Robotics announced a strategic partnership with Analog Devices to develop
and deploy robots, AI, and software to support ADI's automation initiative.
In 2024, we combined UR and MiR Operations into a unified robotics operations group. Now, in
Q1 of 2025, we are consolidating our go-to-market functions at the robotics level to enable our
best partners to sell the full UR and MiR product line and serve our customers better with a single
customer service organization. This restructuring increases our efficiency and reduces our
robotics break-even revenue from $440 million in 2024 to $365 million in 2025.
Looking ahead, to the next four years we are very optimistic. A year ago, there were questions as
to whether the VIPs would matter, and if they did, could we win their business. At the time, we
thought the compute VIP market would be a $100 million to $200 million opportunity in 2024,
growing to $400 million to $600 million in the 2026 timeframe. Our latest estimate is that the
compute VIP market was $300 million in 2024 and the compute VIP market will be centered
around $600 million in 2026 and could approach $800 million in 2028. We believe that Cloud AI
will continue to drive share gains for us in SOC and Memory. By the later years of this mid-term,
as AI moves to the Edge for mobile, enabled by process technology like two nanometer and
Gate All Around we expect robust growth of the mobile TAM.
With the remarkable complexity of AI Compute systems and the need for highly reliable
performance in the training and use of AI models, we expect growing demand for additional test
steps. The addition of system level test insertions for AI compute, both in the cloud and at the
edge, creates an additional growth vector for Teradyne. This was a primary consideration in our
decision to align the Integrated System Test unit within Semi Test.
Going forward, we believe that AI will have an outsized impact on the longer term growth of
Edge devices, specifically in Mobile and Automotive applications. Also, trends towards
electrification, whether pure EV or Hybrid, provide considerable growth potential with increasing
silicon content per vehicle. Our investments in the space, including our strategic partnership with
Infineon, will help us drive share gains in this highly complex, test intensive segment of the
market. Based on these long-term trends, we expect to see healthy TAM growth in the
Automotive and mobile segments of the market over the mid-term.
Our strong market position in these segments will help to fuel our revenue growth. These
positive trends underpin our 2028 earnings model. At the mid-point of our model, we expect to
grow from $2.8 billion of revenue in 2024 to $5 billion in 2028. We expect EPS to grow from $3.22
per share to $8.25 per share over the same period, implying a 12% to 18% revenue CAGR and
21% to 31% EPS CAGR over that period, demonstrating considerable operating leverage in our
business model.
To sum up, 2024 was a very good year. We have repositioned the company and are seeing the
success from our investments in AI, in Compute and in Memory. We expect that 2025 will be
another good year. We are setting our robotics business up on a sustainable path for long term
growth. And our test business will grow driven by continued strength in share gains in VIPs,
tightening capacity utilization, and the return of higher demand in mobile, industrial and
automotive.
With that, I'll turn the call over to Sanjay. Sanjay?
`Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Greg. Good morning everyone. Today I'll cover our Q4 and full year 2024 financial
summary, provide our Q1 outlook, some planning guidance for full year 2025, and discuss ourupdated earnings model and capital allocation plan.
Now to Q4. Fourth quarter sales were $753 million with non-GAAP EPS of $0.95 both at the high-
end of our guidance range. Semi-Test revenue, which now includes our Integrated System Test
business, or IST, comprised of product lines for System Level Test and HDD test was $561 million.
Within Semi-Test, SOC revenue was $429 million with memory shipments of $112 million, and IST
shipments of $19 million. The other Product Test businesses comprised of Defense and
Aerospace, Production Board Test, and Wireless Test contributed $94 million. Robotics revenue
of $98 million was up 11% sequentially with muted seasonality due to on-going weak industrial
spending. As Greg noted, we had softer than expected performance in the Robotics business
tied to typical turns business that did not materialize.
Non-GAAP gross margin was 59.4%, just below our guidance range due to Robotics. Non-GAAP
operating expenses were $284 million in Q4, higher than our guide. A majority of the increase
was tied to accelerated engineering spend in Semi Test. Non-GAAP operating profit rate was
22%.
Some other financial facts. The tax rate excluding discrete items for the quarter was 7.6% on a
non-GAAP basis and lower than plan because of product mix shift to Semi Test. GAAP tax rate
was 8.7% in Q4 excluding discrete items. We repurchased $144 million of shares in the quarter as
we opportunistically accelerated our share buybacks. Dividends were $19 million and we had one
10% customer in the quarter.
Turning to the full year results: Our revenue was $2.82 [ph] billion. Samsung was the only
customer greater than 10% of our revenue for the year. Gross margin for the year was 58.6%,
opex was $1.08 billion, and operating profit was 20.4%. Non-GAAP EPS was $3.22. We generated
$474 million in free cash flow in 2024. We returned $275 million or 58% of free cash flow to our
shareholders through share repurchases and dividends. We ended the year with $724 million of
cash and marketable securities. Our tax rate for the full year, excluding discrete items, was 12.6%
on a non-GAAP basis and 12.5% on a GAAP basis.
Business Unit Revenues for 2024 were as follows. Semi Test revenue for the year, including IST
was $2.124 billion with SOC revenue contributing $1.537 billion, Memory $502 million, and IST $85
million. Excluding the impact of our DIS divestiture, our SOC and Memory revenue was 17% year-
over-year. SOC growth in the year was driven by AI Compute, specifically custom ASICs for VIPs
and networking. Our memory sales were up 30% year-over-year driven primarily by AI compute
demand for HBM DRAM. IST revenue declined 39% year-over-year, primarily due to underutilized
test capacity in HDD.
Turning to our other Product Test businesses, The Systems Test Group, which is the combined
Defense & Aerospace and Production Board test had revenue of $201 million in 2024, flattish
from 2023. Wireless Test revenue was $130 million, down from 2023 due to slower ramp of Wi-Fi
7. The combined revenue of the two operating segments in 2024 was $331 million, down 4%
year-over-year.
Now to Robotics. Robotics revenue in 2024 was $365 million with UR contributing $293 million and
MiR $72 million. Considerably lower than expected volumes in the fourth quarter drove
profitability well below our expectations. The group had 13% non-GAAP operating loss in both 4Q
and the full year. As Greg mentioned, we are restructuring the Robotics business to create a
single point of contact for customers and partners across UR and MiR sales, marketing and
service organizations to improve customer experience. The result of these actions will help drivetop line growth in 2025 and improve our efficiency. These actions will enable our Robotics
business to continue to outperform (inaudible) industrial automation market.
Now to our outlook for Q1. Since our October call, our Semi Test outlook has remained strong,
however, Robotics forecast remains seasonally soft. Q1 sales are expected to be between $660
million and $700 million, with non-GAAP EPS in a range of $0.58 to $0.68 on 163 million diluted
shares. Our first quarter guidance excludes the amortization of acquired intangibles and
restructuring charges. First quarter gross margins are expected to be in the range of 58.5% to
59.5%. Opex is expected to be roughly flat, with Q4 and run at approximately 41.5% to 42.5% of
first quarter sales. The non-GAAP operating profit rate at the mid-point of our first quarter
guidance is 17%.
As Greg noted, we believe the Semiconductor SOC Test TAM will see healthy growth in 2025,
driven by a second half broad based recovery. We expect the SOC TAM to be between $4.7
billion to $5.1 billion, or $4.9 billion at the mid-point. For a more detailed view of our end market
expectations for SOC, please refer to the table in our earnings deck.
We are forecasting the Memory TAM to be between $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion. Recall that within
this, HBM has grown from around $100 million in 2023, to over $500 million in 2024. Our Memory
TAM forecast for 2025 is roughly flat year-over-year with the HBM tester market going through a
period of digestion. In both the SOC and Memory Semi Test markets, we expect to gain low-
single digit share in 2025.
In Robotics, we are currently operating in a difficult low visibility industrial spending environment.
The business is still driven by turns. When we look at our plans for 2025 we see SAM expansion
and channel growth initiatives expected to yield approximately 10% revenue growth in current
market conditions. Of course there is a wide range around this growth expectation.
A few points to assist you in modeling 2025 for the enterprise. In Q2, we expect 5% to 10%
sequential growth from Q1's mid point. We expect first half revenue to be approximately 43% to
44% of full year revenue. Now to gross margins, we expect full year gross margins to be 59% to
60%. We expect second half
Gross margins to slightly improve from current levels tied to higher revenue expected in the
second half of the year.
Regarding opex for the full year, we expect full year 2025 opex to increase 8% to 10% year-over-
year, which is a reduction from our low-teens view in October. The key changes were
restructuring to capture synergies between UR and MiR in Robotics and the acceleration of Semi
Test projects in Q4. Interest and other line is forecasted at $1 million of income per quarter. While
we have cash driving a yield, we also have items like FX gains and losses included in this line of
our P&L. Our GAAP tax rate is forecasted to be 15.25% and 15% non-GAAP in 2025, excluding
discrete items.
Turning to capital allocation. Our strategy remains consistent as we take a balanced approach to
maintain cash reserves that enable us to run the business and have dry powder for M&A. For
reference, from 2015 to 2024, we've returned over $4.6 billion to shareholders through share
repurchases and dividends, which is 93% of free cash flow. In 2025, we plan on executing up to
$400 million of share buy backs, along with our current level of dividends.
Moving to our mid-term earnings model. As we do each January, we've updated our model. We
share this with investors to provide insight into how we look at the markets we serve, our
competitive positioning, and ultimately, the growth and earnings power of the company. A fewpoints for context. We're rolling forward our mid-term model to 2028 which replaces our prior
2026 mid-term model. That said, we believe we are tracking with our prior 2026 model in terms
of ranges of revenue and earnings. Over the mid-term, we expect Test revenue to grow at a 12%
to 17% CAGR off of our 2024 results, driven by continued strength in AI Compute related demand
and recovery with long-term growth in broader end markets including Auto/Industrial and Mobile.
Our Mobile assumption is for recovery, but we are not assuming a return to the prior peak in
2021.
In Robotics, we're expecting the industrial markets to begin to recover with AI expanding the SAM
and persistent labor shortages. We expect these dynamics to drive a topline of 18% to 24%
CAGR off of 2024, with modest growth in 2025 which we expect to accelerate over the mid-
term. Going forward, the Robotics operating model will deliver increasing operating leverage
through the mid-term, ending towards the high end of our target 5% to 15% operating profit
range for this business.
Our updated mid-term model is expected to drive 2028 company revenue to $4.5 billion to $5.5
billion and non-GAAP EPS between $7.00 and $9.50. As Greg mentioned, this implies a 15%
revenue CAGR from 2024 to 2028 and a 27% EPS CAGR at the mid-point, demonstrating the
operating leverage of our Test and Robotics businesses. Gross margin is expected to be
between 59% and 60%, opex as a percentage of sales between 28% to 31%, yielding a non-
GAAP operating margin of 28% to 32%.
Summing up, 2024 was a good year overall driven by strength in Semi Test. Excluding the DIS
divestiture, our overall company revenues grew 8% year-over-year and our SOC and Memory
combined grew 17% year-over-year helping to achieve a 10% increase in our EPS to $3.22. We are
making strategic investments to drive competitive advantage in the Semi Test business and we
are leveraging logical synergies between UR and MiR to drive long-term sustainable growth in
Robotics. We enter 2025 feeling good about the year and our line of sight to our mid-term
model.
With that, I'll turn the call back to the operator for questions. Operator?
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. We'll now be conducting a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) Our
first question is from `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald with Cantor Fitzgerald. Please proceed with your question.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Yeah. Good morning. Thank you for taking the question. I guess first question was hoping you
could spend a little bit of time expanding on your outlook for low single digit share growth in Semi
Test. Can you kind of walk through the moving parts in terms of what's driving that? And then
considering that you're expecting a bit of a recovery in your non-compute businesses in the
second half, can you speak to what we could see potentially in terms of upside to that low single
digit number, if that were to come in incrementally better?
A - `Greg Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Hi, C.J. This is Greg. Yes, so there's a number of things that are driving our -- our outlook for low
single-digit growth in share. In the SOC space, we think that we're going to continue to make
progress with the with the compute VIPs maintain that 50% share that we got this year as thatTAM continues to grow. And we're expecting to see some incremental improvement in the
mobile space, driven primarily by there's been sort of steady increases in complexity that has
been filling up the big pool of underutilized testers. And so we would expect that, that sort of
continuing march of complexity will -- will actually turn into incremental growth in TAM in that
space in this year.
And then when it comes to auto and industrial, right now, we think that there is a short-term
slowdown in that space, but the increase of automotive content, the increase of semiconductor
content in automotive is kind of proceeding with each model year. So even at similar or
depressed end unit sales of that we expect -- that to be modest growth in the automotive space.
The other thing that I'll say is that the electronics content in hybrids is nearly as high as the
electronic content in pure EVs and the trend in the market towards more hybrid vehicles is
something that is -- it's certainly impacting the plans for pure EVs, but it's impacting the auto
semiconductors a little bit less.
Now the last is in industrial. In industrial, one of the things that is actually helping to drive the
market there is an indirect pass through from the AI compute space. The AI compute is incredibly
power hungry and it needs really, really good power for all of these GPU fueled servers. And that
has been a driver for some of our power and electronics customers to --- with things like point of
load converters, that's actually helping to sustain that market even when the traditional industrial
market is not quite as strong.
Now if you move over to memory, the gradual recovery in mobile is going to help in parts of the
market. So incrementally, year-on-year, that part of the market is going to be a little bit stronger.
The HBM part of the market is going to be -- a little bit weaker because of that digestion factor.
But the appetite for DRAM in AI servers is incredible, and that's driving both LPDDR and DDR
memories. So we're expecting the non-HBM part of the DRAM market to sustain a little bit better
than the HBM part. So if you look at that whole thing and you look at the share gains or the new
test insertions that we've won in HBM in 2024, plus our strong position in final test for DRAM,
especially LPDDR DRAM and flash. We're expecting that to accrue to low single-digits in memory
as well.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Very helpful. And then I guess as a follow-up question, on the robotics side, you're restructuring
that business once again. Obviously, I think you had multiple kind of paths that you could pursue
on that front. And I guess, what gives you the confidence that this is the right path? And what kind
of timeframe are you giving yourself for proof points of success given the struggles that
Teradyne has had within this business for many years?
A - `Greg Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, so I think one of the things that we're trying to do is to tease apart what part of this is
Teradyne struggles and what parts of this are market struggles. So if you look at the performance
of our robotics unit, it certainly is coming in under what our expectations were, but it is
outperforming the companies that we compare ourselves in the industrial automation space. So
we actually think we've made some significant progress in a very, very weak market. Having said
that, there's definitely areas that we thought we could -- that we could make changes that would
help improve. One of the big things that was a positive in 2024 was the pace of new product
introductions. And we think that the R&D groups associated with UR and MiR are really clicking
and the releases that we have that are adding AI content to our product or enabling our partners
to do AI based robotics are very important positives. The positive that we've seen in terms ofAnd we've also made significant progress in terms of building large account competency in the
MiR organization.
So if you look at the restructuring that we're doing, we're really -- we are not -- we're making very
modest changes in the product creation part of the business. We had already made the changes
that we wanted to make in the operations part of our business. And so now we're focusing on
the commercial side of the business. And there, we're trying to really do think -- two things. The
first is we want to -- we want to help our partners be more successful. And the way we can help
our partners be more successful is by giving them a broader product range that they can sell. And
that we think is going to really help out. It also -- it drives natural efficiencies. 50 of our largest
partners between UR and MiR actually sell both UR and MiR already. And so we're going to be
able to get a natural improvement in efficiency by covering those partners in a single way. Also, as
we approach this large account success that we're seeing with MiR, we definitely see that
services a very important component of success. And so by having a single service organization,
we believe that's going to allow us to expand the success that we've had with large accounts in
MiR to the UR product line as well. So the main thing we're trying to do with this restructuring is to
sell more robots.
The next most important thing that we're trying to do is to set-up our breakeven so that we have
the ability to overperform, that we have the ability to deliver better operating margin against
what is a growth rate that is always going to be impacted by the end market conditions. Does
that help?
Q - `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Very helpful. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna with Susquehanna [ph]. Please proceed with
your question.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna `
Yes, thanks for taking my question. Two from my end. Just focusing on Semi, I want to better
understand this partnership with Infineon. It's interesting that you're doing this at the bottom of
the power Semi. I'm not sure if silicon carbide could do any worse, but what's in it for Infineon?
And how should I think about partnership benefits to Teradyne and benefits to Infineon? And I do
have another follow-up.
A - `Greg Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. So, yes it is definitely a -- adverse times in the discrete semiconductor market, especially in
like wide bind band gap, silicon carbide, gallium nitride. The way we look at that is, this is sort of a
classic hype cycle situation where people saw the promise of these technologies in terms of
delivering higher efficiency power conversion for both cars and for alternative energy
applications. And there was a -- I think people got ahead of themselves in terms of how quickly
the crossover would happen between internal combustion and EVs. So definitely, there was a lot
of enthusiasm around this market and we think that enthusiasm has waned. The -- so actually, we
kind of think this is a good time for us to make this kind of a move. The advantage for Teradyne
here is as we look to this long-term path from here to 2028, we think that the discrete
semiconductor market is going to -- the test market is going to be increasing in a pretty healthy
way. We also believe that all of the other semiconductor content associated with that, batterymanagement systems, other conversion products, isolation products is also going to increase. So
the advantage for Teradyne by making this partnership with Infineon is that we're going to be
able to accelerate our roadmap to be able to cover these new types of devices and the higher
powers that they're going to be trying to address.
The advantage to Infineon is inside of this group, they had a number of technologies and a
number of specialty test equipment that they were using to support Infineon's market leading
business. By moving those capabilities into a commercial ATE company like Teradyne. Now those
products are addressing the entire market rather than just the Infineon market. So that group has
a broader horizon than before. Teradyne has a opportunity to accelerate our roadmap and
Infineon gets to focus on designing and building chips, which is kind of the point of their company.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna `
Should I assume there is a payment here? Are you actually acquiring this asset for a purchase
price?
A - `Greg Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna `
Have you disclosed, how much it is?
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
No, we're not disclosing the purchase price. It is not at a material level for disclosure.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna `
Got it. And very quickly switching to industrial automation. If I just look at what you have guided for
Q2 and extrapolate the year-end and look at the margin and opex, you're better off with less
contribution from industrial automation and the numbers speak for themselves. So my question
to you is, what's the plan B? We have -- you have spent several years reorganizing, enhancing the
channel partners, but to me, it seems like you may have to end up partnering with the system
integrator or there needs to be more. And again, the question to the management team is, is
there a plan B, how much more investment would you be willing to make before saying, okay,
maybe you have to part way with industrial automation?
A - `Greg Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, so we're nowhere near the point where we would be making a part ways kind of a decision.
But I want to address sort of the first point in your question that we are definitely not better off
with less industrial automation. We are better off with more industrial automation and that has a
lot to do with the leverage that's built into the business model for industrial automation. So we've
reset our breakeven to this $365 million level in 2024. But that -- we are given current market
conditions, we believe that we'll be delivering 10% growth above that level and we would be
delivering positive -- positive operating margin from that group. For certain, it's dilutive to the
percentage earnings across the whole company, but it is accretive to earnings and we believe
that this is something that's going to be an important growth vector for us over the long-term. So
we definitely saw an opportunity to improve customer experience and save money and set us up
to be able to put our investments into the things that are driving the highest growth, but we're
not really at a plan B stage yet.Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from -- Steve Barger with KeyBanc Capital Markets. Please
proceed with your question.
Q - `Jacob Moore, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets `
Hi, good morning. This is `Jacob Moore, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets on for Steve. Thanks for taking the questions. First one for
me is on two nanometer data all around. What does your outlook for the timing of that ramp look
like over the year? Has that changed at all? And are there any notable differences you'd call out in
testers for the new transistor architecture versus current generations?
A - `Greg Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Hi, this is Greg. I'll take that one. So right now, we are looking at the leading edge of devices that
utilize two nanometer occurring in the very, very late in 2025, just in early production in late 2025.
The bulk of that is going to be in 2026. And at least in terms of our line of sight, we see both
compute and mobile devices that are going to be taking advantage of that node. In terms of the
differences for that, the primary difference is that these devices have significantly more
complexity. And with that higher complexity, it is actually -- these devices are higher requiring
higher peak power from the tester and they're requiring much, much more tester memory. And
so the impact of that is, there's some -- there's a degree of technical obsolescence that is going
to be creating opportunities in the ATE space and also in the system level test space for us. So
we're -- we think that this discontinuity in device power is going to be helpful. It's not going to be
like a cataclysmic increase in demand because of the transition to two nanometer, but we do
think that it's an accelerant.
Q - `Jacob Moore, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets `
Got it. That's helpful. Second one from me is on end markets. I think AI and compute are clearly
strong drivers, but PC, Notebook and mobile are still big volume base. And I know you -- I think
you said gradual improvement over the year, but can you help us frame-up how you're thinking
about total growth in those segments for the year? And has there been a more meaningful shift
in tester conversion to HPC from mobile that could affect that dynamic?
A - `Greg Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, so first off, we think that the second half recovery is going to be pretty balanced. And in the
compute space, I would -- I would expect that the primary driver is going to continue to be AI
cloud related demand. And that's accelerators, CPUs and networking for that part of the market.
There's probably going to be a nudge upward in terms of client compute. I would expect that our
primary benefit from that increase would actually be in our wireless business unit in the LitePoint
Group. When you -- when you think about mobile, the primary thing is that there -- it depends on
which analysts you're looking at, but generally people are a little bit optimistic in terms of units
and there's definitely a march towards greater complexity in the phones. And then I already
spoke about industrial and automotive where it's more increasing semiconductor content by
model year. And we think that there is a an inventory digestion and a weak spot that we're in now,
but we'll be returning to sort of more normal dynamics by the end of the year.Q - `Jacob Moore, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets `
Got it. Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS with UBS. Please proceed with your question.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS `
Hi, thanks. I had two. So, Greg, I wanted to ask about your VIP test TAM forecast. I think you said
626 and going to maybe 828. I -- so my question on that is, if I listen to what Marvell and
Broadcom are basically saying about the custom ASIC TAM. One is saying it's going to be $40
billion in 2027. The other is saying it's going to be $140 billion in 2027, 2028. So if I average those
two, I can pretty easily get to $80 billion plus in that time frame. So these numbers would imply
that the test intensity is like less than 1% for that stuff. And this stuff all has tons of transistors, and
it seems like that's a pretty conservative forecast. So I'm wondering what your custom ASIC end
market revenue numbers that would underpin this because it seems like your test intensity
number is very low based upon what the end customers are talking about relative to the size of
the market.
A - `Greg Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I am -- Our model is built more bottoms-up based on like unit quantities device complexity.
The one thing that is definitely not factored into our model is any variability in the margin that a
Marvell or a Broadcom may be getting on the devices that they're producing. And so that's one
area where there be a disconnect in our forecast versus theirs. But to sort of answer your
question directly, we would definitely be more aligned with the low end of that sort of $40 billion
to $140 billion outlook for 2027 than the high end. And that's mainly because we're working off of
sort of line of sight of what we can -- what we've discerned from these more the actual
hyperscalers versus the -- what we are hearing from the chip folks in the middle.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS `
Okay. Yeah, seems low. But -- okay. So then on IA. So PBT has been negative for the past six
years. Cumulatively, it's -- you've lost more than $150 million. And usually, when companies lose
money like this, the markets are growing very fast, and we're chasing growth. So can you just talk
like is the plan here to cut costs and try to maximize profitability? Or do you really see something
bigger coming that you still want to do this? And I kind of asked this in like the context of do you
need outside investments to really scale this business? Or is it not a dollar investment thing. It's
more just that the market hasn't grown which you thought it would? And I guess the question
there is like what's going to change to actually make this market grow? Thanks.
A - `Greg Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. so I think the X factor here is an extremely long down cycle in industrial automation
investment, really from starting in 2022, all the way to now, it's been -- PMIs have been
consistently weak. And we've been caught in that. While we've outperformed -- while we've
outperformed our peers, it hasn't delivered the growth that it's supposed to. So one of the
things that we -- like our view that may be a little bit idiosyncratic from the other advanced
robotics players is that we do believe that growth in this market is going to be a marathon, not a
sprint that we are hoping -- we are hoping to align our opex so that we're able to generate
positive operating margin even under weak business conditions, and then incrementally increasethat operating margin by making sure that we have leverage between any top line growth and
limit the opex increase and improve our gross margin as we go along. So we think that there is
significant growth potential in this space that is being masked by the end market macro
headwind. We don't have visibility into when those headwinds going to --- are going to come to
an end. So we definitely were focused on trying to maximize our efficiency during this period to
make sure that we are setting ourselves up so that there isn't incremental negative impact on
earnings from our Robotics business even under weak business conditions. So that's the primary
thing.
I think I'd like to pass it over to Sanjay for a couple of comments on this as well.
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. just really quick, Tim. Just for a point of reference, since 2019 -- 2019 to 2022 at an
operating profit level, we were profitable. I'm not sure where you're kind of $150 million. In the
last two years, it's true. We have lost money, but cumulatively, since 2019 to 2024, we'll have lost
an operating profit level of about $23 million. Just for context.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS `
Okay, we can follow up afterwards. Thanks.
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Cowen with Cowen. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Cowen `
Yeah. Hi, thanks for taking my question. I have two of them. First one, Sanjay or Greg, if I look at
your color on calendar '25, it looks like your revenues in '25 are going to grow about 15% from
2024 levels, A, is that right? And along the same path, a couple of months ago, you seem a little
more confident on maybe high teens growth for the year versus mid-teens right now. So what
kind of changed on Teradyne's outlook for 2025? And then I have a follow-up.
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. It's Sanjay here. Yeah, at the midpoint of our guide, it's 15%, obviously, or the midpoint of
our estimation. And it could be plus or minus there. And what's changed over the last 90 days, I'd
say, is that Robotics, our view of the market, obviously, from Q4 and our forecast or our thinking
of our plan for Robotics has come down to a growth rate of about 10% year-over-year. I will add
that what hasn't changed is that our view on Semi Test, actually over the past 90 days has actually
strengthened. We saw acceleration into more business into Q4 of '24, but we held our plans
roughly the same over a five quarter period. It's actually been enhanced, which gives us
confidence in the year for Semi Test. And I'd say the other product test businesses are roughly in
line of what we thought about.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Cowen `Got it. Got it. And then as a follow-up, you know, thanks for the color, you kind of spoke about
how your SoC compute revenue has been growing from 11% to 34% last year. I'm curious where
you think it could end up being this year in the context of your $4.9 billion SOC TAM. If you can just
give some color on how much of that is compute, how much is mobile and what percentage SoC
revenue you could get from both compute and mobile this year. Thank you.
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So I think compute will be one of our largest growers and should increase as a percentage
of the SOC revenue that we have. We also see, obviously the TAM growing in compute. So we're
tracking to it. We see continued strength in VIP. As Greg noted, roughly a TAM in 2024 for VIPs of
300 -- of compute VIPs of 300. And in '26, we see that as roughly centered around 600. So as
you'd expect, we see growth in 2025, and we're tracking to that growth in compute. I think from a
mobile perspective, we do see it continuing just likely growing along the 2025 level -- or
consistent with 2024 similar to 2025. And then when we take a look at auto and industrial, we do
see that TAM growing along with our business growing. So I'd say a little bit more strength in
compute than TAM as well as from our shipment perspective, and then auto and industrial
growing with mobility flattish to slightly up.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Cowen `
Got it. Thanks, Greg. Thanks, Sanjay.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Hi. Good morning. Thank you so much for taking the question. My first one is on the VIP business.
When you think about growth outlook in '25 and '26. I was hoping you could sort of touch on the
breadth of your customer base in that business. Is the growth expected to mostly come from
existing customers? Or are you looking to -- or do you expect for a new product or new
customers to ramp in '25 and '26 as well within the context of the VIP business and AI compute
more specifically?
A - `Greg Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, so -- hi, it's Greg. The VIP business is pretty concentrated. I mean, there are very few
companies that have the scale necessary to pay for a two nanometer ASIC accelerator. So this is
definitely going to be lumpy. If you -- if you look at our 2025 business we are expecting a robust
ramp of the existing customers that we have. And we're expecting between '25 and into '26 that
would be adding one or two logos to the customers that we have. But like if you're trying to get
an understanding for this is always going to be a situation where it's like very big single sockets
that drive a lot of capacity adds, not a broad baseline.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Yeah. That makes total sense. Thank you. And then as my follow-up on HBM Test, you talked
about digestion in '25 and then the potential recovery in '26, I think. Is that view primarily based
on a bottoms-up based on customer forecast? Are you guys making internal assumptions around
HBM bit growth, technology evolution? Is it a combination? I'm just curious how you formed yourA - `Greg Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So the -- we have very good relationships with most of the major memory producers. And so a lot
of this is based on our conversations with them and their advanced capital planning. The -- and
having said that, there is a fair amount of capacity in place that needs to be filled out that is
capable of doing HBM3E. The thing that is an X factor in our model is the timing of a transition to
HBM4. If that transition comes in, in time, then there's upside to the TAM, if that transition delays
in time, that would mean that, that TAM would be further weakened. But right now, we've kind of
going with our best view from what we're hearing from our customers in terms of when that
transition is going to happen.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
And when you say in time, do you mean sort of first half '26 or --- I just wanted to clarify.
A - `Greg Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, the real question is, yeah -- whether -- like people are certain that HBM4 is going to be in
volume production in early 2026. There is -- there's certainly a customer desire to try to have
more such significant volumes of HBM4 in the latter half of 2025. And if the schedules support
that, that would pull in the capacity needs for that into '25 from '26.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Got it. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from `Samik Chatterjee, Analyst, J.P. Morgan with J.P. Morgan. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Samik Chatterjee, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Hi, thanks for taking my questions. I guess for the first one, the seasonality between the first half
and the second half that you're indicating this year is definitely more second half skewed than
sort of the last couple of years and that brings into sort of the question in terms of you're talking
about second half recovery in some of these markets like mobile and then auto industrial. How
are you sort of de-risking that second half when we think about upside, downside risk, particularly
given your visibility, how should we think about sort of that first half versus second half
improvement and sort of upside, downside risk there already? And I have a follow-up. Thank you.
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, hi, it's Sanjay. So that's right. As we have the visibility into Q1 or the first half, second half, I'd
say we're in an environment where we see the upgrades that have occurred that we've talked
about to underutilized capacity, we see that as coming to and then some time of these
upgrades, really getting to really high levels of utilization. First half-ish, and while there'll still be
probably some minor upgrades, we see capacity tightening. You can see that with the VLSI
reports as well as how when we go and count the testers and utilization and our methodology of
getting there. So we see a tailwind as utilization tightens -- the second thing is that we do have a
pipeline as we think about the customers we're engaging that gives us confidence in the second
half. And in the second half, it's broad-based, I'd say, more focused around compute as well as
auto and industrial from a Semi Test perspective. And then also tied to the end market recovery.Q - `Samik Chatterjee, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Got it. Thank you. And maybe going back to the VIP, ASIC TAM and you sort of highlighted -- you
made some comments on the last question as well in terms of logos that you're expecting. But
more specifically, I think there is a broader investor concern about your ability to maintain that
50% share that you're talking about. And when we sort of look into 2025, 2026, is that visibility in
terms of maintaining the 50% share more in terms of continuing to work with your existing
customers? Or how does the pipeline look in terms of sort of new wins, either in terms of sockets
with existing customers or new customers that's driving that confidence to keep that 50% share?
Thank you.
A - `Greg Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. This is Greg. I'll take that one. So we believe that we have the best product for these
leading-edge devices. But one of the critical factors in ATE selection is the installed base of tools
and training and everything else that you have around the platform that you're using. So the
Teradyne's traditional low share in the compute space has a lot to do with the way the market
was shaped for the last 10 years. The success that we're having in VIPs is that with these new --
these new devices and the use of these design service providers like a Broadcom or a Marvell or
a Samsung, Alchip, GEC [ph] that we have excellent relationships with these customers and we're
able to demonstrate the differentiation of our product. And we think that people are getting a
good result by using our product, and they're choosing our product for that reason. So from a
product differentiation perspective, we think we have the right recipe in order to maintain that
share. We think that we have the right customer relationships to be able to do that. And we
believe that we have the right relationships with the hyperscalers themselves to try and add the
logos that we need. So we're pretty confident that we're going to be able to keep going at this
50% level.
Q - `Samik Chatterjee, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Thank you. Thanks for taking my question.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America with Bank of America. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America `
Thanks for taking my questions. So first one, compute TAM grew 57% last year, but you're
expecting it to grow only 5% in '25. I'm curious what is causing that slowdown? And then versus
the, I think, $300 million in VIP last year, what is the VIP TAM for '25?
A - `Greg Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So in terms of compute growth, you can -- I think you can look at this in a little bit of a similar way
to the situation in HBM. The end market for this stuff is going to stay very, very hot. The -- but --
the situation in terms of capital equipment or test equipment to support the volumes that are
being produced doesn't necessarily follow that in lockstep. Right now, there are a lot of devices in
the space that are still coming up an experience curve and have very, very long test times that
could be reduced as parts become more mature. And we believe that, that's going to have --
that's going to limit the sequential growth of the compute space. So we think the primary
opportunity in the compute space is in these new sockets from the VIPs, not in the traditionalspace where it's sort of a year after introduction and experienced situation. So we think that
there's definitely a -- you know, there are balloons and anchors that are going to be affecting this.
The balloon is obviously this huge capex for data center that's going in the anchor is increasing
efficiency of production for the devices.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay. But then how do we reconcile that with the strong I think almost 30-plus percent half-on-
half growth that you are expecting this year driven by compute. If the TAM is not growing, then
how can one depend on that to grow much more than what Teradyne's normal seasonality has
been half-on-half in the second half.
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So I think you should think about it as share growth, some of that.
A - `Greg Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, it's share growth. And the other thing that I would say is we're kind of expecting compute
to be delivering throughout the year and we're expecting the automotive, industrial and mobile
segments to be more back half loaded. So it's not that we're expecting a big back half for
compute, I think.
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I think compute, we are seeing -- it's a little bit more balanced, but back half is going to be
stronger than the first.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay. But it's not 30% increase, is it?
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
It's going to have a reasonable increase.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Greg Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer `
But I think that the logic behind that is related to this new part introduction that if you're
introducing new parts, you need capacity to support that if you are increasing volume on parts
that are already in production, then that's affected by the experience curve.
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
And then, Vivek, you had a question on the (Multiple Speakers) VIP TAM?
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America `
I think the $300 million, what is it this year, in '25?
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `Yeah, what we said in our prepared remarks that it's $300 million and then growing to but we
expect to be in 2026, centered around $600 million. You should expect that that's going to grow
on a trend line. You know, it has a range but if you think about $400 million to $500 million,
maybe bias towards the higher end range for 2025 is how you should think about it.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America `
Understood. Thanks very much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from `Brian Chin, Analyst, Stifel with Stifel. Please proceed with your question.
Q - `Brian Chin, Analyst, Stifel `
Hi. Good morning. Thanks for letting us ask a few questions here. Sorry if I missed this, but -- and I
know there was sort of some movement around of certain revenue streams into different
buckets. But what was the size of the SOC test market in 2024? And if no one asked this yet, can
you decompose sort of how that $4.9 billion TAM for 2025 breaks down across compute, mobile,
et cetera?
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. On '24, I believe we have a slide in the backup, but compute is $2.2 billion, mobile is 0.8;
auto and industrial's 0.9, services, 0.7 and 4.6 SOC TAM in '24. And then if you go to '25, you've
got $2.3 billion in compute, mobile at $0.9 billion, auto and industrial at $1 billion and service at
$0.7 billion to get us to the $4.9 million at the midpoint.
Q - `Brian Chin, Analyst, Stifel `
Got it. That's helpful. And just -- and you sort of touched on this a little bit, but just to underpin
that view for the modest test recovery in the second half. Can you give us maybe a better sense
of where semiconductor test cell utilization rates are now versus a year ago to kind of how close
we are to bridging that gap?
A - `Greg Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, so I mean we've cautioned before in terms of the absolute accuracy of these utilization. So
we tend to look at changes from quarter-to-quarter. I will say that utilization has drifted up
through 2024 and it inflected more strongly in the end of the year than before. And that's really
around the impact of the upgrades that we shipped through the year. The upgrades that we
shipped through the year that turned previously idle testers into testers that are being actively
loaded. There was a delay of maybe one quarter from those being shipped to when they are
actively loaded by our customers, but it's probably about a 10% increase in utilization year-on-
year like exiting '24 from coming into '24. And right now, we're at the point where we think our
business has already shifted in mix more away from upgrades and more towards system sales.
So we think that, that's -- we've kind of passed the tipping point there.
Q - `Brian Chin, Analyst, Stifel `
Okay, thanks. Maybe if I could sneak in a (inaudible) question. Would you mind unpacking a little bit
what you mean by consolidating the go-to-market? And also in 2025, does your kind of modest
growth outlook suggests that you think the benchmark of the broader robotics industry is down
something like 10% this year?A - `Greg Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, so the details of the consolidation is that we've combined the marketing functions, the
sales functions and the service functions of UR and MiR together so that we have one unified go-
to-market organization. And that is the primary way that we are going to improve our interface to
our partners and improve the interface to our largest customers. There's a lot of overlap in terms
of our largest partners and our largest customers where they are customers of both UR and MiR,
so it was an obvious place where we could make things simpler for them and also drive some
efficiency for us. There's really no change in terms of the primary go-to-market growth vectors
that we see for these groups. And that really is OEMs and for -- and large customers. And so
we're continuing to lean into those programs, but now we're doing those across both product
lines versus on an isolated basis.
Now the -- could you remind me what your second question was in there?
Q - `Brian Chin, Analyst, Stifel `
Yeah, it was just that I think you previously said you kind of said growth targets against a
benchmark -- outperforming benchmark for the industry, something I think like 10% to 15% better
than the benchmark. And if you're guiding kind of for modest growth this year, does that mean
that, that benchmark is down maybe 10% this year?
A - `Greg Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I think we're -- everyone is trying to figure out exactly what the shape of a recovery in
industrial automation would be. I think you're right in thinking that we are -- our intent is to
outgrow the traditional automation players by like 20% per year or maybe more like 15% per year.
So I think it's probably more like we're looking at 5% down with us delivering above that. So if a --
if the automation market were flat, I think we would be significantly higher, up around 20%
growth. If it's down, around 15% growth. If it's down 5%, then we deliver like 10% growth.
Q - `Brian Chin, Analyst, Stifel `
Okay. That's helpful. That's great.
Operator
Thank. Our next question is from `Shane Brant, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Shane Brant, Analyst, Morgan Stanley
Hi, thank you for taking the question. So I understand the importance of giving investors long-
term forecast of the 2028 model, but I just wanted to better understand, what are the kind of
more finer details behind the revenue assumptions for that model? And sort of how far your
visibility extends? The context of this question is that since 2022, it appears as though you are
continuing to set up a little bit of a higher bar for your business. Thanks very much.
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Hi, it's Sanjay here. Yeah, so as we've said in our prepared remarks, we see test revenues -
- we see overall revenues growing 12% to 18%, and that's really broken out from a test
perspective of 12% to 17%. And then from robotics, an 18% to 24% level. I would say, starting withchannel growth through OEMs and large accounts and new product introduction. And so we
believe we are in a sub 5% penetrated market. The market has had some tremendous
headwinds, as Greg noted over the past couple of years. However, we see that as we -- as we
develop these incremental solutions, AI-enabled capabilities, in our products that, that will enable
us to help address incremental segment verticals. And so it's with that, we have the confidence,
we just need the market to return, and we are predicting that in our model.
From a test perspective, I would think about it like this. We analyze the TAM. We take a look at
and maybe, Greg, do you want to add some comments when I'm done, but we analyze the TAM.
We look at things in the different segments like compute, how we see the AI compute or high
performance compute go in networking as well as the forecast from external players, but also
talking to customers. and what our view is of the custom ASICs. So we look at it segment by
segment, high-level drivers, Greg mentioned, EV -- silicon content in cars, growing as well as a
fast-moving driver or an increased driver in hybrid as well as EVs. But it's both a top-down and a
bottoms-up.
A - `Greg Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. One bit of color in terms of the Semi Test growth. I think one way that you should think
about it is that there was this incredible inflection in 2024 for the memory market. So the memory
market, like really bumped up in 2024. So if you're looking at 2024 to 2028 growth rates, we think
that the memory market has already sort of built in some of the growth of that -- of that longer
period. So we're expecting sort of a lower incremental TAM growth in the memory market going
out to 2028 and a more linear model of growth rate for the SOC TAM through that period.
A - `Sanjay Mehta, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
And maybe I'll just -- add one more point on share. You know, in the compute space, as we see
the market shift to more custom ASICs, we also see share gains, we believe we're going to
continue to win kind of one in two sockets. And then as the market recovers in mobile as well as
auto and industrial markets that we've had traditionally higher share in as those markets become
a larger portion of the TAM relative to 2024 and those markets recover, we should inherently gain
share in those markets.
A - `Greg Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer `
One other thing that I think and you probably want to try to consider as you're trying to flesh out a
view for 2028 is that we think system-level test is going to be a long-term growth factor. That
adding those test insertions is going to be important to achieve the quality levels that our
customers are demanding. And so we believe that, that's going to be one of the things that
helps to drive that -- you said it was 12% to 17% growth for the test groups, that there is a chunk
of that growth that is coming from that system level test stuff.
Q - `Shane Brant, Analyst, Morgan Stanley
Got it. Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. There are no further questions at this time. I'd like to hand the floor back over to Traci
Tsuchiguchi for any closing comments.
A - `Traci Tsuchiguchi, Vice President of Corporate Relations `Thank you again for joining us this morning. We hope that many of you will be able to join us for
our Analyst Day on March 11. Until then, we look forward to speaking with you soon. Bye.
Operator
This concludes today's conference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your
participation.