Q4 2014 Earnings Call

Operator
Hello, everyone. This is the Arkadin (00:05) operator. Please be aware that your line will remain
muted until the question-and-answer session begins. Please note that this call will be recorded at
the request of the hosting company.
I would now like to hand over to Mr. Takano (00:37) from Toyota, who will moderate today's
conference.
Unverified Participant
Hello, everyone. Welcome to the financial results conference call for the fiscal year 2014. I'm
Nomakas Takano (00:49) from the Accounting Division of Toyota Motor Corporation. Today, we
have Mr. `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer, Accounting Division, Managing Officer in charge of the Accounting Group of Toyota Motor
Corporation, and Ms. Keiko Morita (1:02), our interpreter with us.
The agenda of today's conference call is as follows. First, Mr. Otake will briefly discuss the
highlights of Toyota's earning results, and then Ms. Morita (1:15) will take over the rest of
presentation. This will take about 10 minutes. After the presentation, you are welcome to ask
questions.
Please note that the presentation contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans and
expectations, and our actual results may be materially different from these statements. A
complete cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statements is included on page 2 of
today's presentation material. And a complete cautionary statement concerning insider trading is
included on page 3. Both of the statements can be downloaded from our Internet homepages
beside the President of Toyota Motor Corporation. Mr. Toyoda's speech, also can be downloaded
from that same homepage.
Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Otake.
`Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer, Accounting Division `
Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. This is `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer, Accounting Division. I'd like to discuss Toyota's
financial results for fiscal year ended March 2014.
Let me begin with slide 5. Our consolidated vehicle sales for the fiscal year increased by 245,000
units year-on-year to 9,116,000 units. While sales in Asia decreased, sales in areas such as Japan,
North America, Europe, and the Middle East grew solidly. This was a result of the launches of
attractive new models in each country and region in our effort to deliver better cars and thePlease see slide 6. Our consolidated financial performance resulted in net revenues of ¥25,691.9
billion, operating income of ¥2,292.1 billion, pre-tax income of ¥2,441.0 billion, and net income of
¥1,823.1 billion.
Now I'd like to hand the rest of today's presentation over to Ms. Morita (3:54), our interpreter.
Unverified Participant
Next, using slide 7, I would like to explain the major factors contributing to the increase of
operating income by ¥971.2 billion year-on-year. Despite the increased expenses, including the
costs related to the agreement with U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York
that we disclosed in March, operating income increased due to the impact of yen depreciation,
cost reduction activities with our suppliers, and marketing efforts such as increased vehicle sales.
Please take a look at slide 8. Compared to our February forecast of ¥2,400.0 billion, our actual
operating income for the fiscal year was ¥107.9 billion less. This is due to the expenses of about
¥200 billion related to the agreement with the U.S. Attorney's Office and the ending of
production in Australia. Our profit improvement activities, nevertheless, progressed steadily
through cost reduction and marketing efforts.
Next with slide 9, I would like to explain operating income for the fiscal year by region. In Japan,
sales increased by 86,000 units to 2,365,000 units. This was due to the improving economic
sentiment, a strong demand prior to the consumption tax increase and the positive customary
response to Corolla Hybrid, which was launched in August last year, and our new models such as
Harrier, Noah, and Voxy.
Operating income for Japan was ¥1,510.1 billion, up ¥933.8 billion as a result of favorable foreign
exchange rates in relation to our cost reduction and other profit improvement activities, which
more than offset the increasing R&D and other expenses.
In North America where new car demand remained solid, sales increased by 60,000 units to
2,529,000 units driven by RAV4, Lexus IS, and Tundra in particular. Operating income excluding
the swap valuation gains and losses was ¥341.5 billion, up ¥152.7 billion compared to the previous
fiscal year. Increased vehicle sales and cost reduction efforts among other factors contributed to
the growth of operating income year-on-year.
In Europe, new models such as Corolla and RAV4 as well as Hybrid models such as Auris and Yaris
drove the sales increase of 45,000 units to 844,000 units. Operating income was ¥58.2 billion,
up ¥31.7 billion year-on-year thanks to increased vehicle sales and cost reduction efforts.
In Asia, sales were down by 75,000 units year-on-year affected by weaker sales in Thailand and
India where demand strength and competition increased despite increased sales in Indonesia
particularly of the new Agya. Operating income in Asia was ¥395.7 billion, up ¥19.6 billion from the
previous fiscal year secured mainly as a result of cost reduction efforts which offset the impact of
declined sales.
In the other regions – this is slide 13 – vehicle sales increased significantly in the Middle East and
Central and South America in particular to reach 1,769,000 units, up 129,000 units compared to
the previous fiscal year. Operating income was ¥42.5 billion, down ¥91.1 billion despite increased
vehicle sales due to the negative impact from the change in exchange rates of the local
currencies and from the costs relating to the ending of production in Australia.
Next, please take a look at slide 14 for financial services. Operating income excluding swapyear. This was mainly due to increased lending balance and the translational impact of foreign
currencies which more than offset the negative impact from decreased lending margins.
Please refer to slide 15. Equity in earnings of affiliated companies for the fiscal year was ¥318.3
billion, up ¥86.8 billion from the previous year. This was mainly thanks to strong earnings
maintained by our affiliated companies in Japan and China. For your information, the fiscal year
end of our affiliated companies in China is December. Equity in earnings of these companies for
the fiscal year to March, 2014, therefore reflected their earnings from January to December 2013.
Let me move onto slide 16. With regard to the year-end dividend, we plan to propose ¥100 per
share at the Annual General Shareholders' Meeting next month. The full-year dividend will
therefore be ¥165 per share including the interim dividend of ¥65 per share. This represents an
increase by ¥75 per share compared to the previous fiscal year.
We regard dividends as our most important means to return value to shareholders. In order to
develop a long-term trusted relationship with our shareholders, we plan to pay dividends stably
and sustainably in consideration of our annual earnings results, investment plans, and cash
reserves, among other factors.
Please take a look at slide 17. As was announced on March 26, we plan to purchase and cancel our
shares subject to the approval of the proposed disposition of our shares to establish Toyota
Mobility Foundation for the purpose of social contribution at the Annual Shareholders' Meeting
next month. We intend to return value to our shareholders through the reduction of the shares
issued and outstanding by 30 million shares. We will continue to flexibly consider share buybacks
as an option through increase shareholder returns in the context of long-term capital efficiency.
Now, I would like to move on to discuss our outlook for the current fiscal year ending in March
2015. Please take a look at slide 19. With regard to our consolidated vehicle sales for the current
fiscal year, we forecast 9.1 million units, almost flat year-on-year. In Japan, we expect a sales
decline by 155,000 units from the previous fiscal year because of the impact of the consumption
tax increase.
We will, however, continue to stimulate demand by introducing attractive new models especially
with superior fuel efficiency and through flexible marketing programs in response to the ongoing
market trends. In overseas markets, vehicle sales are expected to exceed the sales of the
previous fiscal year despite uncertainty in some emerging markets, thanks to the solid outlook of
the market in North America.
Please look at slide 20. Our foreign exchange rate assumption for the current fiscal year is ¥100
to the U.S. dollar and ¥140 to the euro. Based on this, our forecast of consolidated financial
performance for the current fiscal year is net revenues of ¥25,700 billion, operating income of
¥2,300 billion, pre-tax income of ¥2,390 billion, and net income of ¥1,780 billion.
Now please look at slide 21 for the analysis of our operating income forecast in comparison to the
previous fiscal year. As Akio Toyoda, our President, clarified, the current fiscal year is the year in
which Toyota takes the first step forward towards sustainable growth. We plan to make
investment to enhance our competitiveness in areas of advanced and cutting-edge technologies,
develop human resources, implement TNGA, and reform operational mechanisms in pursuit of
further innovation.
With regard to the profit improvement activities for this fiscal year, our current plan is to achieve
¥40 billion. We are determined to maintain and improve a strong earnings structure through
uncompromising efforts across the group.Finally, please take a look at slide 22 for our forecast of CapEx, depreciation expenses, and R&D
expenses. We intend to carry out CapEx and invest in R&D actively and strategically, which will
contribute to the enhancement of true competitiveness.
This concludes our presentation of our financial results for the fiscal year ended March 2014.
Thank you very much.
Thank you. Now we would gladly take your questions but only up to two questions per person,
please, other questions may be posed later if time allows. You do not have to give your name.
Our conference call operator will explain how to connect your line.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you, Mr. Takano (14:20). First questioner, please go ahead.
Hello. Can you hear me?
Yes, we can. Thank you.
Okay, thank you very much for the call. Two questions. First of all, you've introduced a mid-cycle
remodeling of the Camry, which is I believe due out at the end of this year. Could you please
comment on the expected profitability of the Camry? I know you don't talk about individual car
profitability but if you could just compare the new Camry with the previous version and given the
significant increase in content in the new Camry, what do you expect in terms of profitability?
Secondly, on page 8 you give a breakdown of your expenses, could you – of the increase in
expenses, the ¥220 billion – could you please give us a breakdown of that, please? Thank you
very much.
[Foreign Language] (18:26 – 20:06).
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer, Accounting Division `
Thank you for your question. With respect to your first question relating to the profitability of
Camry that we are planning to introduce during the current fiscal year, as you yourself mentioned
in your question, we would like to refrain from disclosing profitability of individual models.
However, as also you refer to in your own question, I just refer to what extent the profitability
improvement is expected for this new Camry, let me just say that we are hoping, we're expecting
to see profit improvement per vehicle by several hundred dollars. Furthermore, if possible,
through the introduction of sales of this new Camry with respect to the incentives in general, we
would like to reduce the incentives used for Camry with the new remodeled Camry being
introduced.
[Foreign Language] (21:07 – 21:58).
Moving on to your second question which relates to slide number 8 and you're asking about the
breakdown of increase in expenses of over ¥220 billion, as is explained in the presentation
earlier, there are two extraordinary or one-time special factors behind this. The first one relates
to the expenses related to the agreement we reached with the U.S. Attorney's Office for the
Southern District of New York, which amounted to somewhat over ¥100 billion.And the second factor relates to the expenses relating to the termination of production in
Australia and expense here also exceeded ¥80 billion. And therefore, combined these two one-
time extraordinary factors totaled around ¥200 billion, which is included in the expense increase
of ¥220 billion we mentioned.
Q - Operator
Great. Thank you. If I might just follow up, are you anticipating an increase in the MSRP for the new
Camry?
[Foreign Language] (23:08 – 23:44).
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer, Accounting Division `
It's extremely difficult for me to say anything clear at this juncture. We're – planning to improve not
just at the design, designing style of our vehicles, but also the performance of the vehicle as well.
So including those improvement added to the vehicles, we would like to make ultimate judgment
on the MSRP from the comprehensive viewpoint and I hope you'll accept my answer at this stage
as such.
Q - Operator
Great. Thank you very much. I really appreciate it.
Thank you. Next, please.
Yeah. Hello. I had a question – actually two questions. The first one is the TNGA program. I know
that you've been engaged in this for approximately a year and a half or two years yet you haven't
launched any products. So you're incurring expense related to this program without any related
revenue. I'm wondering if you could just give us an update on the TNGA program and whether
that's leading to any unusual expense in this year that you otherwise wouldn't incur. And when you
expect the first TNGA models to appear? That's my first question.
[Foreign Language] (25:14 – 26:25).
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer, Accounting Division `
Allow me to answer your first question at this juncture first. We are implementing and making
progress on the TNGA and we are planning to incorporate and bid on the full-fledged manner
that TNGA in new mid-sized models that we plan to introduce into the market in 2015.
[Foreign Language] (26:50 – 27:13).
Thereafter, after the introduction of a TNGA-based mid-sized model, we will move on to the
smaller-sized model as well as the larger-sized segment as well, but for those we are planning
not only the incorporation of a platform but also the TNGA-based engines and transmissions and
other units using the shared TNGA models. So we are planning to do the introduction of those
fully-fledged TNGA incorporated model one by one after that.
[Foreign Language] (27:50 – 28:22).
And therefore, as is also included in your question as well that is to say whether there has been
any unusual expenses related to TNGA compared with the conventional development of vehicles,
as is just mentioned a minute ago, we are now newly developing not just platform but enginesdeveloped and therefore relating to them, research and development expenses or investments
are increasing.
[Foreign Language] (28:56 – 29:35).
With respect to the effects of benefits brought about by TNGA, I earlier mentioned that the
completely new products incorporating TNGA will be introduced in 2015 and beyond. However,
about parts and components that are being deployed in the context of TNGA, some of the parts
and components are almost completely developed or completed. And those are currently being
applied to new Corolla or Noah and Voxy models that are introduced in the Japanese market.
And therefore, we would like to leverage the benefits and effects of TNGA as quickly as possible
in the actual product. And I hope you'll understand those.
Q - Operator
Thank you. My other question is on kind of emerging markets and I wonder – I know your profits
from other regions decreased quite a bit, but I guess if I add back the Australian expense, you
may have been flat somewhere in that area, although your volume was up. Could you tell us how
your strategy in China is changing? And I've heard that – and your plans for hybrids in China, how
that rollout is going? And then also touch on your outlook for the Thai vehicle market? Thank you.
[Foreign Language] (31:08 – 32:45).
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer, Accounting Division `
Thank you for your question. In terms of the actual results, you asked whether or not the earnings
or profitability of other regions decreased significantly. And actually the expenses related to the
termination of production in Australia exceeded ¥80 billion but even if that is considered you
implied in the question that the profitability of other regions must have decreased significantly.
As you correctly pointed out, even if this ¥80 billion or so expenses related to the termination of
production in Australia is taken into account, the operating income decrease is slightly less than
¥10 billion according to the calculation. But actually, this number includes the impacts of exchange
rate fluctuations. So if you take out, exclude the exchange rate fluctuation impact, the operating
income did not increase in other regions at all. So that's one point I would like you to understand.
[Foreign Language] (33:55 – 34:38).
Relating to our strategy in China, we have formulated a rather bullish plan for the current fiscal
year. First of all, in terms of the overall market, we are expecting the market this year to be in
excess of 22 million units reached last year. And in that general market, on the calendar year
basis, we would like to sell more than 1.1 million units. And this represents 120% of the previous
year's sales and we are now planning at that stage – at that level.
[Foreign Language] (35:22 – 35:53).
Especially 60% of the passenger car market in China is accounted for by so-called compact
vehicles. And for that segment, we would like to introduce extremely competitive models. In
addition to the Vios and Yaris we introduced last year, we are planning to introduce a new
Corolla, and Corolla, the sister vehicle, Levin, this year.
[Foreign Language] (36:24 – 36:55).Furthermore, in terms of the most competitive model – that is to say, the hybrid model – we are
planning to introduce the hybrid model to the Chinese market in 2015. That is next year. And
toward the introduction or launch of that hybrid model next year, we intend to make best use of
already established TMEC. The research and development location we already established in
China, so that we'll be able to introduce the most competitive hybrid model that is suited for the
Chinese market in 2015.
[Foreign Language] (37:41 – 38:12).
Moving on to the Thailand, in January-March period, the Thai market reflected the impact of
events last year, this is to say, last year, the market expanded because of the special tax
incentives to stimulate purchase of vehicles. And there was a reactionary reduction to that this
year. And at the same time added to that was the political uncertainty prevailed in Thailand. And
therefore the market itself has come down to 224,000 units this year.
[Foreign Language] (38:48 – 39:24).
Furthermore, with respect to Thailand, earlier this year, we announced that the Thai vehicle
market is likely to decrease to 86% of the previous year's level. And in that market environment,
we also mentioned that Toyota's sales there is likely to be around 90% of the level of previous
year. However, reflecting the political uncertainty that continued, the market remains quite
repressed and, therefore, we are now revisiting the plan for the current fiscal year.
Q - Operator
Thank you very much.
[Foreign Language] (40:01).
Thank you. Next, please.
Thank you for doing the call and for taking my question. First question I have related to the ¥223
billion of expenses you mentioned in the fourth quarter. You've highlighted the factors behind the
majority of that ¥200 billion. I just wondered whether there were any other sort of large
elements, one-off element, that whether they were recall-related perhaps that you could talk
about? And if you look at the forecast for the current year, you expect ¥180 billion of nonrecurring
expenses to drop out and I'm just wondering why you don't expect all of the ¥220 billion or ¥200
billion to drop out? That's my first question.
In terms of my second question, you're forecasting a very small decline in volume overall this
year. However, looking at the chart on page 21, you're showing this as having ¥120 billion impact
on operating profit, which implies perhaps an overall negative mix effect. Could you talk about
that please?
[Foreign Language] (41:14 – 42:43).
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer, Accounting Division `
Thank you for your question. With respect to your first question, that is to say relating to the
increase in expenses of over ¥220 billion, you asked whether there is any other significant factors
that were not highlighted earlier. And there is no particular expense item that increases that need
to concern you at this juncture. To be more specific, there has been some increase compared
with the forecast we announced in the third quarter in labor expenses, research and
development expenses, and general SG&A.[Foreign Language] (43:18 – 43:55).
Another question related to the special factor relating to the current fiscal year, over ¥200 billion,
and whether there is any expense related effects in the fiscal year just began, as you may recall,
two years ago, we incurred slightly less than ¥90 billion in class action related expenses in the
United States. And so, this year and next fiscal year that impact will disappear.
[Foreign Language] (44:38 – 45:28).
Allow me to restate my answer because I didn't respond to your question directly. I now
understand that you're asking about the difference between slightly over ¥200 billion in current
fiscal year and improvement by ¥180 billion shown in slide number 21. About this difference or
gap of ¥20 billion, actually the expenses related to the termination of production in Australia also
continue to be incurred in the current fiscal year as well. So taking that into account this difference
– number was affected for that.
[Foreign Language] (46:07 – 47:07).
Moving onto your last question, you asked whether there is any expectation of deterioration in
model mix during the current fiscal and you are quite right, some deterioration in the model mix is
incorporated in our forecast for the current fiscal year that's running right now. If I may be a little
more specific, we have the model called Crown in the Japanese market, which is large-sized and
very profitable. And we are expecting the relative proportion of our Crown model in the overall
lineup to decrease compared with the previous fiscal year. And the same applies to Lexus IS.
We're expecting some decrease in percentage of Lexus IS during the current fiscal year
compared with the previous fiscal year. Outside of Japan, we are expecting increase in
proportion of a small or medium-sized model, such as Corolla and Yaris. So including all that,
those model mix development will indicate more unfavorable impact, negative impact on overall
profitability.
Q - Operator
Thank you.
Thank you. Next, please.
Good morning. Before I ask my questions I'd first like to congratulate you on your progressive
dividend and share buyback policy. I think this is great for Toyota. My first question is related to
some of the questions earlier asked. You discussed your renewed concern for the Thai market,
but I was wondering if you could talk Brazilian and Indian markets and Indonesia where many of
your competitors are bringing on large plants to compete with you more effectively?
And then my second question is in Japan, post the consumption tax hike and changes to the mini
car tax scheme, I was wondering if you could discuss in the medium- to long-term how you see
the mix between registered cars and mini cars to evolve? Thank you very much.
[Foreign Language] (49:36 – 51:05).
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer, Accounting Division `
Allow me to answer your questions relating to Brazil, India, and Indonesia, first. Starting with Brazil.
Looking at the market in January-March period, it stayed at around 98% of the previous year.
True, there has been slowdown of economic activities, which is reflected, but at the same time, in
the current fiscal year there has been some tax cut on industrialized product. And before that taxchange, there has been some last minute purchases or demands reflected here and because of
that the market remained more or less at the same level as the previous year.
[Foreign Language] (51:47 – 52:09).
Based upon that, the market on a full-year basis is expected to be around 3.77 million units, more
or less the same level as the previous year. In that general market environment for Toyota's
sales, we are planning to exceed the actual sales performance of 178,000 units we reached last
year.
[Foreign Language] (52:36 – 52:54).
Moving onto India, the market between January and March this year reflected high interest rates
and high inflation rate, which caused its economy to slow down, and therefore the market stood
at around 93% of the previous year's level.
[Foreign Language] (53:13 – 54:14).
However, going forward, in addition to ourselves, other manufacturers are also planning to
introduce new models. Incorporating those new model effect, we are expecting the full-year
market to be more or less the same as that in 2013. With respect to Toyota specifically, as you
may be fully aware of, we had strike in TKM and that caused a significant slowdown in the period
between January and March this year, which caused the level to be 81% of the previous year. But
the normal operation was resumed on April 22. And furthermore, we are planning to launch the
new Etios Cross model. So including the introduction of this new model, we intend to solidly
increase our sales there in that market.
[Foreign Language] (55:12 – 55:25).
Moving on to Indonesian, as you correctly pointed out, our rivals or competitors are introducing
new models one after another, and we also hear about their plans of establishing plants.
[Foreign Language] (55:38 – 55:54).
And we are expecting the market to exceed the level of 2013, and in that general setting, we
would like to aim at the same market share of around 36% we reached last year.
[Foreign Language] (56:08 – 56:26).
In terms of – with respect to our production capacity, we have increased our capacity in the
existing plant in Indonesia. We are planning to establish second plant, as well as establish the end
in production lines. So through those means, we are also increasing our production capacity in
Indonesia as well.
Q - Operator
If I may tack on a question to that, does that mean that you anticipate that your rivals' capacity
increases will simply result in selling into a bigger pie of sales of vehicles and that they will not be
able to affect your market share?
[Foreign Language] (57:15 – 57:40).
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer, Accounting Division `It's a question that I find rather difficult to give a very clear cut answer, but as of today we would
like to aim at our market share that we reached last year of around 36%.
[Foreign Language] (57:53 – 58:31).
Moving on to your second question that was related to the general mix between registered or
licensed vehicles and so-called mini vehicles in Japan, and this one is rather difficult even for us to
predict in a very clear cut manner. But as we have been observing since the past into the present,
it seems that the relative proportion of mini vehicles has been edging up gradually. And that's the
trend we see from the past and continuing on even today.
Q - Operator
Thank you very much.
[Foreign Language] (59:10).
Thank you. Next, please.
Q - `Jim Irwin, Analyst, Moon Capital Management LP `
Thank you. Hi. It's James Irwin of Moon Capital. Thanks for the call. Can you hear me okay?
A - Operator
Yes, we can. Thank you.
Q - `Jim Irwin, Analyst, Moon Capital Management LP `
Great. My questions were addressed earlier but I had a couple of follow-ups. First, I agree, thank
you and kudos for the 30% payout ratio with respect to the dividend. But I had a question
regarding your comment about share repurchases. Just looking at your own numbers with a 30%
payout ratio in your guidance you're going to continue to generate significant free cash flow and
continue to buildup cash in the balance sheet.
So as we think about your comment about potential for share buybacks, can you share with us
some of the parameters that you're using in terms of minimum cash balances, the capital
structure that you kind of envision for the company so that we can get a sense of the opportunity
and the magnitude of that potential share buybacks? That's my first question.
[Foreign Language] (60:13 – 61:22).
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer, Accounting Division `
Thank you for your question. In terms of our returning value to shareholders, as we have been
consistently saying, we would like to continue maintaining a payout ratio of approximately 30% on
the consolidated basis.
[Foreign Language] (61:38 – 61:50).
Furthermore, specifically about the current fiscal year, partly related to the establishment of our
Toyota Mobility Foundation, we are planning to repurchase our shares as well.
[Foreign Language] (62:03 – 63:22).In terms of the outlook of our cash position going forward, you mentioned in your question that
the current payout ratio is likely to generate a significant free cash flow. But as I alluded to or
touched upon in my own presentation, we intend to make solid investments in research and
development or carry-out the CapEx in order to move closer to sustainable growth. And at the
same time, in addition to that, we would like to maintain the consolidated payout ratio of 30%
approximately. And starting in the current fiscal year, we will be actually going through the cash
outgo in the form of tax liabilities that we will be paying out. And therefore, I do not expect the
conditions, going forward, to actually result in such significant generation of free cash flow.
Furthermore, I would like to also refer to the necessary net cash we would like to maintain. That is
to say, we would like to maintain at least three months' worth of sales revenue in the form of net
cash or we would like to have the net cash, which is equivalent to one year worth of consolidated
fixed expenses, which specifically means ¥6 trillion more or less. So that's the level of ¥6 trillion
that we would like to – and that's the level of net cash that we would like to maintain at the
minimum required amount.
Q - `Jim Irwin, Analyst, Moon Capital Management LP `
Okay, that's very clear. Thank you. And then just a follow up on China; what's the current capacity
utilization of your China operations with your two JV partners, and what is the projected capacity
expansion over the next two years? I just want to get an update on that. Thank you.
[Foreign Language] (65:17 – 66:12).
A - `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer, Accounting Division `
Thank you for your question. As of today, the capacity utilization of our joint ventures are as
follows. One in northern part of China, the joint venture that we have with FAW, has the utilization
capacity of approximately over 90%. And one in the southern part of China, the joint venture with
Guangzhou Auto in 2013 on the full-year basis had the capacity utilization of slightly shy of 90%.
[Foreign Language] (66:45 – 67:42).
Going forward, you asked about our plan for capacity expansion. In the case of our joint with FAW,
in the middle of the current year, we are planning to increase capacity by around 50,000 units.
This is specifically at our plant in Tianjin. And for our plants in Sichuan or Chengdu, in 2015, we are
planning to increase its capacity by 20,000 units. So those are the plans that are already
concretely formulated. And including the plans that have not yet been fully, completely fleshed
out, in Beijing this year, our Executive Vice President, Mr. Ihara, mentioned that in order to
enhance further performance in China, we will introduce necessary products to the Chinese
market as well as we believe that we have now reached the stage where we would consider
plans of expanding production capacity if that is considered to be needed.
Q - `Jim Irwin, Analyst, Moon Capital Management LP `
Okay, thank you very much.
A - Unverified Participant
Thank you. Unfortunately, our time is up, which allows us to conclude today's conference call now.
If you require further information, please contact our IR representatives in New York or London.
Thank you very much for joining us today. Good-bye.