Q4 2015 Earnings Call

Operator
Hello, everyone. This is the Arkadin operator. Please be aware that your line will remain muted
until the question-and-answer session begins. Please note that this call will be recorded at the
request of the hosting company.
I will now like to hand over to Mr. Takano (0:46) from Toyota, who will moderate today's
conference.
Unverified Participant
Hello, everyone. Welcome to the financial result conference call for the fiscal year 2015. I am
Nobukatsu Takano (1:01) from the Accounting Division of Toyota Motor Corporation.
Today, we have Mr. `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer, Accounting Division, Managing Officer in charge of the Accounting Group of
Toyota Motor Corporation, and Ms. Morita (1:10), our interpreter, with us.
The agenda of today's conference call is as follows. First, Mr. Otake will very briefly discuss the
highlights of Toyota's earning results, and then Ms. Morita (1:21) will take over the rest of
presentation. This will take about 10 minutes. After the presentation, you are welcome to ask
questions.
Please note that the presentation contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans and
expectations, and our actual results may be materially different from these statements. A
complete cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statement is included on page two of
today's presentation material. And a complete cautionary statement concerning insider trading is
included on page three. Both of the statement can be downloaded from our Internet
homepages.
Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Otake.
`Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer, Accounting Division `
Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. I'm `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer, Accounting Division. It's my pleasure to discuss
Toyota's financial results for the fiscal year which ended in March 2015.
Let me start with slide five. Our consolidated vehicle sales for the fiscal year decreased by
144,000 units to 8.972 million units year-on-year. This was due to declined sales mainly in Japan
affected by the consumption tax hike in Asia where main markets remained stagnant despite
increased sales in North America.
Please see slide six. Our consolidated fiscal financial performance resulted in net revenues of
¥27,234.5 billion, operating income of ¥2,750.5 billion, pre-tax income of ¥2,892.8 billion and net
income of ¥2,173.3 billion.Now, I would like to hand the rest of today's presentation to Ms. Keiko Morita (3:33), our
interpreter.
Unverified Participant
Next, using slide seven, I would like to highlight the major factors which impacted operating
income year-on-year. The positive factors such as favorable foreign exchange rates and cost
reduction efforts more than offset the negative factors such as decreased vehicle sales and an
increase in expenses including investments to enhance our future competitiveness. As a result,
operating income increased by ¥458.4 billion compared to the previous fiscal year.
Next, I would like to discuss operating income for each region. Please look at slide eight. In Japan,
although new products such as the Lexus NX and the Esquire and the remodeled Alphard and
Vellfire, which were launched in January, drove sales. Overall vehicle sales decreased by 211,000
units to 2,154,000 as demand was affected by the raised consumption tax.
Operating income, however, increased by ¥61.3 billion to ¥1,571.4 billion as a result of favorable
foreign exchange rates and cost reduction efforts despite increased expenses to accelerate
research and development among others.
Please look at slide number nine. In North America, against the backdrop of solid market
conditions, vehicle sales rose by 186,000 units year-on-year to 2,715,000 units driven particularly
by the mid-cycle enhanced Camry in addition to the Corolla and the RAV4. Operating income
excluding valuation gains and losses from interest rate swaps, et cetera, was ¥537.9 billion, up
¥196.4 billion compared to the previous fiscal year. This was mainly a result of increased vehicle
sales and cost reduction efforts.
Please look at slide 10. In Europe, vehicle sales grew by 15,000 units year-on-year to 859,000
units. This was due to solid sales of the Yaris and the Camry and the contribution from the sales
of the new Aygo. Operating income was ¥81.1 billion, up ¥22.8 billion year-on-year as a result of
cost reduction efforts in addition to increased vehicle sales. Please note that the fiscal year for
subsidiaries in Russia end in December, therefore, the above reflects their performance from
January to December 2014.
Please look at slide 11. In Asia, overall vehicle sales were down 120,000 units year-on-year. This
was primarily due to declined sales in Thailand and Indonesia where demand remained weak and
competition intensified despite increased sales of renewed models, such as the Yaris and the
Corolla. In spite of weaker sales, operating income improved by ¥26 billion year-on-year to ¥421.7
billion, mainly as a result of cost reduction efforts.
Please move on to slide 12. In other regions, vehicle sales increased in Central and South
America, but decreased mainly in Africa. As a result, overall vehicle sales fell by 14,000 units to
1,755,000 units from the previous fiscal year. Operating income was ¥111.5 billion, up ¥68.9 billion
year-on-year, primarily due to marketing efforts and decreased expenses which more than offset
the negative impact of the depreciation of the local currencies. Please be reminded that the
costs related to the ending of production in Australia were posted in the previous fiscal year.
Now, please look at slide 13 for Financial Services. Operating income excluding valuation gains
and losses from interest rate swaps, et cetera maintained the level of the previous fiscal year at
¥321.9 billion. This was primarily due to an increased lending balance and translational impact of
the weaker yen despite increased costs related to loan losses and residual losses.Next, please refer to slide 14. Equity in earnings of affiliated companies for the fiscal year was
¥308.5 billion, down ¥9.8 billion year-on-year. Please note that the fiscal year end of our affiliated
companies in China is in December, and therefore equity in earnings of these companies reflects
their earnings from January to December 2014.
Let me move onto slide 15. With regard to the year-end dividend, we plan to propose ¥125 per
share at the annual general meeting of shareholders in the next month. The full year dividend will
therefore be ¥200 per share, including the interim dividend of ¥75 per share. This represents an
increase by ¥35 per share compared to the previous fiscal year. We regard dividends as our most
important means to return value to shareholders. In order to develop a long-term relationship of
trust with our shareholders, we plan to take dividends stably and sustainably.
Please be informed that at the board of directors meeting earlier today, a plan to repurchase up
to ¥300 billion or 40 million shares of our common stock was resolved. Under the principal of
paying stable and sustainable dividends, we intend to repurchase shares flexibly as a means of
shareholder return while considering our long-term capital efficiency.
Now, I'd like to move on to discuss our outlook for the current fiscal year ending in March 2016.
Please look at slide 17. With regards to our consolidated vehicle sales, we expect a decline by
72,000 units year-on-year to 8.9 million units. We are assuming stronger sales in North America
where the market is solid but weaker sales in Asia where the sales environment is getting more
challenging, and in emerging markets such as Russia and the Middle East where declining oil
prices are affecting demand.
Please move on to the next slide. Based on the forex assumptions of ¥115 to the U.S. dollar and
¥125 to the euro, our forecast of consolidated financial performance for the current fiscal year is
net revenues of ¥27,500 billion, operating income of ¥2,800 billion, pre-tax income of ¥2,970
trillion, and net income of ¥2,250 billion.
Now, please look at slide 19 for the analysis of our operating income forecast for the current fiscal
year in comparison with the previous fiscal year. We are expecting a negative impact from vehicle
sales and model mix, as well as the foreign exchange rates as we have factored in a depreciation
of the Russian ruble, the Brazilian real, et cetera.
Despite this challenging environment and while proactively investing to promote competitiveness
and innovation for the future, we are determined to improve our profit structure even further
through a continued marketing effort such as efficient sales promotions and cost reduction efforts
focusing on the companywide VA and new model launches.
Finally, please refer to slide 20 for our forecast of R&D expenses, CapEx and depreciation
expenses. With regard to research and development of technologies, we have launched the Mirai
and started commercializing Toyota Safety Sense a package of technologies to support safe
driving, new engines with superior thermal efficiency and fuel efficiency, and new turbocharged
engine, thus our efforts over the past years are gradually beginning to bear fruit.
In the current fiscal year, we will start renewal of our core models, which are sold across emerging
markets. And in the second half of the year, we plan to launch the first model which incorporates
TNGA. The full contribution of these models to our sales volume and earnings is expected to be
seen some time after 2016. In the meantime, we remain committed to making a steady progress
towards ever better cars for our customers, while pursuing effectiveness and efficiency of our
investments. While enhancing our true competitiveness and earnings structure, we will continue
to aim at achieving sustainable growth by investing in new areas for growth and developing newThis concludes my presentation on the financial results for the fiscal year which ended in March
2015. Thank you very much for your attention.
Thank you. Now, we'll gladly take your questions, but only up to two questions per person please.
Other questions may be posted later if time allows. You do not have to give your name. Our
conference operator will explain how to connect your line.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you, Mr. Takano (13:59). We will now pause for a moment to receive the first question.
Hello. I understand that the ¥300 billion share buyback announcement that you've made today is
independent of the AA Share Class announcement of the other day. Could you clarify that that is
correct?
And can you also clarify whether we should be expecting a net buyback associated also with the
AA share class issuance because that is being issued at a premium and you indicated that you will
buy back the equivalent number of shares. If you're able to sort of clarify that for me, that would
be helpful.
[Foreign Language] (15:55-16:37)
[Foreign Language] (16:37-17:17)
Thank you for your question. Your point is quite right and precise. That is to say, we announced
the share repurchase up to ¥300 billion today. And this is separate and independent from what is
related to the share repurchase related to the issuance of type AA Class Shares announced
previously.
And moving onto your second question in terms of the net amount of share repurchase, what we
have announced today that is to say repurchase up to ¥300 billion represents the net amount of
share buyback for the current fiscal year.
Thank you very much.
[Foreign Language] (18:06)
Thank you. Next please. (18:11-20:06)
Yes. Hello. I have a question about your operating profit forecast and the profit line analysis, you
are saying you're expecting a negative ¥80.5 billion from others. And I just wondered if this is a
forex translation impact or if you could give me more details on that. And also, related to the
forecast, you say that you're expecting other marketing efforts to add ¥170 billion to OP and I just
wondered if this is mainly pricing or what exactly this ¥170 billion consists of? Thank you.
[Foreign Language] (20:50-21:25)
[Foreign Language] (21:25-22:13)
Thank you for your question. With respect to the expected reduction by ¥80.5 billion coming from
others, let me share with you the breakdown of that. As we pointed out, the FX translation
difference is one of the factors but this actually (22:33) represents a gain of ¥5 billion. And otherthan that, there is limited factor subjecting from the operating profits, related to gain and losses
of stock-related transactions.
And we have expected that to be more or less flat and that actually represents reduction of the
profit by ¥40 billion compared with the previous fiscal year. And in terms of other negative factors
reducing the operating profit, there's another factor called consolidation adjustment.
[Foreign Language] (23:07-23:20)
Moving on to the second question that is the contribution coming from our marketing efforts and
the factors other than volume and mix, and you wanted to know the breakdown of contribution of
the ¥170 billion coming from other factors.
[Foreign Language] (23:37-24:05)
The negative factors include so-called marketing and sales expenses. The increase in those
expenses would be in the order of dozens of billions of yen. And so that decreases the profit by
that amount. But more than offsetting that would be ¥170 billion which will be generated by our
continued and accumulated activities to revise prices.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you. Next please.
...I like to hear a breakdown of that including the effect of changes in material costs, and that
would be both for last year's result and your expectation for this year? Thank you. That's the first
question.
[Foreign Language] (25:07-25:19)
[Foreign Language] (25:21-26:02)
Thank you for your question. With respect to the fiscal year just ended in March 2015, the – our
analysis indicate that cost improvement activities generated ¥280 billion, but that number to a
small includes increased prices and cost of raw materials, and therefore, this ¥280 billion is the
net figure. And as we have been saying over the years, in terms of cost improvement activities
per se, the accumulation of that can generate ¥300 billion in cost savings, and that relates to the
fiscal year just ended.
[Foreign Language] (26:40-26:53)
On the other hand, for fiscal year just started, that is the fiscal year ending in March 2016, we
have incorporated ¥265 billion as an expected cost improvement benefit.
[Foreign Language] (27:10-27:23)
As for the fiscal year just begun, it's very difficult that this juncture to foresee whether the market
conditions for raw materials will be moving up or down. Therefore, we assumed those prices to
remain flat.
[Foreign Language] (27:39-28:26)As you know, in the second half of last fiscal year and the first half of the currently running fiscal
year, here in Japan we have decided to forego, not to conduct the pricing revision of purchased
parts and goods. And therefore, compared with the fiscal years up until the previous one, the
impact and benefits stemming from a price revision of those purchased parts is likely to
decrease.
But at the same time, for the current fiscal year, we are expecting the accumulation of cost
improvement activities and benefits stemming from that especially in relation to the introduction
of new models or change over old models. And aggregating all that, as the forecast made at the
beginning of the fiscal year, we incorporated ¥265 billion as the cost improvement benefits.
Okay. Thank you. And my second question is on your volume forecast. I wonder if you could just
share your outlook for the markets in Thailand, Indonesia and China and your individual Toyota
volume targets for those markets, as well as your – just give us a comment on your expectation
for the Japanese market because I see you're forecasting a lower volume in Japan in the new
fiscal year. However, I know that in the month of April, your sales of registered vehicles in Japan
appeared to be quite strong which would seem to be in contradiction to your forecast of lower
volume for the full year. Thank you.
[Foreign Language] (30:09-30:41)
[Foreign Language] (30:42-31:12)
Thank you for your question. So, first of all, let me share with you the outlook of the market in
Thailand, Indonesia and China, as well as our expectations or forecast for those markets for the
current year. Starting with Thailand, as you already know, we have started the study of revisiting
what form and what modality the market in Thailand is going to evolve going forward.
[Foreign Language] (31:40-31:50)
Just for your reference, the actual result of the Thai market between January and March this year
was around 90% compared with the previous year.
[Foreign Language] (32:01-32:32)
Earlier this year, throughout Thailand, I had a press briefing in which it stated that expectation of
Thai market is around 920,000 units, that is 104% of the previous year's level, and therefore
expecting the market to return to that level. However, the actual result between January and
March indicates that the market is not recovering to that previous year's level, and therefore as I
mentioned earlier, including that condition, we have started studying to revisit those market
assumptions.
[Foreign Language] (33:09-33:37)
In that general market conditions between January and March of this year, Toyota's actual volume
remained at 83% of the previous year. And while at the press briefing held earlier this year at the
beginning of the year by Toyota Thailand, it indicated Toyota sales to be around ¥330 billion per
year. But looking at the actual results between January and March, we are now in the midst of
reexamining that.
[Foreign Language] (34:11-34:29)
Moving on to Indonesia next, the market is more or less at 100% level of the previous year and in
that, we would like to aim at maintaining and having the market share that we had in the previousyear that is about one-third of the entire Indonesian market.
[Foreign Language] (34:49-35:15)
In the case of China, we are expecting market to exceed that in 2014. And in that market
environment, as far as Toyota is concerned, on the calendar year basis between January and
December of 2015, we would like to aim at selling 1.1 million units, which essentially will represent
107% of the previous year's level.
[Foreign Language] (35:41-35:58)
Allow me to refer to the conditions here in Japan and as we pointed out, on the single year of
April, excluding mini vehicles in the market, we attained 103,000 units, which is 111% of the
previous year's level and, therefore, we made a very good start.
[Foreign Language] (36:17-36:41)
However, we have to remind ourselves that April last year was exactly the period in which the
direct impact was felt on the sales because of the higher consumption tax, that caused reduction
in sales volume here in Japan. Therefore, although, the April sales stood at 111% of the previous
year's level, but this is not the level that we should be overjoyed.
[Foreign Language] (37:11-37:28)
Considering that for the calendar year, this year in excluding mini vehicles, we are expecting the
market to be around 3 million per year, and in that, we would like to have sale around 1.42 million
units, that is current plan for the Japanese market.
Thank you.
[Foreign Language] (37:54)
Thank you. Next please.
Hi. Continuing on the theme of global volumes, the world six years after the financial crisis
continues to heal, yet you basically project flat volumes. So, can you please comment on your
expectations for the overall market? And then, if you're projecting flat volumes, do you expect
Toyota to lose global market share? Thank you.
[Foreign Language] (38:21-38:43)
[Foreign Language] (38:44-39:13)
Thank you for your question. We have not actually shared or announced our estimation or
forecast for the global market volume. Although covering major markets of the world for
individual specific markets we shared our market views or forecasts, but we have not disclosed
the global market forecast.
[Foreign Language] (39:36-39:52)
Having said that, if I may just share with your our rough image so to speak. We think that the
automotive market in the sense remains rather tough and difficult, that is to say we are not
anticipating or assuming the total market expansion that would warrant optimism.
[Foreign Language] (40:14-40:49)And in different markets, there are differences in terms of freshness of our own products and
freshness of the products offered by our competitors. And in markets like Thailand and Indonesia
in which we're having uphill battle so to speak. In addition to the fact that in these markets, the
market itself is either remaining flat or declining. But at the same time, we realize that our current
condition is that our competitiveness of our product may be somewhat inferior to those of our
competitors.
[Foreign Language] (41:23-41:53)
We are not simply remaining idle to accept those conditions. We are trying to launch more
attractive products that is most suited for individual markets, so that we'll be able to deliver as
many vehicles as possible to our customers. And as far as the volume or quantity is concerned,
we would like to set in place the trend that indicate sustainable growth or at least at the
minimum, maintaining our current volume.
Thank you.
Thank you. Next please.
Thank you very much. Two questions. First of all, the negative impact from other currencies in
terms of forex, there was a negative ¥115 billion impact in the last year and you're looking for an
overall negative impact for March 2016. Could you please highlight the key currencies there and
what your assumptions are with regard to those currencies? Thank you. That's my first question.
[Foreign Language] (43:19-43:46)
[Foreign Language] (43:46-44:07)
Let me start with the actual results for the fiscal year ended in March 2015 and especially
emerging country currencies relating to so-called out-to-out transaction currency and that caused
subtraction of profit by ¥85 billion and I'm going to share with you the specifics of those.
[Foreign Language] (44:26-44:39)
The major impact, first of all, came from the relationship between U.S. dollar and Canadian dollar.
Because of depreciation of the U.S. dollar, there was negative impact of slightly less than ¥30
billion in that relationship.
[Foreign Language] (44:58-45:06)
Furthermore, because of the Brazilian real vis-à-vis the U.S. dollar, profit decreased by around ¥20
billion, so, negative ¥20 billion stemming from that.
[Foreign Language] (45:19-45:29)
Furthermore, in the relationship between euro and the Russian ruble, because the euro
appreciated against the Russian ruble, there was a negative impact of slightly less than ¥15 billion
– one five billion.
[Foreign Language] (45:42-45:50)
Furthermore, between South African rand and euro, because rand depreciated against the euro,
profit was subtracted by around ¥10 billion.
[Foreign Language] (46:02-46:21)And furthermore, the number included in your question, the negative ¥115 billion included the
relationship between Japanese yen and foreign currencies or currencies other than U.S. dollar
and euro, so let me refer to the impact of those.
[Foreign Language] (46:36-46:54)
First of all, the Japanese yen depreciated against the Australian dollar resulting in positive impact
of around ¥10 billion and also in the relationship between the Japanese yen and British pound
sterling, because of the depreciation of the yen, the positive impact of ¥10 billion approximately
was generated.
[Foreign Language] (47:17-47:27)
On the other hand, in the relationship between the Japanese yen and Russian ruble, ruble
depreciated against Japanese yen causing negative impact of approximately ¥50 billion or in that
order.
[Foreign Language] (47:43-47:52)
And aggregating all those different relationships between currencies, the net result was a
negative ¥115 billion.
[Foreign Language] (48:01-48:12)
And moving on to the fiscal year just begun, with respect to other currencies, there was negative
impact of the approximately ¥90 billion.
[Foreign Language] (48:23-48:31)
Just as we in the case of previous fiscal year, between U.S. dollar and Canadian dollar, the
negative impact of – in the order of ¥20 billion was caused.
[Foreign Language] (48:43-48:56)
Between U.S. dollar and Mexican peso, the negative ¥10 billion impact.
[Foreign Language] (49:03-49:09)
Between euro and Russian ruble, negative ¥20 billion.
[Foreign Language] (49:13-49:21)
And the relationship between Brazilian real and U.S. dollar because of the real depreciation. The
profit was decreased in the order of ¥40 billion.
[Foreign Language] (49:32-50:07)
Moving on to the relationship amongst the currencies other than the Japanese yen, U.S. dollar
and euro, first of all, because of the appreciation of the yen against Australian dollar, negative
¥20 billion is expected. And in relation to Canadian dollar, negative ¥5 billion is factored in. And
furthermore, because of the depreciation of the ruble against the Japanese yen, the ¥75 billion
approximately is subtracted from the profit.
And therefore, in terms of the outlook for the current fiscal year, the currencies other than the
Japanese yen and U.S. dollar and euro are likely to be a major negative factor.Okay. Great. Thank you very much. Secondly, my second question is with regard to the Financial
Services operation. Could you please give us an update on the loan loss ratio at that in the U.S. as
well as the penetration rate and your outlook for the Financial Services operation in March 2016?
Thank you very much.
[Foreign Language] (51:26-51:49)
[Foreign Language] (51:49-52:14)
Thank you for your question. With respect to the loan loss ratio in the United States, we have
solid and rigorous loan lending standards. We have been strengthening recovery efforts as well
as always practicing and implementing solid and diligent risk control. And the loan loss ratio
remains low and we are expecting loan loss ratio to remain more or less at the same level.
[Foreign Language] (52:39-52:44)
More specifically we have been controlling loan loss ratio at below 0.3%.
[Foreign Language] (52:51-53:03)
Moving on to the second question, the penetration or a share in the overall loan, in the fiscal year
just ended, the penetration was around 65%.
[Foreign Language] (53:12-53:18)
And for the fiscal year currently running, we are expecting penetration to be around 60%.
[Foreign Language] (53:26-53:50)
And in that sense, the Financial Services business is faring quite stably, and the outstanding
balance of our loan book is growing. To a certain extent, the interest margin may have declined
to a certain extent. But in terms of the profit level, we are expecting us to be able to retain more
or less the same level of profit level as in the previous fiscal year.
Thank you very much.
[Foreign Language] (54:20)
Thank you. Next, please.
Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. So, the first question I have is just – so you have your CapEx
guidance on slide 20. And I just wanted to see if you could provide a little color on how we should
think about CapEx spend in the coming years, and then just any color on capacity expansion?
And then, my second question is on your Asia unit guidance forecast. So, you guys are
forecasting volume declines, but – so last year was down, but then when I look out in this coming
year you also have one of your more important platforms, the IMV, I believe, launching. So, I just
wanted to get a sense of more color around the outlook in Asia, and whether that impact maybe
will come out in the later years or is there more potential for upside on the Asia volumes? Thank
you.
[Foreign Language] (56:08-56:55)
[Foreign Language] (56:56-57:09)Thank you for your question. As far as the CapEx is concerned, as we have already announced,
we are planning the CapEx of around ¥1.2 trillion for the current fiscal year.
[Foreign Language] (57:19-57:43)
The major specifics include the following: one of the focus point would be enhanced
technological development capabilities towards sustainable growth, that is to say, for instance,
we would like to increase investment into the facilities used for the development of fuel cells,
investment for in productivity improvement, and we intend to proactively implement investments
for the purpose of enhanced rational usage.
[Foreign Language] (58:12-58:32)
Furthermore, we would like to make investments on the priority basis to switch over our core
models. As was mentioned earlier, for the switch over of core models distributed and (58:45)
across emerging markets, we would like to make important investments. And at the same time,
we will be making priority-based investments for the first models of incorporating TNGA.
[Foreign Language] (58:59-59:30)
However, as we have been mentioning over the years, compared with back in 2008, the basic
unit for CapEx has been reduced – well, we have been engaged in activities to reduce by 40%
the basic unit for CapEx. And therefore, although we have mentioned ¥1.2 trillion in expected
CapEx, but we are not expecting CapEx to exceed that level by a large margin, for instance,
going back to the levels where we experienced ¥1.5 trillion or ¥1.4 trillion invested in CapEx. We
are not assuming or expecting that to happen.
[Foreign Language] (60:12-60:22)
Furthermore, the other day, we announced the establishment and development of new plants in
Mexico and also in Guangzhou, China.
[Foreign Language] (60:30-61:17)
And as of today, there is no other plants on put as compared with the two – ones I've just
mentioned. As we have been saying, our primary focus at this moment is on activities to
thoroughly make use of – make maximum use of existing production capacities in principle.
And in those areas where minimum necessary level need to be enhanced, we may be increasing
the ability to produce vehicles. But at the same time, even in that case compared with the past
plants or plants established in the past, anything new in the new plant will be having higher
productivity gains and enhanced competitiveness in those plants. So those are the sort of plants
we are aiming to build. And therefore, our current plan does not include any new establishment
of a new plant, other than those I have mentioned already.
[Foreign Language] (62:20-62:35)
Moving on to your second question, the volume in Asia, as far as the core models launched in
emerging markets in the fiscal year just begun, we are not assuming full contribution coming from
those core models in terms of the significant volumes.
[Foreign Language] (62:53-63:36)Furthermore, as far as those core models sold in emerging markets are concerned, they cover
diverse types of body and the destinations are quite varied and diversified. Furthermore, they are
produced in varied plants located in different countries, and therefore, it is likely to take one year
at least or even longer for switch over to be completed, because those new core models will be
produced and also launched one after another in a sporadic manner.
And therefore, the full effect generated by the introduction of those new models in terms of the
sales volume will start emerging in next fiscal year or even beyond. Having said that, I would also
like to add that as I have been saying, we intend to make every effort so that those new core
models will make every contribution possible for the increased volume for the current fiscal year.
Thank you.
[Foreign Language] (64:40)
A - Unverified Participant
Thank you. It seems there are no more questions. So, this concludes today's conference call.
Now, if you require further information, please contact our IR representatives in New York or
London. Thank you very much for joining us today. Good-bye.