Q4 2017 Earnings Call

Operator
Hello, everyone. This is the Arkadin operator. Please be aware that your line will remain muted
until the question-and-answer session begins. Please note that this call will be recorded at the
request of the hosting company.
I would now like to hand over to Mr. Hachisuka from Toyota, who will moderate today's
conference.
`Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Hello, everyone. Welcome to the financial results conference call for the fiscal year ended March
2017. I'm `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division from the Accounting Division of Toyota Motor Corporation. Today,
we have Mr. `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group, Senior Managing Officer in charge of the Accounting Group of Toyota
Motor Corporation; and Ms. Ota (01:06), our interpreter with us.
The agenda with today's conference call is the following, first, Mr. Otake will briefly discuss the
highlights of Toyota's earning results, and then Ms. Ota (01:20) will take over the rest of the
presentation. This will take about 10 minutes. After the presentation, you are welcome to ask
questions.
Please note that the presentation contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans and
expectations and our actual results may be materially different from these statements. A
complete cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statements is included on page 2 of
today's presentation material and a complete cautionary statement concerning insider trading is
included on page 3. Both of the statements can be downloaded from our Internet homepages.
Now, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Otake.
`Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. I am `Tetsuya Otake, Managing Officer & Chief Officer, Accounting Group. It's my pleasure to discuss
Toyota's financial results for the fiscal year which ended in March 2017. Let me start with slide 5.
Compared to the previous fiscal year, consolidated vehicle sales increased by 290,000 units to
8.971 million units. Vehicle sales grew year-on-year in Japan, Asia and Europe, mainly driven by
new models. This more than offset the decline in vehicle sales in the Middle East where local
economies and market suffered from weak oil prices.
Please look at slide 6. Consolidated financial results for the fiscal year were: net revenues of
¥27.5971 trillion, operating income of ¥1.9943 trillion, pre-tax income of ¥2.1938 trillion, and net
income of ¥1.8311 trillion.
Now, I'd like to hand the rest of this presentation to Ms. Ota (03:30), our interpreter.Unverified Participant
Next, using slide 7, I would like to explain the factors which impacted operating income year-on-
year. Despite the positive factors such as cost reduction and marketing efforts, operating income
was down ¥859.5 billion compared to the previous fiscal year, mainly due to the continued
appreciation of the yen and an increase in expenses. Please find the breakdown of the effects of
foreign exchange rates in the Footnote 1 in the bottom left corner of the slide. There were
altogether ¥780 billion of transactional impact of foreign exchange rates involving the U.S. dollar,
the euro and other currencies.
In addition, there was a translational impact of foreign exchange rates of ¥130 billion concerning
the operating income of overseas subsidiaries and of ¥30 billion concerning the fiscal year-end
balance of provisions in foreign currencies. Please note that these translational impacts were
previously included in the factors named other and increase in expenses, et cetera, respectively,
but are now reclassified into effects of foreign exchange rates for better clarification.
Excluding the overall impact of foreign exchange rates and swap valuation gains and losses,
operating income improved by ¥120 billion year-on-year as a result of profit improvement
activities throughout the year.
Now, I'd like to break down operating income by region, and please take a look at slide 8. In
Japan, vehicle sales increased by 215,000 units year-on-year to 2,274,000 units driven by new
models such as the Prius, Roomy, Tank and C-HR. Operating income nevertheless declined by
¥470.7 billion to ¥1.206 trillion due to the effect of foreign exchange rates and an increase in
expenses.
Please take a look at slide number 9. In North America, vehicle sales remained stable year-on-
year at 2.837 million units. Operating income was ¥330.9 billion, down ¥174.7 billion compared to
the previous fiscal year mainly due to increased incentives and monitoring activities and an
increase in expenses.
In Europe, which is shown on slide 10, vehicle sales grew by 81,000 units year-on-year to
925,000 units on the back of solid sales of the brand-new C-HR and the RAV4. Nevertheless,
operating income was down ¥87.6 billion year-on-year to a loss of ¥11.8 billion. This is mainly a
result of an increase in expenses and depreciation of local currencies such as the British pound
and the Russian ruble.
Please take a look at slide 11. In Asia, vehicle sales were up 243,000 units year-on-year to 1.588
million units, driven by new models such as the Calya, Sienta and IMV series light truck, especially
in Indonesia and the Philippines. Operating income decreased by ¥30.5 billion year-on-year to
¥424.4 billion, largely due to the effect of foreign exchange rates and the decreased exports to
the Middle East.
Please move on to slide 12. In other regions, overall vehicle sales for the fiscal year were 1.347
million units, down 247,000 units year-on-year as a result of a significant decline in vehicle sales in
the Middle East. Operating income decreased by ¥39.9 billion to ¥63.4 billion primarily due to the
negative impact of increased expenses and foreign exchange rates.
Next, please look at slide 13 for the operating income of financial services. Operating income
excluding swaps valuation gains and losses for the fiscal year declined ¥78.6 billion year-on-year
to ¥240.4 billion. Although the lending balance continued to grow, the cost related to residual
value losses increased as used car prices for passenger cars in North America deteriorated.On slide 14. Equity in earnings of affiliated companies for the fiscal year increased by ¥32.9 billion
year-on-year to ¥362 billion. This was a result of solid performance of our affiliated companies in
Japan. Next please look at slide 15, on shareholder return. With regard to the year-end dividend
on common shares, we are planning to maintain ¥110 per share.
As a result, the dividend on common shares for the fiscal year will be ¥210 per share including the
interim dividend of ¥100 per share. This is the same amount as the previous fiscal year. We
continue to aim at paying stable and sustainable dividends while using the consolidated payout
ratio of 30% as a benchmark.
Next, please move on to slide 16. We also plan to buy back up to ¥250 billion or 50 million shares
of our common stock. Adding this to the ¥199.9 billion of shares of common stock that were
repurchased as a part of shareholder return for the first half of the fiscal year, the total share
repurchase for the fiscal year which ended in March 2017 will be up to ¥449.9 billion or 79 million
shares. We intend to continue to flexibly exercise share repurchases to improve shareholder
returns and capital efficiency.
Slide 17 shows the year-on-year comparison of our shareholder return. In addition to the dividend
on common shares, we plan to pay a dividend of ¥105 per share on the Model AA Class shares
on a full-year basis.
As a result, the total amount of dividends for the fiscal year to March 2017 will be ¥632.4 billion.
Adding this to the planned share repurchase of ¥449.9 billion, the total shareholder return for the
fiscal year will be up to ¥1.0824 trillion and the total return ratio will be up to 59.1%.
Now, I'd like to move on to discuss the outlook for the current fiscal year to March 2018. And
please take a look at slide 19. Consolidated vehicle sales are expected to be 8.90 million units,
down 71,000 units year-on-year. We anticipate that vehicle sales will increase in Asia and other
regions such as Oceania and Africa, but decrease in Japan where the new model effect will be
diminishing as well as in North America.
Please move on to slide 20. Our assumptions of foreign exchange rates are ¥105 per $1 and ¥115
per €1. Based on this, our forecast of consolidated financial performance are: net revenue of
¥27.500 trillion, operating income of ¥1.600 trillion, pre-tax income of ¥1.800 trillion and net
income of ¥1.500 trillion.
Please look at slide 21. We forecast a ¥394.3 billion decrease in operating income compared to
the fiscal year which ended in March 2017. Major factors are as follows: first, the negative effect of
foreign exchange rates will be ¥110 billion, based on the assumption that the yen will appreciate
to ¥105 per $1 and ¥115 per €1.
Secondly, cost reduction efforts will be undermined by the anticipated increase in raw materials
costs and will be net ¥90 billion as a result. Thirdly, the effects of marketing activities will be
negative ¥245 billion, mainly due to an assumed increase in incentive to North America, where
competition is getting tougher. Finally, expenses, et cetera is expected to increase by ¥145 billion.
As a consequence, operating income excluding the impact of foreign exchange rates and swap
valuation gains and losses, et cetera, is expected to be down ¥300 billion year-on-year.
Next, please look at slide 22 for the outlook of R&D expenses, capital expenditures and
depreciation expenses. R&D expenses are expected to increase to ¥12.5 billion to further
promote the development of advanced and cutting-edge technologies. CapEx are expected to
increase by ¥88.2 billion compared to the previous fiscal year mainly due to investment for the
introduction of new TNG models.We are taking the outlook of this current fiscal year very seriously. We believe more profit
improvement activities need to be further pursued. We will strive to minimize the decline in
earnings by all possible means such as effective marketing activities in all regions, enhancement
of product appeal and competitiveness, reduction of fixed costs and extensive cost reduction
activities including VA and VE.
This concludes the presentation on the financial results for the fiscal year that ended in March
2017 and thank you very much for your attention.
`Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Now, we will gladly take your questions, but only up to two questions per person,
please. Further question may be possible later if time allows. You don't have to name yourselves.
Our conference call operator will explain how to connect your line.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you, Mr. Hachisuka. Today's question and answer session will be conducted electronically.
Yes. Hello. Thanks for taking the call. My first question would be on your expected production cost
savings. In your forecast on the OP variance (16:22) you say that you're expecting ¥90 billion in
production cost saving which seems quite low compared to the last fiscal year which was ¥440
billion. Now, I expect this number is net of raw material prices which could be rising, but even so, it
still seems a lower number to me given that we see the implementation of TNGA. So, I just
wondered if you could give me more details on the expectation for production cost savings, how
this number is kind of put together.
The second question is on financial services. When you released your forecast in February, you'd
said you expected financial services to lower OP by ¥115 billion. Looking at the actual results, the
negative impact is now only ¥50 billion. So, my question would be if you now think that the
outlook for financial services is better than you thought a few months ago and also if you have
included provisions for residual value losses for the next fiscal year in this fiscal year's accounts.
So, if the number – if the negative impact of ¥50 billion, if that includes provisions for the
following fiscal year? Thank you.
...for your question. First of all, I would like to give you the details of the numbers related to cost
improvement efforts. First of all, in the fiscal year just ended, the effect of cost improvement
totaled ¥440 billion. And of that, over ¥100 billion came from the reduction or decrease in raw
materials prices, which means to that extent, the cost improvement effect was improved. And so,
the figures is described on the net basis. And so this is for the year just ended, the cost
improvement benefit generated was around ¥300 billion.
In terms of the currently running fiscal year to end in March 2018, as we pointed out, the cost
improvement benefits is around ¥90 billion and this incorporates approximately ¥200 billion in
foreign prices of raw materials. That is to say while our own cost improvement efforts and our
own activities is likely to generate the benefits of slightly less than ¥300 billion, but because of
the fact that we are factoring around ¥200 billion in higher cost of raw materials, on the net basis,
that was used in coming operating forecast for the next fiscal year.
And therefore, in the fiscal year that has just begun, we will carefully monitor the evolution of the
increase in raw materials prices, how much the prices are going to increase and at the same time,the cost improvement activities that we would be implemented would be pursued so that we can
generate even higher cost improvement effects in excess of ¥300 billion per year.
With respect to your second question concerning the financial services business, in the fiscal year
just ended, when we announced the financial results for the third quarter and in the explanation
of that, in anticipation of the increase in residual loss, we – based upon that, we mentioned that
the financial services business is likely to deteriorate significantly.
However, as we entered a new year and as time passed, moving from January, February and
March, the actual results of a residual value loss became apparent, which was not as large as we
had originally anticipated. And based upon this actual track record of residual value loss, for the
fiscal year just ended, we realized that the business of financial services are not likely to
deteriorate as much as we had anticipated previously.
Moving into the following fiscal year, that is the next fiscal year, the similar tendency is likely to
continue. That is to say, it is quite clear that the residual value loss per vehicle is not likely to
increase significantly, as actual results indicate. And furthermore, the number of vehicles returned
as a result of the expiration is expected to decrease. And therefore, for those reasons, we are
expecting residual value loss to decrease for the next fiscal year.
Okay. That's great. Thank you very much.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Next question, please.
Q - Operator
Yes. Good evening. Thank you very much. Two questions, first of all, with regards to sales in
ASEAN, I note that you saw about an 18% year-on-year increase in sales in Asia last year, but now
you're only projecting a 0.8% increase this year. Within that forecast, could you comment on the
outlook for, in particular, Thailand and Indonesia, and if possible, comment on ASEAN markets in
general.
My second question is with regard to the Prius. Now that it's been remodeled under TNGA, what
has been your profitability experience? And can you comment on the relative level of profitability
for the Prius versus overall consolidated operating profitability? Thank you very much.
Thank you very much for your question. And first of all, relating to your question regarding Asia, I
would like to first of all explain about Thailand. For the current calendar year, for Thailand, we
expect the entire vehicle market to be around 807 units per year which represents 104% of the
level of the previous year.
In that general market setting, our sales is expected to be 265,000 units, which is 108% of the
previous year's level. We would like to increase our sales volume in Thailand in excess of the
market expansion itself. And a series of new models are going to be introduced, whose benefits
we intend to make full use of.
Moving on to Indonesia, the – even though the growth itself seems to be going on quite
smoothly, however, the credit standards applied when mortgage or automobile loans are taken
out, those standards have been tightened, and therefore, in terms of the diesel market itself, we
are expecting the markets to be more or less on par with the previous year or, if anything, slightly
below that of the previous year.At the same time, the market we have somewhat of a concern is India. The new emission
standards are being established and changes have been or are going to be made with the
general sales tax. And also, the collision and car safety standards are said to be tightened going
forward. And these are expected developments going forward. That makes it very difficult to
foresee and anticipate any evolution of Indian market as well as the likely sales of our own
vehicles in that market.
Under that circumstances, in terms of Asia as a whole, we are expecting some increase in vehicle
sales volume in Thailand and also markets that remain very strong, more specifically the
Philippines and Vietnam. However, there is the possibility of some negative impact stemming
from those markets I earlier mentioned and that's the reason why we anticipated only 0.8%
increase in our sales.
Your second question was related to the Prius. And the Prius was introduced as the first TNGA
model and it represents a much improved fuel efficiency, the driving performance, safety
characteristics among others, compared with the past models of Prius.
In terms of the cost, this new Prius uses the fourth generation of hybrid-related unit. And that
achieved the realization of a significant cost reduction, among others, resulting in a good
improvement in the profitability of Prius.
In terms of the relative models of overall profit versus the profitability of the Prius, using the same
exchange rate assumptions over the previous fiscal year, the profitability of Prius is somewhat
better than the overall profit.
Thank you very much.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Next question, please.
Q - Operator
Hello. Thanks for the time. Just on slide 7, the breakdown in increase in expenses, you have labor
costs of minus ¥80 billion. I wondered if you could explain why this was lower than you forecast
previously. And in contrast, the expenses, et cetera, up ¥415 billion, why that was a bigger drag? I
think you were going for ¥350 billion when you last released a forecast. Could you first of all just
explain those two changes please?
Thank you for your question. Starting with the labor cost, compared with the previously
announced, released forecast, the actual results indicated the expenses that was lower by ¥35
billion. On the full year basis, this meant increasing labor expenses or labor cost of ¥80 billion.
Yeah. I'm just wondering why, I would have thought that was a very easy to forecast number, it
seems very late in the year to make such a big adjustment.
Could you repeat the question, please?
Sorry. Excuse me. Yeah. I was just telling that seems to be a big adjustment to make to labor
costs so late in the year which I would have thought was a pretty predictable number. So, I'm
interested in why that changed quite a lot late in the year.
One factor actually relates to rather technical details, that relates to the fiscal year-end bonuses
which level it is going to be settled. And this is for the full year, included in the full year laborexpenses but since the actual payment is made in the summer, this means this amount is going
to be provided for the allowance for the bonus payment. And that's a one factor causing this
variance between the announcement made in the third quarter and the fiscal year end.
And in terms of the deterioration of expense increase, among others, of ¥65 billion, the
previously announced figure was at ¥350 billion, but actually it ended up being ¥450 billion,
deteriorating by ¥65 billion. And I'd like to explain the reason why.
There are three factors behind this. First of all, there has been an increase of around ¥80 billion in
increase in quality-related expenses. On the other hand, the actual amount of SG&A and other
expenses was lower by ¥20 billion. So, netting that out, the increase in expenses, among others,
was at ¥65 billion.
I'm sorry. Finally, just to conclude, could you explain the quality-related increase?
Over the years, based upon the actual payments made in quality-related areas, we take into
consideration the risk factors for the future. And on that basis, we estimated the overall amount
likely to be paid out in relation to quality.
At the end of every fiscal year, we make settlements relating to the field fixed expenses
between TMC on a standalone basis and TMC's overseas subsidiaries. And partly due to the
different accounting methods used in overseas subsidiaries in various parts of the world, those
quality-related expenses became quite large. And in aggregate, this caused the actual quality-
related expenses to be ¥80 billion bigger than what we released as in forecast at the end of
third quarter.
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Next, please.
Q - Operator
Good evening. Thank you for the call. My question relates to the U.S. market, it seems that a big
problem in the U.S. market is a lot of demand for SUVs and trucks versus relatively light demand
for cars, which creates problems in different parts of the business. Of course, this has been
driven by oil, which has been cheap for nearly three years. And now, you've got about 60% of
Americans now buying light trucks. So, my question is, given the length of time, is there anything
Toyota is doing to rectify the situation? And is it possible that the focus on TNGA is sapping
resources that makes it difficult to address this major shift in customer demand? Thank you.
We have been fully aware of the fact that over the past few years, the relative percentage of
SUVs and light trucks have been on the increase in the U.S. market. And we have been trying to
improve the supply situation of light trucks on our part through our activities in Texas plant, plant
in India, and also increasing the capacity of our plant in Baja California in Mexico, among others.
Although in a steady pace, but these are some of the efforts we are making to improve the
supply situation of those specific models enjoying high demand.
Furthermore, the C-HR, which is also the TNGA-based model, has been introduced afresh to the
U.S. market. This is a small SUV model. And through those means, we are trying to keep up with
the changes actually taking place in the U.S. marketplace.Furthermore in summer of this year, the largest selling model, that is the Camry, is going to be
launched in the U.S. market with a full model change and this is the TNGA-based model, the new
Camry, which uses brand-new platform, brand-new engine and also brand-new transmission, fully
reflecting everything that TNGA can offer. So while the segment in which the Camry competes is
shrinking to certain extent, but through this strong and very formidable model introduction, we
intend to fully fight and compete well in the U.S. market.
Thank you very much for the answer.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Next please.
Q - Operator
I had a follow-up question on pricing in the North American market. You talked about pressure
from increased incentives. I was just curious if you were seeing that in all segments including
crossovers and trucks and pass cars or is that something more specific to the pass car segment,
and if you think mix will offset the pressure on incentives and average transaction prices for
Toyota may actually still be up in next fiscal year?
With respect to the situations concerning incentives, the actual results of the fiscal year that
ended in March 2017 shows over $250 per vehicle increase in incentives compared with the
previous fiscal year.
In terms of incentives for different models, there's been a variety of factors come into play in that
context. For example, the freshness of the model, whether it has just been remodeled right away
or has it passed a certain time after the model change or relative positioning vis-à-vis the
competition to that particular model. And therefore, it varies depending upon those different
models.
Even in that context, the SUV-related models, which are very strong in the market, for example,
Highlander's, Tacoma's and 4Runner's, continues to be sold without any incentive offered.
In order to improve profitability for the next fiscal year, we would like to implement the sort of
things you have included or suggested in your own questions, that is to say to increase those
models that are extremely profitable or also trying to improve the model mix to be – make it
more favorable.
Okay. And then I had – second question, what are your current leasing levels in the U.S. market?
And are there plans to keep those at current levels or potentially pull back as residuals come
under some pressure and rates go up?
You are quite right, although not in any significant manner. But during the fiscal year just begun,
we are going to reduce the percentage of our leasing in our outlook.
Yeah. Sorry. That was it for me. Thank you very much.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you. Just to remind you, we have about five minutes left before concluding our discussion.
May I have the final question, please?
Q - OperatorYes. Thank you. I have, if I could, two questions. One is just your outlook on China, the Chinese
market and Toyota in China. And I do notice that your Chinese equity profits were lower last year.
So, that's my first question. Thanks.
On the calendar-year basis, for 2017 calendar year, we are expecting Chinese market to reach
29.40 million units, which represents an increase of 5% year-on-year. And in that market, our plan
for the retail sales is at least exceed the previous year's level. That is to say, we will exceed 1.21
million units.
Looking at the actual situation in the current year, that is to say in terms of our cumulative sales
between January and April, it increased by 3%. And specifically for the month of April, on the
monthly basis, sales grew by 7%. So, we would like to keep this level or trend of increase for the
entire year, so that not limiting to 1.21 million units, but would like to exceed that level as much as
possible.
So, in terms of the sales volume, it's been increasing since the beginning of this year and also it
increased in the fiscal year just ended. However, there has been some impact stemming from
exchange rate fluctuations due to the depreciation of renminbi vis-à-vis U.S. dollars. And that is
going to have a negative impact on the profit and loss situation of equity invested subsidiary in
China. And that reduced profit for fiscal year just ended and that negative factor is incorporated
in our outlook for the fiscal year just begun as a risk factors.
Thank you. And my last question is on hybrid. I've noticed that your hybrid volumes in China and in
Europe are rising quite a bit. And hybrids are increasing as a percentage of your sales in those
markets. I'm curious if you see this trend accelerating and what your plans are in terms of new
products that would allow you to extend your hybrid volumes and have that be a source of
market share growth in China and Europe? Thanks.
Thank you for your question. In terms of the volume of hybrid, the actual volume during the last
year was around 1.4 million units. And breakdown of that is slightly less than 680,000 units in
Japan and sales of 720,000 outside of Japan. In terms of the ratio vis-à-vis the previous year,
Japan sales was 107% of the previous year and that outside of Japan was 126.7% of the previous
year. So, as you correctly pointed out, especially in China and Europe, the hybrid volume has been
increasing rather significantly.
For fiscal 2017 that has just begun, our outlook is based upon the plan of around 1.47 million units
on the global sales which is 105% of the previous year's level. Especially in Europe, the
percentage of a hybrid in the overall product mix increased to slightly less than 40%, both for
Toyota and Lexus brands. In China as well, hybrid versions of the Corolla and Levin had been
extremely well received, both increasing the sales volume. That's all.
Thank you very much.
A - `Masayoshi Hachisuka, Project General Manager, Accounting Division
Thank you very much. I'm afraid our time is now up. For those of you who have further questions,
please feel free to call our IR representatives in London and New York whose details are
provided in your invitations. Thank you very much for your participation today. Goodbye.