Q4 2018 Earnings Call

Operator
Hello, everyone. This is Arkadin operator. Please be aware that your line will remain muted until
the question-and-answer session begins. Please note that this call will be recorded at the request
of the hosting company.
I would now like to hand over to Ms. Dochi (00:42) from Toyota, who will moderate today's
conference.
Unverified Participant
Hello, everyone. Welcome to our financial results conference call for the fiscal year 2018. I'm Yoko
Dochi (00:53) from Accounting Division of Toyota Motor Corporation. Today, we have Mr.
`Masayoshi Shirayanagi, Managing Executive Officer, Senior Managing Officer, in charge of the Accounting Group of Toyota
Motor Corporation, and Ms. Keiko Morita (01:08), an interpreter with us.
The agenda of today's conference call is as follows: First, Mr. Shirayanagi will lead the
presentation of our earning results. This will take about 10 minutes. After the presentation, you
are welcome to ask questions.
Please note that the presentation contains forward-looking statements, which reflect our plans
and expectations and that – our actual results may be materially different from these statements.
A complete cautionary statement concerning forward-looking statements is included in page 2 of
our presentation material and a complete cautionary statement concerning insider trading is
included in page 3. Both of the statements can be downloaded from our Internet homepages.
Now, let me hand over to Mr. Shirayanagi.
`Masayoshi Shirayanagi, Managing Executive Officer `
Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. I am `Masayoshi Shirayanagi, Managing Executive Officer. It is my pleasure to
discuss Toyota's financial results for the fiscal year which ended in March 2018.
Let me start with slide 5. Compared to the previous fiscal year, consolidated vehicle sales
decreased by 7,000 units to 8.964 million units. However, retail vehicle sales, shown on the
bottom of the slide, increased by 190,000 units year-on-year. The difference between
consolidated and retail vehicle sales is mainly due to the inclusion of increased sales of Chinese
joint venture affiliates in retail vehicle sales.
Please see slide 6. Consolidated financial results for the fiscal year were net revenue of ¥
29.3795 trillion. Operating income of ¥2.3998 trillion, pre-tax income of ¥2.6204 trillion and net
income of ¥2.4939 trillion. Please note that net income includes a positive impact of about ¥250
billion due to the U.S. tax reform. This is due mainly to the reversal of deferred tax liabilities, as aresult of the reduction in the corporate tax rate, concerning the accelerated depreciation of
these vehicles in our finance subsidiaries.
Now, I would like to hand rest of this presentation to Ms. Morita (04:06), our interpreter.
Unverified Participant
Please see slide 7. Operating income increased by ¥405.4 billion compared to the previous fiscal
years. I would like to explain the factors which impacted operating income year-on-year. First, the
positive effect of foreign exchange rate was ¥265 billion. Please find the breakdown in footnote 1
in the bottom left corner of the slide. There was a ¥215 billion of positive transactional impact of
foreign exchange rates, mainly resulting from a ¥3 depreciation against the dollar and an ¥11
depreciation against the euro. In addition, the translational impact of foreign exchange rates on
the operating income of overseas subsidiaries resulted in a ¥25 billion increase in operating
income. The impact on the fiscal year-end balance of provisions in foreign currencies resulted in
an additional ¥25 billion operating income increase.
Secondly, cost reduction efforts increased operating income by ¥165 billion as the impact of cost
reduction efforts exceeded the increase in raw materials costs. Thirdly, with respect to marketing
activities, a large increase in sales incentives in North America decreased operating income by
¥100 billion.
Finally, expenses and other factors increased operating income by ¥60 billion, due to the
decrease in costs such as product quality-related expenses. For your information, excluding the
overall impact of foreign exchange rates, swap valuation gains and losses and other factors,
operating income improved by ¥125 billion year-on-year. Compared to the previous fiscal
forecasts, at the time we announced our third quarter results, operating income represents an
improvement of ¥180 billion.
Now, I would like to elaborate on operating income for each region from the left hand side to the
right hand side on slide number 8. In Japan, vehicle sales decreased by 19,000 units year-on-year
to 2.255 million units due to the decreased vehicle sales of the Prius and Sienta. Operating
income was up ¥455.7 billion year-on-year to ¥1.6618 trillion due to cost reduction efforts during
model switchovers and marketing efforts as well as the effect of foreign exchange rates. In North
America, vehicle sales were down 31,000 units year-on-year to 2.860 million units. The negative
impact of decreased passenger vehicle sales such as that of the Corolla exceeded the positive
impact of increased SUV sales such as the RAV4.
Operating income was ¥132.1 billion, down ¥198.7 billion compared to the previous fiscal year. This
is largely a result of temporary decline in local vehicle production related to the Camry's
switchover, where production was supported by Japan, combined with increased sales incentives.
Sales incentives were mainly devoted to reducing the increase in installment and lease payments
on the back of rising interest rates.
In Europe, vehicle sales grew by 43,000 units year-on-year to 968,000 units, driven by the CHR
and hybrid vehicle models. Operating income was up ¥88.9 billion year-on-year to ¥77.1 billion.
This was mainly a result of cost reduction efforts and a decrease in expenses.
In Asia, vehicle sales were down 45,000 units year-on-year to 1,543,000 units. Operating
income, however, was up ¥4.3 billion year-on-year to ¥428.8 billion as a result of solid sales in
China and cost reduction efforts. In other regions, overall vehicle sales were up 45,000 units
year-on-year to 1,392,000 units on the back of solid sales, driven by the sales of Hilux and Etios in
Central America and South America. Operating income increased by ¥54.7 billion year-on-year to¥118.1 billion. This was primarily due to marketing efforts including increased vehicle sales and the
effect of foreign exchange rates.
Next please take a look at slide 9 for the operating income of financial services. Operating
income excluding valuation gains and losses for the fiscal year was up ¥43.4 billion year-on-year
to ¥283.9 billion. This was mainly due to an increase in lending balance, a decrease in expenses
related to loan losses and a decrease in costs related to residual value losses in the U.S. lease
business.
Next, please look at slide 10 on shareholder return. With regards to the year-end dividend on
shares of common stock, we plan to make it ¥120 per share. Thus, the dividend on shares of
common stock for the fiscal year will be ¥220 per share, including the interim dividend of ¥100
per share. This represents an increase by ¥10 per share compared to the previous fiscal year. As
a result, the payout ratio for the fiscal year will be 26.1%. We will continue to pay dividend stably
and sustainably, regardless of fluctuations in earnings using a consolidated payout ratio of 30% as
a benchmark. For your reference, excluding the temporary increase in net income due to the U.S.
tax reform, the payout ratio for the fiscal year would be 29%.
Slide 11 summarizes our shareholder returns. The total amount of dividends on both shares of
common stock and Model AA Class shares together for the fiscal year ended March 2018 will be
¥650.1 billion. We also plan to buy back up to ¥300 billion or 55 million shares of common stock
as the year-end shareholder return. Since ¥249.9 billion worth of shares of common stock were
already repurchased as shareholder return for the first half of the fiscal year, the total share
repurchase for the fiscal year which ended in March 2018 will be up to ¥549.9 billion or 88 million
shares. As a result, together with the year-end dividend, the total shareholder return for the fiscal
year will be up to ¥1.2001 billion and the total return ratio will be a maximum of 48.1%. For your
reference, excluding the temporary increase of net income due to the U.S. tax reform, the total
return ratio would be 53.4%.
Now, I would like to move on to discuss the outlook for the current fiscal year ending March 2019.
Consolidated vehicle sales are expected to be 8.95 million units, down 14,000 units year-on-year.
We anticipate that vehicle sales will increase in Asia, especially in Thailand, but decrease in Japan,
where the new model impact will be diminishing as well as in the Middle East.
Please see slide 14, we have assumed the foreign exchange rates to be ¥105 per dollar and ¥130
per euro. We thus expect the yen to appreciate by ¥16 to the dollar and remain unchanged to the
euro year-on-year.
Based on this, our forecast of consolidated financial performance are net revenue of ¥29 trillion,
operating income of ¥2,300 billion, pre-tax income of ¥2,450 billion and net income of ¥2,120
billion.
Please take a look at slide 15, we forecast a ¥99.8 billion decrease in operating income compared
to the fiscal year, which ended in March 2018. Major factors are as follows: Firstly the negative
effect of foreign exchange rate based on the assumption that the yen will appreciate to ¥5 per
dollar will be ¥230 billion.
Secondly, we anticipate that cost reduction efforts will have a positive impact on operating
income of ¥130 billion due to ongoing cost reduction activities, despite the anticipated increase in
raw material costs continuing from the previous fiscal year.
Thirdly, we estimate that the effect of marketing activities will be negative ¥50 billion mainly due
to an expected increase in sales incentives for North America on the back of rising interest rates.Finally, expense, et cetera is expected to have a positive impact of ¥50 billion due to a decrease
in product quality related expenses and other factors. As a consequence, excluding the overall
impact of foreign exchange rates and stock valuation gains and losses, operating income is
expected to be up ¥130 billion year-on-year.
In order to achieve further profit improvement, we will reinforce the Toyota production system
and pursue cost reduction efforts across the company. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity
to thank each and every one of our customers who chose our vehicles, as well as our dealers,
suppliers and all of our other stakeholders for making these financial results possible. We will
further strengthen our profitability by further reducing costs and actively investing in future
technologies. In this way, we would like to achieve our transformation from an automotive
company to a mobility company. We would appreciate your continued support and guidance.
This concludes the presentation on the financial results for the fiscal year that ended in March
2018. Thank you.
Q&A
A - Operator
Thank you, Ms. Morita (15:50). Now, we would like to take questions from you, but only up to two
questions at a time please. Further questions could be taken later if time allows. You don't have
to name yourself. Our conference call operator will now explain how to connect your lines.
Thank you, Ms. Dochi (16:15). Today's question-and-answer session will be conducted
electronically. We'll now pause for a moment to receive the first question.
Hello, thank you for the call. I've got two questions on the operating profit forecast, on the details
of the operating profit forecast. The first one is on volume model mix. You said you're expecting
a positive contribution of ¥30 billion in the coming fiscal year despite expecting flat consolidated
order sales and also what I assume is a deteriorating country mix. So I just wondered if you can
explain the forecast and elaborate on this. The second question, again on the forecast, would be
about the expenses. You expected decrease in expenses of ¥50 billion for the coming fiscal year,
with the main item here being other expenses, plus ¥165 billion. I just wondered if this is warranty-
related expenses or if you'd just give me the details on this item as well. Thank you very much.
First of all, I would like to refer to the impact of marketing or sales activities and the breakdown of
¥30 billion includes first of all the volume impact which is negative ¥10 billion due to the reduction
in volume by 14,000 units.
And contribution to the improvement in operating income mainly stems from model mix
improvement, increase in SUV and truck in North America is one of them and also in Europe, the
hybrid models are increasing, adding ¥30 billion. So together they represent a ¥40 billion
improvement.
About your second question, the reduction in expenses by ¥150 billion, improvement therein by
¥150 billion, your point is quite correct. That is to say, the improvement in quality-related
expenses, reduction of that by ¥170 billion contributes to the increasing operating income.
The specifics of a decrease in quality-related expenses includes first of all the reduction in a
number of field fix cases and also the fact that the expenses actually required for conducting field
fix has also come down and together, they contributed to the overall reduction in quality-related
expenses.Thank you.
Thank you.
Could I take the next question, please?
Yes, thank you very much for the call today. My first one is actually a follow-on from that last
question in terms of the expenses. Could you perhaps just give us a bit more clarity on the huge
¥210 billion of boost for the last fiscal year that came from the other expenses? And I'm also
interested in why that was so much higher than you assumed the Q3 numbers when you had your
forecast? And my second question, actually I'll come in for second question after that one.
Thanks.
This improvement by ¥210 billion also relates to the reduction in quality-related expenses, which
came down by ¥300 billion and that boosted the operating income by ¥210 billion.
And sorry, so why was that so much higher than you assumed at Q3, it sounds an awful – a
massive change just in this last quarter?
Our consideration or announcements made at the time of the financial results announcement for
the third quarter was very conservative and actually the number of cases of field fix decreased
that much more and that has appeared very, very conspicuously thereafter. And those
improvement was incorporated in the fourth quarter results.
Okay. Thank you. And my second question is just I'm interested in why you're assuming a lower
drag from labor costs in this fiscal year than you saw last fiscal year?
Especially in the emerging countries, the inflation has been more or less coming down and
therefore compared with the fiscal year that has just ended, the burden or increasing personnel
expenses has been slower.
Okay. Thank you very much.
[Foreign Language] (25:51).
...question – a longer-term question really relating to China and a potential reduction in tariffs.
Could you talk about the impact that Toyota sees or the opportunity Toyota sees from a
reduction in tariffs into China and how that would impact your Lexus business in particular and the
extent to which you would be able to increase production where demand should be quite a lot
stronger? Thank you.
The specifics of tariff reduction have not been announced and made public. And therefore, we
have not been able to confirm how much impact is likely to be generated by that. However, over
the long term, the elimination of tariffs we believe would represent a positive direction.
Thank you.
Thank you. Can I have the next question, please?
Yes, hello. Thank you again. I've got two other follow-up questions. One would be on profitability
in North America. In the fourth quarter, you recorded an operating loss. It was smaller than last
year's Q4 loss. But I think last year's Q4 loss included high warranty expenses, so it looks still like
a deterioration. And I just wondered if you can elaborate a little bit on the profitability situation in
North America. And the second question relates to this one as well, it's about your outlook forfinancial services. I think you expect huge (29:47) impact on – coming from financial services is on
OP in the current fiscal year, which would suggest no deterioration in residual values or higher
loan losses. And I just wondered if you could give us some details on your outlook for financial
services? Thank you.
First of all, with respect to the profitability situation of North America during the fourth quarter,
overall compared with the same period previous fiscal year, the profitability improved by ¥31.9
billion. And specifically include the point you have just mentioned, that is to say in terms of the
reduction in expenses, that reduction includes improvement made in quality-related expenses
totaling ¥80 billion.
On the other hand, the – relating to marketing and sales activities, the volume and also increase
in sales expenses reduced the operating income by ¥45 billion and netting that out is the end
result figure mentioned earlier.
Moving on to your second question relating to financial services, specifically the situation relating
to residual value loss as well as loan loss in general, let me first of all refer to the residual value
loss. From two years ago to last fiscal year, that is to say up until the fiscal year ending in March
2018, the 24-month lease decreased, which resulted in the number of vehicles that had to be
disposed of or that had to be resold. And also the model mix improved and those resulted in the
improvement of the residual value loss.
Moving on to the outlook for the current fiscal year, in the industry in general, the end-of-lease
vehicles are increasing in number and taking that into account as a risk factor, we are now coming
up with a forecast.
The loan loss situation also shows an improvement, that is to say two years ago, loan loss ratio
stood at 0.41%, which improved to 0.39% in the fiscal year just ended, representing an
improvement by 0.08 percentage points.
Thank you. Could I move on to the next questions, please then?
Yes, hello. Thank you for taking this call. Quality-related expenses are clearly coming off a lot and I
wonder when you look at your March 2019 forecasts, the quality-related costs as a percentage of
sales, are they now normalized or if there's scope for these quality-related expenses to fall
further in future years?
The quality-related expenses reflect the fact that we are still causing inconveniences and troubles
to the customers and therefore we do not think that any specific level should represent a
normalized level of the quality-related expenses. Rather, we will try to minimize those quality-
related expenses as much as possible by improving the quality further so that the quality-related
expenses can be reduced further, minimized or possibly down to the zero.
Thank you.
Hello. Thank you for taking another question. I wonder if I could just ask for some more details on
the cost reductions. Could you please break down the ¥165 billion of cost reductions for this year
as far as you can starting to (38:08) include raw materials and the same for the ¥130 billion for
next year please?
The specific content of this ¥165 billion includes negative ¥170 billion due to the increase in raw
materials that that is due to the market price fluctuations. So that's a negative factor,
deterioration. However, the actual gross cost reduction generates ¥335 billion and these comefrom new products, improvement in plant and activities, the improvement in logistics, with higher
efficiency of operations, among others.
¥130 billion for the current fiscal year includes the negative ¥170 billion, stemming from higher raw
material expenses or costs and therefore the gross cost savings totaled ¥300 billion.
Thank you. Let's...
Sorry, could I just ask, ¥170 billion of raw material in the last year, could you break that down at all
between different materials?
So, the raw materials actually reflected a substantial broad based increase in prices including
crude oil, steel and materials, aluminium, among others, but please allow me to refrain from
referring to the specifics.
I'm sorry, just my second question was acutely on volumes. Looking at the volume forecast for
this year, you're looking for declines in four of the five regions. I just wonder, if you can explain –
did you feel that that's a slowdown in your new model delivery or is there a cautious view on
global markets and are you assuming share declines with those forecasts?
Let me describe the situation in each region, starting with Japan domestically. While we do
forecast the 65,000 unit reduction in overall volume, but we will aim at achieving the same
market share as the previous fiscal year.
And for North America, while the market is expected to come down a little bit, we intend to sell
at least the same volume as the previous fiscal year, which means we're expecting increasing our
shares.
Our expected share for Europe actually reflects a reduction, but in terms of our approach, we aim
of at least the same level as the previous year or, if anything, higher than that. And in Asia, we
would like to solidly increase the market share, especially centering around Thailand.
Okay. Thank you very much.
Could I take the next question please?
Yes. Thank you. I just wondered you did – you mentioned that you expected stronger volume in
Thailand. I wonder if you could give us your outlook for your volumes in Thailand and some of the
other Southeast Asian regions as well as for China in the new fiscal year. That's my first question.
Thank you.
For Thailand, we're expecting the market for 2018 to be 900,000 units, which is 103% of the year
before and we are planning to sell 300,000 units, which represents 125% of the previous year. In
other words, we were aiming to sell more rapidly than the market growth.
I do not have any concrete figure with me with respect to the market and also our own sales plan
for Indonesia and India as well. But in terms of our basic approach there, we would like to
continue to introduce the new models and conduct various sales and marketing promotion
activities to increase our sales in those markets as much as possible.
The market in China for 2018 is expected to be 29.98 million units, a 4% increase from the
previous year's level. And we are planning to sell, on the part of Toyota, 1.4 million units, which is
109% of the previous year's level. So this indicates that we are trying to sell more than the market
growth.Since you asked for details, allow me to add that in terms of the specific model names, in
November last year, we introduced the new model of Camry, which is doing very strongly in the
market. And in addition to that, in the middle of this year, we're going to introduce the C-HR as
well as IZOA, both of which are TNGA-based and extremely appealing to the customers as well.
So these are the measures that we're going to promote it further (48:25).
Thank you. My second question is on electrification. Within the last few years, Toyota has
announced at least one new company dedicated toward electrification. The most recent
announcement was the company named, I believe it's Esprit. I wonder if we could get an update
on Toyota's electrification efforts. I know you announced two plug-in hybrids for China recently.
Including that, could you provide any detail on your spending for electrification and/or any new
product announcements or product plans that you could share with us and I do see that your R&D
is expected to rise this year as well as your CapEx too, it might be a record high CapEx number.
I'm curious if you could give us any sense of how much of this might be related to electrification.
Thank you.
Right. As you correctly pointed out, we established the company called EV C.A. Spirit, which is
dedicated to the development of our EV, jointly with Mazda and Denso. And more recently
altogether, we were joined by other carmakers and altogether seven companies have
engineered and seconded engineers to this newly established company and the newly
established company is now engaged in the development of a fundamental structure for electric
vehicles applicable to mini-vehicles, passenger cars, SUVs and small trucks.
And other initiatives include our announcement of a collaboration with Panasonic because the
electric vehicles – the battery for that is of vital importance and therefore, last year, we
announced the collaboration with Panasonic and we are now studying the development – joint
development of those batteries for EV, which need to be – the development of competitive
batteries for EV.
With respect to China, they do have NEV regulations as well as fuel economy regulations and,
therefore, we tend to be very proactive and assertive when it comes to the environmentally
relevant vehicle development.
And more concretely in 2015, we introduced the hybrid versions of the Corolla and Levin, and
both have been extremely welcomed by the market. Hybrid vehicles are not included as new
energy vehicles, but they are very – they offer an extremely effective solution in addressing
environmental issues and fuel economy.
More specifically, in responding to and meeting NEV regulations next year, we are going to
introduce PXB (53:56) versions of the Corolla Levin.
Furthermore in 2020, we are going to introduce EV based upon C-HR and IZOA in China ahead
of our activities or introduction in other parts of the world.
In addition, we have been introducing few SUVs and we are conducting road demonstration
testing in China to further explore the potential of these offers in the future in China. Aiming at
selling 5.5 million units of electrified vehicles globally, we will continue to take very aggressive and
proactive efforts for electrification in China and other parts of the world. And allow me to refrain
from responding to your question about research and development expenses as well as the
CapEx.
Okay. Thank you. And just out of curiosity, is the CapEx number for this year are historical high or
is it still below the high of 10 years or more ago? Thank you.CapEx is not the record-high level for the current year, but research and development expenses
are the highest in historically – historical level.
Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much.
A - Unverified Participant
Thank you. I'm afraid our time is nearly up. So may I suggest to conclude today's conference call?
If you have further questions or require more information please contact our IR representative for
North America or for Europe whose details are provided in (00:56:37) your presentation
invitation. Thank you very much for joining us today. Goodbye.