Y 2019 Earnings Call

Presentation
Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much for taking time out of your occupied schedule to join us today for this
briefing. We would like to start the Financial Results Announcement for Fiscal year 2019 the first
part. Now let me introduce to you the Executive Officers facing you, `Koji Kobayashi, Executive Vice President, Executive
Vice President.
`Koji Kobayashi, Executive Vice President `
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen.
Unidentified Speaker
Senior Executive Officer, `Masayoshi Shirayanagi, Operating Officer.
`Masayoshi Shirayanagi, Operating Officer `
Nice to meet you all.
Unidentified Speaker
First of all, Shirayanagi will share with you the financial results outline and after that, we will have
Q&A session, At the very outset of the presentation materials distributed to you, the cautionary
statements with respect to forward-looking statements is mentioned, so please go through that.
So first of all, Shirayanagi is going to share with you the financial results outline.
`Masayoshi Shirayanagi, Operating Officer `
My name is `Masayoshi Shirayanagi, Operating Officer. Thank you very much for joining us today for the
announcement of our financial results. First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to thank our
customers who chose us as well as our stakeholders who support us. Thank you indeed very
much. Our heartfelt gratitude goes to all of you. It is my pleasure to discuss Toyota's financial
results for the fiscal year, which ended in March 2019.
Compared to the previous fiscal year, consolidated vehicle sales increased by 13,000 units to
8,977,000 million units. This was the result of that are solid sales, mainly in Asia. The consolidatedfinancial results for the fiscal year were, net revenue of JPY30,225.6 billion, operating income of
JPY2,467.5 billion pre-tax income of JPY2,285.4 billion and net income of JPY1,882.8 billion. While
both net revenue and operating income increased, net income decreased by JPY611.1 billion year-
on-year. This is largely due to the specified factors that net income of the same period of the
previous fiscal year includes a positive impact of JPY249.6 billion due to the US tax reform and
that net income of the fiscal year that ended in March 2019 includes a negative impact of
JPY293.7 billion of unrealized gains and losses on securities due to the market deterioration
during such fiscal year.
I would like to explain the factors which impacted operating income year-on-year. Firstly, the
effect of foreign exchange rates decreased operating income by JPY50 billion due to the
depreciation of local currencies in emerging countries. Secondly, cost reduction efforts increased
operating income by JPY80 billion, as the impact of cost reduction efforts exceeded the
increasing raw material costs.
Thirdly, marketing efforts increased operating income by JPY275 billion due to improved product
mix in North America, Europe and Asia, as well as improved profitability and financial services.
Finally, expenses decreased operating income by JPY165 billion due to an increase of labor costs,
mainly in Japan, Asia and North America. As a result, excluding the overall impact of foreign
exchange rates, swap valuation gains and losses and other factors, operating income improved
by JPY190 billion year-on-year.
Now, I would like to elaborate on operating income for each region from the left hand side to the
right hand side of the slide. In Japan, vehicle sales decreased by 29,000 units year-on-year to
2,226,000 units due to the diminished effects of new models. Operating income was up JPY28.6
billion year-on-year to JPY1,690.4 billion, mainly as a result of cost reduction efforts and marketing
efforts.
In North America vehicle sales were down 61,000 units year-on-year to 2,745,000 units as a
result of a temporary impact due to the preparation for model switch-overs such as the Corolla
and RAV4. The operating income was JPY144.1 billion, up JPY11.9 billion compared to the previous
fiscal year. As for sales incentives, we were controlling them more adequately by efficiently
allocating them to key models, and the total amount of sales incentives decreased compared to
the previous fiscal year.
In Europe, vehicle sales due -- grew by 26,000 units for year-on-year to 994,000 units, driven by
hybrid vehicles models such as the C-HR. Operating income was up JPY44 billion year-on-year to
JPY121.1 billion. This was mainly due our marketing efforts and the reduction in expenses. In Asia,
vehicle sales were up 141,000 units year-on-year to 1,684,000 units, driven by solid sales in
Thailand, and China. Operating income was up JPY24.9 billion year-on-year to JPY453.7 billion,
mostly as a result of marketing efforts such as increased vehicle sales.
In other regions, overall vehicle sales were down 65,000 units year-on-year to 1,327,000 units to
declined vehicle sales in the near and Middle East. Operating income decreased by JPY28.5
billion year-on-year to JPY89.5 billion. This was largely due to depreciation in local currencies and
an increase in raw material costs.
Next, let me explain our consolidated subsidiaries and equity-method affiliates in China by using
slide 9. Please note that fiscal year end of our companies in China is in December, therefore
earnings of these companies reflects the earnings from January to December whose numbers
are reflected in Toyota's consolidated financial results for the fiscal year ended in March the
following year.Retail sales in China increased by 184,000 units to 1,487,000 on the back of solid sales for both
Toyota and Lexus models. Operating income of consolidated subsidiaries increased by JPY21.3
billion year-on-year to JPY150.6 billion. Equity in earnings of equity-method affiliates were up
JPY16 billion year-on-year to JPY104.9 billion and both these numbers increased thanks to
marketing efforts. In addition, we are steadily pursuing our activities in China such as the recent
release of EV under the Toyota brand announced at Shanghai Motor Show as well as the
establishment of a joint research institute with Tsinghua University.
Next please stay slide 10 for the operating income of Financial Services. Operating income
excluding swap valuation gains and losses for the fiscal year was up JPY58.3 billion year-on-year
to JPY342.3 billion. This was mainly due to an increasing lending balance and a decrease in costs
related to residual value losses.
Next, please look at slide 11 on shareholder return. With regards to the year-end dividend on
shares of common stock, we plan to make it JPY120 per share. Thus the dividend on shares of
common stock for the fiscal year will be JPY220 per share, including the interim dividend of
JPY100 per share and the payout ratio for the fiscal year will be 33.8%. We will try to pay
dividends steadily and sustainably.
Next please see slide 12. We plan to buy -- buyback up to JPY300 billion or 50 million shares of
common stock as the year-end shareholder return. Since JPY249.9 billion worth of shares of
common stock were already repurchased as shareholder return for the first half of the fiscal year,
the maximum share repurchase for the fiscal year which ended in March 2019 will be up to
JPY549.9 billion or 86 million shares. As a result, together with the year-end dividend, the total
return ratio will be a maximum of 63% and we will flexibly repurchase our common shares
considering our cash reserves and share prices.
Now, I'd like to move on to discuss the forecast for the current fiscal year ending March 2020.
Consolidated vehicle sales are expected to be 9 million units, up 23,000 units year-on-year. We
anticipate that vehicle sales will increase steadily in Asia and Europe. For your information, as
described at the bottom of the slide, we anticipate that the retail vehicle sales will be 10.74 million
units, up 137,000 units year-on-year. This is largely due to an increase in anticipated retail sales in
China.
Please see slide 15. We have assumed the foreign exchange rates to be JPY110 per dollar and
JPY125 per euro. Based on this, our forecast of consolidated financial performance, are, net
revenue of JPY30 trillion, operating income of JPY2,550 billion, pretax income of JPY2,720 billion
and net income of JPY2,250 billion. Please note that the impact of unrealized gains and losses on
securities are not reflected in the above-forecasts.
Now please see slide 16, which compares operating income forecast for this fiscal year with the
results of the previous year. Firstly, the negative effect of Forex rates will be JPY170 billion.
Second, we anticipate that cost reduction efforts will have a positive impact on operating income
of JPY110 billion due to ongoing cost reduction activities despite the anticipated increase in raw
material costs continuing from the previous fiscal year. Thirdly, we estimate that the effects of
marketing activities will be negative JPY20 billion and the effect of expense will be negative
JPY15 billion.
As a consequence, excluding the overall impact of Forex rates and swap valuation gains and
losses, operating income is expected to be up JPY75 billion year-on-year. Please note that
positive JPY177.5 billion of others reflects the changes in depreciation method from the decliningbalance method to the straight-line method following the usage of equipment, which results in
positive JPY150 billion year-on-year.
We would appreciate your continued support and guidance. This concludes my presentation on
the financial results of the fiscal year ending in March 2019.
Questions And Answers
A - Unidentified Speaker
Ladies and gentleman, at this juncture we would like to open the floor for questions from you
(Operator Instructions). Furthermore, I would like to receive questions as many participants as
possible, so please allow me to ask you to restrict to two questions per person. The person in
the front row at the (inaudible), please.
Q - Unidentified Participant
(inaudible) is my name. I have my question -- two questions addressed to Mr. Kobayashi, EVP. In
terms of the overall assessment of our financial results for fiscal 2019 is my question. The
competition where the non-automotive players could become even fiercer, so how do you
access the financial results? And for the first time, the net revenue exceeded JPY30 trillion. So if
you could include that in your assessment, how you feel about that?
Secondly, Toyota or -- and Mr. Kobayashi has been taking the lead in -- taking initiatives to
improve cost. Mr. Kobayashi, you have been saying that you're going to make Toyota more
muscular in terms of its constitution. How far have you made progress till date? And in terms of
the positive profit contributing effective of course improvement, for the full-year basis you talked
about JPY110 billion for March 2020. Is this the appropriate level or do you need to further take
initiatives to improve cost?
A - `Koji Kobayashi, Executive Vice President `
First of all, in terms of my own assessment of the financial results, earlier I said in -- I only gave
negative assessment and I gave the impression that nobody is working hard enough. And
therefore, I think I need to give you more elaborately detailed answer. In terms of the volume of
activities or the size that is reflected in volume -- and therefore the volume is important reflecting
the physique of the Company, but as a result, the net revenue exceed -- reached JPY30 trillion.
But in terms of my value -- evaluation of that, compared with the previous year the market share
increased by 0.1 percentage point, which shows the outcome and the result of our customers
supporting us as well as each employee is making maximum efforts. So probably, the net revenue
has been quite satisfactory. The problem can be found in cost. We have been taking initiatives in
various ways and that has been well-established. For example, the incentives in North America,
starting in the fourth quarter -- so after third quarter, but into the fourth quarter it has turned into
the negative increase, which means incentives are now used more intelligently or more efficiently
than in the past. But the incentives is required when you're faced with competition.
Q - Unidentified Participant
So, what are the major competitors facing our model? Who are we competing against? And what
sort of activities we do would make customers happier?
A - `Koji Kobayashi, Executive Vice President `So analyzing the situation in greater detail in terms of regions and customers and competitors,
we were able to use incentives and allocate incentives more smartly. But what is important is, if
you use more incentives you'll face problem. that is to say that greater incentive depreciates the
value of the product itself and therefore, without incentives we need to deliver customer -- need
-- provide customers with new products because that paves the way for the next model or next
purchase, that is to say when -- in the used car market in the form of a -- residual values, the
appropriate usage of incentives or lower incentive seems to be more effective.
And in addition to that, we were faced with higher prices, especially steel materials among
others. Through cost reduction efforts, we've been able to offset that. But we attained the cost
reduction improvement over JPY300 billion.
Q - Unidentified Participant
I heard you've set a target of JPY600 billion?
A - `Koji Kobayashi, Executive Vice President `
We didn't quite reach that level this time. The cost reduction have produced or saved JPY250
billion, because the connective case -- and in order to enhance the performance of the product,
we had to spend some money for investing in the development. And the cost improvement was
not able to fully offset that. However, next year we would like to grow up to JPY400 billion or
JPY500 billion. All 370,000 employees were giving their maximum efforts, probably we can
generate JPY400 billion in terms of cost reduction benefits. I think we should be able to achieve
that.
And in some quarters I hear -- well, let me explain what sort of concrete activities we have been
engaged in terms of cost reduction. We do not use the term cost cutting or cost cut because --
let me explain the reason why. The employees -- the activities of 370,000 employees represent
the cost and using that cost, we can generate the value of the vehicles and that's the concept of
Toyota. And that is why the present Toyota constantly say that we need to regain our ability to
refine cost that all employees refining cost will be able to offer better cars at better prices. And
therefore, we have been accelerating those initiatives since last year.
Take for instance, in terms of our research and development efforts we use prototypes for --
we're evaluating or assessing the new model to be developed but we have been taking more
initiatives. I mean engineers wants to assess and evaluate many items at the same time. If you
line up individual items -- individually, we don't have to make many prototypes at once,
And air condition equipment may not be the item to be assessed, but unless you incorporate
that, you won't be able to analyze the stiffness or rigidity of the people. So rather than using air
conditioner, probably we can simply compare the rigidity, for example. So through those new
means, we've been able to reduce the research and development and those prototyping costs
to one half of what it used to be. And working with suppliers, rather than asking for general
reduction in cost, we try to work together thinking new ways or materials of making cars or
coming up with new designs. Of course, this takes longer time but we began to do that.
Working together and by generating new ideas each other, the things that employees of TMC
simply cannot think of have been generated by supplier [ph] employees. So based upon win-win
relationship, we were able to reduce the cost including the prices of the purchased parts, for
example. And this may not be something that I should be making -- publicly commenting on, but
those -- the clerical employees, and we use a lot of stationeries and other (multiple speakers),
we find a lot of ways in those areas. I'm sure you may be using many pencils, but you only useone pencil at a time, you only need one pencil. So by analyzing those, we are able to reduce the
actual cost.
And we now have the mentality well set in that we need to work together in finding new ways of
reducing cost. It's not that if you give instructions the outcome can be obtained, but spending
enough time -- and once the 370,000 people do have full ownership of taking initiatives for cost
reduction, I'm sure we'll be able to come up with better cars and at the same time, we will be
able to come up with the product that customers are willing to pay. Did I answer your question?
Q - Unidentified Participant
Yes, I'm satisfied.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Move on to the next question then, please. Yes, the person -- second row from the front, please.
Q - Unidentified Participant
My name is (inaudible). My first question is about to the United States. Earlier, Vice President,
Kobayashi, said that in about 2020 that he wants to bring up to peak your profit margin for each
destination and you only know about the operating income for each region but I think this is
improving. So (inaudible) reforms, perhaps you may not be able to bring it up to the peak, but
how is your reforms proceeding and what's your feeling about the achievement of those goals?
The second question is about China for the first time you disclosed the Chinese operations and
the operating income for that. And due to the Nexus price reduction last year, I think that has an
effect, but you may be suffering from a backlash of price reduction and of course the additional
tariffs imposed by the United States may reduce the economic growth. So how do you view the
future? And I believe that against the annual target of 60 -- 1.6 million sales, vehicle sales a year,
do you think you can achieve it -- for the United States, 8%?
A - `Koji Kobayashi, Executive Vice President `
Our operating margin is about 8%, so we want to bring it up to that level in all regions but we are
still at a snail's pace -- working at snail's pace. However, our colleagues in the United States are
really taking this goal seriously. They have begun to take seriously. And last year I myself and also
President Toyota went to the United States to listen first hand to what they have to say and to
see and feel the situation. We are seeing signs of improvement. One is about the incentive, as I
said, but that's not the only reason. For example, improving -- first improve the productivity of the
plants and also to identify all of the cost items and assign each to a chief team head to reduce it.
And we also relocated our headquarters to Texas. Now, we were all dispersed across the country
and so there was a doubling of accounts, there was some redundancy of accounting, but we are
now able to reduce that redundancy in accounting. And of course as you know, the SUV, truck
ratio is increasing. Highlander has also been launched. And so, the high margin products which the
customers desire are actually becoming a majority of our lineup. So I have not actually lowered
the flag yet and by the fiscal year 2021, we want to bring the margin up to about 8%. We're
making that effort.
As for China, as you know, well we are still 1 lap behind when comes to China. Other companies
are selling maybe 4 million or 2 million in China and thanks to our customers, we were able to
achieve 1.47 million, but this is partly due to the reduction in tariffs. And another point is thein the inland areas, the cars are not prevalent yet. Therefore, we're taking some measures --
countermeasures to launch more affordable, smaller compact cars in order to gain widespread
acceptance.
And the Chinese market is a 28 million market, and I saw in a newspaper the US and Chinese
trade friction is increasing, but China has a population of 1.3 billion people, so although there may
be some twists and turns I believe that the number of customers will increase, shall increase and
we will develop to those customers, including hybrid products, and overcome the national
restrictions and regulations and provide fine-tuned services to the customers so that we can
increase our sales. But it will be very difficult to increase the sales overnight. We need steadfast
and step by step improvements in China.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much. I would like to entertain the next question. The person in the center row,
maybe third row from the front row please, the person with the hand up.
Q - Unidentified Participant
(inaudible). I have two major questions. In relation to purchasing and procurement, the cost
reduction is going to be continued in the new fiscal year as well, but looking at individual
companies within Toyota Group and looking at the financial results of the fiscal year just ended or
the year beginning, the cost reduction seems to be getting more and more and suppliers are
spending more time in relation -- more many in relation to case. So while we talk about working
together to improve costs but of the same time, the suppliers in the, the Toyota Group seems to
be suffering a great deal. I mean, trying to enhance competitiveness together must be the basic
premise, but in terms of your procurement strategy going forward, because you share with us
your view, even if the Company does not belong to Toyota Group, are you willing to procure from
outside of the Group? I do understand that, that policy has been conveyed as well to a certain
extent. So while trying to enhance competitiveness, how are you foreseeing some change in the
procurement, both inside the Group and outside the Group?
Secondly, you are the top shareholder of Akebono Brake company and it is now restructuring and
they're trying to change the business. And as a company, it issued a comment that you're going
to work together with Akebono to improve the production. If you're of requested to inject capital,
are you willing to do that? Of course, if you cannot purchase those brake equipment or
components from Akebono you will face a serious difficulty, not just Toyota but other companies
as well. So as far as you're concerned, as in a single company, what is your attitude or stance vis-
a-vis Akebono?
A - `Koji Kobayashi, Executive Vice President `
Well, I should be responding to that question, but the person who used to be in charge of
procurement is with me, so I would like to Mr. Shirayanagi to answer that question.
A - `Masayoshi Shirayanagi, Operating Officer `
As we mentioned before, the 10-day holiday period, the Group companies announced their
financial results and many companies announced increased revenue but decreased profit. And I
realized that the situations in environment must be very tough. The factors are similar to ours as
skyrocketing raw materials prices or the increase in R&D development or keeping at least at the
same level the R&D expenses for advanced technological areas. And therefore, in order to
enhance our readiness for case together with us those group companies are making advancedinvestment for advanced technological field. And that's the impression I received by looking at
the financial results announcement.
As far as we're concerned, we strongly believe that we need to work together to enhance
competitiveness together. Different companies do have different difficulties. Some accompanies
do say that parts for Toyota is very difficult to make and we hear about that and for those --
standards are concerned, we are going to revise those wherever possible, not leaving anything
unattempted. And also what should be the cost, how should we achieve the cost that is
acceptable to customers. From the very early stage of the development and design, we've
worked together to come up the appropriate level of cost. So, we will emphasize TPS together
with the suppliers as well as. And we really must enhance and hone our competitiveness and
that's the awareness shared by those Group companies and ourselves.
And if I may add a further comment, the quality standards, and it seems Toyota has solid quality
standards and if anything, it is even added and made even stringent. And we are now going to
put that under the wholesale review. Looking at the current way of making things -- materials
available now, we are going to re-examine those quality standards as well. If a certain component
is added or combined with other components, we say that there should be no noises so to
speak. If those components are classed to others or dent [ph] to others, there should not be any
noise. But in certain cases if you board them together, certain very detailed standards may not be
necessary. So, these are the detailed areas that we are reviewing right now in terms of our
standard. We are thrilled to have the system overall, that is to say in the context of overall things
we consider whether this needs to be really necessary, whether the handle should be located
there or not, so these are some of the detailed aspects that are placed under the strict scrutiny.
And this should be quite useful to suppliers as well.
As far as Akebono is concerned, we have not received any request for capital injection and
therefore, we have not considered at all. But as you pointed out in your question, the brake
business for Akebono to be able to run a viable brake business to enhance the productivity and
enhance their competitiveness, we are willing to work closely together in every aspect of that.
Next question please.
A - Unidentified Speaker
So the person at the very front of the back section. Yes?
Q - Unidentified Participant
(inaudible). Regarding next fiscal year, your sales -- vehicle sales will increase but net revenue will
be reduced by JPY225 billion. So I guess that the exchange rate effect would be about JPY280
billion. So the increase in sales of volume and the reduction in net revenue means that you will be
shifting to low priced cars. Is that the idea?
Well, this year was the reverse. For example, in Europe we sold a lot of hybrids and they are, of
course, high-margin, high-priced products. So, our net of revenue increase despite the not so
high increased in sales -- vehicle sales, so it all depends on the model. In Japan, the Corona is
selling well, so our finances are pretty good. So, it's -- actually in effect that's the model mix that
led to that. So, there is no fundamental what's wrong -- what's right or what's wrong, Corolla
Sport of is included.
A - Unidentified SpeakerNext question please? The person second from the row in front.
Q - Unidentified Participant
(inaudible). One question, to whom should I address it? Maybe Mr. Shirayanagi. It relates to
foreign exchange rates. Okay, for March 2020 the foreign currency is expected to be a negative
factor to reduce the profit. The yen-dollar JPY110 and the euro, JPY125; at this point the dollar is
JPY109 and euro is JPY123 vis-a-vis EUR1. So, you are expecting yen appreciation. And what is the
risk scenario? What is the impact of such risk scenario of even stronger yen? And in relation to
that, you're going to accelerate the business activities in emerging countries and I think when it
comes to the emerging country currencies, it seems that the Forex loss seems to have increased
somewhat. What are the specific impacts occurred in specific countries. Could you share that
information with us, in which country did you have greater currency loss?
A - `Koji Kobayashi, Executive Vice President `
As you pointed out, as far as Forex is concerned, we produced 3 million units in Japan. We export
some vehicles to foreign market, so we are impacted by currency movements. You talked about
the dollar-euro, currently the yen has strengthened, as you pointed out, and the currency
assumption is 110 and 125. These are not forecast based, but basically it is the prevailing
exchange rate at the end of March and we lowered that unit of JPY5. So, that's the manner in
which they make the currency assumption. So with the prevailing rate is different, that affect the
actual outcome.
In terms of emerging country currencies, the impact therein for the current fiscal year, in terms of
other currencies we had the impact of JPY110 billion. The major ones include Aussie dollar, yen
appreciated vis-a-vis Aussie dollar; and Can dollar, yes also appreciated against the Canadian
dollar; and yen appreciated against GBP; and also yen appreciated vis-a-vis Russian ruble. So,
appreciation of yen against those currencies subjected from the profit.
A - Unidentified Speaker
(technical difficulty). So, may we move on to the next question? The third person from the front?
Q - `Sean Macquarie, Analyst, Wall Street Journal
`Sean Macquarie, Analyst, Wall Street Journal [ph] from the Wall Street Journal. I was wondering if you could explain this new
stock compensation plan that you plan to send to the Board, explain what the purposes is. It looks
like you're reducing the cash compensation for Directors but increasing stock compensation. Will
that increase overall compensation for Board of Directors and what's the intention here? (Foreign
Language).
A - `Koji Kobayashi, Executive Vice President `
(Foreign Language). For those people, about executive officers who are in charge of activities, at
this moment the remuneration is mostly in cash and by paying in shares they can be engaged in
longer-term strategic activities. And based upon that, we've decided to pay certain amount of
remuneration in equities. But the aggregate total amount will not change. So in terms of the
breakdown, we are going to pay a part of the total compensation in stages [ph]. Did I answer
your question?
A - Unidentified SpeakerThere may be more questions, but since this is close to the closing time, perhaps we can
entertain one or two additional questions. So, any further questions?
Q - Unidentified Participant
Yes. (inaudible). I was wondering, you mentioned that you wanted to increase your operating
margins in North America to run 8% in the next year or so. That sounds very ambitious, given that
operating margins are around the 1% level at the moment. Can you give us some specific
examples of how you're planning to achieve this? Thank you.
A - `Koji Kobayashi, Executive Vice President `
No, it does not. (Foreign Language). No, as I said earlier, first of all, in North America, as you know,
the proportion of SUV and trucks is increasing. Corolla, Camry, we do sell such sedans, but other
companies are selling more trucks because of the higher margin -- price margin on trucks, as you
know, because there are larger vehicles. So, that would be one major change that we will
institute.
As for internal efforts, as I said earlier, of course regarding our sales to marketing costs, we want
to -- including various propaganda, et cetera, we want to utilize our sales and marketing costs
more effectively and efficiently. Another is including the plant productivity, we want to reduce
costs overall. Currently, our operating margin is about 2%. So, can you really increase it by 6% in
such a short of time period I guess was the gist of your question. I don't have confidence, but I
want to continue to argue that message because somebody has to continue to speak out that
message. Otherwise, the message will be lost. However, our North American top officials are --
we are always constant -- in communication with them so -- and we're always working toward that
goal -- with that goal in mind. So, I do hope that you can expect more from us. Thank you.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you for giving this opportunity. (inaudible) . And my question relates to the
issuance of a corporate bond by the end of May. For the first time in two years, I received the
information that you are going to issue corporate debt. What is the timing of that? What's the
maturity of that and also the size of the issuance?
A - `Koji Kobayashi, Executive Vice President `
None of those are decided. We have not yet decided on those. And as far as I'm concerned,
when I joined the Company I was in the accounting department and we have been taking the
policy that you must borrow when the rates are very low. And of course, taking loan directly is one
avenue but by having your own corporate debt in the market, your faces [ph] to be known in the
market to increase our value, that's not our objective.
I mean when it comes to funding including refinancing, we would like to procure when the rates
are very favorable and we have been requesting that to Mr. Shirayanagi, and probably that sort of
idea or information must have been linked. So whenever the rates are low, we would like to fund
ourselves. It's not been decided yet.
A - `Masayoshi Shirayanagi, Operating Officer `
Maybe one more. Yes, the person with their hand up -- with his or her hand up.
Q - Unidentified Participant(inaudible). Regarding your R&D expenses, in the 2020 March I think it will be a record high of
JPY1.1 trillion and I believe that in vis-a-vis CASE [ph], you'll be required to invest more in R&D, but
major IT companies are investing more into CASE. Do you think that Toyota's rate of R&D
expenditure is enough? And how do you intend to respond to the ever-increasing competition?
A - `Koji Kobayashi, Executive Vice President `
Well, expenses including R&D expenses, the more you expend the more it will apply lower
pressure on your prospects, making our prices higher. That's why we need to reduce cost. But
this is a matter of prioritization, connected case, such requirement account for maybe a little less
than 40% of our R&D costs and we'll most likely increase that to about 50% of R&D in the not too
distant future. But when it comes to the basic performance and functionalities of the car, I think
the automotive industry is still immature. It's -- as represented though the sales, we might make a
every better car and for that the elementary technologies and fundamental research, basic
research is very important. So, we need to strike that good balance. So, there's never an ideal
proportional ratio of R&D costs that can put into CASE.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Are you satisfied? Thank you. Since it is time, then I would like to conclude the first session.
Session two will resume at 10 past 2 after a 10-minutes break. Thank you.
I would like to start the second part shortly, so could you please take your seats. And the speech
by President Toyoda would be uploaded to Toyota's website after the presentation is over. And
furthermore right after this, Honda is scheduled to have its own financial results announcement.
So if you would like that then that and leave here early, please feel free to do so. And the room is
getting crowded, so please take care when you leave the room. Please watch your steps as you
do that.
Now ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce to you the people attending this second session.
`Akio Toyoda, President, President. Good afternoon he said. `Koji Kobayashi, Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President; Shigeki
Terashi, Executive Vice President; `Masayoshi Shirayanagi, Operating Officer, Operating Officer. So further, our
President Toyoda is going to deliver a speech.
A - `Akio Toyoda, President `
Thank you for waiting. I am `Akio Toyoda, President. First of all, as in past years, I would like to express my
appreciation for taking time out of your schedules to join us. And I would like to express my deep
appreciation to all our customers around the world and -- who have purchased our vehicles as
well as all our dealers and suppliers who have made tremendous efforts to deliver smiles to each
and every one of our customers. I would also like to express my sincere gratitude to all of our
shareholders, business partners and other stakeholders for their daily support of Toyota. In
Japan, the Heisei era has drawn to a close and the Reiwa era has begun. Having become
President in June of Heisei 21, or 2009, means that I was granted the opportunity to take the
helm at Toyota for the final 10 years of the Heisei era.
The first three of these -- those years were intensely focused on crisis response, with our
Company being confronted by a fall into the red following the global financial crisis, a large-scale
recall that started in the United States, the Great East Japan Earthquake, flooding in Thailand, and
other issues. Although that was a very difficult period, it was also a period in which our Company,
faced with quite a number of crises, was able to strengthen its sense of unity and my ability to
unite. In my own way of expressing it, I keenly felt that rapid growth inconveniences many
stakeholders if it is followed by a rapid fall.No matter how severe the management environment becomes or rather, the more severe it
becomes the more we have to become a company that can steadily continue to grow, like how a
tree accumulates growth rings. Sustainable growth and enhancement of competitiveness; during
this period I took these two concepts to heart and etched them into my mind.
We characterized the next three-year period as an intentional pause. Even though we have come
to a temporary standstill, our goal was to achieve production workplaces that had
competitiveness rooted in the Toyota Production System (TPS), as well as to achieve ever-better
car-making that had competitiveness based on the Toyota New Global Architecture (TNGA).
Although I wanted to make this a period during which we could hone our inherent strengths, what
it is that makes us Toyota, so that we could leap toward the future, my self-evaluation is that I was
not able to sufficiently do this. What I strongly felt during the second three-years was the difficulty
of innovating when times are normal.
I believe it can be said that the most-recent four years has been a period in which our Company
simultaneously strived to get back what it is that makes us Toyota and to undergo a complete
redesign toward the future. Under the banner of restrengthening TPS and refining costs, we are
working to thoroughly eliminate waste, unevenness, and overburden, not only at our production
plants but also at our offices, at our technical workplaces and elsewhere.
As I often say, because this is an era of profound transformation that could happen only once in
100 years, and because change is what is demanded, it is necessary to make clear our
unshakable foundation, in other words the things that we must not change. That unshakable
foundation consists of TPS and our ability to refine costs.
While steering Toyota's management over these 10 years, and with an awareness that we have
entered an era of profound transformation, I have come to believe that my true mission is to
completely redesign Toyota into a mobility company. A mobility company is a company that
provides mobility itself and all kinds of services related to mobility. The automotive industry has
continued to grow until now within the framework of an established business model.
Although there are many car companies, each brand differentiates itself and has its own
customers. If an attractive new model comes out, customers will buy it to replace their current
vehicle. Cars that are replaced become used cars, which has -- which have their own market. Even
after a car is bought, there is an established value chain that includes insurance, maintenance and
others.
I think this is a very well-constructed business model. However, due to technological innovations in
the form of CASE, the very concept of the automobile is on the verge of changing. Cars from
now through information will by being connected to communities and to all kinds of services that
support people's daily lives become part of our societal systems. This means that there is the
possibility that the conventional business model of the automobile industry itself will fall to pieces.
If the concept of the automobile changes due to CASE, we must also change our business
model. However, I think that there are things that we should not change or rather there are things
that we must continue to hone. First, I would like to talk about the things that we must continue to
hone. No matter how much the automobile evolves in the future, I think there is something that
will never change, that is the fact that cars are used in the real world.
It is not as if we have been in the business of creating a single concept car. We have created a
real world in which our products are produced by the millions, and once released into the worldcan continuously be used safely and with a sense of security even 10 years or 20 years later. This
is, by no means something that can be achieved easily.
I view that our competitiveness, which we have cultivated in this real world, largely consists of
three strengths. The first is our manufacturing monozukuri [ph] capabilities based on TPS. As I
have already mentioned, this is truly the base of all of the competitiveness of the Toyota Group. It
is something that we must continue to hone. It is an unshakable foundation.
In TPS, there is a saying, post-improvement is pre-improvement" In TPS, we are constantly
changing the way we do things based on the thinking that there is always a better way. Naturally,
many times things do not go as planned but we learn from our mistakes so that we can take the
next steps towards achieving an even-better way.
I believe that innovation does not just come calling out of the blue. Improvement is what brings it.
I think that the power of continuous improvement has been and always will be the source of the
competitiveness that has supported our sustainable growth. Furthermore, our initiative to
strengthen our monozukuri capabilities from the perspective of the entire Toyota Group is what I
call our Home & Away strategy. I believe our monozukuri capabilities is only achievable because
our Group companies share a common language in the form of TPS.
The second is the advantage of our global network, which is spread around the world. Including
our rental and lease outlets, in Japan there are 6,000 sales outlets for Toyota-brand vehicles and
Lexus-brand vehicles, a number that grows to 16,000 when counted globally. And we also have a
giant supply chain that includes our Group companies and suppliers. If we are able to use this
network going forward, not only to manufacture and sell vehicles but to also provide new
services, our future possibilities will greatly expand.
From here on will be an age in which the difference between victory and defeat will be decided
by the last one mile, which will be our contact point with customers. In addition to cars, I think that
having our own housing business and connected business will be a big advantage for us.
The third is units in operation. Although worldwide annual sales of Toyota and Lexus vehicles is
9.5 million units, the number of Toyota and Lexus units in operation around the world comes to as
many as over 100 million units. I believe that is because there is trust in Toyota. Over the more
than 80 years since our Company was founded by Kiichiro Toyoda, we have continued to face
our customers and to build relationships of trust with them. That is why we have been able to
achieve what we have been able to achieve. And I believe that as we provide new mobility and
new services, having customers around the world who trust Toyota is an absolutely irreplaceable
asset.
These three strengths of ours as an entity competing in the world of manufacturing are powers
that are our real power and that cannot be acquired overnight. I believe that continuing to hone
these real powers will also lead to heightening Toyota's own original competitiveness.
Next, I would like to talk about things that we should change in line with the era of CASE, but
before that, please watch this video.
(Video Presentation).
We've just now given you a look at our activities for CASE. I'd like to now provide additional
information related to a transition in our business model, particularly related to the "E" in CASE
which stands for electric or electrification. Whether it be fuel cell electric vehicles, FCEVs, or
battery electric vehicles, BEVs, I believe that until now it seems that we have been tooentrenched in supplying completed vehicles through wholesale to our dealers and through them
to our individual customers, just as we have been doing with gasoline-powered vehicles.
For sure, up until and including hybrid electric vehicles, this business model was valid. But this
might not remain so when it comes to FCEVs and BEVs, which require new infrastructure. In
advancing the introduction of FCEVs and BEVs, we once again asked ourselves exactly what it is
that we should do. We went back to our origins and concluded that gaining widespread
acceptance is the answer.
If environmental technologies fail to gain widespread acceptance, they will not be able to
contribute to improving the Earth's environment. In thinking that way, we believe that a new
mindset, a new of thinking becomes necessary. Without dwelling on passenger cars and sales to
individual customers, we should work to gain widespread acceptance through the provisioning of
commercial vehicles and also by working with government offices and fleet customers.
Rather than insisting on go-it-alone development, develop together with those who share the
same aspirations. Rather than monopolizing our patents, make them open and increase friends.
Sell not only cars, but also systems that match customers' needs as a package. In other words, I
believe that transforming conventional concepts and broadly pursuing with openness,
contributions that will help improve society will lead to a new business model.
We will be entering an era in which information will link all the things and services that support
people's daily lives. When thinking about our own business, we should consider cars not as a
separate business but as part of a mobility solution from a broad community and society. In other
words, the concept of connected cities becomes important.
In realizing connected cities, I believe that competition and cooperation, especially the spirit of
cooperation, will be critical. When looking at the world today, one can see the spread of
protectionist thinking. Just as Japan, which basically has no resources, cannot survive on its own,
companies as well cannot survive in a backend. Japan is a country that keenly understands this,
and so might global companies that started and grew in Japan.
Going forward, creating friends will become a key concept. I believe that the approach of gaining
controlling interest in line with conventional capital theory is not, in the true sense, creating
friends. To make friends is to share common goals regarding what kind of future we want to
create together. It's recognizing each other's strengths and enhancing each other's
competitiveness and cooperating.
From Toyota's perspective, we aim toward achieve a society that is kind to the environment, a
society in which there are no traffic accidents, a Fun to Drive society in which the freedom and joy
of mobility is made available to all people. Toyota alone cannot create the future it desires. As
such, we will broadly seek friends who share our aspirations.
I would like to strengthen collaboration not only with Toyota Group companies but also with other
car manufacturers and with friends who can provide all kinds of services that support and able
connected cities. In pursuing such initiatives, I believe that we will be able to pave the road to
becoming a mobility service platform, which is the business model that we are aiming for as a
mobility company.
Although I have spoken about various things, an era of profound transformation is also an era in
which no one knows the right answer. If we think something is good, we have to give it a try. If we
realize we've made a mistake, then we need to pull back and search for another way. I think it will
be important to think while trying.Completely redesigning a company that has experienced success will definitely take a long time.
However, clinging to the business model of the past will not lead to the future we desire. While
responding to fast-paced changes in the environment, we will move forward with innovation with
a mid-to-long-term view from an unshakable foundation.
So, please do look forward to our future and please continue to offer us your warm support.
Thank you very much for your attention.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Now ladies and gentlemen, we would like to receive questions from you. And if you'd like to ask
questions please raise your hand so that the microphone can be brought to you. And we would
like to receive questions from as many people as possible. So, I would like to request each one of
you to restrict questions to two, only two questions per person. The person in the second row
from the front row please.
Q - Unidentified Participant
(inaudible), Japan Economic Journal. Question to Mr. -- two questions to the President. Including
the financial results of the fiscal year just ended, having spent 10 years and you divided that 10-
year period into 3 segments and you looked back at the business in your presentation, but from
the financial aspect what is your assessment and observation of what you have accomplished in
the past decade? That's the first question. In relation to that with respect to the growth strategy,
what is your view toward the topline which -- include that in your question, the first question.
The second question, the trade issues between the United States and China is the core of my
question. In terms of the macro economy, it is said that the impact on macro economy could be
quite big. But how have you analyzed that? How do you view that -- the impact from trade issues?
And Toyota's basic view or stance vis-a-vis the investment into both the United States and China?
So these are two questions.
A - `Akio Toyoda, President `
First of all, in the first part of this program today, it was discussed for the first time we exceeded
the JPY3 trillion in net revenue. This is the first time. And this is solely thanks to the people who
contributed to our sales, the customers and dealers, suppliers and also employees. We -- all of
this is result of all those people who worked very hard over the past 80 years and this is a
combined outcome of that. So through the media individuals represented here, I would like to
express my sincere gratitude to the fact that we have been able to attain this net revenue
supported by those people and would like to express my gratitude to those people supporting
us.
I shared various views of mine on the occasion of our financial results. In the March 2014, I talked
about the intentional pause and in 2015, I mentioned that we have entered the implementation
phase from the intentional pause. And in 2016 I mentioned that this is the year in which our
intention is tested. And 2017, I mentioned that financial results recognized our true self-
capabilities. And 2018 I talked that Toyota's unique characteristics was reflected for the first time
honestly in the financial results. For -- in terms of the fiscal year just ended, it's very difficult to
express in very short words, without venturing to that, moving toward the future, this is the year
that we embarked upon achieving the complete redesigning of Toyota. For better or worse, the
capability of Toyota today is reflected in the financial results in the fiscal year just ended.Moving toward the future, we made proactive investments. When it comes to the active
investment in this period, I think we've been able to do quite a bit in terms of the investment for
our own future. Activities to refine cost and activities to regain quintessentially Toyota character to
improve the corporate culture, and I think we're still halfway through in those efforts.
Once again, if I may just look back the past decade, especially up until the 30th year of the Heisei
period, the automotive market in the world was driven by the United States and China. These two
markets drove and improved the automotive markets in the world. And in that -- what about
Toyota here in the home market? Here in Japan, in terms of the growth in the past 30 years,
Japan hardly grew at all. In the first year of the Heisei era, the market reached its peak but since
then the market continued to decline. And in that, the consumption tax rate was raised twice
during that period. And also in the United States, up until 2007 the growth was quite steady and
good. However, we are faced with the recall issue and we have this congressional hearing. So
steadily, we steer the direction in which we accumulate annual growth rings and that's what we
implemented.
But China, I think in that market Toyota really shoulders a national risk for the company. And in
China, compared with other companies, the growth that Toyota attained in the Chinese market
did have enough room for further improvement, I believe. But compared with the time when I
took the helm as President, based upon the existing model -- business model and our speed of
following and catching up with the change, I think we were able to accelerate the speed of
adapting ourselves to the market change.
But when the market changes substantially, when the market -- product mix changes substantially
from sedan to SUVs, those could be regarded as a paradigm shift so to speak. In terms of the
speed of adaptation in that major change, I think Toyota has faced a rather serious challenge in
the context simply. But this sort of style may not be implemented to the fullest extent possible to
come up with achievements, but in terms of regaining quintessentially Toyota characteristics --
character and also to create such a culture in the corporate, I think I'll be able to achieve that.
Did I answer your question or...
Q - Unidentified Participant
In terms of the first question -- I think you responded to my first question. But in terms of the
second question, as you look back over the past decade, if you can think of some episodes that
really emotionally moves you, if you could...
A - `Akio Toyoda, President `
Well, every day I'm emotionally shaken, so to speak. I mean many people says, well, it's been 10
years and where -- when are you going to leave your current position. That seems to be the
objective. But serving for 10 years as President is not an objective. That's not the end in itself. At
the initial stage -- in the early period, I had to attend the US Congressional Hearing. So I thought I
wouldn't last even one year. And we started with the loss making position, so I was thinking that
probably I will have to quit in a short period of time. So I wasn't expecting to serve for a long term
as President. Rather I really tried to survive as a company every day, and that took me to this
current field. So every day I felt I'm still alive today, and today and tomorrow I'll be able to engage
in running Toyota. And every day I work my hardest till this day. So everyday -- if I may just directly
respond to your question, every day I am excited and also I'm shaken, so to speak, emotionally.
A - Unidentified SpeakerSatisfied? Then the person at the very front in the middle please. The woman -- the lady.
Q - Unidentified Participant
(inaudible) newspaper. Our question is to President Toyoda. Well, I believe you did mention this
earlier. But in January last year, you announced the complete redesign to a mobility company and
you cited that as your mission. You've been saying that all along, and also creating friends, you
said, will become the keyword in achieving this. So you said that we live in an era where no one
knows what's the right answer. So as President, as you create friends, as you expand your circle of
collaborators, what would be your standard in choosing these friends? And if you could talk about
your unshakable foundation in more detail?
A - `Akio Toyoda, President `
Well, as we promote the creation of friends -- as we create friends, the key word I think will be
open and speed -- open and speed are the two key words. Open, what I mean by the word
open, is if you yourself don't have competitiveness, you yourself have to have a presence,
otherwise no one will take you seriously even if you said I will open myself up, you have to be
competitive.
And in that sense, just one car manufacturer can do nothing in this automotive industry. We have
to be aware of this. At the same time, we have to know our strength and also our weaknesses
and reach out and work with the various companies of various other industries to participate
together in order to create a world where everyone can smile. And I think all of the employees
share this. And we leave would like to choose partners that will recognize this. And -- but to do
that, we need to build up our own trust and our own competitiveness so that they will regard us
as such equal partners.
Also -- and this is a similar point, but Toyota is not the company that would be choosing our
partners. Toyota must be chosen as a partner, really in that position, in terms of corporate size
where people may think that Toyota is the one who is picking and choosing our friends. But we
believe that we are the chosen -- we are the company that's been chosen. So, there are
companies out there who want to create a future with us, who want to work with us. And of
course all companies have their likes them dislikes, but I think I guess what's important is to
create an increasing number of companies that like Toyota and have an affection for Toyota.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you. Any further question? The person in spectacles with a hand up, in the fourth row from
the front.
Q - `Alfred Ty, Analyst, GT Capital `
My name is `Alfred Ty, Analyst, GT Capital from GT Capital, Philippines and Toyota Motor, Philippines. May I direct the
question to President Toyoda. It's very exciting to hear the future in the eyes of Toyota from your
presentation and especially talking about the new mobility society as well as the connected city.
As your partners in Asia, we would definitely like to be part of these plans in the Asian region.
However, in reality, Asian countries are still quite behind or in very early stages in terms of new
mobility or connected technology. And these big plans really need strong support from the
government side, especially on the infrastructure. So my question is, government support is
necessary to realize the plans of new mobility society in connected city. What would be the
required government support needed to realize the infrastructure for this? (Foreign Language).A - `Akio Toyoda, President `
I'll answer your question first and I'll ask Mr. Terashi, EVP, to supplement me from a technological
viewpoint. Mr. Ty, you referred to the markets in Philippines and the Asian markets and you
mentioned that those markets are still quite behind, that maybe so from your perspective but to
us those are the markets rapidly growing. That's how we perceive real markets.
China is quite different but apart from China -- but Japan and other markets are not growing that
rapidly. But Asian markets are growing and those are the markets that rose further including
China as well. So in that general context, we spent the past 80 years in creating this automotive
business model. But with the advent of CASE, instantly the automotive company that had been
operating for decades can be caught up by other countries. And Asian countries are in the
position to catch up with us very rapidly. So, that's how we perceive and look at the Asian
markets.
So in that context, as the usage and the electrification, especially -- specifically about the FCEV
and electric vehicles, the government support for infrastructure development is indispensable
and essential. Sometimes subsidy in many respects will be required. So in that sense if people
are willing to listen to Toyota's opinion or in considering new automotive government policy,
Toyota's opinion may be useful, can be -- want to be a part of that. So, we would like to be
chosen to be listened to by those governments.
In any regions we operate in we aim to be the best in town. Now, what I mean by that, sometime
ago in Canada we announced and unveiled a new model of NX and government officials were
represented there and they said, thank you, Toyota for deciding on investing in Canada and our
plant in Canada. I mentioned that thank you very much for supporting us operations this past
decade. I expressed appreciation to the government. So mutually thankful for mutual efforts will
be the sort of relationship that we really would like to establish.
So in the Philippines we would like to see a day when the government in the Philippines would
say, thank you Toyota for investing in our country. And from our side we would like to be able to
say, thank you for supporting us as we operate in the Philippines. So, we'll make sure that we'll
make every effort to be a best-in-town company. And we need to earn smiles on the faces of all
the people concerned every day. So once again, I'd like to express my gratitude for continued
support on a daily basis.
A - `Shigeki Terashi, Executive Vice President `
Terashi is my name. I would like to add some comments further. Toyoda in his presentation
mentioned that the concept of connected city, that is to say, when we consider the development
or creation of community or country itself, the business style must change completely. We have
been based upon the business model coming up with the product and then (inaudible) that. But
we must work together in building the strategy to -- from the viewpoint of a developing
community or country, working with the government, because of the air pollution we would like to
introduce electric vehicles. But if the infrastructure is the bottleneck in creating the introduction of
that, then in the early years, we would introduce hybrid vehicles instead of battery EVs.
And if the pollution is cleared to a certain extent, the usage of hybrid will be equivalent to using
10% of vehicles occupied by electric vehicles. And once the infrastructure is better developed,
probably the buses, the public transportation systems, will be the first ones in which the
electrified vehicles will be introduced, so that the demand will increase together with that
preparing for the next stage.So when we reach that next stage, we will try to offer the electric vehicles, SUVs, that ordinary
citizens will be able to purchase. So rather than based upon short-term perspective, we will work
together and discuss together with government to come up with the overall complete
development strategy.
And if we are the sort of company that the government is willing to reach out to discuss whether
country building or community building, we would be able to make contribution. There are many
different options most suited for different communities. We have various options that we can
offer. So if we can -- have been chosen to work together, that would be the best that we seek for.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Next question. The person is raising his or her hand. Fifth row from the front.
Q - Unidentified Participant
(inaudible) Banking Corporation. This is a question from a new angle. This question is about the
shareholder return. The financial industry in Japan is engaged in various initiatives which were
explain as a backdrop. The savings will be reinvested into investment and that investment will
further invigorate corporate activities. That's the sort of flow we are now seeing. So against that
backdrop, mid to long term investment, especially by individuals, is highly required. So, it's very
important to think about the standards or the criteria and these retail investors use in making the
investment.
And when you think about Toyota's shares, I think there are three major factors or elements that
make investors choose companies. One is whether the retail investor can actually like the
company, feels they can have affection for the company, if they can feel excited about the future
growth prospects of the Company. And the third is of course dividends and other financial
benefits. These are the three elements.
So in the Q&A session today President Toyoda talked about Toyota fund and good products. So I
think that you talked to great length about how your company can be loved by the investors. And
the red Supra in the hall was a very wonderful car. And the second point, about the excitement
about the growth potential, you also talked about in length today. There were so many changes,
risks and challenges in the world, and Toyota would change and innovate against that backdrop
you talked about?
So the third factor -- I think the third remaining factor would be shareholder return. And you have
been increasing your dividend payout in the past few years. So based on this, from a mid-to-long
term perspective, to those investors who will be investing in Toyota's shares from a mid-to-long
term perspective, do you have any messages, President Toyoda?
A - `Akio Toyoda, President `
Thank you. Now, Toyota's shares for the retail investors has certain appeals and attractiveness.
And when you think about the elements of that attractiveness, I think within the investment
portfolio the Toyota share would be a stable stock. That's how it's positioned in many investors
portfolios I believe. So in that sense, as we think about our future growth strategy, I think the two
important keywords would be sustainable growth and enhanced competitiveness. It all goes
down to this.
Sustainable growth, as I mentioned earlier, means that even against an extremely deteriorating
management environment the ability to steadfastly and step-by-step and in a not-so-flashy wayto achieve growth and that'll be a way to win trust in the long term in Toyota's shares. And as for
enhanced competitiveness, including CASE in -- we will have to collaborate in various technology
companies in other industries. And Toyota has its strength in the real and physical world and we
must be chosen as a real world partner. And I think it's important for the world to think that
Toyota's growth is good for the world and for the economy.
Now, we would certainly like to have as many investors as possible appreciate the fact that they
have invested in Toyota's shares for the mid to long term, but that all depends on our daily
efforts I believe. And also in the past few years, we have invested JPY1 trillion in CapEx and JPY1
trillion in R&D, and also JPY1 trillion in shareholder return. We have maintained this level for the
past few years and we're still continuing to invest in the future, that is to completely redesign the
Company.
And so, we must maintain our financial capability to continue this shareholder return but at the
same time not fall behind in investing into the future. And I think balancing these two would be
our greatest challenge. But in any event, from a mid to long term perspective, we do hope that
more and more investors will invest in Toyota shares and also feel satisfied afterwards in the fact
that they have invested in Toyota shares.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Since our expected closing time is approaching, so from here on I would like to restrict one
question to person -- one per person. So person in the central -- center of the room, the second
row from the front please.
Q - Unidentified Participant
(inaudible). Well, several questions that I wanted to ask were already raised and therefore there
may be some duplication. My question is about the next decade, many challenges surrounds
Toyota for Japan and for the entire world. The happiness brought about by mobility, of course
love is important, thank you is important and smiles are important, but the happiness is a key. And
how are you going to deliver happiness to the people in the world? How is Toyota going to share
that happiness? That's one point that I would like to ask you. So what in your word might be
happiness over mobility means?
A - `Akio Toyoda, President `
Behind this happiness of mobility resides the unhappiness of mobility. Traffic accident is a typical
example. The air pollution is another one. These negative issues are the negative aspect of our
business and those are the issues that we really need to find solutions to as the one engaging in
automotive business. So minimize as much as possible those negative cases is what I would like
to realize. And by doing so, as Mr. Shinjo [ph] has just mentioned. On that basis, we can start
talking about the terms that we can maximize the love aspect of cars.
So day in and day out, we simply have to continue making steadfast efforts by trying to create a
situation where love can be really generated. Unfortunately, traffic accidents have been reported
extensively. And oftentimes, those with victims of traffic accidents are the people who used to
lead very happy lives. And those people were hit by traffic accidents, so those are really that
tragic cases for us engaged in automotive business and you feel so sad about that. But how can
we reduce traffic accidents, those serious accidents down to zero, how we can achieve that? Of
course, the road ahead in that context is very, very long I believe, that this is the solid foundation I
will keep on working on and it will never change.A - Unidentified Speaker
Since it's past the allotted time, we'd would restrict ourselves to just one more question, okay.
(Foreign Language). Apparently, we can take two or three more questions according the
President. So, we will be exceeding the time. But of course, Honda is expected to announce its
financial results today as well. If so please don't -- of we don't what Honda to complain to us. So
please do feel free to leave. The fourth row from the front, the person with the glasses.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Yamada from (inaudible). So just one question. You talked about the difficulty of changing the
company that was successful and also the need to change business model. The automotive
business model I think was an extremely successful model. In that event, to change a company
with a success experience I think causes a lot of friction and a lot of resistance. How do you intend
to overcome that resistance? Are you going to bulldoze through your reforms or are you going to
wait and see, wait for things to change? But of course you cannot afford to change -- to wait
forever. So, if you could share with us your views on this.
A - `Akio Toyoda, President `
If I knew the answer, I would not be so troubled. There is no answer. Either of the approaches you
mentioned could be the right answer, but nobody knows. But you have to try. You have to give a
try -- give it a try. Otherwise, you don't even know how people will react. So, you have to act with
a will. So, if we -- you tell people to face the right and nobody turns right, then you will have to
retract that order and then try to steer the company other way. So not to give up, to persevere,
and to try step by step. And that's what I'm trying every day. So, I do hope that you -- you can
continue to give us your encouragement and blow our tailwind for us and our reforms. Thank you.
Next question?
A - Unidentified Speaker
At the back of the room, at the center column.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Hatanaka [ph] of Nippon Broadcast. Question to Mr. Toyoda. As was mentioned earlier, you
yourself said that out of industrial vehicle -- in products, vehicles is the only one called beloved
vehicles. We're moving in the age of CASE and especially the sharing looms [ph] importantly.
People talk about moving from ownership to usage, but from the perspective of users by owning
certain things one can get attached to the product itself. So in this age of CASE, can you maintain
the industrial product that can be -- can really earn attachment? How can you maintain this
beloved industrial product called beloved cars?
A - `Akio Toyoda, President `
In terms of ownership and the sharing, for carmakers like us both are necessary. I always cite the
following example. The towels and the toothbrush, when you stay in a hotel you never share
toothbrush with others, but people do share towels. What's the difference between the
toothbrush and towels? In the case of towels, even if you share with others it must be clean, it
must be safe and secure. Unless you knew that -- know that, you never share towel with others.
Now, what about toothbrush, why do you never share? Toothbrush, even if they are clean, safe
and secure, why do you insist on owning a toothbrush? So, this really talks about the importanceof auto builds that can earn the attachment even if it is an industrial product. And it can also be
shared and it can be owned. So talking about those, we're talked with many engineers, many
marketing people, many sales people and all -- many executives, we often discuss these things.
But we have not come up with any concrete answer. So, we have chosen to pursue both of those,
ownership and the sharing, both.
A - Unidentified Speaker
As we have -- went overboard with the time, the next question is going to be the very final
question. If I may ask you to be a bit loud. The person at the very front in the middle.
Q - Unidentified Participant
(inaudible) Newspaper. My question is to President Toyoda as well. President Toyoda, you're
always saying that the automotive industry has entered an era of profound transformation of --
but now you have a net revenue of JPY30 trillion plus a profit of JPY2 trillion for the past few
years. So against that backdrop, President Toyota, what do you fear most? What is the most
fearful challenge of Toyota's challenges? That is, what will happen -- I mean what will be the
factor that can kill Toyota? Under what conditions will Toyota die?
A - `Akio Toyoda, President `
I think to think that Toyota is okay, that would be fatal. I -- we often discuss this internally and I am
always asked by my employees, why are you trying to fan on such sense of emergency. I am
saying no, I'm not trying to fan emergency -- the sense of emergency, but I just want to share a
sense of common values with you. And when people say, well, Toyota is okay, what are you so
worried about, President? Toyota is fine. I think that would be the most dangerous situation
because the world is changing so rapidly around us. Every day many incidents, accidents occur
around us. Every day many, many changes are occurring. And every day we must be very sensitive
to these changes and try to respond to these changes. To develop such a responsiveness in such
a big company I think will be very important.
So the most challenging, most fatal to a company like that would be a sense of complacency that
everything is okay. And so, sometimes people may criticize me -- to play -- for playing up the
emergency too much. But I believe that this is good for us as well as for our partners. So, I will
continue to ring the alarm. Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Now, as a matter of time, we would like to close the financial results announcement. And thank
you very much for staying with us for such a long time despite your busy schedules. Thank you.