Y 2019 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
We’d now like to begin the fiscal year 2020 financial results second section of the press
conference of Toyota Motor Corporation.
I would now like to introduce our attendees for today. Our President `Akio Toyoda, President, Member of the Board of Directors, Operating
Officer `Koji Kobayashi, Operating Officer, Member of the Board, and Operating Officer `Shigeki Terashi, Operating Officer, Member of the Board.
I’d like to start with remarks from the President.
`Akio Toyoda, President, Member of the Board of Directors `
Hello everyone. Today, based on our financial results and forecasts, I would like to share with you
my thoughts on how Toyota intends to confront the COVID-19 crisis.
Since my appointment as president in 2009, Toyota has faced numerous crises. In overcoming
them, I believe that our company has been able to strengthen its corporate composition.
Please have a look at the changes in our earnings structure from just before the global financial
crisis to the present. In the three years just before the global financial crisis, while operating
income increased due to favorable exchange rates and increased vehicle sales, our earnings
structure, excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates, was not good by any means, due to a
large increase in fixed costs.
I think that was a period, during which the speed of expanding the size of the company was
faster than that of developing our people, which partly led to our recall crisis later.
In the year immediately after the start of the global financial crisis, vehicle sales decreased by
1.35 million units, for YoY decrease of approximately 15% to which was added the impact of the
strong yen, resulting in our falling JPY461 billion into the red.
The four years just after I became president was a time when our entire company faced an
overwhelming need to respond and unite to overcome numerous crises, such as the global
financial crisis, the massive recall crisis, the Great East Japan earthquake, flooding in Thailand, and
the so-called six-hardships in Japan, including an ultra-high yen.
Over theses four years, we were able to bring the number of vehicles sold back up to the levels
before we had before the global financial crisis. At the same time, by drastically reducing R&D
expenses and capital expenditures, we were able to shrink our fixed costs. And despite the ultra-high yen of an exchange rate of JPY83 to the dollar, we achieved an operating income of JPY1.32
trillion.
However, because we stopped everything to stop the bleeding, including investing in the future,
we ended up still needing some time to strengthen our company composition in a true sense. It
was a period in which we lost weight and became slim but also lost necessary muscle.
In the most recent seven years, our fixed costs increased due to investment for accelerating the
making of ever better cars and due to investments in response to CASE. However, it was a
period in which we strengthened our composition while absorbing the cost of these investments
through such means as cost reduction. In the first three of those years, although we aimed to
strengthen our true competitiveness during what we called an intentional pause, my self-
assessment was that I was not able to obtain sufficient results.
Our intentional pause made me keenly feel the difficulty of carrying out reforms in normal times.
At last year’s financial results announcement, I was asked if Toyota faces any challenges, and I
replied, it will be the fact that there is a sense within the company that Toyota is doing fine. There
was a consciousness within the company which had taken hold over many long years that Toyota
was doing fine and there was a corporate climate in which things were thought about based on
the premise. I sensed that what led me to earnestly engage in reforming these things was my
own intentional pause.
With the once-in-a-century period of profound transformation coming on top of that, over the
past few years, we came to feverishly engage in both a fight to bring back what makes us Toyota
and completely redesigning Toyota for the future.
During that period, as we believed that management would have to change first to change the
company in an unchartered era, we took various measures to fundamentally revise our executive
and our organizational structure, including the introduction of an in-house company system,
establishment of our “seven samurai”, which is the president and six executive vice president
structure, and discontinuance of the post of executive vice president. Our revisions covered not
only people actively filling posts but also our advisory system.
When it came to communicating with our employees, such as during labor consultations in the
spring, we made genuine efforts to achieve true mutual understanding. Labor and management
at Toyota share a common foundation, which is the Company hopes for the happiness of its
employees and the labor union hopes for the growth of the company.
And now in this period of profound transformation, earnestly hoping for the happiness of our
employees. We decided to further address hitherto common practices, such as raising base
wages and implementing uniform wage increases.
The Company and labor union are holding thorough discussions as part of our strive to
fundamentally reform how we work. Each time such a reform has been carried out, I have heard
people both inside and outside the company say “you don’t have to go that far”. I have even
been told that I was over-instilling a sense of crisis. Even so, I have continued on, because I want
to be able to pass the baton to the next generation, in a way that I consider ideal. That is my
ardent wish.
I think that bringing back what it is that makes us Toyota is equal to spending time on the past. I
want my generation to be the last to spend time on the past. I want the next generation to be
able to spend time on the future. That’s exactly why I hope to plant seeds for the future. This is
what I consider to be the ideal way to pass the baton to the next generation.Based on this desire, for the future I have been actively advancing the building of partnerships
through alliances. We have also changed our company’s thinking about alliances. Our basic stance
is that alliances are not for taking control of partners based on the logic of capital but rather for
respecting each other and for cooperating through work with like-minded partners. As a result,
within an extremely short period of time, we have been able to establish a network with many
partners, including those from other industries.
When it comes to cooperation within the Toyota group, based on our new “home and away”
strategy, we have largely changed our thinking from becoming strong as an individual company to
becoming strong together as a group.
Also, with undergoing a complete redesign into a mobility company in mind, we are also
engaged in recomposing our assets, such as by revising our cross shareholdings and selling
underutilized real estate.
Summarizing our initiatives over the past several years, I think I can say that we have freed
ourselves from a hitherto theory and have started constructing a theory for a new Toyota in a
new era.
And now, I would like to touch on our forecast from the year to March 2021. In the current COVID-
19 crisis, although we forecast a decrease in vehicle sales of 1.95 million units for a YoY decrease
of more than 20%, which would be greater than the decrease during the global financial crisis, we
forecast a profit with an operating income of JPY500 billion. Although this is our forecast at this
time, if we are somehow able to achieve this level of earnings, I believe that it will be the result of
our having been able to strengthen our corporate composition.
From now, I’d like to talk about something that Toyota has insisted on and committed to for many
years. I am referring to defending to the very last our system for domestic production our 3
million vehicles a year. This is not something that is meant to only having to do with Japan. Toyota
plants in Japan have served as a mega plant that support Toyota’s global production.
It can be said that Toyota’s domestic production system is the foundation for a global Toyota.
However, this is not something simply left up to fate nor is it something that can be taken for
granted. Based on a conviction that we need “monozukuri” and a place to hone competitiveness
that can drive global production in Japan, we have indeed fielded first, at all costs, to protect our
domestic production, no matter how severe the economic environment has been, including the
ultra-high yen.
We did this not only to protect Toyota but also to protect the enormous related supply chains and
the jobs of the people involved, as well as the fundamental technologies of Japan’s automotive
industry and human resources who have the skills to support such technologies.
Along with COVID-19, people around the world are facing the state of not being able to get what
is needed when it is needed. There is a person who called this situation the “mask phenomenon”.
According to such person, most face masks could not be produced in Japan. Making better
products at a lower cost, this is the foundation of “monozukuri”. However, I think that only aiming
to make something at a lower cost can give rise to this kind of phenomenon.
There is another basic element to “monozukuri”. It is making things means making people. People
are not costs. People are the source of continuous improvement and the driving force for the
growth and development of “monozukuri”.As COVID-19 infections spread, many “monozukuri” companies have started to produce medical
face shields and protective gowns, as well as medical masks and other items. We too are making
medical face shields in the United States using 3D printers, and we have extended such efforts to
other parts of the world, including in Japan and in Europe. Furthermore, when it comes to items
that we cannot produce on our own, such as ventilators, we are providing support by applying
TPS to improve productivity.
I believe we can do these things because we have insisted on having a system for domestic
production of three million vehicles and because we have preserved “monozukuri” in Japan. What
we have been defending to the very last not been 3 million vehicles. What we have been
continuing to protect have been people who have acquired the techniques and skills that enable
them to make what is necessary when the world needs it.
We are proud that we have been continuing to protect, in Japan, places in which such human
resources can work and be cultivated. Even as we are now facing the COVID-19 crisis, there is not
the slightest bit of distortion or wavering in this belief. That said, however, there is something that
I ask everyone to understand: to continue to protect a certain thing and keep doing what we are
doing is by no means easy.
I sense there seems to be much talk about V-shaped turnaround. Sacrificing employment,
sacrificing domestic “monozukuri” by deciding to “stop” various things an individual company can
turn its results around. Far from being criticized, it bothers me that such action often seems to be
praised. Well, that’s not right. This is how I feel. Regardless of how big or how small they might be,
there are many companies in Japan that have clenched their jaws and protected their human
resources who have techniques and skills, no matter how tough times were or more importantly,
because times were tough. I believe that now is exactly the time what we need in a society that
can support such companies. I humbly request that you support companies that have supported
Japan and Japan’s economy through “monozukuri”.
In concluding, I’d like to talk about what I currently consider to be the dearest of all things.
Because our session here today is to explain our financial results, I have talked about how the
corporate composition of Toyota has grown stronger as we overcame numerous crises. But over
these years, not once have I ever thought that I want to make Toyota into a strong company. I
believe that I have helmed Toyota with a wholehearted desire to make a company that can be
depended on by people throughout the world and a company that is necessary.
I think that what is important is thinking about why we should become strong and about how we
go about becoming strong. For us to be useful in the world, I believe that we must become
stronger together with our partners throughout the world.
During Golden Week, I received a letter from a certain person. In it was written the following:
“While taking a walk around the pond, I saw birds, turtles, fish and the like scurrying about. All
living creatures, other than human beings, are going about life as before. Only human beings are
running about in confusion. Perhaps this a good opportunity to change our perception of the
world being a theater in which human beings play the leading role”. I feel exactly the same.
This crisis made me think about something. It made me think about how we, as human beings
and as companies, should live our lives. With earth, with society, with all stakeholders, live
together. Just as in the case of the home town or home country, that means taking care of a
home planet in the course of conducting corporate activities.
And there is another thing, one that many people have been reminded of. It is the feeling oflives. But also, for all the people who are supporting our everyday routines. When what we take
for granted ceases to be a matter of course, we notice that nothing is a matter of course and
that we have things thanks to someone somewhere working hard. We want to create a
relationship in which people can say “thank you” to each other and can thank the earth.
Companies and people need to think seriously about how to live and then change what they are
doing. It could be that we have all been given a great chance, and that chance might be the last
one.
Toyota is a global “monozukuri” company, born in Japan and raised in the world. I believe that our
mission is to provide goods and services that make people throughout the world happy. Or, in
other words, to mass produce happiness. To achieve that, I believe that it is necessary to cultivate
Toyota people in the world who can wish for and take action for the happiness of those other
than themselves. That means developing human resources that have what I like to call a “you
perspective”. This is what I will devote my own heart and soul to for the COVID-19 era and post-
COVID-19 era. And I view this as also being a part of earnestly engaging in the sustainable
development goals or SDGs for which international society is aiming with the stance of no one will
be left behind.
There is no crisis that human-kind cannot overcome. For us to overcome the COVID-19 crisis
together, Toyota is ready to do whatever it can to make itself of use. We humbly request your
continued support. Thank you very much for your attention today.
Questions And Answers
Operator
From here we would like to entertain questions. If you have any questions, please press the
button on the screen that says “raise your hand”. We will call your name from this side, so when
your name is called, please turn your microphone and camera on. We would also like to ask you
to keep your questions to two questions.
And now, Mr. Yamada from NHK please. We will be switching the screen. When you see your face
on the screen, you may start with your question.
Thank you for your patience we are now switching the screen.
A moment please.
So, Mr. Yamada, please.
Q - Unverified Participant
I’m Yamada from NHK. I have a question to President Toyoda. First of all, for the financial results
for the term ending in March, how are your thought about it? And also, currently, many companies
have refrained from giving a forecast for the running term, however you have made the forecast
and what is the basis of the forecast? How are you forecasting this year?
And another question is, currently we are in the COVID-19 crisis, which is an unprecedented crisis
for all of us. And for this era, together with this crisis, we have the once-in-a-century profound
transformation of the times how are these going to change Toyota? Or on the other hand, what
are the things that you not going to change? What is it that you have to protect? Can I ask these
two questions to President Toyoda?
A - `Akio Toyoda, President, Member of the Board of Directors `Thank you for your questions. Starting with your first question, now regarding the assessment or
my thoughts on the financial results for the end of term and also, we did announce the forecast
for the running term but what are our thoughts behind the making, announcing the forecast?
So, for this first question, now we have been able to make the announcements of the financial
results as we have planned originally, and being able to do this we would like to extend our
gratitude to all the related people. If it was a normal year, we think take it for granted that in this
timing we’ll make our financial results and then in the following month we’ll do a General
Shareholders meeting. So, this is a kind of a taken for granted schedule that we have on our
business calendar. However, with the COVID-19 crisis, things that used to be taken for granted
cannot be done as it had been. So, thinking about that, being able to make these
announcements as we had planned to originally, I have a deep appreciation for all of the people
involved including the employees of the company.
And now with that, to summarize my thoughts on the financial results, I’d like, as the CFO Mr. Kon
has mentioned in section one, as a result we have dropped sales volume and also, we have both
dropped revenue and the profit. So that has been the result, but for important point for us, the
important challenge was TPS and also to be working on cost. And with these activities running we
have been able to clarify our issues and challenges. And because these challenges are now
identified, we believe that we can make further progress in these activities.
However, this COVID-19 shock to say, it is a much larger type of shock that we received
compared to the global financial crisis. However, in our forecast for the running term, we are
going to make efforts even though there is going to be a large magnitude of a drop for the
volume of sales. We have forecast that we’ll secure profit to be in the black.
And we have hopes to become the leader for the recovery of economy going on after COVID-
19’s shock. I think we are now prepared to start those activities from here. So, in that sense, the
financial results that we have announced, we have been able to be at the starting point to have
Toyota be reborn into a new Toyota. I think we are now on the starting point to start that change.
And now for our thoughts on why we have made announcements of the forecast for the running
term. Actually, we had a lot for discussions internally about whether or not we should make an
announcement of the forecast. But we are an OEM, we are a maker of cars, and we can only have
our activities if our customers place an order of cars. So, thinking about this cycle, if we start to
give the forecast and if we make cars, then business will start to move and this society, the
business community and communities will start to move. And also, the automotive industry, there
is a large impact to the wider business activities, there is even a figure, 2.5, that would be the
impact of that the automobile OEMs activities make. And because we are in this kind of position,
and because we are in this kind of very tough and difficult situation, we want to organize what we
know as of now and be honest in showing what we can, so that we can become a criterion to
move forward. And having a certain criterion, I think, the related automobile industry companies,
the related industries maybe be able to prepare somewhat, having a certain criterion. So that is
why we decided to share our criteria and we believe that it’s important to timely share the
information that we achieved and the understanding that we have in the time of uncertainty. And
with the criteria, we want to manage the forward by managing the abnormal values and we want
to unite people to make our challenges, moving forward. So that would be my answer for your
first question.
For your second question about the COVID-19 crisis, I’ve added to the once-in–a-century,
profound transformation period, what is the impact to Toyota? Is there going to be changes to
what Toyota needs to stop or change?For this question, actually for myself, I have, upon receiving the guidelines from the government
of refraining from going outdoors, I have personally taken measures to avoid moving outside the
borders of the prefecture. So, I have been in an executive training center, that is in Aichi
prefecture, and, not in the main office. And then I was able to reduce 80% of my moving time
and also 85% of the people I meet, and also reduce 30% of the time that I used for meetings
and also reduce 50% of the documents that was prepared for meetings. That is the figures
surrounding myself.
So up to now, when the employees in my company have an appointment with me, they will be
preparing documents to brief me. And also, if it is someone in an upper position, they will have
their subordinates prepare that document. And that document, when it arrives to myself, those
data will be something that is one or two weeks before. And we use that kind of old data to have
discussions. But now, using net meetings, internet meetings, web meetings and TV conferences,
we are able to discuss and consult more in a timely manner, using information that we have now.
And by this change, I’ve seen that we’ve reduced half of the documents that we used to prepare,
so with this reduction, I hope that the reduced efforts will be used for the future of Toyota to shift
our resources to focus more on what is necessary to prepare for Toyota’s future. I think we’ll be
able to do that as we have experienced this kind of a change.
And also, I was in the training center in Aichi prefecture, but for the overseas CEOs, also people
for the overseas companies who are abroad, outside of Japan and also the top executives of
other companies, I was able to frequently contact them more than before this crisis. Up to now, I
thought that it would be rude if I don’t go visit these people myself and travel to meet them
because of this feeling, I tried to, as much as possible to have a face-to-face meeting and visiting
these people that I wanted to meet. But, if I work in that way, physically, with the physical
limitations, I’ll be able to have only one appointment with a very important person in another
company. But, having these kinds of web meetings, people were able to spare about 10 minutes
anyone would be able to spare me about 10 minutes, so I’m able to have more meetings and
more talks with the top executives or the top people of other companies as well, and also my
company.
So, I think this is an opportunity for us to change significantly on we can change and also, we can
identify things that we will further accelerate to promote changes. I think we will be able to do this
with this opportunity and we’ll be able to do that with more speed. So, for your question about
what are we going to continue to protect? My answer would be, it will be the real world. We have
a “genba” or the “shop floor” Like the “genba”, the site that we work at, that is the real world. And
at the real world, we have been accumulating a lot of experiences and skills and knowledge so no
matter how much we may transform further to go toward digitalization, there will be a site, a
“genba” that people will be working. So, utilizing our strength, our real world, we are going to
further develop our necessary human resources and become a company that will be relied on
and depended on by others, so that would be my answer to your question. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you very much Mr. Yamada.
Next question please. Nikkei newspaper Mr. Omoto please. And again, please wait until your face
is shown on the screen. We are now switching the screen.
Thank you for waiting, Mr. Omoto please.
Q - Unverified ParticipantOmoto from Nikkei newspaper, I have two points. Number one, as you said in your presentation,
so far you have overcome several crises, and COVID-19 is the current crisis. And your past
experiences overcoming the other crises, including what you have learned, what is your learning
from the past cases to overcome this crisis of COVID-19? And in terms of COVID-19, what is your
prioritized area in managing the company in overcoming the crisis of the COVID-19?
A - `Akio Toyoda, President, Member of the Board of Directors `
Thank you very much. Number one priority on learning, is that I am not panicking, I am managing
the company very efficiently and stably. Now, 10 years as President after the financial crisis, as a
President, and as a top Executive, I was managing the company and during these 10 years, no
years were peaceful. Every year, YoY, we have witnessed and experienced a large, drastic
change or event of a one in 100 years now.
Looking back the 10 years, no one expected that my presidency would continue for 10 years. I
didn’t either, because when I became president, here’s my impression, when I became the
president, no one was accepting me happily as the new president. In and outside of Toyota,
there were just a few people who accepted me happily. And the “genba” people of TMC were
the only exception, they were happy to receive me. Especially those people, shop office people
never wanted to change their way of doing the business, this is my own impression when I
became the president. And in the 11 years as a president I had to overcome many different crises.
I had to respond to many crises. And as a result, or right answer, I managed to show the direction
for the future or for the company, and because of this, even in the administration and
engineering people, even in the office people, some people started to show sympathy with what
I have said. Some people started to develop acceptance to my presidency.
And then, now, as of today, I am pleading the opportunity to show my appreciation to those
people who were through in accepting me and who is now accepting me. So, I think the company
is rather stable, not panicking at all. At the financial crisis triggered by the Lehman Brothers shock,
we had to stop so many things to enjoy the surplus again and currently we are having the impact
of more volume decrease compared to the financial crisis. But still, we are making profit and we
can make investment for the future. We can make the investment for the advanced R&D, so that
means that we now have good communication by which we are able to say thank you to each
other in the company. So, to show the appreciation to each other in the company means that
people in the company are working for, not only themselves but for the other people than
themselves, and this, you should not change at all.
Now, the crisis and also the prioritized tasks. In the crisis now, the first priority is decided, why the
priority that we have at Toyota, first the safety, second quality, and third volume and fourth profit-
making. But, with the time changes, this priority might have to be revisited. However, amid of this
crisis, this traditional priority of Toyota continued to do very important and based upon this
priority, that we have developed so far, we will try to develop the Toyota people, and this is very
important. And as I said already, this financial announcement will make a starting point for us to
change Toyota into a new Toyota. Therefore, this time, to be accepted by the new age, in the
new age Toyota will continue growing as a company which will be depended on by the people in
the world. So, this is a new start for Toyota and this the opportunity for us to make or to start that
transition into a new company. And with this philosophy I’d like to continue working on Toyota.
Operator
From here, in order to receive as many questions from as many people as possible, we’d like to
keep your questions to one question per person. Next question please.Mr. Yasuhisa Shimashita please. We will be switching the screen now. When you see your face,
please start to ask your question. Mr. Shimashita please.
Q - Unverified Participant
Thank you very much for the opportunity. I was impressed with your remarks. So, since my
question is restricted to one, I’d like to ask about the vehicle that will be used for private
transportation not for public usage. So, I think, in this current situation, we might have a change in
how we acknowledge and utilize cars from a macro perspective. And also, for the way to sell cars,
I think there’s already a focus on how cars are sold online. And if that changes as well, you’ll need
to have more tools, you won’t be able to just sell cars with paper books and also telephones. So,
what are your thoughts on that? If it is that cars are used as a tool, maybe that’s fine, but if it’s GR
or Lexus, maybe people will be hesitant to purchase, we might not be prepared enough to sell
remotely or online in order to move people’s heart and then to sell it. So, on the sales side, is
there any ideas that is on your mind, that you’d like to work on or any thoughts of things that you
have to change for selling vehicles, going forward in the future?
A - `Akio Toyoda, President, Member of the Board of Directors `
Thank you very much for your question. So, after I make a comment, since I have the operating
officer Mr. Terashi next to me, from an engineer perspective I will ask him to make some
additional comments.
So, I will start. First of all, by experiencing this COVID-19 crisis, going forward, I think we’ll be
moving more rapidly toward a society that has less physical contact. However, when we achieve a
physical contactless society, it doesn’t necessarily mean that cars will all be driven be autonomous
driving cars. I think we’ll still have the need to enjoy driving vehicles and also be able to live in an
enriched way, that means, fun to drive cars. So, drive, there will be good and not so good divers,
fun to dive cars, so that kind of autonomous driving car is what I want to target. So, more personal
mobility needs will be heightening, as you said, and several years ago, I have declared that we
will be changing Toyota from an automobile company into a mobility company. And I think this
change that we are aiming for is becoming more closer to reality. And at the beginning of this
year we made a public announcement of our project, Woven City.
And Woven City is a project or a demonstration, a trial that will place people in the center. And
with this, once again, when we look at the word “move” it is about moving people from place A
to B, but also “move” is about moving people’s hearts. And if people move from a certain
destination to a different destination, I want to have cars that will move peoples’ hearts together.
And on the sales side, in the same timing for Toyota’s domestic dealers, from all dealers, we
have started selling all models in all dealer channels. That means for all Toyota dealers in Japan,
all of the models can be purchased, so this is one initiative we started. And also “Kinto” we have
the fixed cost subscription service, so we are trying to prepare various options for customers to
select from. And like Mr. Shimashita has mentioned, internet or online sales, we are considering
what will be appropriate for cars like GR and Lexus. I believe these kinds of cars will need a
certain story to sell together. We need to share a story about the joy of these cars, so more than
the actual specifications of these kinds of vehicles we want to share a story so that everyone can
share a joy and also happiness of owning such a vehicle. And I’d like to have Mr. Terashi next to
me to add some comments.
A - `Shigeki Terashi, Operating Officer, Member of the Board `This is Terashi speaking. I’d like to make some additional remarks. So, like President Toyoda
mentioned, in this crisis we have all experienced about what it means to stop moving, when
people stop moving, I think everyone has experienced this character. And we do see that there is
a limitation with just the virtual world, and we still, we have the real world that is enriching our
lives. I think this is something that we have all experienced amid this crisis. And thinking from this
perspective, I think that using vehicles in many ways to have diverse ways to use cars, not just
moving people and goods, is going to be wanted by society. But as a flow of society, we are
moving toward to case type of business. The technologies that will enrich people’s lives, I think
these technologies will further be developed as a fact.
And just for your reference, a year ago we provided the hybrid patents free of charge and one
year has passed since this attempt. And the current situation is that the hybrid itself is something
that people want to use and at the point from 2024 to 2025, there’s about annual amount of
500,000 hybrids that we are signing contracts on to provide. So, thinking about these numbers, I
think we understand what kind of difficulty or struggle people are having how technology is
related. And we want to have more like-minded partners so that we can cooperate and work in
these areas as well, so that is all from myself. Thank you, I’m looking forward to having continued
discussions with you. Thank you
Operator
Mr. Shimashita-san thank you very much. Now it’s time to stop but I think we can extend the time.
And I’d like to broker the next question. So, Mr. Hans Greimel of Automotive news, when you see
your face on the screen please start your questions. We are now switching the screens.
Thank you for your patience, we are now switching the screen. Mr. Hans Greimel please.
Q - Unverified Participant
I’m Hans Greimel from Automotive news. Thank you for the opportunity. May I ask my question in
English?
Operator
Yes, please ask your question in English.
Q - Unverified Participant
Thank you very much. I’m very impressed by your commitments, Toyota’s commitment to 300
million capacity or production in Japan. Toyota is truly an anchor of the national economy here. But
as a proponent of this “home planet” philosophy, can Toyota make, maybe today, make a similar
commitment to some of the other markets where you are an anchor of the economy? For
example, the United States, where last year you produced about 1.2 million vehicles. Is Toyota
ready to make a similar commitment to the capital and the personnel and the human resources
development that you’ve invested in these other countries? Especially the United States, where
you are an adopted home-town player.
A - `Akio Toyoda, President, Member of the Board of Directors `
Thank you for your question. I would like to respond in Japanese. It will be translated over the line.
So currently, Toyota’s production is around 9 million units and how we have come to here is that in
the initial phases it was all done by domestic production in Japan and we had exported to the
other markets, that is where we started. (So, just confirmed that it is simultaneously translated.)And I think as the beginning of 1980s, from that period, overseas production has advanced. And
currently we have 3 million for domestic production and overseas production is about 6 million
units, so that is the current state that we are in. And in the situation, for models, we want to have
to produce models that will be sold in the market that will be sold. So, thinking from this
philosophy, that is how we have come to increase the overseas production ratio. And for us, in all
of the markets that we enter we aim to become the best in town automobile company in all of
the communities, in all the regions this is how we execute our activities. And Japan is included and
also in US, Europe, China, Asia, and Africa, South America, when we are blessed with the
opportunity to produce cars in those regions, we aim to become the best in town company, so
that everyone will be happy that they have Toyota in their community. And with this kind of
thinking, and when you think about in automobile, even if we build a final assembly plant in the
region, at the same time we’ll have to build the supply chain. So, the procurement foundation will
have to grow together with our plants. That is a necessity for us to have production. And at the
end, that will end up in 3 million units in domestic production and the rest made in overseas,
including, the parts procurement, I think we have yet more to go in order to become the best in
town in all these regions.
For US, that we have listed, we have given out Camry for US production even for the parts
procurement rate, the local parts procurement rate it is a car that has the highest procurement
ratio of parts. And even NASCAR, which can only enter cars that have American-made cars we are
able to participate in the NASCAR races because we have such a high localization rate for our
cars that we manufacture in US and overseas. So, this is the way that we are thinking.
So, in Japan, we had a large continued increase of volume in Japan but we have then seen a shift
to overseas production. But there is a line that we want to protect and that is why we have been
announcing our 3 million criteria. But for overseas production, rather than committing to a certain
volume amount, we want to first think about what and how we become the company necessary
for that region, for that market and become a company that can be depended on, relied on, as
an automobile company in that country and region. But that will be our priority and then as a
result, maybe our volume will be increasing for the production volume in that market. And we
hope that will be a happy thing for the regions that we operate in and we hope then we will both
be happy and moving that direction. So, that will be my answer.
Operator
Thank you Mr. Hans Greimel. Thank you and next question please. From Yomiuri newspaper Mr.
Isozumi please. Again, please wait for your face to be shown on the screen.
We are switching the screen. And Mr. Isozumi please, it’s your turn. Please
Q - Unverified Participant
Isozumi speaking. Thank you very much for this opportunity. As President [Toyoda] said, Toyota is
now reborn into a new company, this is a starting point. And here is my question, as Toyota
investments or how to spend the money to change this activity. Now, in year ending in March
2021, JPY1.016 trillion is the R&D, with the profit and revenue going down, you are keeping the
same level of the investment as the previous year. So, I’d like to ask you the reason why you do
so. And also, in terms of the contents or the breakdown of the investment destination, is there
any change? You know, so you have many huge projects for instance, smart city, Woven city. And
do you see any changes to this type of investment into the already started projects?
A - `Akio Toyoda, President, Member of the Board of Directors `Thank you very much. So, we are now making Toyota a new Toyota. So, any change to the
contents of our activities? Especially investment? Recently, we have started to seed for the new
Toyota and for this kind of new projects we continue pushing the accelerator pedal. But Mr.
Kobayashi next to me may have a different answer, so I’d like to invite Kobayashi-san to give an
answer to your question.
A - `Koji Kobayashi, Operating Officer, Member of the Board `
So, I’m Kobayashi, thank you very much. Now, before the financial settlement announcement,
executives made a discussion so many times, including the president himself. And year ending in
March 2021, we’ll have a JPY500 billion which will make a deficit when we were in the time of the
financial crisis. Now, 11 years of Akio’s presidency has seen so many events and if you look at the
breakeven point it is now getting better and the president is the only person who had the
experience of the financial crisis. So, some part we had to stop the discussion and now growing
concern we have talked about. And many things which you cannot stop is this kind of investment
for the future.
We cannot stop this investment for the future because this is one of the things which you have to
continue forever in the future, which has to be supported by our money. At the financial crisis
times, JPY3 trillion is the cash on hand, however, we have JPY8 trillion cash on hand now. To look
over the company this is smaller because Apple has JPY20 trillion so of course the companies will
experience ups and downs, but anything for the future will be necessary because, to have a
continued growth for the future, we make a contribution to the society. And this is the philosophy
why President `Akio Toyoda, President, Member of the Board of Directors, which we are following as executives, so you have talked about the
smart city, Woven City project and also R&D investment or the investment into testing, these will
never be changed. However, well, I am having a keen eye on how much we spend, so if we see
many wasteful spending, I will cut it, so that we can have a better prioritization.
At the time of the COVID-19 crisis our prioritization is more/better than the past, so, looking for
the future, we will have more discussion among the top executives so that we can have a better
prioritization on how much we spend for what.
Operator
Thank you Mr. Isozumi. I’m sure that we still have a lot of questions but since we are over our
scheduled time, we would like to just receive the last question. Ms. Osada from Chunichi
newspaper please.
We will switch the slide and when you see your face, please begin your questions. Ms. Osada,
please.
Q - Unverified Participant
This is Ms. Osada from Chunichi newspapers. Thank you very much for this opportunity today. I
also want to ask a question from the perspective of change. Earlier in the president’s remark, you
had mentioned that now is the chance and opportunity to change actions. So currently, in this
COVID-19 era, we’re talking about the new normal or a new way of life. And I think one of
Toyota’s core philosophies is “Genchi Genbutsu” so that will be going to the actual site and
looking at the actual goods. Will this change?
And also, in last year’s financial results announcement, President Toyoda when asked of the
question of what is the threat or challenge of Toyota. And the president commented that it willbe the way of thinking that Toyota is alright. So, in this era of new challenge, new norms, what is
the challenge of Toyota?
Toyoda: That’s a very difficult question that I received at the very end. Well, for Toyota’s “Genchi
Genbutsu” philosophy, going to the actual site, looking at the actual goods. I believe that we
need to make a clear definition of this once again. Up to now, we placed importance on first of
all, go to the actual site, go to the “Genchi”, so it was done as a matter of course. Even if we look
at products, we will always have to look at the product and place it in front of our own eyes, so no
one questioned this, up to now. But in the past month, we have been looking at products more
through the images on the screens. This was a new thing for me and what I felt was that, what is
the timing that I am confirming the product, at what timing is it that the people consulting me and
asking for my comments. So, I think at certain stages, it is fine to see the product through the
screen and there will be always times that you will have to see the actual product. I think the line
between these has become clearer with the past month experience. And even for this, for
example, I had to if you have to go to make an apology for example, if you have to have
consultations with a certain person, I think in these kinds of cases, you need to have a face-to-
face contact, be able to understand the emotions, the temperature of how you’re feeling. These
kinds of cases, it will be necessary to go to the site to see the person, see the product. When
you look at a product, going to the actual site, going to the “Genba”, what is important is to feel
the change point. What has changed? Understanding what has changed is important. So, if I have
to look at a product through this screen, then I will confirm what it is the change point that people
want to show me. Also, how do people look like? How are their eyes looking like? How are they
feeling? Some things can be only felt when you are at the “Genba”. So, for those kinds of things
that you will need to feel from the actual products, the actual people, then that should be done
at the actual site, the “Genba”. So, I think we need to review our definition. I think we should not
just say we do “Genchi Genbutsu” everywhere, but we need to clarify what is necessary to do
“Genchi Genbutsu” and what we don’t have to.
Also, last year I did say that the threat for Toyota will be the thinking that Toyota is alright. And
now a new threat I would say is that, well rather than saying it’s a threat, for myself, currently, I am
staying very calm. And there are many people making their upmost efforts and I’m seeing,
including the office workers, seeing the efforts. So, I have more opportunities to say thank you to
the people around me. So rather than see things as a threat, from making comments and from
the actions that I take, I hope that there will be more opportunities for me say thank you to the
people who are making efforts. But if the opportunity for me to say thank you goes down and
when I start to be complaining to myself more often than now, I think that will become a time
where I see more threats. So, including the way I work, I want to create a relationship in the
company, also build relationships with the suppliers and the dealers. Also, the relationship with
communities, so that I can say thank you to all these friends and partners. So that is what I am
aiming for through my words and actions. So rather than the threat, I want to explain the
expectations that I have. That will be my answer. Thank you.
Operator
So, this is the end of the second part of the financial results announcement meeting. Thank you
for your time for a long time.
[END]