Y 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Now, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to start part two of our Fiscal 2021 Financial Performance Press
Conference by Toyota Motor Corporation. First of all, let me introduce to you the participants for
this part, Member of the Board, Chief Digital Officer, `James Kuffner, Chief Digital Officer; Chief Production production
Officer, `Masamichi Okada, Chief Production Officer; Chief Communication Officer, `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer; Chief Financial Officer,
Kenta Kon; Chief Technology Officer, `Masahiko Maeda, Chief Technology Officer.
Now the Member of the Board, `James Kuffner, Chief Digital Officer is going to make a presentation.
`James Kuffner, Chief Digital Officer `
Good afternoon. Today, I'm excited to share with you a glimpse of Toyota's technology and
strategy with regards to carbon neutrality. Before I begin, I would like to express deep gratitude
to the millions of Toyota customers who continue to choose our products and services and place
their trust in us.
The COVID-19 global pandemic has been difficult for everyone. These strong financial results that
we have shared today were only possible due to the hard work and dedication of Toyota Group
employees, suppliers, dealers, shareholders, and partners worldwide. Thanks to these amazing
people, Toyota can continue to create and develop advanced technologies and provide
outstanding products and services that fulfill the needs of customers all over the world.
The Toyota philosophy was developed to guide our company. At its foundation is mobility and
happiness for all. For over 80 years, Toyota has been executing on its vision and mission to
produce happiness and deliver safe, sustainable mobility technology to customers globally. As
part of that mission, Toyota has been working hard to help all countries and regions around the
world achieve carbon neutrality through its products.
In addition, Toyota is a 100% committed as a company to achieving carbon neutrality by 2050 or
earlier. What does carbon neutrality actually mean for the automotive industry? Carbon neutrality
for the automotive industry means achieving zero CO2 emissions in all processes throughout the
lifecycle of manufacturing, transporting, operating, fueling and/or charging and recycling and
disposing of vehicles. Toyota has been innovating and investing in technology to reduce
emissions and achieve carbon neutrality for over 30 years.In the early 1990s, Toyota committed to achieving the ambitious goal of building a practical mass
market vehicle that would have twice the fuel efficiency of a Corolla class vehicle with the same
high reliability and low cost that Toyota customers expect. There were many skeptics at the time.
In 1996, Toyota developed and launched its first battery electric vehicle, the RAV4 EV.
The RAV4 EV faced significant challenges related to limited range, long charging times and lack
of available charging infrastructure. But Toyota engineers used customer feedback and valuable
knowledge from the RAV4 EV development to improve both battery technology and power
electronics.
In 1997, Toyota launched the best-selling Prius, the world's first mass produced hybrid electric
vehicle. Bringing practical HEVs to market was not easy. It involved many innovations in motors,
inverters, engines, batteries, and electronics. Some of Toyota's innovations in battery technology
included materials, manufacturing processes, improve safety and crash-worthiness, high power
output performance and better recyclability for sustainable manufacturing.
Building upon that experience over the past 25 years, Toyota has remained committed to
developing an array of new technologies and products to help reduce carbon emissions. We have
successfully developed and launched a wide variety of innovative products, including hybrid
electric vehicles, battery electric vehicles, plug-in hybrid electric vehicles, and hydrogen fuel cell
electric vehicles.
The success of the Prius demonstrated that our commitment to carbon neutrality had also
created a once-in-a-generation opportunity for innovation and market leadership. and today
Toyota offers the world's largest lineup of 55 practical, reliable and affordable electrified vehicles
all over the world with many more to come.
Our combined sales volume of electrified vehicles, including HEVs, BEVs, PHEVs, and FCEVs is
now more than two million vehicles per year. The Atkinson cycle engines in our HEVs and PHEVs
are extraordinarily efficient, up around 40%. These efficiency improvements have helped reduce
emissions in many parts of the world, particularly those with less green power infrastructure.
The net positive impact of Toyota's innovations enabled an estimated reduction in total
cumulative carbon emissions of approximately 140 million tons in over 20 years. This is equivalent
to removing 1.5 million typical passenger vehicles from our world's roads every year over that
time period. We are proud of these achievements, but we know, we can, and we must do better.
That is why we are rapidly introducing 15 battery electric vehicle models globally by 2025,
including seven recently announced TOYOTA bZ models.
We are also expanding and improving our product lineup of HEVs, PHEVs, and FCEVs. To support
all these new products, Toyota will continue to make global investments in exciting new battery
technology such as solid-state batteries. Along with more efficient electric motors, these new
batteries will help make EVs more practical, safer, and more sustainable.
Toyota believes the world can achieve carbon neutrality. But there are still many challenges to
realizing our dream. Even with perfect battery technology, a BEV will still generate tons of CO2
emissions over its lifetime, if it is charged by electricity produced by coal or other non-renewable
energy sources. Another challenge is that not everyone has convenient access to charging
infrastructure. I am one of them. I live in an apartment building in Tokyo and have no ability to plug
in a vehicle.
Fortunately, Toyota can offer me additional choices. For example, PHEVs offer flexibility and can
be built with smaller batteries using fewer materials. PHEVs can be driven in a zero-emissionselectric mode, optimized for the short trips that make up most of the world's driving, as well as
providing a hybrid mode for longer trips.
In addition, Toyota continues to aggressively invest in complementary new green energy
technologies aimed at achieving carbon neutrality. Toyota is the world leader in hydrogen fuel cell
technology, Hydrogen is the most abundant element in the universe and can be produced locally
at the point of use with nothing but renewable energy and water.
Hydrogen can also provide long-term storage of renewable energy for use during peak times.
After more than 20 years of research and development, in 2014, Toyota Launched the Mirai, our
first mass-produced hydrogen fuel cell electric vehicle, which won the World Green Car of the
Year Award in 2016. Fuel cell technology is truly magical. As the vehicle moves, air from the
outside combines with Hydrogen in the fuel cell to produce electricity and water. A pure and
simple zero emissions vehicle that can be refueled in three minutes.
Our second generation Mirai was announced last December. We improved performance,
comfort, and efficiency, increasing EPA range to 647 km or 402 miles. Despite these
improvements, hydrogen energy still faces many challenges related to available infrastructure,
overall efficiency, and enabling low-cost clean hydrogen production. Toyota will continue to invest
in technology to overcome these challenges.
Moreover, passenger cars are only a small part of Hydrogen's future potential. Toyota's hydrogen
fuel cell technology could help to clean up a large percentage of the world's entire transportation
ecosystem. That means achieving carbon neutrality in trucks and heavy transport, trains, buses,
taxis, aviation, shipping, forklifts, and industrial processes, all of whose combined CO2 emissions
exceed those of passenger cars.
Toyota has also developed modular fuel cells and a standalone fuel cell generator that can be
repositioned to produce electricity anywhere, on demand. For example, you can use Toyota's
standalone fuel cell generator to quickly deploy a charging station for a BEV or PHEV.
But cleaning up new vehicle sales is just the beginning. There are more than 1.4 billion vehicles in
the world today and most of them have internal combustion engines. Toyota is exploring possible
ways to clean up the world's legacy fleet of ICE vehicles that will still be in operation during the
next 10-15 years.
Hydrogen fuel can also be burned as a cleaner fuel. Just last month, Toyota demonstrated a new
hydrogen engine prototype that could expand the options for achieving carbon neutrality faster.
In the world of motorsports, where the development speed of new technology is rapid, President
Toyoda, who is a master driver himself, takes the wheel and repeatedly evaluates these vehicles
and technology progress.
Toyota's work in making ever better cars now also has the potential to enable more
environmentally-friendly motorsports.
In everything that we do, Toyota is and has always been firmly committed to Carbon Neutrality.
Toyota has the world's largest and rapidly expanding lineup of electrified vehicles, consisting of
BEVs, HEVs, PHEVs, and FCEVs.
Because of our unique history of working with electrification for nearly 25 years, Toyota's
technology is world-class and strongly positioned to help different countries around the world
reduce emissions and achieve Carbon Neutrality faster. This was all done before mandated rulesby governments or the recent global movement and growing awareness of the need for Carbon
Neutrality. Giving back to the world, and having a clean future, is in our Toyota DNA.
We are very excited about the future of electrified mobility, and the tremendous new products
and business opportunities that the green economy will create as we make progress towards
achieving our goal of Carbon Neutrality. However, no single company, including Toyota, can
accomplish this goal alone. All industries must work together to develop new technology and
infrastructure in cooperation with scientists and academia, as well as local and national
governments. This is a challenge that we are excited about facing, because it will not only lead to
better products, but also help protect our precious planet at the same time.
We would like to be a trusted partner to build the best products suitable for people in every part
of the world to achieve carbon neutrality faster, with Toyota's brand representing quality,
reliability, low-cost, and long-lasting value. Toyota is 100% committed to the global goal of
achieving carbon neutrality by 2050 and as a result, a brighter, happier future for us all.
Thank you very much.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to start the Q&A session. (Operator Instructions) And the
Japanese Q&A will be simultaneously translated but for English questions and answers that will
be consecutively translated and therefore please wait for the translation. (Operator Instructions)
So Ms. River. Please.
Q - `River Davis, Analyst,  `
Hello, can you hear me, okay.
Operator
Yes, we can.
Q - `River Davis, Analyst,  `
Thank you so much for the opportunity today. I have one question for Mr. `James Kuffner, Chief Digital Officer about
electrification of vehicles. It seems that there is kind of two camps, one evaluating Toyota's
pursuit of electric vehicles, one that looks at Toyota's kind of behind the pack in developing
battery electric vehicles and another that looked at the recent announcement of the busy electric
vehicle plan as Toyoda finally announcing the plans that it had been building for quite a long time.
So not necessarily behind in the pack.
I wanted to ask, James, where do you see Toyota standing compared to rivals in regard to the
development of specifically battery electric vehicles, I know, Toyota has a quite a strength in
hybrid vehicles.
A - `James Kuffner, Chief Digital Officer `
Thank you very much for your question. I'll make a brief comment and then I'd like to invite our
CTO, Mr. Maeda to follow up. One of the reasons that I spent some time to explain the history of
electrification, is that a lot of people don't actually realize that Toyota developed electric vehiclesover 20 years ago and we've learned a lot. It requires a lot of innovation and development in
engines and motors and power electronics.
All of these things that are needed in order to build a practical electric vehicle and electrify
transportation and mobility and Toyota is always listening to customers, always trying to develop
products that are suitable for every part of the world and we have to remember that the goal is
not electric vehicles, the goal is carbon neutrality.
And even if we have the best technology, if it's not chosen by customers, it will not have the
impact of reducing emissions and that's the reason why we've chosen to have a full lineup, and
we've invested in all of these technologies.
But make no mistake, Toyota is really excited and I believe we are strongly positioned to lead the
world in the best reliable low-cost battery electric vehicles. As you know, producing batteries has
a lot of challenges, and we are trying to overcome them as well as the rest of the industry related
to infrastructure, but we should also not forget that mining some of the rare elements that are
needed to produce today's batteries, whether it's lithium or cobalt or nickel, these things are also
producing emissions.
So we have to find a good balance and that's what Toyota is committed to. We've reduced the
size. We've increased power output, and we've made incredible innovations in performance and
safety of battery technology. And we're doing that with 25 years of experience of building cars
that are electrified. And like I said, we're now selling over two million of electrified vehicles per
year. So I feel very confident that we can continue to lead the industry in changing and producing
products that are chosen by customers all over the world that will deliver clean energy and clean
transportation.
I'd like to ask maybe CTO Maeda-san to follow up.
Operator
Wait for the interpreter to complete.
A - `Masahiko Maeda, Chief Technology Officer `
Now, from my side, let me add some comments. As Dr. Kuffner mentioned, batteries is one way
to realize carbon neutral. In fact, battery vehicles are one way. Realizing carbon neutral is one
purpose of electrification. Then, how can we achieve carbon neutral?
At Toyota, we think environmental technology itself is not worth it, if it isn't used widely. Carbon
neutral by 2050 or in China by 2060 are the numbers that we are hearing. But way before that,
we were developing the first Prius, and even at that time, we think that the technology is only
good when it is widely spread.
Then the question is how can we make technology widespread?
Operator
You don't have to soft there because your trans being translated simultaneously.
A - `Masahiko Maeda, Chief Technology Officer `
Then how can you make technology used widely? High convenience for the customer is
important. As we mentioned in Part 1, the technology of vehicles so that we prepare, we will haveto be practical for the customers. Worldwide, there are many types of consumers. Of course, on
a day-to-day basis, there are some people who simply use vehicles as passenger cars and it may
sound like an excessive case, but for example, in the United States, a one pound trailer may be
told by their vehicles. And in the southern hemisphere, there are people who go into the
mountains and drive on roads where you can't imagine vehicles being driven.
Historically, Toyota even before the days of electrification has always focused on the convenience
of the customer. So, we have responded to customers' need and as a result, we created the
current full lineup of products that we have.
Towards carbon neutral, when we prepare electrified vehicles, it's the same approach. For
people who tow heavy trailers, what kind of vehicles would be necessary? Currently, a lot of
people think hybrids are the most convenient. And if that is represented in the form of sales and
units, in the future, we may have a good charging stations and we have a higher battery
performance. Some people may see that as convenient.
So not just the technology of batteries, but depending on the region, customers will use their
vehicles in their own ways. So convenience and environmental technology is to be provided by
Toyota. Both will be provided by Toyota, we think that is important. And for electrified vehicles, as
a result, we have a full lineup. HEVs, PHEVs, FCEVs, BEVs, we have this full lineup and that is
because the convenience of the customers and environmental technology are both important.
And as we consider this very seriously, we have this full lineup.
And in the future, we would like to continue to make efforts so that we can realize carbon neutral
with electrification. Thank you.
Operator
(Foreign Language) Thank you Ms. Davis for your question.
Q - `River Davis, Analyst,  `
Thank you very much.
Operator
Now let us move on to the next question. Mr. Naoto Ikeda, please could you start your question?
I'm going to switch the screen. So if you see yourself on the screen, please start your question.
So, we are now switching the screen. So, so please give us a little more time. Mr. Ikeda, could you
start -- please start the question, please?
Q - Unidentified Participant
Naoto Ikeda, Freelance Journalist. Thank you for this opportunity. Earlier, Mr. Nagata talked about
electrification and moving toward that, you said we would require a 30 times more batteries that
you are using currently. If that is the case, procuring that battery, especially the raw materials for
the battery production, including lithium, cobalt and nickel included, that was mentioned earlier?
Currently, those raw materials are procured for the most part in China and probably you would
need to start thinking about procuring in Japan or from Japan. Toyota alone wouldn't be able to
achieve that. It would require cooperation with government. And what is the current status of the
discussion with the government about the procurement of those raw materials for batteries?One other question, which also relates to batteries. Basically speaking those batteries could
combust substantially. And if you leave unaddressed, it could take fire and probably it will become
costly if you try to control that characteristics of the batteries are taking to fire. So what is the
balance of that? And in terms of cost competition among rivals, how are you going to maintain
your cost competitiveness, trying to control the combustiveness of those batteries?
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer `
Thank you, Mr. Ikeda for your question. The first question with respect to the production of
batteries, so Okada, the CPO, will respond to the first part of the question. And second question
relates to the safety of battery and also the balance with the cost and Mr. Maeda, CTO, will
respond to that question. So, Mr. Okada, please.
A - `Masamichi Okada, Chief Production Officer `
Thank you for your question Mr. Ikeda and allow me to answer your question. First of all, in terms
of the procurement of raw materials for battery production, naturally as you pointed out in your
question, we do have those concerns and to address those concerns in relation to batteries, we
do have various partners. We do have several partners who worked with us for battery migration
and we started making efforts to ensure the procurement of batteries.
And as you mentioned, the collaboration and cooperation with the government is required for
the procurement of purpose and the requirement of batteries and that is a very important
aspect. And therefore, working with partner is one thing we are doing and also, we have partner
working with us in our subsidiary, the battery manufacturer. So we work with Panasonic to ensure
the certainty of procurement of materials for batteries. And once we have assured the
procurement of raw materials in terms of procurement as well as Mr. Nagata mentioned, the
production volume is expected to increase. I will be repeating currently, annually, we have six
gigawatt hours and in 2030, we have to produce 180 gigawatt hours and need to establish nearly
60 production lines for those batteries and to ensure that volume for the past 20 years or so, for
hybrid EVs, we produced 17 million hybrid vehicles, and the batteries required for a hybrid electric
vehicle, the capacity of that, probably 30 times of that will have to be produced in the next 10
years or so.
So as mentioned earlier, in addition to ensuring the procurement of raw materials, we must
ensure the appropriate production of batteries as well. We must ensure that supply is stable and
safe supply of that for us to secure the volume as well as state of those batteries, we are
working closely with multiple number of partners and that is very important.
And also, the subsidiaries for producing batteries, we have PPAs and also (inaudible) in a sense,
the production there is close to in-house production and in the small -- starting with a small
capacity and starting with the small basic unit, we are establishing new production lines, preparing
that in the shorter lead time and repeating that frequently. That's what we are trying. And if those
facilities for manufacturing is necessary, we are going to produce and manufacture those
production facilities as well.
And I'd like to share with you some slides. As I mentioned earlier, back in 1997, we entered these
hybrid vehicles and since then, since 1997, the production facilities of hybrid motors and also the
production lines for batteries and for FCEVs, we are producing hydrogen tank manufacturing
equipment for those important production equipment, starting with the small basic units like
minimizing the required investment, we have been introducing those production lines to be
introduced in the short lead times. So, those are the efforts that we have made over the years.And this sort of technology and skills that we have accumulated over the years will be applied for
the production for the expanded volume of BEVs and electrification overall. So the -- within
Group, we have the businesses of producing production equipment and mobilizing the
capabilities of equipment manufacturers. We intend to have the solid and robust structure for
battery supply and procurement.
A - `Masahiko Maeda, Chief Technology Officer `
Now, this is Maeda speaking. The safety of battery and the cost, the balance between the two.
Let me start by speaking from a broader perspective. When you say battery performance, you
are probably talking about batteries as seen from customers' point of view, what does battery
performance mean to the customer?
As you mentioned, cruising range or probably deterioration performance, which you will have an
impact on used car prices, those will be major factors. And to balance that, in the process of
using the product, how safe can it be? In the worst case, our batteries can burn, but making sure
that, that doesn't happen, we have to strike a balance.
Technically speaking, for example, if you want to extend the cruising range for volume, how much
power can you accumulate, that is energy density? That performance and the deterioration
performance and safety, these may sometimes contradict each other. Safety is always important
to Toyota. So energy density is not always the priority for us. That will be our approach.
Then, how do we improve the cruising range? For example, by improving power efficiency, the
cruising range can be increased. Of course, improving battery performance is one approach, but
you can look at the overall vehicle and improve power efficiency like reducing resistance or
reduce -- the energy necessary inside the vehicle can be reduced.
As for hybrid vehicle development, we have accumulated that kind of technology over the years.
As a result, increasing power efficiency will lead to reduction of the amount of batteries to be
used. So improving safety and by improving our power efficiency and reducing batteries can be
realized together and that is what Toyota has done over the years. And we will continue to look at
things from the perspective of the customer.
Now, let me go into a little bit more of a detail, if I can have Slide 14. Now, deterioration of the
batteries. What does that mean? I will be going into detailed technical explanation, allow me to
do that. For example, for batteries, if you want to a sporty drive where energy goes in and out
frequently as you see on the left-hand side, the electrolyte concentration will vary and that
accelerates deterioration of the batteries.
Since we were developing the hybrid vehicles, we have been creating models of this. The
volume, current, temperature, when these are changed, how do they deteriorate? We did a lot of
basic experiments on that. This is what we call model-based development. So, we created a
control system by multiple monitoring of the battery.
Since the introduction of hybrids, we are using these models. We introduced the vehicle control
technologies to confirm the accuracy and reliability. Currently, 17 hybrid or electrified vehicles are
sold by Toyota and these vehicles are being used by our customers. At least to the extent of our
knowledge, there were no cases where there were no serious impact on the customers. These
are being used safely and reliably by our customers at the moment.
So historically, we have accumulated this kind of technology. This is used for hybrid vehicles and
this will be used in the future for battery EVs. That is our approach to this technology. I went into abit of details. But, that is all from my side. Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you very much Mr. Ikeda. Now, let's us take the next question. From Automotive News, Mr.
Hans please. We will switch the screen, so when you see yourself on the screen, please ask your
questions. In the case of an English question, you will hear the Japanese translation after the
question. Mr. Hans, please.
Q - `Hans Greimel, Analyst, Automotive News
(Foreign language) Thank you for taking my question today. May I speak in English please. My
question is a little bit about the battery ramp-up that you have. You have need this massive ramp-
up in terms of battery supply by 2030. Can you tell us a little bit about your plans for building and
sourcing electric vehicles and electric vehicle batteries in North America, specifically?
And one other thing about the carbon neutral policy, Toyota has been talking a lot lately about
this hydrogen burning engine that you will demonstrate later this month at Fuji Speedway and
also about e-fuels, how seriously are you investing in these kinds of technologies right now? Is
that a real pathway forward to carbon neutrality or is that just kind of a buzzword or some kind of
distraction right now from the main show?
And finally, maybe just if I could ask for update on the Woven City, when can we expect some
new developments on that? When will you announce who is living there, other kinds of updates
you might have? Thank you.
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer `
(Foreign Language) Thank you very much. For the first question, BEV battery sourcing plan will be -
- in North America will be answered by Mr. Okada, for e-fuel and H engine, Mr. Maeda and for the
Woven City, Dr. Kuffner will be answering the question.
A - `Masamichi Okada, Chief Production Officer `
Thank you very much for your question. So your first question was about battery sourcing in North
America. In part one, we briefly touched upon this. But in each region, how many electrified
vehicles will be produced, that plan is developed. And of course the batteries will be necessary in
each region. And in each region, which vehicle or which powertrain will be necessary that will have
to be identified through dialog with the customers, and battery is necessary for that. It is to be
produced within that region. That will be an important point toward the future.
So you mentioned North America, and the same approach will be applied to North America. For
North America they have vast land and depending on where you are in the United States, the
customers' preference will differ between East Coast, West Coast and central part. So customer
preference, infrastructure are different depending on the regions. So taking that into
consideration, we will be supplying vehicles.
And likewise for batteries, hybrids, EVs for these vehicles, we will be sourcing the appropriate
batteries. And in order to do that, we will work through partners and we may produce in house.
We haven't determined which approach we'll be taking, but we will consider that, so that we can
provide supply in a timely manner. That is all from my side.
A - `Masahiko Maeda, Chief Technology Officer `So for the second question let me answer. Towards the carbon neutral, the hydrogen engine, e-
fuel, how serious are we in investing in these areas. So starting with the hydrogen engine. As we
announced two months ago, the President will drive in May in the endurance race. So of course
we are serious. There is no way we are not serious.
As we mentioned before, customer convenience is important and the customers use the vehicle
in various ways. So the options for the customers about carbon-neutral shouldn't be limited. That
is our thinking, and that is why we are developing those types of cars. Of course the President is
participating in a race. The joy of driving should be enjoyed by many customers. And toward
carbon-neutral, hydrogen engines maybe once of use. And as we think that way, we are serious
about this.
This technology may be applied to a large commercial vehicles. That is something that may be
possible. And as Mr. Hans noted, in the United States and Brazil, bio-ethanol based carbon-neutral
fuel is already commercialized. Now this is based on existing technology. And in the future, if you
combine that with hybrids, we will be able to contribute to carbon neutral in saving energy.
The technology that we have developed so far and the technology that we are to develop from
now on can be combined. So the carbon-neutral does not leave it the choice is for customers.
When we say full lineup, we mean, depending on the preferences there, and the way of using
the vehicles in each region. We want to provide a wide array of options for the customers.
So for any technology, we are very serious about it. That is all.
A - `James Kuffner, Chief Digital Officer `
Thank you, Hans for your question. I'll take the question about Woven City. It's been 16 months
since present Toyota announced the Woven City project at Computer -- Consumer Electronics
Show in Las Vegas. And since then, the team has been really hard at work.
And despite the COVID-19, we were able to complete the Phase 1 designs and start the
groundbreaking officially this year, February 23, and we are making continuous progress and we
have launched also our website where we've had several thousand inquiries from companies and
partners all over the world.
And we just announced a partnership with ENEOS to develop what we believe will be most
advanced city in hydrogen. And we believe that, that is going to accelerate our initiatives in order
to understand how hydrogen and renewable energy can play a big part in smart cities of the
future. Woven City's goal is to become a living laboratory of mobility for people, goods and
information. And we are continually making updates.
At this point, we have planned to start inviting companies to start working with us and we've also
launched our website where you can find continuous updates. So please stay tuned.
Woven city is going to be I think a very important part of accelerating our efforts as a Company to
become a mobility company powered by software and digitalization and really be a true world
leader in this area. There are so many issues where -- around urban development, whether it's
traffic or pollution sustainability and all of these efforts are connected, whether its carbon
neutrality, safe mobility, we would like to accelerate the development of all of that and transform
our Company to a mobility company of the future through the Woven City project.
And this is just part of the larger transformation that we are embarking upon related to software
first. I didn't have time to talk about that today, but software first is a dramatic transformation andassembling the product and designing the hardware. And this is going to dramatically improve
our reusability of software across many, many different forms of mobility, reduce the
development cost and accelerate the features that we can offer to our customers overtime.
And this is not just for traditional passenger cars, but for all kinds of new connected mobility,
personal mobility, flying mobility and that is going to be something that I hope Woven City can be
a flagship project and help lead the world in accelerating that development. Thank you.
The digitalization of the software first that's happening in our Company on our traditional
engineering is all connected to the advanced digital technologies that we will deploy and develop
in Woven City. So I believe that they're all part of the strategy of leveraging advanced digital
technology and connecting those to real products and getting real feedback in a real situation like
Woven City. And that's always been our philosophy try to test and listen to what customers are
experiencing and build products that produce human health and happiness. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you, Hans. There may be further questions, but since the scheduled closing time has
approached, so I would like to ask the next person to be the final person asking question. May I
invite Chiba-san of Asahi Newspapers. We will switch the screen. So if you see yourself on the
screen, please start your question. So Chiba-san please start your question.
Q - `Takuro Chiba, Analyst, Asahi Newspapers
In part one, Mr. Nagata talked about the development of battery technology and he said Toyota
is going to enhance or accelerate the pace of battery technology development. And I would like
to hear the details of that to be elaborated. What is the current target or goal you have for
battery technology? And how much are you going to bring that forward? And what sort of
performance are you aiming at? So, if you could talk about that in a more concrete and specific
terms, I would appreciate that very much. So that's question one.
The second question also relates to carbon neutrality. And you talked about making internal
combustion engine cleaner. I think Dr. Kuffner talked about that. And talking about
decarbonization, we tend to focus more on electrification technology, but with respect to the
development of engines, based upon existing gasoline engines, you may be able to enhance the
thermal efficiency of that and including that aspect, how much investment cost are you expecting
for engine development or investing manpower and resources for engine technology? You're not
intending to reduce that. I would like you to talk about your approach and concept of engine
development. So these are my two questions.
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer `
Thank you, Mr. Chiba for your questions. So let me talk about the first question that is shortening
the development time lead time for battery technology, Mr. Okada will talk about that. And the
second question, that is to say, the enhancement of ICE or making it cleaner, Mr. Maeda will talk
about that.
A - `Masamichi Okada, Chief Production Officer `
Okada speaking. Mr. Chiba, thank you for your question. Starting with the part one, we have been
talking about battery in Part 2 as well and ending at -- moving toward 2030, we are trying to
accelerate that pace as quickly as possible and we are going to secure the necessary value. As
we do that, both hybrid vehicles and PHEVs, customers do support those two technologiessignificantly, and therefore in terms of supply, we intend to offer those vehicles. And as we do
that, we will continue to do batteries for BEVs and also FCEVs.
We are working on that and we accelerate that further. So probably in the middle of period
between 2020 and 2030, aiming at that timeframe, we intend to further enhance our capabilities
for batteries, for BEVs, ensuring the supply of that and ensure the supply of those batteries that
we develop so that we'll be able to achieve the goal that we set for ourselves for 2030. So that's
what we are working on in earnest at this moment.
With respect to our solid state batteries, we are -- it's still in the process of development, and Mr.
Maeda will talk about that and supplement that later on. But at this stage, all I can say is, it is still in
the process of development. We are trying to accelerate the pace of developing all state of
battery as well.
And Mr. Maeda will supplement that further.
A - `Masahiko Maeda, Chief Technology Officer `
Maeda speaking. And Including additional remarks with respect to your first question, I would like
to say the following. With respect to all state batteries, solid state batteries, we are developing
raw materials for that. So technologically speaking, we still have very high hurdles to go over.
I won't be able to go into great details, but in terms of the raw materials that are being
developed, the safety and durability are not yet fully satisfied. So at this moment we are
specializing on the development efforts, dedicating our efforts for the development of raw
materials that can satisfy safety and durability requirement.
As Mr. Nagata mentioned earlier, the pace of the battery development is being accelerated. That
leads to the shortening of lead times for battery parts as well. As we move toward achievement
of copper neutrality, we talked about the importance of offering greater options of technology.
To put it differently, going forward, what would customers would prefer and choose in terms of
vehicles offering greater convenience, that is not yet clearly defined yet.
So given that uncertainty I mean, customer preference may change in the future, regulation might
change in different ways, and that's where we find ourselves and we'll try to capture those
changes as accurately as possible. While we work on this development, it's very important to
shorten the lead time for development, including the development of battery as well.
So considering those factors, as you see on the screen, compared with existing Toyota vehicles,
the bZ -- in the case of bZ4X, we have shortened the lead time for development by around 30%,
and focusing more on the battery.
Going forward, we are now working hard so that we can shorten lead time for development by
another 10%. That means as a result, we will be able to achieve the results that we're aiming at
without increasing fixed costs and without increasing manpower to be dedicated for the purpose.
And to realize that and this is connected to the ICE as well, I think there are two important factors.
As Kuffner talked about earlier, the digitalization is very important in this area as well. As I
explained battery I went into rather technical details. Basically, we use computers simulations in
development.
And as we engage in development using computer simulations, the development environment
itself is going to be digitalized. So working with Kuffner's team, we need to have the robust, solid
development for digitalization, so that we can accelerate the process of development andachieve the evaluation daily. And as we do that, the TPOs that Toyota has been accumulating
over the years will become very important.
In the context of the digital development, digital based development, bringing different
engineers will work together in engaged development. The drawings can be made by a single
person, but in the case of digital development, multiple number will be engaged in the
development of software. So as we do that, how the information is flowing that need to be
streamlined, and that area where TPS concept or philosophy of TPS can be applied, and if that is
done, if that is streamlined based upon TPS, we can enhance the efficiency further leveraging our
own strength.
And TPS and digitalization that I just talked about relates to the cleaning of ICEs that was
mentioned in your second question. It is related to that as well. Further, I talked about the
allocation of resources for enhancing efficiency of existing -- thermal efficiency of existing
engines. And already we're earnestly working on that.
But as Mr. Ichiba is concerned about, we simply cannot allocate large amount of resources on
that. Since we have to engage in electrification as well, the amount of resources we can dedicate
could be limited. And therefore even if in the case of development of engines, the digitalization
becomes important as well as using TPS concept. And those two becomes very important.
So when we take both of this into consideration, using digitalization and TPS, we will reduce or
minimize the basic unit of development so that overall efficiency can be enhanced. And that
becomes very important. Now why the cleaning of ICE is important, could you show us Slide
number 15 for that purpose?
Here, in part one, Mr. Nagata mentioned about this a little bit. In the case of existing HEVs, when
customers are using it, to what extent engine is not used, the engine is stopped as shown here
starting with RAV4 hybrid version, starting from the left hand and before this slide, you have
RAV4 PHEVs. And generally speaking, including the vehicle speed is zero, when the vehicle is
stationary, between 60% and 80% the engine is stopped. Engine is not running, which means for
the rest of the time, the engine is still used. So the efficiency of engine when it is in operation,
need to be enhanced going forward as well.
So although a bit and bit, but the percentage of engine being stationary by reducing the battery -
- electronic efficiency, and being enhanced, we can enhance the efficiency of engine as well. And
by using digitalization and TPS even with the smaller amount of resources, we will try to achieve
the similar result of technological development, and taking advantage of that in an uniquely
Toyota way of doing that. We would like to use those development to achieve the carbon
neutrality going forward. That's all.
Operator
Thank you Mr. Chiba. With this we would like to complete the financial results press conference.
So thank you very much for taking time out of your occupied schedules and be a part of this
program for long.
Thank you very much for your participation.