Y 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Thank you very much for joining us today, despite your occupied schedule. We would like to start
the Toyota Motor Corporation's Financial Result Announcement for the period ending in March
2022. First of all, let me introduce to you the members present for this briefing, Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer, `Kenta Kon, Chief Financial Officer, Operating Officer, Chief Officer of Accounting Grp &; Executive Vice President and Chief Technology
Officer, `Masahiko Maeda, Chief Technology Officer & Operating Officer; Chief Communications Officer, `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer, Chief Officer of External & Public Affairs Group; and Accounting Group
Chief Officer, `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer, Accounting Group.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, Yamamoto will share with you the overview of the financial
results.
`Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
Hello everyone. Thank you for joining us today. I am `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer, Accounting Group. I would like to express
our heartfelt appreciation to our customers around the world who chose us as well as our
shareholders, dealers, and suppliers who support us.
We would like to express our sincerest gratitude to all the stakeholders. I sincerely apologize for
the inconvenience caused to our customers due to the recent production volume reductions. We
will work hard to deliver our product as soon as possible.
First, let me explain the summary of our performances for the fiscal year ended March 2022.
Under the production constraints due to the spread of COVID-19 and semiconductor shortages,
dealers, suppliers and production site have all worked tirelessly in order to deliver as many cars
as possible to customers. Despite soaring materials prices and increase in expenses for the
investment in new business fields, we achieved growth in revenue profits, thanks to cost
reduction and marketing efforts. This is attributable to the improvement for our revenue
structure, which we have been working on for a long time towards one that is not dependent on
foreign exchange rates and volumes.
As for the forecast, we have set our production volume assumption to an appropriate level
having safety and security as our top priority. We expect a decrease in our operating income due
to unprecedented increases in materials and logistics costs. However, we will continue with ourfuture investments and promote our various activities. As for the shareholder return, the year end
dividend is JPY25 per share and maintain a steady increase. Share purchases will be up to
JPY200 billion, including JPY100 billion set aside to enable more flexible share repurchases that --
than before while considering share price levels.
Let me explain our performance for the fiscal year ending on March 2022. Consolidated vehicle
sales for the period was 8.23 million units which was 107.6% of the consolidated vehicle sales for
the same period of the previous fiscal year. Toyota and Lexus brand vehicle sales was JPY9.51
million units, 104.7% of the same sales of the same period of the previous year. The ratio of
electrified vehicles was 28.4%. The consolidated financial results for this fiscal year were, sales
revenue JPY31,379.5 billion, operating income JPY2,995.6 billion, income before income taxes
JPY3,990.5 billion, and net income of JPY2,850.1 billion.
I would like to explain the factors that impacted operating income year-on-year.
First, the effects of foreign exchange rates increased operating income by JPY610 billion. Second,
cost reduction efforts decreased operating income by a net of JPY360 billion, this consisted of
JPY280 billion increased due to cost reduction efforts and JPY640 billion decreased due to the
impact of soaring material prices. Third, marketing efforts increased operating income by JPY860
billion, largely due to the increase in sales volume and improved earnings in the financial services
business. Finally, an increase in expenses decrease the operating income by JPY220 billion. As a
result excluding the overall impact of foreign exchange rates and swap valuation gains and losses
and the other factors operating income increased by JPY280 billion year-on-year.
As shown here, the operating income for each region increase year-on-year in all regions, this is
largely due to the impact of foreign exchange rates, cost reduction and marketing efforts.
Next, let me explain about our business in China as well as our financial services business. As for
our business in China, both the operating income of consolidated subsidiaries as well as our
share of profit of equity method increased mainly due to the impact of foreign exchange and
marketing efforts. Regarding the financial services business, operating income excluding swap
valuation gains and losses for the fiscal year increased year on year, largely due to the increase in
the lending balance and margins.
Next, let me explain the return to shareholders. We plan to make a year-end dividend of JPY28
per share. We will continue to aim to pay stable and sustainable dividends while maintaining and
improving upon our consolidated dividend payout ratio in the medium to long term, in order to
reward shareholders who holds our shares over the medium to long term.
As for share repurchases, we set the maximum limit to JPY200 billion, including JPY100 billion set
aside to enable more flexible share repurchase than before while considering share price levels,
aiming at enhancing capital efficiency, we plan to implement share repurchases in a flexible
manner, taking into account various factors including investment in growth, dividend levels, cash
on hand, and share price levels.
Next, I will explain the forecasts for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2023.
Consolidated vehicle sales is expected to be 8,850,000 units, which is 107.5% of the previous
fiscal year, with growth in sales expected in all regions. As for Toyota and Lexus brand vehicle
sales, it is expected to be 9,900,000 units, which is 104.1% of the previous fiscal year.
As for electrified vehicles, by improving our product lineup to better meet customers' needs in
each region, sales are expected to be 3,070,000 units, which is 113.6% of the previous fiscal year.We expect that the ratio of electrified vehicles will amount to 31.0% of vehicles sold. Toward
carbon neutrality, we will continue to make efforts to provide a wide range of options, to meet
the needs of each region and hence be selected by customers in those regions.
Next, let me explain the forecasts for the full-year consolidated financial performance. We have
adopted ForEx rate assumptions of JPY115 per US dollar and JPY130 per euro. Based on this, our
forecasts for the full-year consolidated financial performance are: sales revenues of JPY33 trillion,
operating income of JPY2,400 billion.
Income before income taxes of JPY3,130 billion and net income of JPY2,260 billion.
Next, I would like to explain the factors that impacted operating income. First, the effects of
foreign exchange rates are expected to increase operating income by JPY195 billion. Second,
cost reduction efforts are expected to increase profits by JPY300 billion, while the impact of a
sharp increase in materials costs is expected to be JPY1,450 billion, resulting in a total decrease
of JPY1,150 billion. Marketing efforts are expected to increase operating income by JPY815 billion,
largely due to the increase in sales volume. Finally, an increase in expenses is expected to
decrease operating income by JPY440 billion.
Although, we continue to face a difficult business environment, we will continue to further
improve our profit structure and accelerate our efforts to transform into a future mobility society.
This concludes my presentation on financial results.
Unidentified Speaker
Next, EVP, `Kenta Kon, Chief Financial Officer, Operating Officer, Chief Officer of Accounting Grp & will talk about changes in profit structure.
`Kenta Kon, Chief Financial Officer, Operating Officer, Chief Officer of Accounting Grp & `
I am `Kenta Kon, Chief Financial Officer, Operating Officer, Chief Officer of Accounting Grp &. Although the results for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022, are for a single
fiscal year, they represent the accumulation of improvements so far in our profit structure, so I
would like to add a few words from that perspective.
These graphs compare the change in our operating income in the year of the 2009 global
financial crisis and the COVID-19 pandemic last year, in each case compared to the previous year.
In both cases, sales volume decreased by 15% compared to the previous year. But at the same
time -- But at the time of the global financial crisis, profits decreased significantly, pushing Toyota
into the red, while in the fiscal year ended March 2021, we were able to secure a profit.
This shows the break-even volume for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, onward. If we assign
our break-even volume at the time of the global financial crisis a value of 100, we have lowered
our break-even volume most recently to the 60-to-70 range, demonstrating that we have made
significant progress in improving our condition over the past 13 years. This was not something
that could be done overnight. Immediately after the global financial crisis, we had to put the
brakes on all of our R&D expenditures and capital investments. We could not do any investments
in the future. But while overcoming the numerous crises known as the Six Hardships, such as our
quality crisis, we continuously worked to improve our profitability.
Improved profitability was not something that Toyota was able to achieve on its own. Rather, it
was the result of a desperate and concerted effort with all of our stakeholders. To them, we say
thank you.During that period, as one of Toyota's strengths is having a full lineup of products globally, we
shifted to an in-house company system that would allow us to provide high-quality and
reasonably priced vehicles at the right place and time to an even higher degree.
Along with the in-house company system, we introduced our Toyota New Global Architecture, or
TNGA, shared vehicle platform to improve the basic performance and product appeal of our
vehicles and enhance the reflection of regional characteristics with the aim of not being the best
in the world but the best in town.
In the past, we often introduced completely new vehicle models on a one-off basis as the market
grew. But now we are continuously evolving our long-time, best-selling cars, such as the Yaris and
Corolla, to keep them current so that they can go on being long-time, best sellers. We believe
that this has resulted in our being able to increase profitability.
I would like to explain the changes in our profit structure over the past six years since we
transitioned to our in-house company system.
Looking at the factors behind increases and decreases in operating income, our profit has
increased despite major negative factors such as foreign exchange rates, sales volume, and
increases in materials prices.
In terms of sales, our greater-than JPY2 trillion improvement in profit is due to sales price
revisions and a reduction in selling expenses. We believe that this is the result of our customers
highly evaluating our products. Also, post-sale vehicle quality helped customers maintain high
vehicle value, leading to improved profitability not only in the automotive business but also in the
financial services business.
In terms of cost improvements, we believe that significant improvements have been achieved by
the effect of switching to new products that are based on the TNGA platform and through the
power of our production worksites, including those of suppliers, which can respond to the launch
of various new products and environmental changes as well as produce high-quality products. We
used to increase profit through foreign exchange rates and volume growth, but this has certainly
changed over the past six years.
Comparing 2015 and 2021, we have increased our market share for new car sales in 11 of the 15
major countries, including China, the United States, and Japan. The graph on the right shows by-
model used car prices in the U.S. three years after purchase.
Our RAV4 has received higher appraisals than vehicles by other manufacturers in the same
segment, and it is evident that those appraisals have gotten even higher since we switched to
the TNGA based RAV4. Being able to command a high price in the used car market protects the
value of customers' owned assets, and we believe this is building trust in our brand.
Our in-house company system, best in town activities in each region, TNGA, product lineup
strategies, the creation of ever-better motorsportsbred cars, and the human resource
development that supports these activities, as well as various in-house system reforms. As
mentioned, although our performance in the fiscal year just ended represents our situation for a
single fiscal year, it is the result of efforts that have been ongoing for a long time, and we would
like to once again like to thank everyone involved for their support.
Many customers are currently waiting for a long time for delivery of their vehicles.We would like to take this opportunity to apologize again. This concludes my explanation. Thank
you.
Unidentified Speaker
We would like to open the floor for discussion and Q&A.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
So here on, we would like to open the floor for discussion, Q&A. (Operator Instructions) Mr.Fukui
of Automotive Journal -- Daily Journal. We will switch the screen and once you see yourself on the
screen, please start your question. Hello, Mr.Fukui, please.
Q - Analyst
Fukui of Automotive Daily Journal. Can you hear me?
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer, Chief Officer of External & Public Affairs Group `
Mr.Fukui, your voice is quite low. Could you once again repeat it yourself?
Q - Analyst
Could you -- can you hear me?
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer, Chief Officer of External & Public Affairs Group `
Yes, we can. Yes. Thank you.
Q - Analyst
First of all with respect to the assessment of the financial results of the fiscal year just ended. The
sales revenue is JPY31 trillion and the operating income is around JPY3 trillion, those at record
high levels. And with respect to those good financial results, how do you assess that? What is
your view of that?
The second question is as follows due to the soaring raw materials prices and cost improvements
efforts. According to the information published in the period fiscal year ended, 30th October,
soaring raw materials prices were JPY640 billion, and for the full year it's already JPY1.55 trillion.
Mr.Kon has been talking about JPY300 billion to improve operating income, through cost
improvement efforts. But I think the soaring raw materials prices are so high that, that cannot be
covered by the further cost reduction. Is there any further room for cost reduction? And including
Tesla, overseas manufacturers are increasing their prices? What is your approach to passing on
higher raw materials costs to the final purchase?
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer, Chief Officer of External & Public Affairs Group `
Thank you, Mr.Fukui. With respect to the good results, so financial results of the fiscal year ending
in March '22 that will be explained by Mr.Kon, EVP, assessment of that. And for the fiscal year just
ended as the raw materials prices soared what are we going to do with the cost improvementefforts, Mr.Yamamoto will respond to that. And with respect to pricing, I, Nagata will respond to
that aspect of pricing.
So first, may I ask Mr.Kon to respond to the first aspect.
A - `Kenta Kon, Chief Financial Officer, Operating Officer, Chief Officer of Accounting Grp & `
Thank you, Mr.Fukui for your question. With respect to our assessment of the fiscal year just
ended, earlier I made additional comments in the presentation, and as reflected there the fiscal
year just ended in March 2022 in terms of the financial results for the full-year of that. But up until
that particular movement over 13 years all together we made accumulated efforts, which brought
down the break-even units, and that reduced the break-even units. And that is the major driver of
these financial results. This is the financial results achieved in a single year, so it is just one year
over many years that we continue to make efforts.
So it depends on the economic conditions prevailed in any fiscal year. It's reflected in those
numbers, but on the foundational basis of that is not just the initiatives and activities pursued in
that particular fiscal year, but the accumulated efforts for improving profit structure, pursued over
many years. So in that sense, the fact that we've been able to make these financial results good
indicator of that, good results of our efforts are to improve our operating structure as reflected in
the manifesting event.
As I said that the financial results reflect the efforts of a single year, but in terms of the production
at Gemba, every day, they are engaged in production activities, which produce a certain number
of units. Sometimes the line is stopped or other times efficiency might suffer. So in that sense, the
books are closed every single day. So every effort is made to achieve the better results
tomorrow than highest today, and maybe even better results after that, and those efforts
pursued over 13 years or so, is reflected in the financial results. We have suffered from the impact
of raw materials and the Corona variant of the COVID. But I think the most important factor and
characteristics of these financial results was the continued and accumulated efforts over many
years for improving operating structure. That's my assessment of the financial results.
A - `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
Thank you. With respect to cost reduction efforts. If you can refer to Slide 16 maybe. Thank you.
Yes. JPY2.4 trillion, ending at better, this shows the water -- shows, it shows negative JPY1.45
billion, that is the soaring materials, and JPY300 billion achieved through the cost reduction
efforts. And also from that subtraction of JPY1.45 trillion of soaring raw materials please. And
therefore, to continue making efforts to achieve around JPY300 billion in cost improvement
efforts manifestation is something very difficult. But what we have been continuing to do that, we
will continue to be pursued going forward. And when the raw materials prices are very high and
soared, what sort of materials shouldn't we be using, is a new aspect that we'll consider. So that
might represent a certain perspective from which the cost improvement efforts can be continued.
So every day, probably we can find those new seeds for cost improvement.
Lastly, with respect to the efforts to pass on higher costs to prices and let me respond to that.
Overall within Toyota, one of the characteristics of Toyota is to have the operation fully lined up
both the passenger cars and commercial vehicles on the global side -- level. So we are operating
globally on with full lineup of our products and therefore in each region, we have many different
customers and different segments, and we are trying to satisfy those different needs in very fine
tuning manner every day. So from that perspective the products are planned as pricing is paid.So there are a variety of customers, different types of customers, they achieved that, because of
the soaring raw material prices, sometimes there may be a segment from whom we may be able
to receive higher consideration, but at the same time there are other segments of customers
who need and who use vehicles for as mean of the transportation, as the work vehicle. So from
those customers, even if the raw materials prices soared and increased trying to increase the
prices, a choice to those customers would represent the very difficult thing to do.
And as Kon mentioned earlier for products, we focus on regional differences and different
product lines. So in each region for each line of products where can we set the higher prices or
where is it very difficult to change prices. Those will be closely examined before decision is made
and that is what we keep in mind, even in the current context.
If I may further add one of the characteristics of Toyota as an OEM, we have the Crown or the
Corollas or Hiace, in the sense, there are so-called long-selling brands, and we have so many of
those long-selling vehicles and that's one of the characteristics of Toyota as an OEM. And those
brands are really enjoying patronage of the many customers, among the many segments and
therefore for the customers with respect to product strength and the pricing, they have a certain
level, the market level they keep in mind. So we need to satisfy those expectations, meet those
customers' expectations. And therefore, even if inflation hastened in to increase price will simply,
cannot satisfy those customer needs and expectations including that aspect, and as Mr.Kon
mentioned, we will continue to improve cost not on a single year basis, but also over many years
so that we can meet customers' expectations as much as possible. That's our approach. Thank
you.
Operator
Thank you very much to Mr.Fukui. Now, let us move on to the next question, from Asahi,
Mr.Kondo-san, please. We will switch the screen. So when you see yourself on the screen, please
start your question.
Mr.Kondo, please.
Q - `Kohei Kondo, The Asahi Shimbun Newspaper
From The Asahi Shimbun Newspaper, my name is Kondo. This question is related to the first
question. The year ended March 2022, the impact of raw material cost is much higher than the
previous year. So what is your perspective on the market conditions and in the short term on the
yen, is weaker, so there may be impact of ForEx. So can you tell us your view on that? And when
you do a reporting, if you look at the supply chain, with regards to supply chain assistance to
support distribution, what is your view? That is my first question.
And the second question. In relation to global production, last year initially 9.3 million was planned
and after that you reviewed that plan and ultimately you had about 8.57 million. For this year 9.7
million which is very high, there was a shortage of semiconductors and yet 9.7 million is the
number you have. Why do you have this number? And because of part shortage from China, are
some of your production sites in Japan, is going to suspend production. So what is your
perspective on the risk with related to the Chinese zero-COVID policy.
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer, Chief Officer of External & Public Affairs Group `
Thank you very much. First, your first question was about the soaring raw material prices and
second, how are we going to respond to our suppliers that will be explained by Mr.Kon the EVP.
And your second question, 9.7 million for this year production. What is the basis for this was thequestion. Because of the Chinese supply chain, the production is going to be suspended and you
would like to have that included in our response. So Mr.Yamamoto will respond to that second
question.
A - `Kenta Kon, Chief Financial Officer, Operating Officer, Chief Officer of Accounting Grp & `
Thank you very much to Mr.Kondo. First about the raw material price and the market conditions,
JPY1.45 trillion as we mentioned it is unprecedented. 640 billion last year was the highest ever
impact and this year, it's more than twice that number. So, the impact was very high. With our
suppliers, with regards to raw material prices in principle, Toyota will bear the burden that is the
basic rule. And based on that rule, globally how much impact there will be, taking into
consideration short-term market, and how much Toyota should bear the burden of that, was
calculated.
In the short term, the weaker yen may have a major impact you mentioned, but JPY1.45 trillion. If
you look at the breakdown, about half of that comes from global affiliates, subsidiaries and
affiliates, and the remainder comes from the Japanese business. In particular with weaker yen,
that we don't think had a major impact on the results. Suppliers, JPY1.5 trillion, the impact of raw
material prices impact both OEMs and suppliers. So we have to work together to respond to the
situation. We have to think together and implement the necessary measures together. As
Mr.Yamamoto mentioned, the raw material prices have gone up. So the amount of raw materials
used should be reduced to the extent possible and when possible, we should use lower cost of
material. Those are measures that have to be taken.
Vehicle development and production, and sales systems of our company, and therefore we have
to develop products that offer higher value to the customers. So rather than just simply raising
the prices, we have to make further efforts as a company in product development. In a single
year 1.5 trillion that cannot be totally absorbed in a single year. So even if it may take time, we
have to take solid steps and measures, so that in several years' time, we will maintain or improve
our competitiveness in the market. Cost reduction of JPY300 billion per year have to be achieved
through SSA activities. We have to make further efforts in these areas. So we have a sense of
crisis. And we do realize that we have to continue these efforts. That's all from my side.
A - `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
The second point was about the production volume. Last year against the plan of the production
volume was lower and we repeated that several times and each -- but still we wanted to produce
each vehicle with all our efforts and passion. The people at Gemba all worked very hard and I
would like to thank everybody for those efforts.
This year's plan, 9.7 million, and I think that was the point of your question. In January, 11 million
was the unofficial plan that we announced and that was changed to 9.7 million. Taking into
consideration the situation last year, what is important is safety and quality being protected and
continue to produce each vehicle. We have to go back to those basics. And with that thinking, we
came at 9.7 million. We don't know what will happen to this number in the future. But that is the
approach for the next year. COVID-19's impact and how much semiconductors can be procured
this year have been taken into consideration.
We asked the people on the Gemba, sudden reduction in production means they have no work
and they maybe switch to other work and there maybe replacement of people, people changes,
and they have made or gone through a lot of struggles. The plan, if the plan can be conveyed to
the people earlier. For example, by reducing tech time, the people at the Gemba can continue toAs Mr.Kon mentioned at the outset, human resource development, we have to continue and the
Gemba people have that mentality of continuing human resource's development. So at that, we
will continue to be kept in mind as we proceed with production activities.
Operator
Thank you very much to Mr.Kondo. We would like to move on to the next question from Chunichi,
Shiraishi-san. We will switch the screen, so if you see yourself on the screen, please start your
question. We are now trying to switch the screen.
Q - Analyst
Shiraishi of Chunichi Newspaper. Can you hear me?
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer, Chief Officer of External & Public Affairs Group `
Yes. We can. Thank you very much.
Q - Analyst
Thank you for this opportunity. I have two questions as well. My question number one relates to
HINO Motor Corporation and because of the misconduct with respect to exhaust gas and that
really lost and impaired the trust and confidence of consumers. And also that really required
improvement of a corporate culture and because of the shipments, the financial well-being in the
company is in question. So there's huge and mounting challenge about HINO.
As a parent company, how TMC assists and considers this HINO's problem? And going forward
because of so many challenges facing HINO, the human resources, goods and financial
resources, what sort of assistance and support does Toyota intent to provide to HINO?
Second question, your talked about the product-driven management, and you also talked about
the efforts for continuous improvement. I would like to ask about your future approach, approach
going forward, as per the world has been focused on the internal combustion engines, but it is
quite true that the increasingly vehicles will be battery EVs. In the case of battery EVs, probably
battery cost will be about 1/2 of the overall cost. But in the age of electrification that will result in
different cost structure. How do you intend to keep your costs better than your all competitors, of
your products overall? These are my two questions.
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer, Chief Officer of External & Public Affairs Group `
Thank you, Mr.Shiraishi. We received two questions. The question number one related to HINO
Motors, relating to the misconduct of that. And as a parent company how does Toyota respond
to that and Kon, Executive Vice President will respond to that question.
Second question related to the product-driven management Mr.Kon talked about earlier in the
presentation, in relation to that, in the electrification including the cost of battery EV, what would
be the cost improvement efforts? And also how do you address that? And Maeda, EVP will
respond to the second question. So Mr.Kon. Please.
A - `Kenta Kon, Chief Financial Officer, Operating Officer, Chief Officer of Accounting Grp & `
Thank you, Mr.Shiraishi for your question. With respect to the first question, that relates to the
HINO Motors. HINO is a consolidated subsidiary of TMC. And HINO Motors was engaged in the
misconduct relating to the exhaust gas and also fuel consumption efficiency. Their customers anddealers, the suppliers who supply -- and also the regulatory authorities who all supported HINO to
date, received the tremendous inconvenience because of this and the confidence and trust they
placed on HINO was completely lost.
And as a parent company I feel really sorry for that, it is indeed very regrettable what HINO did.
HINO is a consolidated company engaged in the production and manufacturing of commercial
vehicles. And in terms of the supervisory and oversight responsibility for HINO as a parent
company, we intend to support HINO and its efforts to restore the confidence of those
stakeholders. And as a parent company, we intend to work with HINO to restore such confidence,
that I think is the role to be played by a parent company.
Currently, the special investigation committee composed of outside experts is now investigating
the root cause of this problem and we'll pay attention to the outcome of that special committee.
And bearing that in mind, in terms of the governance of HINO Motors but not looking for that, the
reform of the corporate culture, the promotion of business, including those aspects of the HINO
Motors and placing the greatest priority on the efforts to restore confidence and trust of
stakeholders and customers. So we really of course of this inconvenience for which we are
sincerely sorry for that, that's my response to the first question.
A - `Masahiko Maeda, Chief Technology Officer & Operating Officer `
Thank you, Mr.Shiraishi. So with respect to the second question, allow me to respond to that
aspect. In the age of electrification how Toyota is going to keep its competitiveness that was the
question. The competitiveness, what does that mean actually?
As far as we're concerned, the fact that our customers choose our product is the indication of
customer, we think that it is a customer who has the final say on the product decision, whether we
can be -- our product can be chosen by the customer is the key. And I think there are various
different reasons, the factors, based upon which the choice and decision is made by customers.
As Nagata mentioned, some customers will focus on the affordable with high quality. But in other
segments customers might refer to value added aspect, which enhance their lifestyle they enjoy.
And in certain areas where the usage is that made in the adverse natural environment. The
durability maybe the very important factor for the choice of vehicles, so as Kon mentioned in his
own presentation, we will continue with those activities as part of our efforts to improve
operating structure. We had in-house company system through that we focus on what sort of
business we're doing on the global, saying what sort of product lineup we have and paying
attention to those different in-house companies. We focused on their own lineup and made
efforts to response to the customers of those different companies.
In the past, we tend to focus on volume or margin but rather some of those in-house companies
compete against other in-house companies. I saw that ultimate effort will be made to deliver the
better cars to customers, the best vehicles to customers. And we can share with you Slide
number 31. This shows one of the characteristics of Toyota. In the different regions of Toyota,
where the regions in which Toyota is doing business, Toyota can be on the top, so it's true that
our business is biased in any specific region. We talked about full lineup of operation globally in
many different regions, the customers in those different regions, throughout the world, as a B2C
company we are allowed to do business.
So amongst many different regions, we do receive feedback from customers in different regions,
unless we operate through best-in-town company we won't be able to capture those feedbacks.
In the past, we tended to focus on certain areas for the services, but through those best-in-townone effort of that, and also focusing on being the best-in-town is that. So offer value, best to our
customers, even after the delivery of products and receive feedback from customers and this
lifts the result of efforts Toyota made over the years to improve operating structure.
And by doing so we can develop human resources, so these efforts to improve operating
structure also improve as one aspect the human resource development as well and that results in
enhanced competitiveness, and those efforts should be continued in the sustainable manner. For
the customers that choose Toyota, in the sustainable manner, we need to continue with those
efforts. There's no end of our efforts for operating structure improvement.
Our continuous pursuit will lead to the continued customers, choosing customers -- chosen by the
customers. And added to that would be the strength of software going forward, that will
represent our one new element. So, together with Woven Planet, we intend to increase our
strength in this software aspect. The vehicles tend to be focused on hardware, but including
software going forward, we intend to give more diversified needs and desire of customers and
standing by the customers with different needs, we intend to enhance our competitiveness
because that leads to the better products and improvement of our attractiveness and I think the
only way is to simply make those efforts in a dogged manner. Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you, Mr.Shiraishi. Now, let us move on to the next question from Yomiuri, Yamamoto-san,
please. We will switch the screen, so when you see yourself on the screen, please start your
question. We are switching the screen now.
Q - Analyst
I'm Mr.Yamamoto. Thank you for waiting. Can you hear me?
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer, Chief Officer of External & Public Affairs Group `
Can you repeat yourself?
Q - Analyst
Do you hear me?
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer, Chief Officer of External & Public Affairs Group `
Yes, please.
Q - Analyst
My name is Yamamoto from the Yomiuri Shimbun Newspaper. The first question. The forecast for
this year in the United States and Europe inflation, and China has the zero-COVID-19 and there is
a concern of recession. This year overseas sales expected to be 1.5 million. So in this environment
of recession, how do you see the market developing, domestic production 3 million? That was in
the forecast again. For TMC 3 million in Japan, what does it mean to Toyota?
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer, Chief Officer of External & Public Affairs Group `
Thank you very much to Mr.Yamamoto. The first question I want to clarify, this year in March 2023 -
- your question about the -- was about the overall market forecast?Q - Analyst
Yes.
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer, Chief Officer of External & Public Affairs Group `
Then I will answer that question and the second question was about TMC's 3 million production in
Japan. What is -- what does that mean for Toyota, I think that was your second question. And that
would be answered by Mr.Yamamoto from Accounting Group.
Your first question was about the overall market condition. This fiscal year, it's going to be even
more difficult than other years to make a forecast. As Mr.Yamamoto mentioned, overall globally, if
there is any positive factor, China still has many restrictions with the zero-COVID-19 policy. But
overall recovery from COVID-19 is going to be a big positive factor. And if you look at the
negative factors, as we mentioned in our financial results announcement, the raw material prices
are soaring and the inflation in various areas will have an impact on the daily lives of people. So
there is inflation, and then there is the Ukrainian factor, and that is causing a lot of concern in the
areas. And next, supply constraints of semiconductors and other parts will have -- will be a major
limitation in the automobile industry. So these factors will be compounded this year. By region
forecast is also very difficult.
What -- let me give you a rough outline of what we are thinking now? China and the United
States, roughly speaking in the year ending March 2022, compared to the year ending March,
2022, we will see a slight improvement. In Japan and Asia, we have the positive and negative
factors that I mentioned before. And if you add them together, it will be about plus-minus zero.
So the market will be about the same as fiscal 2021. And the most difficult region to forecast, I
think is Europe. Energy, materials, the Russia and Ukraine issue will have a major impact, and that
will have an impact on the economy in general.
So, we think the risk will outweigh opportunities, so for the European market. I think it will be
below fiscal 2021. Those are the rough outlooks or forecasts for the major markets, but that is for
now. But the situation in COVID-19 and the Ukrainian situation will change rapidly, day-to-day. So if
the assumption in the general market changes, that means the change in the standard, so we will
have to make changes to our business so that we can see improvement in cost, profit structure
and delivery to our customers, and towards that end, we will continue to make efforts on a day-
to-day basis. That is all from my side.
A - `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Officer, Accounting Group `
3 million units production in Japan, that was the second question I believe. And this is Yamamoto
speaking. This is something I heard from another person, after the Great East Japan earthquake,
in Tohoku we set up the factory. And we set up the foundation for industry including employment.
And as a result to the Japanese auto industry, which has to purchase materials from outside of
Japan, and has to earn foreign currencies from outside of Japan, we have been able to make a
contribution. In Japan, we are a global company but Japan is our home country, and we think
people are supporting us in our efforts that we are doing in this country, and that's what the 3
million units means to TMC.
Operator
Thank you, Mr.Yamamoto. Let us move on to the next question from NHK Taruno-san, please. I will
switch this screen, so if you see yourself on the screen, please start speaking. We are now
switching the screen.Q - Analyst
Taruno of NHK. Can you hear me?
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer, Chief Officer of External & Public Affairs Group `
Yes. I can.
Q - Analyst
I also have two questions to ask. Question number one that relates to Ukraine and Russian
situation, in relation to that your business in Russia. How are you going to do with your Russian
business? Currently you suspended operations because of the confusion in logistics about
Russian business. The outlook remains very uncertain, very difficult to read what's going to
happen in the future. What's the current status and what are you going to do with your business
in Russia?
The second question as I mentioned in the first question with respect to the passing the higher
cost to prices. In this meeting, it was mentioned that, there has been unprecedented raw
materials cost increase exceeding JPY1 trillion. And earlier, depending upon customers, you may
be able to receive higher amount of consideration for the products you offer to the customers.
Am I right in understanding that, that includes Japanese market as well? How can you pass the
higher cost to prices in the Japanese market? I think it is very difficult decision to make. So here in
the Japanese market where deflationary trends still continues. How are you going to absorb the
impact of the higher raw materials prices in the Japanese market?
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer, Chief Officer of External & Public Affairs Group `
Thank you. Mr.Taruno. The first question related to the current situation in Ukraine, and what
Toyota is going to do with Toyota's business in Russia. And I will respond to that question, Nagata
is speaking. And with respect to prices, I answered the earlier question, the same line, in the very
deflationary trend, what we are going to do with the pricing level, was the question.
So let me just respond to both of these questions. With respect to Toyota's business in Russia,
since February 24, and I'm sure you still remember very vividly in terms of the visual impact of
that, the Russia made an invasion into Ukraine, and starting from that, many precious lives have
been lost due to that. And in return to that, street livelihoods are being threatened and especially
in Europe. And of course Japan was no exception, but energy and food are becoming scarce. So,
that's the reality that we are confronted with.
And many people throughout the world together with them, we in Toyota are indeed
heartbroken, and but seriously worried. We at Toyota believe that happiness is never born from
aggression and a war caused by aggression. We sincerely hope that peace and security be
restored to Ukraine and the world as soon as possible. That's an ardent desire.
And furthermore, Toyota has customers who own approximately 100 million vehicles worldwide.
And in addition to that there are many stakeholders who support Toyota throughout the world,
numerous stakeholders. And with respect to our business in Russia, we will try to keep our
approach of gaining understanding and empathy of our many stakeholders in company, including
in Russia as well. And what we will be able to do is something that we will consider to -- we will
continue to consider and wrap our brains to. So that's all with respect to Russian issue.With respect to the pricing here in Japan which might reflect the higher cost, depending upon the
conditions of the regions, or depending upon the people who use vehicles as an essential means
for business. In some cases, it may be easier to personnel costs and others. So as Mr.Taruno
knows here in Japan the business confidence is very low, the business sentiment remains very
stagnant. And also disposable income of people it's very difficult and slow to increase. In that
general context, are we going to raise price or not? As mentioned earlier within Japan and the
Japanese context, in the case of vehicles, especially mini vehicles or compact vehicles, for used
vehicles, for -- as an essential means of their business, the raised prices charged to those
people, I think is very difficult to do. But having said that, depending upon vehicles, there are
different forms, there are sort of vehicles on which we can charge higher prices.
So in that sense by looking at each model one-by-one and we are now studying in a very detailed
and fine-tuned manner what would be the best approach that we intend. I hope you'll understand
what we have imagined that, so in terms of how Japanese customers are using vehicles, and for
there in this current environment, we are making efforts so that customers will be satisfied and
be happy being able to buy our cars in this very difficult environment. And that's how I'd like to
understand our approach.
Operator
Thank you. Mr.Taruno. Now let us move on to the next question. From Wall Street Journal, Mr.Sean,
please. We will switch the screen, so when you see yourself on the screen, please start your
question.
Q - `Sean McLain, Wall Street Journal `
`Sean McLain, Wall Street Journal for the Wall Street Journal. Can you hear me okay?
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer, Chief Officer of External & Public Affairs Group `
Hi, we hear you.
Q - `Sean McLain, Wall Street Journal `
So I have a question about rising prices as well. And I'd like to ask particularly about the US market
because I think it's a big source in your profits, we're around record highs in transaction values in
the US, around $46,000. And what I'm wondering is, Toyota at all concerned about affordability
of its products, particularly in the US, where maybe the average person can no longer afford a
new car? And what Toyota is thinking about if anything doing about that?
And the second question is about hybrid sales. I noticed your electrified vehicles sales have
started to increase and while I understand that, that might partly be influenced by the sort of
model mix you have in the country given production shortages. Where do you see hybrid sales
going in the next year or two? Do you think there's a lot of room to grow hybrids around the
world, but particularly in the US?
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer, Chief Officer of External & Public Affairs Group `
Thank you very much Mr.Sean. The first question was about the prices in the US market for Toyota
customers. Are we concerned about it being too high for Toyota customers and that will be
answered by Mr.Kon, EVP.
The second question was that over the one or two years, do we see hybrid vehicle sales to grow
globally, and if it is to grow in which areas will that grow, and that will be answered by EVPMr.Maeda starting with Mr.Kon, please.
A - `Kenta Kon, Chief Financial Officer, Operating Officer, Chief Officer of Accounting Grp & `
I will answer your first question. About crisis in North America as Mr.Sean mentioned, it's not just
for Toyota but for North America overall, prices are going up. As a manufacturer, what we can do
is to provide various options to customers. That is what we believe. As we mentioned before on
a global basis, we have a wide lineup, product lineup. In the United States we have SUVs, pickup
trucks are the main lines of products. But we also have sedans, hatchbacks; the compact cars are
also part of our lineup. These are important products that we're offering to our customers. And
we will continue to provide the wide variety of product lineup to our customers, and in addition to
that, rather than just selling new vehicles to the customers, we also offer leasing options like full-
service lease in Japan. We have KINTO. And also recently globally, we also have KINTO.
So how to supply vehicles is also something we are having a wide variety or wide broad lineup on.
And when we listen to what the dealers are saying in the past, incentives or price negotiations,
took place frequently. But recently partly because inventory is low, which vehicle is in which
pipeline and which vehicle comes with which options, and what advantages those vehicles
provide to the customer, these kinds of conversations took place at dealers, so focusing on the
product. And I think this is very good and for the customer more options for models, more
options on how to purchase vehicles. We will provide these various options and have the
customers choose. So that is all for the first point.
A - `Masahiko Maeda, Chief Technology Officer & Operating Officer `
And let me answer the second one question. So in the future, including the United States in one
or two years, will hybrid sales go up. I think that was the question. If you look back in the United
States, when fuel prices go up, hybrid vehicle sales are tended to go up in the past. So taking that
history into consideration, currently we are seeing soaring crude oil prices and not only the United
States, but globally, at least we think we can expect increased trends of hybrid vehicle sales,
globally.
There's another factor behind hybrid vehicles sales going up in the United States, the latest
product RAV4. In the past, the hybrid vehicles tended to focus on fuel economy, but the US
customers not only focus on fuel economy but also they focus on driving comfort, including good
acceleration, so the new RAV4 has strengthened that characteristic. And the RAV4 hybrid that is
currently in the market, and the plug-in hybrids are very casually expected by our customers. So
that's the first visual from the market.
So alongside the best-in-town activities we will listen to the customers' voice in the United States
to strengthen our products. We do think the market will grow and taking into consideration the
environmental issue, I think we should grow sales of hybrid vehicles.
Operator
Thank you very much to Mr.Sean. Scheduled concluding time is approaching, and therefore I
would like to ask final question. I will switch the screen. So if you see yourself on the screen,
please start speaking. Kira-san of Newsbeat, please. [ph]
Q - Analyst
Kira-san, Newsbeat. Thank you very much. I have two questions as well, if I may. The first question
this is somewhat redundant from the previous question. In one of our pages you talked about theoutlook of sales. You talked about the increase of 593%, close to 600% increase in the BEV sales.
And in the past when you had discussion with battery electric vehicles, many customers buy BEV
as the second car, not the first primary car. But in terms of the recent situations, and also
considering the prevailing situations (inaudible) including those. What is your view of the demand
for BEVs? That's first question.
Secondly in the earlier response to the question, with respect to the change in the earnings
structure after the global financial crisis and in a sense, you described what has been done thus
far which resulted in the current situation in terms of operating structure. So, in the general
context for the current fiscal year starting from the 1 of April, you reestablished, introduced a
Executive Vice President. You have been trying to reduce the number of directors or executives,
and try to accelerate the decision-making speed. That's what we've been talking about.
So, what is the objective of restoring the position of executive vice president? What is the view?
And the how the Toyota's management is going to evolve and transform going forward,
especially starting the current fiscal year? Those are my questions.
A - `Jun Nagata, Chief Communication Officer, Chief Officer of External & Public Affairs Group `
Thank you. Kira-san, the first question relates to the market of battery EV. What sort of a change
is foreseeing. And Maeda, EVP will respond to that question. The second question related to the
new executive lineup which restored the position of Executive Vice President. And so what is
objective of that in the current fiscal year? And what sort of a change or transformation of
management structure is considered, was the second question. Kon will respond to that
Executive Vice President. Mr.Maeda, please.
A - `Masahiko Maeda, Chief Technology Officer & Operating Officer `
Thank you. Mr.Kira for your question. In terms of the market trend of battery EV. That was a
question, according to my understanding and what I feel most and most important is that vis-a-vis
the battery electric vehicles, the development in relation to that has been accelerating the
market. That leads to the fact that there is a broader product lineup in various OEMs.And also
there is greater number of options available for battery EVs, that's one aspect.
And also in the United States, there has been tightening trend of regulations that cannot be
disregarded. Globally speaking, certain very tough and rigorous regulations established, was
there for the first time in the United States. The United States leading in that trend and not just
Toyota but for other OEMs in the automotive industry and that is one factor accelerating our
various efforts by OEMs.This is core green-house gas regulations. So, those regulations and those
are the market trends, has been strengthening more than we had expected in the past. As far as
Mr.Kon earlier talked about RAV4 and BEV, it's we are yet to start receiving orders. But looking at
the input in the market and general discussion in the market on those, there seems to be
heightened expectations for those models.
And therefore looking at the input or reaction of the customers in the market, and also different
reactions of different regions of the globe or worldwide and those regulatory trends and
therefore the battery electric vehicles will get accelerated. I think there are greater factors that
lead us to think in that way. But at the same time, there are certain factors as well as was
mentioned in the presentation soaring market material prices tend to become more manifest
more seriously in the case of the BEV's, as mentioned in the presentation, the higher cost of a
materials of battery does have a huge impact in the overall cost structure. We talked about the
possibility of a reflecting costs on prices but we have to take a good balance and also in differentthey tend to be more generous of those environmental vehicles but customers are very sensitive
to those developments. So we tend to take a very conservative approach in responding to that.
So that's my response to your first question.
A - `Kenta Kon, Chief Financial Officer, Operating Officer, Chief Officer of Accounting Grp & `
Thank you. With respect to your second question, in terms of the current executive lineup was the
focus of your question. Since the global financial crisis the lineup of the executive officers and the
system of our senior advisors to the Board which was eliminated, and also with respect to the
members of the Board, we had (inaudible) in the past, but currently, internally TMC only six
including outside Board members, including them nine. So the Board has been sized substantially
and that's not the only change for the purpose of sharing information, using IT tools, used for
meetings and CEOs, scattered throughout the world and Toyota located in Japan including them,
we have weekly meetings so that information can be shared thoroughly and quite swiftly.
So, 13 years ago this is something unthinkable and unimaginable and this sort of change has been
actually implemented and achieved. Starting in April of this year, you talked about the position
Executive Vice President, with Board, and I think there's significance in that. Looking at myself, and
I personally consider is that as Toyota as President says often we live in the world, where there is
no right answer, known to all of us. And in that world, full of uncertainty, how can we manage and
steer Toyota going forward?
As far as TMC is concerned, if we can discover a problem, TMC does have ability as to find
solutions to those problems, which was demonstrated in the past. I think Toyota is a company
that has ability to find solutions to various challenges or problems that will be faced with
diversifying society characterized by variety of problems. Nobody knows what's going to happen
going forward. So, in that general context, ability to find and discover problem becomes very
important. In the past, Toyota has a president, he was the only person trying to find and discover
problems in many cases. But with three executive vice presidents working together with
president and trying to discover the problems in the world in which there is no right answer. We
will try to take other measures because there is no right answer. We may not be able to find the
right solution, right away. But by discovering those problems we will just implement the various
potential countermeasures and that I think is what we're aiming at.
So, with that aim in mind, we will pursue our endeavor going forward. And I hope you'll continue
to support us as we make those efforts going forward. That's all from me. Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. Mr.Terashi. Now with this I will conclude the financial results press briefing. Thank you
very much for listening despite your busy schedules today. Thank you.