Y 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for coming today. We would now like to start the
Financial Results Meeting for the Year Ending March 2023. My name is Eli[ph] from Public
Relations, and I will be the MC for today's meeting. Before we announced the financial results,
`Koji Sato, President, Chief Executive `Officer, President of, Executive `Officer, President of, our President has a few words to mention. Mr. Sato, please.
`Koji Sato, President, Chief Executive `Officer, President of, Executive `Officer, President of `
I am `Koji Sato, President, Chief Executive `Officer, President of, Executive `Officer, President of. Before announcing our financial results, I would like to explain the current situation
regarding the Daihatsu Procedural Irregularity issue, which was announced on April 28. Since the
announcement, we have had an independent third-party review entity conduct a re-test of the
vehicles concerned. It has once again been confirmed that the vehicles concerned present no
quality or safety issues. Based on the results of the retest and after consulting with the related
authorities, we have resumed shipments of Toyota brand vehicles to Malaysia, Mexico, and
Ecuador. As for Thailand and Middle Eastern countries, we will continue to consult with the related
authorities.
The day before yesterday, Chairman, Toyoda visited Thailand to explain to our customers and
stakeholders what had happened, and to convey to them that the vehicles were safe and that
our entire corporate group was committed to working to prevent this type of misconduct from
ever happening again. Daihatsu and Toyota are confirming the fact from various perspectives to
prevent a recurrence.
Toyota is a company in which all members always stop when a problem occurs. It pursues the
root cause of problems by going and seeing the location of the process where the problem
exists, makes improvements, and works to prevent recurrences. We will continue to investigate
the root cause believing that it is important to change the environment in which such misconduct
occurs. We will keep you informed as and when progress is made.Unidentified Speaker
Thank you. Now we have to call upon, `Yoichi Miyazaki, Vice President, Chief Financial `Officer, President of, Executive `Officer, President of, Chief Competitive, the Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial `Officer, President of, to explain about the financial results.
`Yoichi Miyazaki, Vice President, Chief Financial `Officer, President of, Executive `Officer, President of, Chief Competitive `
I'm Miyazaki, the CFO. And this is the first time I take the podium in this title. Hope you'll bear with
me. And before sharing with you the financial results, we would like to express our heartfelt
appreciation to our customers around the world who choose us, as well as our shareholders, our
dealers, and suppliers, and all other stakeholders who support us in our daily activities. Thank you
so very kindly.
So, let me provide a summary of the financial performance of the fiscal year ending March 2023.
While we experienced production constraints due to tight semiconductor supplies, natural
disasters, and COVID-19 et cetera, dealers and suppliers, as well as production sites have all
worked hard in order to deliver as many cars as possible to our customers. In spite of our actual
operating income decreasing compared to the last fiscal year due to the impact of such things as
soaring material prices, our results exceeded the previous forecast due to our continuous efforts
to improve our profit structure.
For the forecast for the next fiscal year, we expect production volume of 10.1 million right and
sales volume increase in all regions as a result of such things as improvements in semiconductor
supply and the efforts of production sites. We will continue to both advance our activities towards
carbon neutrality and improve our structure. Also without slowing down our growth investments,
we will promote activities to change the future of cars.
In terms of return to shareholders, in order to reward our long-term shareholders, we have a new
dividend policy to increase dividends steeply and continuously. We have placed more focus on
the dividends for our shareholder returns and the year-end dividend will be JPY35 per share,
which is an increase of JPY7 compared to the previous fiscal year. The total dividends will be
JPY60 per share, which is an increase of JPY8 from the previous fiscal year.
As for the share repurchases under our policy to conduct flexibly, taking into account our share
price levels, et cetera, for our year-end repurchases, we will proceed with a maximum of JPY150
billion, which is equivalent to our interim repurchases. Now then, let me explain the summary of
our performances for the fiscal year ended March 2023.
Consolidated vehicle sales for the period was at 8,822,000 units, which was 107.2% of such sales
of the previous fiscal year. Toyota and Lexus brand vehicle sales was at 9,610,000 units, which
was 101.0% of such sales of the previous fiscal year. So as for the vehicle sales by region, we saw
an increase in all regions compared to the previous fiscal year. Also, the ratio of electrified
vehicles became 29.6%.
Consolidated financial results were sales revenue of JPY37,154.2 billion, operating income of
JPY2,725 billion, income before income taxes of JPY3,668.7 billion, and net income of JPY2.451.3
billion.
Now I would like to explain the factors which impacted operating income year-on-year. First, the
effects of foreign exchange rates increased operating income by JPY1,280 billion. Second, cost
reduction efforts decreased operating income by JPY1.290 billion. The JPY1,545 billion impact of
soaring material prices includes JPY500 billion for activities aimed at strengthening the structure
of the entire supply chain in addition to fluctuations in market conditions for materials. Third,marketing efforts increased operating income by JPY680 billion. Fourth, increase in expenses
decreased operating income by JPY525 billion yen. Lastly, we also incurred a negative impact of
JPY415.6 billion, largely due to swap valuation losses and the cost to terminate our production in
Russia. As a result, excluding the overall impact of foreign exchange rates, swap valuation gains,
and losses, and other factors, operating income decreased by JPY1,135 billion year-on-year.
Now let me explain the operating income for each region. Japan increased by JPY477 billion year-
on-year year due to the effects of foreign exchange rates despite the negative effect from
soaring material prices. North America decreased by JPY457.8 billion year-on-year due to soaring
material prices. Going forward, Europe also decreased by JPY115 billion year-on-year due to
soaring material prices and the cost to terminate our production in Russia, despite the positive
effect from our marketing efforts. Asia increased by JPY55.7 billion year-on-year due to the
effects of foreign exchange rates and increase in sales volume. Other regions increased by
JPY36.7 billion year-on-year.
In the next slide, let me explain about our business in China, as well as our Financial Service
business. As for our business in China, while the operating income of consolidated subsidiaries
decreased year-on-year, mainly due to the impact of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and
the decrease in sales volume, our share of profit of investments accounted for, using the equity
method, increased year-on-year, mainly due to cost reduction efforts.
Regarding the Financial Services business, operating income for the fiscal year increased year-on-
year due to the impact of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
Next, I'd like to explain about our return to shareholders. So in order to reward our long-term
shareholders, we have eliminated our conventional guideline of consolidated dividend payout
ratio of 30%. Instead, we have revised our policy to increase dividends stably and continuously so
as to have more focus on dividends. The year-end dividend for the current fiscal year will be
JPY35 per share, which is an increase of JPY7 compared to the previous fiscal year. Together with
the interim dividend was JPY25, the total full-year dividends for this fiscal year are JPY60 per
share, which is an increase of JPY8 from the previous fiscal year.
Previously, we have conducted share repurchases based on factors such as investment in growth,
dividend levels, and cash on hand. However, we have revised our policy to conduct flexibly, taking
into account our share price levels et cetera. For year-end repurchases, considering the current
share price level, we set aside JPY150 billion as the maximum rate of year-end repurchase, which
is equivalent to our interim.
Next, I will explain the forecast for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2024. First of all, I will explain
the production volume forecast for the Toyota and Lexus brands. We expect 10.1 million units,
which is 110.6% of the previous fiscal year. The reason behind the increase in production forecast
from the previous fiscal year is as follows. We have been working on an examination of
alternatives regarding them in light of supply risks in the future, as well as some promoting
improvement aimed at improving operating rates at factories. Since March, we have been able to
continue high-level production while prioritizing safety and quality.
At sales sites in each region, the production volume still cannot keep up with customer demand
so we will continue to promote improvements, together with our suppliers, in order to further
increase the production volume.
We expect consolidated vehicle sales of 9,600,000 units, which is a 108.8% compared to the
previous fiscal year. As the semiconductor supply and demand has improved, we expect growthAs for Toyota and Lexus brand vehicle sales, we expect 10,400,000 units, which is a 108.2%
compared to the previous fiscal year. We expect electrified vehicle sales of 3,843,000 units,
which is 134.9% compared to the previous fiscal year. And the electrified vehicles ratio is
expected to be 37.0%.
Next, I will explain the forecast for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2024. We have adopted the
full-year foreign exchange rate assumption of JPY125 per US dollar, and JPY135 per euro. Based
on this, our forecast for full-year consolidated financial performance are: sales revenue of JPY38
trillion; operating income of JPY3 trillion; income before income taxes of JPY3,690 billion; and net
income of JPY2,580 billion.
Next, I would like to explain the factors that may impact operating income. First, the effects of
foreign exchange rates will decrease the operating income by JPY875 billion. Second, the cost
reduction efforts are expected to increase profits by JPY360 billion, while the impact of decrease
in materials cost is expected to be JPY510 billion resulting in a total decrease of JPY150 billion.
Third, the effects of marketing activities will increase the operating income by JPY1,285 billion due
to an increase in sales volume and an improvement in product mix, led by improved
semiconductor supply and demand while other expenses are expected to decrease by JPY260
billion.
Compared with the pre-COVID fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. we became able to offset the
impact of soaring material cost through TPS, cost reductions, and marketing efforts as a result of
our long-standing product-centered and region-centered approach. We have also established a
foundation for steadily increasing growth investments. We live in an era where there is no right
answer and the future is uncertain, so we will always keep our antennas up and carefully manage
risks in preparation for changes in the business environment.
This brings us to the end of our presentation. Thank you very much.
Unidentified Speaker
Thank you. Now I'd like to ask our President, `Koji Sato, President, Chief Executive `Officer, President of, Executive `Officer, President of, to take the floor again.
`Koji Sato, President, Chief Executive `Officer, President of, Executive `Officer, President of `
Once again, I am `Koji Sato, President, Chief Executive `Officer, President of, Executive `Officer, President of. As Miyazaki-san just mentioned, despite the severe business
environment, including soaring material prices, we were able to secure an operating profit of
JPY2.7 trillion in the previous fiscal year. Our new management team assumed the reins on April 1,
however, the financial results figures for the previous fiscal year were based on the 14 years of
former President Akio Toyoda's efforts, making me once again keenly aware that our change in
management took place while Toyota was being managed at top speed. As such, our new
management team will be able to focus on strategic initiatives in growth areas based on this
current foundation.
When Chairman Toyoda took office as President, he said, "Growth is about being able to
continuously change ourselves in response to ever-changing needs of customers and society".
And I believe that his 14 years as President embodied exactly that. Now that he is Chairman, he is
in a position to support our new management team and we will implement a new form of
management with the Chairman and President working simultaneously, and according to an
optimal division of roles at any given time. Our team will take advantage of this environment to
promote speedy management.With that in mind, I would like to once again talk about our future management. I believe that the
growth Toyota should aim for going forward is a growth that creates a future in which the
automobile industry transforms itself into a mobility industry, through enhancing its added value
as it works in cooperation with many other industries. The foundation for this is carbon neutrality.
Toyota aims to reduce new vehicle CO2 emissions by more than 50% globally by 2035. To
achieve this, we will continue to provide regionally optimal solutions at an accelerated pace
without wavering from our multi-pathway approach.
When it comes to battery electric vehicles or BEVs, which are especially rapidly progressing, we
have set a pace of selling 1.5 million units by 2026 as our base volume, and we plan to launch 10
models, ranging from luxury vehicles to compacts and commercial vehicles, mainly in the United
States and China. Regarding the battery supply, we will seek to speedily secure the necessary
volume by increasing our in-house production capacity and collaborating with our partners.
Our new model scheduled for launch in 2026 will be built on three new platforms, the body and
chassis, the electronic platform, and the software platform. (inaudible) renewed as we aim to
achieve mobility by way of a new vehicle packaging with a regional structure that is unique to
BEVs. From now on, the new dedicated organization BEV factory will lead the initiatives, and
initiatives will be accelerated. We would like to present concept for vehicles of such at the Japan
Mobility Show this autumn.
At the same time, as our BEV initiatives, we will also accelerate our efforts to realize a hydrogen
society. We will advance our projects in the commercial domain, especially in Europe and China
where hydrogen consumption is particularly high, centered on fuel cell electric vehicles.
Furthermore, we will focus on the use of hydrogen energy for personal mobility and on the cycle
of producing, transporting, and using hydrogen. And we will conduct activities for the
development of social infrastructure, including through social implementation in Thailand.
To actively promote these initiatives, we will also increase our immediate earning power.
Especially in Asia and emerging markets, which are expected to grow 30% or more by 2030, we
will strengthen our earning base by focusing on hybrid electric vehicles to capture market growth.
To transform automobiles into a mobility industry, we will further increase our current
approximately JPY3 trillion in R&D expenditures and capital investment, while increasing the ratio
of future investments to achieve sustainable growth.
Thank you for your kind attention.
Questions And Answers
A - Unidentified Speaker
Next, we'll have a question-and-answer session. So please do wait for a few seconds while we
set up the stage. Thank you. Now then we'd like to start the Q&A session. Could we ask the
respondents to the questions to please take the stage. Let me introduce the members on the
stage. President, `Koji Sato, President, Chief Executive `Officer, President of, Executive `Officer, President of; Executive Vice President, Chief Technology `Officer, President of, `Hiroki Nakajima, Vice President, Executive `Officer, President of, Chief Technology `Officer, President of;
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial `Officer, President of, `Yoichi Miyazaki, Vice President, Chief Financial `Officer, President of, Executive `Officer, President of, Chief Competitive; Chief Communication `Officer, President of,
`Jun Nagata, Executive `Officer, President of, Chief Communication `Officer, President of; Chief `Officer, President of - Accounting Group, `Masahiro Yamamoto, Accounting Group Chief `Officer, President of.
Please do take your seats on the stage. Now then, we are ready to take questions. If you have
any questions, please raise your hand to indicate that you'll be asking a question and wait for the
microphone. We would like to give the opportunity to as many people as possible, so we would
like to restrict your questions to two questions each, please.So the third person - the person in the third row from the front, please.
Q - `Toshikazu Yamaguchi, Analyst, Yomiuri Shinbun `
Thank you. I am from Yomiuri, my name is Yamaguchi. Thank you for the invitation. I have a
question to President Sato. The first question, what -- how would you sum up the overall financial
results. What were the good points? What are the points which you highly evaluate, or points that
you think were below standard or not actually satisfactory? How do you think about this as a
President?
Second question is about the profit or earnings structure. When you look at the breakdown of the
operating profit, the external environment such as ForEx and the soaring materials prices highly
affected your results. And -- so how about the growth in reduction of cost et cetera, I think --
which did have an impact on the results. So as President, how do you intend to evolve or increase
the basic earnings power of the company? Thank you.
A - `Koji Sato, President, Chief Executive `Officer, President of, Executive `Officer, President of `
Thank you for that question. The first question had to do with my summing up or impression of
the financial results.
When we look at the short-term financial results, we were able to obtain an operating income of
JPY2.7 trillion which I believe in terms of our earning power, we were able to indicate earnings
power that exceeds our report of last year. And I'm sure you realize that the impact of ForEx and
also the soaring materials prices were actually improved through various efforts to generate
operating profit -- a good operating profit in the end. So manufacturing cars and delivering them
to customers was a very difficult endeavor this year. However, I think the financial results indicate
that in that process, there were various ingenuities and various devices that we were able to
endure due to these difficulties, and that there are many factors included in the financial results
which indicate our ability to strengthen our financial prowess.
Also the -- for example, the production plan fluctuation was very large, but -- especially the
suppliers responded so flexibly to them, and also the members involved in manufacturing
internally, and also -- their efforts also very important. And also in order to meet the customers'
needs, providing smiles to customers through engineering various production improvement et
cetera. I think all of these efforts have led to the financial results. So in the short run, despite the
difficulties, I think that there is a -- still -- there was still room -- much room for improvement, and
such improvement efforts have been launched. So I think that what's the financial result indicated.
But in the long run, the economic environment has long been deflationary for many, many years.
And against that backdrop, we are being involved in with manufacturing centered around cars
and around our products. And so when you -- if you look at things from a span of 10 to 20 years
and not only domestically but against the United States, for example, inclusive of invest in
incentive payments, we were able to increase the marketing power of our product. So in the end,
we will not make automobiles a commodity, we must provide a good value-added which can
develop a strong business that is appreciated by customers. And such efforts have been made
over these many years, which culminated in such good results. Despite the very demanding
economic conditions and despite the very difficult supply constraints that we had, we were able
to create a corporate structure which could meet those adversities. So in the short term and the
long term, I believe that the financial results do indicate that we have been able to reinforce the
corporate fiber[ph] through our years of efforts.As for the profit structure, this I think overlaps with what I said in relation to the first question.
Because we manage our operation centered around products, what we must do, first and
foremost, is to develop good quality cars and deliver them to the customers. And for supply
issues, we are seeing improvements in supply constraints, and as was mentioned earlier. So we
have set some vehicle sales forecast which must be produced. And also, we will improve the
appeal and attractiveness of our products to generate higher profitability. So these are the
basics, but it's very important to return to these basics. And by so doing, the ForEx or soaring
material prices, which are of course variables, we can create a good resistivity against them.
Also on a global scale, we run a global business. We are a company that wants a global business,
so stabilizing the profit structure requires not focusing on a specific geography but to be able to
create a corporate foundation that would enable us to generate profit in all regions and areas. So
against various risks, we must flexibly grapple with good management in the regions so as to
establish a very stable profit structure, and I think that would be very important in creating a
corporate management that is resistant to external factors, and we must also create a strong
global product portfolio. And by doing so, we believe that we can strengthen our financial base.
Thank you very much.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Now, let us take the next question. The person in the third row from the front.
Thank you very much. My name is Hiroko from (inaudible). This year, if there is no part supply
constraints, I believe the production should go up. But in the case of Toyota, there you have
always been focusing on producing in Japan. Mr. Sato, what is your view on domestic production,
if -- is it possible that you will recover the 3 million mark for production. If there are more
electrified vehicles, I believe the parts use will be different. So what is your communication -- how
is your communications with the suppliers?
And second, how to make profits and how to make sure that your products become
commodities are important. So, you have many profitable vehicles and that is the source of
competitiveness, but at the same time, BEV and other models -- including all models, are you
trying to make profits for all models?
A - `Koji Sato, President, Chief Executive `Officer, President of, Executive `Officer, President of `
So your first question was about domestic production. For TMC, domestic production is the
starting point in protecting our manufacturing in Japan. So that positioning will not waver and we
will always consider how to protect manufacturing in Japan.
So with the electrification, the parts use will change and -- including transactions with our
suppliers. So, what is my forecast, I believe, was your second question. With electrification, of
course, the parts use will be different. But on the other hand, the supply chain is not just part of
the business. Each party has its own strength and we respect each other as partners. And with
that stance, we do business with them in vehicle manufacturing. So each supplier has their own
strengths. And if you look at each piece of technology, even if the parts change, there are some
suppliers who have advantages in specific areas. So we will partner with them and communicate
to them what kind of vehicles we want to produce. We will tell -- communicate that earlier than
before, and we would like to create a business where we can capitalize on each other's strengths
gradually.
Your next question was, what should we do to make sure that vehicles do not become
commodities? As you mentioned, hybrid technology is one of our strengths. And as I mentionedin my presentation, one of the growth areas is emerging countries. In these countries, CO2
reduction is necessary, and at the same time, demand is expected to grow. So with hybrid
securing a profit phase is necessary, and we will have to be close to the local community to make
ever-better cars.
On the other hand, we take a multi-pathway approach, that means we do not specialize in
specific areas. We look at the characteristics of each area or geographic area, and we provide our
products that are more suitable for that region, not only hybrids but in all our vehicles. So we
need to provide vehicles that is very Toyota-like.
We are trying to look at how we can provide BEVs and various vehicles that are very car
manufacturer-like. So it's not just the powertrain that changes. So we are going to focus on BEV
as well, and the purpose of establishing the new urbanization of the BEV factory is that end[ph]
we want to create appealing battery cars as well.
Q - Unidentified Participant
One additional point. In domestic production, not only volume but you are trying to make a profit
through various supply chains, right?
A - `Koji Sato, President, Chief Executive `Officer, President of, Executive `Officer, President of `
So we're not just looking at TMC alone, we have suppliers. So with the suppliers, we want to
change the characteristics of vehicles. In the past, the hardware accounted for the majority of the
value of the vehicle. That was in the past, but now we have software and also post-marketing
update and customization is possible. So we want to make sure that the vehicles meet the
customers' demands more.
It's not just the car manufacturers that should be making efforts, we have to work with many
suppliers and capitalize upon our advantages so that we can transform mobility.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, Hiroko-san[ph]. Next question. The person at the very front.
Q - `Hans Greimel, Analyst, Automotive News
I'm Hans from Automotive News. I'd like to ask in English. I have two questions. One is about
reduction and one is about the profit structure for EVs. About production, it seems that you are
aiming for a -- maybe a record production in the current fiscal year. Is that correct? And how do
you expect to get there? Is the chip crisis then seeing an end? Do you have some kind of new
approach to securing enough chips, or is it naturally coming to an end? How do you get this new
production to a new record level?
The second question is about the BEV profit structure after 2026. Right now, you have a
operating profit margin around 7%. But in 2026, you want to introduce a new platform, which will
have lower costs, maybe faster turnaround time, and also new revenue sources through the
software side. What do you imagine the profitability to be like in the second half of the 2020s
compared to today? Will it be higher? Often we think about EVs as being more expensive or
more costly with slimmer margins. But maybe it's the opposite, that will be a turning point for
higher margins. Thank you. (Foreign language)
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Vice President, Chief Financial `Officer, President of, Executive `Officer, President of, Chief Competitive `Thank you for that question. Regarding the first question, I would like to answer. I think related to
the first question, the previous term, we wanted to deliver as early as possible to the customer's
demand, but we were not able to fulfill the demand. So the numbers that we have cited, an
accumulation of the response of the production sites to the customers' needs, and also the
products that we wanted to launch going forward. So, regarding that, we believe that we can
probably set a base volume of 10.1 million units as was mentioned earlier.
And these 10.1 million, again, it's as Hans-san questioned earlier, how do we intend to achieve
those goals? Because we were having such difficulty in manufacturing last year, that's probably
the point of your question. But one year ago, we had no idea which semiconductor chips will be in
short supply at what time. So as Sato said, suddenly there would be a shortage of components
and we had to lose the production volume against the plan. That was the situation that continued
last year. But we wanted to make these risk semiconductors visible and once we gained visibility,
then we will change the design so that we can have alternative sources, and the sellers will try to
actively sell the non-risk semiconductors. And through these efforts, over one year, although
things are not perfect, our ability and power to manage semiconductor supply has been greatly
improved and so as a new base volume, we believe that the 10.1 million units is a feasible number
that we can cite.
What we want is the customer smiles and for that, we want each person in the production site or
in the regions to set up a good communication and relationship with the customers. And as a
result of our focus on our product and manufacturing, we were able to cite this number of 10.1
million. So as you said, our base volume would be a record number of vehicle sales.
A - `Hiroki Nakajima, Vice President, Executive `Officer, President of, Chief Technology `Officer, President of `
So may I respond to the second question? Hans-san, thank you for that question. After 2026, we
intend to launch next-generation battery EVs. And as was explained at the policy meeting earlier,
the key point would be how to reduce costs. I think that is one angle that's critical. In the case of
battery EVs, as you know, the proportion of batteries against the total cost structure is very high.
So how to develop a car or design a car that can most efficiently utilize the power of the battery?
Now battery EV -- through the development and manufacture of battery EVs, we've learned a lot
of things so we want to incorporate these learnings, and at the same time, the next generation
BEV must change the factories themselves. And so, we are now discussing this point. So the
manufacturing process itself will be totally changed. So it's not placing an engine on the body and
then assembling parts on top, totally new and refreshed process. For example, reducing the total
line by half or improving the production efficiency. Through these very drastic improvements, we
would like to reduce cost -- the manufacturing cost. So how to reduce the increasing costs will be
a key factor.
And another factor is as Hans-san said, battery EV value-add must be improved. And I think this is
adding intelligence. Adding intelligence is most important. There are some building attractive
software using products -- product value add that can only be achieved with BEV. We believe it's
possible to enhance the customer's experience value as a result of this. And so, we just earlier
released a new -- news on the new organization and leaders who have learned in China, under
new team membership, will grapple with developing a new battery EV. So we have just started
this team's activity. So I do hope that you will support these activities going forward as well. Thank
you.
Q - `Hans Greimel, Analyst, Automotive NewsAnd what about the profitability level in the latter half of the 2020s? Will it be comparable to what
we see today or higher? (Foreign language) Not only battery EVs, but we will be delivering various
electrified vehicles through multi-pathway. So we wanted to secure the same level of profitability
as today. We've already said this earlier, there may be various difficulties, but we want to deliver
even better cars to customers and by pursuing this goal, we believe that we should be able to
achieve that goal of profitability. Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much. Now to the next question. The person in the fifth row from the front.
Q - `Yamada Yasuhiro, Analyst, NHK `
My name is Yamada from NHK. I have two questions. The first question is related to the number
10.1 million production. So this number, you are not pursuing volume, is that the intent? That is my
first question.
And second question is about the Chinese business. Mr. Miyazaki said last year sales volume went
down. New energy vehicles are increasing and the Japanese makes are struggling in the Chinese
market. So at TMC, what is your stance on the current status of Chinese market which is said to
be the largest in the world? And what about your future prospects?
A - `Koji Sato, President, Chief Executive `Officer, President of, Executive `Officer, President of `
Thank you very much for your question, 10.1 sales volume forecast as Mr. Miyazaki mentioned. So
we need production and sales that we'll be able to meet the demand, so that we'll be able to
meet the needs of the customers. So ultimately, we need to be selected by the customers, and
when that -- only when that happens, we'll be able to achieve that number.
And Chinese business will be discussed by Mr. Miyazaki.
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Vice President, Chief Financial `Officer, President of, Executive `Officer, President of, Chief Competitive `
On the Chinese business, looking back on the results of last year, we weren't able to secure
sufficient semiconductors. And something that is specific to China was the COVID impact from
the beginning of the year, so demand went down from time to time. So Lexus exported to China
from Japan went down last year. However, as you know, in China we have local business. So if you
look at Chinese business overall, last year, although we were struggling in terms of volume
compared to the previous year our share increased steadily in the Chinese market. Many people
look at the BEV market alone, but in China, there is the hybrid, the PHEVs, as well. And many of
our customers are using these vehicles. And last year, our share has gone up to around 9%. So
the market will continue to be very competitive, however, vehicles that will be loved by Chinese
customers and vehicles that will please the Chinese customers is something that we will continue
to pursue. And as a result, we will make efforts to that, as a result, our business will grow.
A - `Hiroki Nakajima, Vice President, Executive `Officer, President of, Chief Technology `Officer, President of `
Let me add one point from my side. Our product competitiveness or -- and the products on the
market in China is changing very quickly. As we mentioned at the Shanghai Motor Show, in a timely
manner, we need to provide vehicles that will be loved by Chinese customers, and therefore, we
have development sites in China and we're trying to localize development in China, so that we
can develop at a place that is close to the customer and catch up with the demand of the
customers in the Chinese market.Q - `Yamada Yasuhiro, Analyst, NHK `
(Foreign language) Thank you, Emily-san[ph].
A - Unidentified Speaker
Any further questions? Yes, the person in the front row again.
Q - Unidentified Participant
(inaudible) from TVS[ph]. I have two questions. Both have to do with battery EVs. The first
question is to, Executive Vice President, Nakajima. You just explained about the BEV and how you
view the Chinese market for BEV. So could you be more specific? You went to the Shanghai Motor
Show and I think from the viewpoint of Genchi Genbutsu, going to the site to see the facts, what
is your impression of the Chinese market shift to electrified vehicles? And as Toyota, what do you
think is you are lacking in terms of product development? What do you have to change in order to
address the Chinese market? So could you be specific about this?
Second question is to President Sato. The battery EV interim objective of -- target of 1.5 million
was announced last month. And you said that you will be injecting JPY3 trillion in R&D for BEV this
term. So in other your goals, what specifically do you intend to do within the extent possible to
disclose? Thank you.
A - `Hiroki Nakajima, Vice President, Executive `Officer, President of, Chief Technology `Officer, President of `
Thank you, (inaudible). So going on to the first question first. As you said, I went through the
Shanghai Motor Show. Frankly, I was totally amazed. Especially the electrification of battery EV was
progressing very rapidly. Not only that, but that's already taken for granted, and that
differentiation and competition over differentiating through adding intelligence was much faster
than we expected. And as I said, Chinese customers want -- how to timely deliver on their needs,
for example, infotainment, digital cockpit, cockpit development. It will take too long if we were to
develop in Japan, so that's why we wanted to accelerate localization. Also, we wanted to gain the
cooperation of the local suppliers in speeding up our endeavors. Thank you.
A - `Koji Sato, President, Chief Executive `Officer, President of, Executive `Officer, President of `
Regarding the second question, 1.5 million units is not a target per se, but it's a base volume
criteria that we want to work towards. And as I said, not only Toyota but many suppliers, many
dealers will be all cooperating to make the shift towards battery EV. So we have to set the pace
and show the pace to the others. So that's our viewpoint.
And I guess that backdrop, as I said earlier, we must, first of all, create a firm lineup of products
and immediately, we already have several models of battery EVs launched in the market and we
have received a lot of feedback from the market. So we want to improve our marketing power
and market -- our product development power in an agile manner. That's critical. Cruising range
and the charging time necessary, there are voices requiring improvements there. So we want to
speed up the efforts to improve the marketing power of our products.
Also, we want to engage in speedy Toyota-like (inaudible) and entice as many people as possible
to want to ride Toyota BEVs, we must assort a lineup that will not fail their expectations. And of
course, China and the United States will be the central markets. So not only Toyota alone, but we
want to collaborate with our partners to respond to -- with a good full line-up to respond tocustomers' needs, and also to provide and develop products that have a Toyota-like appeal,
specific attractiveness to customers.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much to Mr. (inaudible). The person along the person along the aisle, in the
middle.
Q - Unidentified Participant
My name is Narabe[ph] from the Asahi Shimbun. I have two questions. The first question is about
souring material costs. Our parts prices and supporting suppliers is something that you are doing,
including paying for utility charges. Toyota can only directly supports the primary suppliers, but
you have a secondary or tier 3 suppliers. What is the current status of these tier 2 or 3 suppliers?
At the moment, JPY51 million impact of souring material prices we understand. So how much
support went to suppliers? And what kind of support will continue to win[ph] is another question I
would like to ask.
And my second topic is related to what Mr. Sato mentioned at the outset, which is about
Daihatsu. In the automobile industry, you have the suppliers and you have the dealers, so many
people are involved in the industry, and these people working together is part of the strength of
the industry. And that may have turned into pressure like not being able to change the plant.
Some people say that, that may be at the root cause of the problem. Mr. Sato, you mentioned
the development environment possibly being a problem, and you also talked about bringing an
environment in which you can speak your mind. And you also talked about making an environment
where people can fully freely talk. So about -- you are about to identify the root cause but what is
your current stance on governance and corporate culture.
A - `Masahiro Yamamoto, Accounting Group Chief `Officer, President of `
Thank you very much for your question. Your first question was about soaring material costs. So
with the suppliers we had close communication, we talk directly with tier 1 suppliers. And if you
look at the numbers, changing the sales price and adjustment of purchase costs is something
that you can see from the numbers. And if you look at tier 2 and tier 3 suppliers, many people
have different opinions and we are still on our way to further improvement. But our intent is to
protect the supply chain so that we can overcome the current rough times. So we want to
continue dialog with the suppliers and continue the initiatives that we are undertaking.
And another point is about this fiscal year. Overall, the general material prices have started to
stabilize, and some -- for some of the materials, the prices have started to come down. But in
particular, if you look at utility charges in Japan over the past year, it has continued to increase
and this year, it still stays at a high level. So we need to continue to talk with the suppliers on that
factor.
So TMC -- in addition to TMC and suppliers, the JAMA or the automobile industry as a whole will
have to tackle this together, and are actually trying to tackle this together.
A - `Koji Sato, President, Chief Executive `Officer, President of, Executive `Officer, President of `
Your second question was about the Daihatsu issue. Let me talk about some things that I have in
mind. So with regards to this irregularity, this was about certification or collision safety. And this
irregularity itself should never have happened, but it did happen, which means that there should
be a root cause. So how to identify the root causes and eliminate that root cause is somethingthat we have to tackle. Blaming this on somebody is not the solution. We are in the auto industry
and there are rules in the industry and we are manufacturing cars in this industry. And -- but there
shouldn't be anybody who do misconduct intentionally, but there was, which means that there
should be some environmental factors. So the subject vehicles, they are used by customers and
we have to make sure that we do not cause any inconvenience to the customers. So we need to
clarify what happened and as a first step, we need to identify that. And also we need to explain
to the relevant parties. And we have to explain -- we have already explained that to relevant
parties and started to take initiatives to make sure that this does not happen again.
And there is something that we think is important. The cause of issues like these is not a specific
person. There was a mechanism or an environment that forced that person to undertake a
misconduct, and we need to go to Genba, repeat discussions, and make sure that people talk
their minds to us. We need to continue dialog and we need to put ourselves in their shoes and
think and understand why this happened.
The current situation will have to be accurately communicated to many people. We need to do
away with the concerns and we need to secure a psychological safety.
As I mentioned at the outset, Chairman Toyoda went to Thailand, which is a producing country
and the main market of the target vehicle. So Mr. Toyoda went to Thailand and met many
stakeholders face to face and talked to them. Mr. Nagata was with Mr. Toyoda at that time. So
what is the thinking of Toyota in facing this issue will be discussed by Mr. Nagata.
A - `Jun Nagata, Executive `Officer, President of, Chief Communication `Officer, President of `
Thank you very much. My name is Nagata. The day before yesterday, which was Monday, with
Chairman, we -- I went to Thailand to explain basically (inaudible) is produced in Thailand and
exports are made. And Thailand is a large volume market for (inaudible). So basically, we knew
the vehicle was safe. So we wanted to communicate the fact that the vehicle is safer to the
customers and stakeholders.
As Mr. Sato mentioned on the outset, what we thought was important was that tied to it as a
gateway factory is producing the vehicle. And with Daihatsu, we have a development site which is
on TDEM. So the TDEM members, many of them are from Daihatsu. So the people producing the
vehicle and the TDEM members were all concerned and had anxiety about what was really
happening. So what is happening and the fact that the vehicle is safe, and as Mr. Sato mentioned,
Toyota is a company that stops things when a problem happens and tries to identify the root
cause until it is known and countermeasures are taken. That cycle is repeated at Toyota. And
Toyota is a company where people can freely speak their minds, and that was to be
communicated to people in Thiland, people producing the vehicles, the TDEM, developers,
dealers, we wanted to communicate that -- this to these stakeholders.
So as you mentioned, for the Group governance, we want to make sure that we have a culture
where you can't freely speak your mind, and we need to use Genchi Genbutsu to identify the
root cause and that is something that I learned anew at time. So we will collaborate with other
group companies in tackling this issue. Thank you
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much. We would now like to receive questions from those reporters who are now
online or participating online. So we would like to take this time to entertain questions online.
's Inajima-san. Inajima-san from . We will switch the screen, so please start
speaking if you see your face on the screen, please.Q - `Tsuyoshi Inajima, Analyst,  `
Hello. Can you hear me?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Yes. We hear you.
Q - `Tsuyoshi Inajima, Analyst,  `
Thank you. This is Inajima from . I have two questions as well. One is about dividends
and share repurchase. Regarding dividend, you will conduct increased dividends, stably and
continuously. And as for share repurchase, could that repurchase is in a flexible manner focusing
in -- on our share price levels? So how do you intend to do this? For share repurchase, when you
think -- talk about the share levels, would it be 1 times PBR. Would that be one of the factors for
share buyback or do you have some other criteria internally? And when that internal threshold is --
falls short, then you will, for example, reduce the share repurchase volumes?
Also second is this, Sato, President Sato talked about the mobility show[ph] and that you show a
concept car of the BEV at that show. So the next generation BEV concept cars which we intend to
launch in 2026 will be shown at the mobility showing off, is that what you meant?
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Vice President, Chief Financial `Officer, President of, Executive `Officer, President of, Chief Competitive `
Thank you for that question. Yes, regarding the dividend and share repurchase, as we explained,
our major policy is to reset our approach to both, and that's what we have conveyed to you
earlier. As we said earlier, up to now, in terms of dividend, we had a criteria of consolidated
payout ratio of 30% as a policy, but those shareholders -- what would please our shareholders?
How can we contribute more to our shareholders? We had that sort of a discussion internally and
so we decided to increase dividends stably and continuously as a new revised policy. And as a
result regarding share repurchases, of course, this will depend on share price levels, but the
major policy is, as we've been saying all along, to be flexible in our approach, and so we will make
judgments on the absolute value of share repurchase flexibly, But our major revised policy is to
focus more on dividends rather than share repurchases. Anything to add, Chief `Officer, President of -
Accounting Group?
A - `Masahiro Yamamoto, Accounting Group Chief `Officer, President of `
We will look at the share price levels in our share repurchases. Our share price levels currently are
not at a satisfactory level at all for us. The PB, it's of course below 1 times of PBR and we also are
not satisfied with this, and we take this very seriously.
To improve this, for example, PBR can be dividing the PR and ROE, and so RO -- as Sato-san said
this mobility concept or electrification and adding intelligence and more functionality, how can we
more specifically provide this to customers of this vision. I think that we must focus on developing
and delivering cost that satisfy people's expectations.
As for ROE, this is rather detailed, but of course, we have achieved this ROE with some intention
-- internally, for example, in finance or inventory. And this automobile industry, we have to defend
this industry. And when we experienced various natural disasters, then we had to have on hand
finance which could sustain our business operations for the next six months. So that's a rule. And
also last year, semiconductors and -- when production was reduced, then we had to protect the
supply chain and our assets, which means that we have to hold a certain level of inventory to dothat. So the entire automotive industry has to work together and fight together, and I believe that
part of the ROE numbers include this intentional measures. So we are not at all satisfied with the
results, so we would like to continue to make improvements against these numbers. Thank you.
A - `Hiroki Nakajima, Vice President, Executive `Officer, President of, Chief Technology `Officer, President of `
Let me try to respond to the second question, Inajima-san. The next generation battery EV would
we be showing them in the '26 mobility show? The answer is yes. Rather than explaining in words,
we thought it was much better to have you see the concept models and give us your feedback.
So we decided to showcase it at the mobility show.
As released today, the new organization called the BEV Factory, Kato-san will be ahead of this.
Kato-san was developing battery EVs in China previously, and let me show -- share with you his
comment. He said that he wants to change the future of cars with these next-generation EVs.
When he talks about the future of course, he is talking about the future of cars, both the form --
both in form as well as the adding of intelligence to cars.
And the second point with the factories that is to change the future of the production factories.
So we will have a wholesale change of the manufacturing process. Also, the change -- our change
of work, the way we work must also be revised in a large manner towards the future. And as you
know, within the Group, we have (inaudible) Toyota and various other venture comm companies,
we have a lof of connections with Toyota ventures et cetera. So we will continue aggressive
investment into this endeavor. So with various partners and various friends and colleagues within
the canvas of next generation BEV, we want to consider how we can change the future vision and
change the way we work, and so this is of course, Kato-san's personal views, but I do hope that
you will watch -- see the showcase of our new concept BEV models in the fall mobility show. So
please look forward to it.
A - Unidentified Speaker
We will take another question online from Wall Street Journal Mr. `River Davis, Analyst, Wall Street Journal.
Q - `River Davis, Analyst, Wall Street Journal `
Hello. This is `River Davis, Analyst, Wall Street Journal from the Wall Street Journal. Thank you very much for taking my
question. I wanted to ask two follow-up questions. The first is on the China market. We heard a lot
from auto executives coming back to Japan about how they felt there was a lot of competition
that they realized is happening in China, and that they need to find their own unique strategy of
remaining relevant. And Miyazaki-san, you spoke about the strength of hybrids in China. Do you
feel like this is a unique kind of weapon for Toyota in that market going forward?
And my second question is on EVs and profitability. Last month, you spoke a lot about kind of how
great profit margins are on hybrid vehicles at the moment. So, as you're looking towards the
2026 EV target, the 2030 EV sales target, how do you prioritize maximizing profitability versus
attaining those EV targets? Thank you. (Foreign language)
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Vice President, Chief Financial `Officer, President of, Executive `Officer, President of, Chief Competitive `
This is Miyazaki speaking. I will be responding to your first question. So how we compete as of
today and how we compete in the future is something that I would like to talk about. As Mr.
Nakajima mentioned, what we saw at the Motor Show was something that we were surprised
with. For China, from a global perspective, just like the United States in battery -- they are moving
quickly to battery EVs. So for China, we want to prepare a solid battery EV strategy.Then the question is, including Chinese makes how are we going to compete in BEVs? First, we
need to identify the needs of Chinese customers and supply vehicles that are very much like a
car manufacturers' vehicle. So that is how we intend to prepare for the Chinese market. Of
course, the preferences of the Chinese customers, and America and European preferences may
be different but China has its own unique characteristics. We will study those so that we can
enhance our competitiveness in the market.
We are taking a multi-pathway approach and China is a very large market and we are going to
provide various products. And one thing that we have to strengthen for the Chinese market is on
battery EV vehicles, that is the first thing we have to do.
A - `Koji Sato, President, Chief Executive `Officer, President of, Executive `Officer, President of `
This is Sato speaking and let me add something. And as Mr. Miyazaki mentioned, in the Chinese
market, the battery EVs are moving very quickly. So for the Chinese market battery EVs, TMC will
make its utmost efforts. But also on the other hand, there is solid demand for hybrid vehicles in
China. Battery EV demand is more or less new demand, so part of your question was a hybrid --
will hybrid TMCs advantage. So the demand structure is different between HVs and BEVs. So we
would like to tackle both markets and try to be competitive in both.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you very much. So going back to this hall. The person in the very front again.
Q - Unidentified Participant
(inaudible) Shimbun. I have two questions again. First question, the various auto OEMs are shifting
towards battery EVs. In the case of Toyota, you have -- your strength is in hybrid cars. But going
forward, what do you intend to do going forward regarding BEVs?
And the second question overlaps a bit with the first one. So your invest -- the balance between
investment and profitability from the battery EVs, the various auto OEMs are saying that the BEV
investment is becoming a burden on their profitability. And you said that you will aim for JPY4
trillion in BEV investment by 2030 and you mentioned this in 2021. So have you updated these
numbers?
Also Toyota's EV business, you'll be investing first without recouping the profit. So how do you
intend to secure the funds for investment?
A - `Koji Sato, President, Chief Executive `Officer, President of, Executive `Officer, President of `
Thank you. Let me reply to the first question. Second one will be handled Miyazaki-san. So our
approach to battery EV, we have been communicating about all along that at Toyota, we'd like to
strongly focus on battery EVs going forward. However, the renewed message from me is that our
ultimate goal is to achieve carbon neutrality and to achieve -- or to change mobility in the future.
So the customers' demands are diversing -- become diverse, and so the automotive industry's
needs are diversifying. We want to reply to those diversified needs and we also want to respond
to changes in energy needs and enhance the value of cars and change the future of cars. And we
believe that -- those are very important initiatives to have people have -- expect more from
vehicles not only that Not only that the powertrains are replaced with electricity -- electric
powertrains and that changes the cost structures of course. That alone will not be enough to
create a vision of a sustainable industry for automobiles. So we have -- we can't lose sight of the
ultimate goal. So we will focus on battery EVs as one solution but our goal is to change the futureof cars. And with this strong resolve, we want to grapple with this challenge with the local
stakeholders.
Q - `Toshikazu Yamaguchi, Analyst, Yomiuri Shinbun `
Let me answer to the second question. JPY4 trillion of investment in BEV was of course
announced by our company as a base volume, but our current criteria is towards 1.5 million in
2026, maybe JPY2.5[ph] trillion investment will be necessary also towards the year 2030 in order
-- we have set a volume -- base volume of JPY3.5 million but when we update this, perhaps this
will require about JPY5 trillion investment as a base value or base volume. So I guess as a
backdrop how do we intend to finance these -- this investment?
As I said earlier, up to now we have been engaged in cost reduction efforts as well as marketing
efforts. And by reinforcing our relationship with customers, we have been increasing our earnings
power and we have shown an outlook of JPY3 trillion in earnings power this year. And in order to
achieve this absolute goal, value, the profit structure that we aim for is one that can generate
new room for investment and through that, we can finance future investments, including
investments in BEVs. But battery EVs as Nakajima-san mentioned all along also we have to reduce
cost in battery EV development as well. But this is a challenge -- yet a challenge. We have no
prospect for this, so what we can do is to further promote the cost reduction of JPY100[ph]
billion and then expand the value chain further, so that we can reinforce the corporate stamina
and become a structure where we can generate profitability despite the headwinds. So, through
these efforts, we want to finance our investments or generating funds for investment.
Q - Unidentified Participant
May I? You talked about JPY5 trillion in investment. Would that the accounting from this year, this
fiscal year?
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Vice President, Chief Financial `Officer, President of, Executive `Officer, President of, Chief Competitive `
Yes. From this fiscal year. Thank you.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much for the many questions. Because of time limitations, let us take the two last
questions. Person in the third row in the central -- in the center.
Thank you very much. My name is Goro Okazaki, Automotive journalist. Since COVID, supply was
in shortage. The more you produce, the more you can sell is what we have been saying. This was
a very special time. And if you look at the results of your rivals, they have raised their price
significantly and their operating margins were very high in many cases. And if you look at the
numbers of Toyota on the other hand, you may not have been that aggressive in raising your
prices. If I'm wrong, please correct me. But what is your exit strategy?
One time there was -- at one time, there will be a time when supply will be higher than demand,
and products won't be selling that easy. So you might have been suppressing the amount of price
hikes taking that into consideration that was what I thought. So when supply goes up, what is the
exit strategy that TMC has in mind.
A - `Koji Sato, President, Chief Executive `Officer, President of, Executive `Officer, President of `Thank you very much for your question. In essence, supply was in shortage and with regards to
raising prices, Ultimately, well, we think mass production is extremely important. So high-quality
products being delivered to customers at affordable prices, so that we can see smiles on the
faces of the customers. That is at the basis of our management strategy. In the short-term, things
were very difficult. So rather than taking the route of raising prices, we took a longer-term
perspective. We needed to maintain the (inaudible) trust with our customers. So first, we focused
on making efforts ourselves.
As I mentioned before, at this moment, in the past 14 years of Mr. Toyoda's presidentship, we've
had a Corolla, Crown, and other long seller names. We have many products that are loved by the
customers over the years. So, including prices, there are expectations of our customers. So it's
not as simple as flexibly changing the prices because of economic conditions. That will not lead to
long term relationship of trust with the customers. But of course, we have to look at the economic
environment and improve our profitability.
So in the case of Crown, rather than just looking at a single Crown model, we need to pursue
efficiency and improve the appeal of the products and competitiveness of the product, and add
value to the product that is what we have been focusing on. So increase the basic strength and
improve the appeal of the products. That is what we mean by product-centered management,
and that will lead over the long term to establish a relationship of trust between TMC and its
customers.
But when we enhance value add, of course, we need to consider prices that are commensurate
with that value. So we need to strike a balance. So we will stick to our basic management
strategy, that is why we are taking this approach. Thank you very much.
Q - Unidentified Participant
In terms of profit, you seem to be struggling very much in North America if you look at the
numbers. If you look at news reports, soaring material crisis did not allow you to increase prices
according to news reports. But it seems like you are -- in -- your exit strategy was not to
immediately raise prices but what would be your future exit strategy?
A - `Koji Sato, President, Chief Executive `Officer, President of, Executive `Officer, President of `
Thank you for the question. For North America, producing cars and delivering cars is something
that we were struggling with. So speeding up recovery of production is number one. And if you
look at the labor environment in North America. In terms of manufacturing cost, we have to make
further efforts for improvements. Based on TPS, Toyota Production System, we needed to
undertake improvement initiatives so that we are very strong in manufacturing at North American
factories.
We need to create a corporate foundation of strong manufacturing for North America. The
market, we need to have a dialog with the market, with the customers to propose an appropriate
price. That would be the order in which we tackle things. Thank you very much.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, Okazaki. So due to the interest of time, this will have to be the final question. The
person in the middle, front row.
Q - Unidentified Participant(inaudible) from (inaudible) Carwatch[ph]. I have two questions as well. Your sales have improved
and I think this is primarily due to the increased vehicle sales. So as the delivery cycle (inaudible)
longer, the dealers have good communication with the customers I believe. So what were some
of the measures you took?
And second question. I think that you had a backlog of close to 2 million units at one time that was
announced. So could you talk about the current backlogs currently in Japan and overseas, and
when would these long delivery dates be reduced to normal delivery dates?
A - `Jun Nagata, Executive `Officer, President of, Chief Communication `Officer, President of `
Thank you, (inaudible). With dealers' communication with the longer delivery dates, I think that
really deferred depending on the region. And Japanese dealers, they do have longer delivery
dates to start with. So what they did was to at least tell the customers when they can expect the
delivery. Because I think the biggest stress or frustration for customers would be not to know the
steps of the delivery process. So we had to provide information to them and the dealers, also
we're required to respond to their questions. So that's the basis of communication.
And in the United States, they sell from their inventory. So because of this process of what cars
best match the needs of the customers and are best-selling, they can get that information from
the customers. And -- so the North American companies (inaudible) that number and they can
allocate from the location of the inventories in the dealers and then deliver to the customers. And
through these efforts this time -- this term, we were able to cope with issues relating to customer
delivery dates.
As for Japan, due to the types of semiconductors required, we are having our Japanese
customers wait longer and -- so as was explained at the very outset, semiconductor shortage is,
of course, being alleviated gradually. So we hope that we will be able to improve our
communication regarding delivery dates with the customer. So I hope you'll keep a watch on
improvements going forward.
Q - Unidentified Participant
How about backlog numbers?
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Vice President, Chief Financial `Officer, President of, Executive `Officer, President of, Chief Competitive `
May I talk about backlog? Through the longer delivery dates, our learning or our lessons was that
the factory production site and the people in the distributorship and the dealers and suppliers,
we all were unified, we became one team that was the biggest benefit. And -- so we were able
to share our own pains and headaches, and then we were able to talk about what each person
can do or each member can do to improve the situation for others. And in Japan, the backlog,
the orders received as of the end of April was up a little more than 800,000. But amongst our
customers -- against those customers who request delivery by the end of April, we were not able
to deliver on 10% of those 800,000 units. So we were asking the dealers to ask the customers
when they want the delivery dates by so we will manufacture to the needs of customers who are
in a hurry. We are now finally able to enter that sort of process.
And in the United States, in the past, the cars were all showcased in large dealerships and the
customer can pick and choose and then drive home with a car. But dealer had to, of course, bear
interest rate because of this. But because of the longer delivery dates today, from Japan or the
US factory, while the car is being transported to the dealership, the cars are already being soldduring its transportation. So we are able to deliver cars fresh off the production line in a sense
without inventory.
So as I said at the outset, we became one unified team and as a result, we came up with many
new ideas, fresh ideas, and many ingenious ideas which had helped us to alleviate the longer
delivery dates. So we want to continue with improvement at this space so that the customers,
suppliers, and dealers, we can all enjoy delivering even better products to our customers. So we
wanted to further improve on these kinds of processes. So we ask for your support.
Q - Unidentified Participant
So you say domestically, it's 800,000 units backlog? How about overseas?
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Vice President, Chief Financial `Officer, President of, Executive `Officer, President of, Chief Competitive `
Overseas, the definition of backlog is different by region. So if I try to give you a number, it could
lead to some misconceptions. It could be misleading. I'm sorry. So I hope that you will use the
domestic number.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you, (inaudible). It is time to close the Q&A session. With this, we conclude the financial
results meeting. Those on the stage please stand up. Thank you very much for coming today. So,
off the stage, thank you very much.