Y 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Irie, Public Relations Department `
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for joining us despite your occupied schedules. We
would like to start the financial results announcement for the fiscal year ended March 2024. My
name is `Irie, Public Relations Department of the Public Affairs Department. I will be serving as the moderator.
First of all, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `Yoichi Miyazaki, Member of the Board of Directors, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial will explain the
overview of the financial results.
`Yoichi Miyazaki, Member of the Board of Directors, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial `
Miyazaki is my name, CFO of TOYOTA MOTOR CORPORATION. Thank you very much for
getting together for this session today. We would like to express our heartfelt appreciation to our
customers around the world who chose us, as well as our shareholders, dealers, and suppliers
who support us.
We will now explain the summary of the financial results for the fiscal year ended March 2024.
For many years, we have been committed to product and region-based management. Thanks to
the support and cooperation of many stakeholders, including employees as well as suppliers and
dealers, the actual operating income was JPY5.35 trillion for the fiscal year ended in March 2024.
The operating income forecast for the fiscal year ending March 2025 is JPY4.3 trillion, after a total
of JPY2 trillion in investments for the future, to maintain the profit structure from the previous
fiscal year, and to increase the attractiveness of the automotive industry as a whole, and to grow
together with all stakeholders.
Investments for the future of JPY2 trillion includes JPY380 billion in investment in human
resources and JPY1.7 trillion in investments in transforming the company into a mobility company.
As for shareholder returns, we will increase the year-end dividend to JPY45 per share, an
increase of JPY10 compared to the previous year, and set the annual dividend at JPY75, totaling
over JPY1 trillion. We set aside JPY1 trillion as the maximum limit of share repurchases and will
cancel 520 million shares, equivalent to JPY2 trillion worth of treasury shares.
Let me explain the summary of our performances for the fiscal year ended March 2024.Consolidated vehicle sales for this fiscal year were at 9,443,000 units, which was 107% of
consolidated vehicle sales for the previous fiscal year.
Toyota and Lexus vehicle sales were 10,309,000 units, which was 107.3% of such sales for the
previous fiscal year.
Sales volumes increased, except in Japan, which was affected by the suspension of shipments by
Daihatsu Motor Co. and Toyota Industries Corporation.
Also, we increased the sales of electrified vehicles, mainly HEVs, with electrified vehicles
constituting 37.4% of total sales.
Consolidated financial results were sales revenues of JPY45,095.3 billion, operating income of
JPY5,352.9 billion, income before income taxes of JPY6,965 billion, and net income of JPY4,944.9
billion.
I would like to explain the factors which impacted operating income YoY.
First, the effect of foreign exchange rates increased operating income by JPY685 billion. Cost
reduction efforts outweighed the impact of soaring materials prices, resulting in an increase in
operating income of JPY120 billion. Marketing efforts increased operating income by JPY2 trillion
due to an increase in sales volume of mainly hybrid vehicles, improvement of sales mix due to
strong sales in high-margin vehicles, and price revisions mainly in North America and Europe.
An increase in expenses decreased operating income by JPY380 billion due to an increase in
labor costs and investments in areas such as digitalization. Other factors increased operating
income by JPY202.9 billion. As a result, excluding the overall impact of foreign exchange rates,
swap valuation gains and losses, and other factors, operating income increased by JPY1,740
billion YoY.
By geographical region, operating income increased in many regions.
Operating income increased in Japan YoY, mainly due to an increase in exported vehicles. North
America, Europe, and Asia also saw an increase YoY, mainly supported by price revisions based
on product competitiveness.
Our business in China as well as our financial services business, I will describe here.
As for our business in China, due to steady demand for HEVs, which is our strength, we have
maintained Toyota and Lexus sales volume. The operating income of consolidated subsidiaries
increased YoY, mainly due to marketing efforts, including price revisions, while our share of profit
of investments, accounted for by the equity method, decreased YoY, mainly due to an increase in
selling expenses.
Regarding our financial services business, operating income, excluding swap valuation gains and
losses for this fiscal year, decreased YoY, largely due to the decrease in margins.
Next, I would like to explain shareholders' returns.
Our dividend policy is to increase dividends in a stable and continuous manner in order to reward
our long-term shareholders.
The year-end dividend for the current fiscal year will be JPY45 per share, a YoY increase of JPY10
compared to the previous fiscal year. As a result, the total amount of annual dividends is overJPY1 trillion.
For share repurchases, we set aside JPY1 trillion as the maximum limit of year-end repurchase to
flexible repurchase of shares, while considering factors such as the price level of our common
stock, and to respond to request for the sale of our own shares as needed.
In addition, we will retire 520 million shares equivalent to JPY2 trillion.
Next, I will explain the forecast for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2025.
The consolidated vehicle sales are expected to be 9,500,000 units, 100.6% over the previous
fiscal year. In Japan, we expect the decrease in sales volume, mainly at Daihatsu.
In addition, Toyota and Lexus vehicle sales are expected to reach 10,400,000 units, 100.9% of
the previous fiscal year. Electrified vehicle sales are expected to be a total of 4,827,000 units, or
46.4% of total sales.
Next, let me explain the full-year consolidated financial forecast.
We have adopted the full-year foreign exchange rate assumptions of JPY145 per US dollar and
JPY160 per euro. Based on this, our forecast for the full-year consolidated financial performance
is sales revenue of JPY46 trillion, operating income of JPY4,300 billion, income before income
taxes of JPY5,070 billion, and net income of JPY3,570 billion.
Let me try to now reflect a little bit. That is to say, we have been advocating to build ever-better
cars. Then that we have the study established a strong profit base through product-centered
management, including a group strategy based on TNGA and Regional Center Management,
which aims to become the number one car store in town that is trusted by customers and the
local community.
Furthermore, in promoting electrification, we have been able to strengthen our financial base by
investing in [vehicles] and batteries while carefully assessing each country's energy business and
actual demand.
In addition, amidst difficult environment that continues to push down the profit due to the impact
of the COVID-19 and the tight squeeze on semiconductors in recent years, we are working hard
to transform methods and create new systems. For example, we introduced J-SLIM in Japan,
reducing the number of parts globally and introducing a supply-and-demand system using AI.
As a result, while the past few years the business environment was calm in the fiscal year
different from the past few years, the fiscal term ending March 31, 2024, our efforts to
strengthen our profit structure, which we built over the years, have achieved great macro results.
I'd like to take, again, this opportunity to express my sincere appreciation for their support, which
includes the customers, shareholders, suppliers, dealers, employees, and local communities.
Regarding the outlook for the fiscal year ending March 2025, maintaining the profit structure from
the previous fiscal year, we aim to accelerate investment in the future, with determination, in
order to enhance the attractiveness of the automotive industry as a whole and to grow together
with all stakeholders. On this basis, the profit structure will be maintained as in the previous year.
Let me supplement this with a graph.
The JPY5.3 trillion in operating income for the fiscal year ended March 2024 included the effects
of the curbing selling expenses in response to the favorable market environment, as well as largeorder backlog, for which we asked for the temporary hard work of the employees and the
suppliers.
After subtracting that, while maintaining the JPY5 trillion profit structure, the operating income
forecast for the fiscal year ending March 2025 is JPY4.3 trillion, taking into account the investment
of JPY380 billion in human resources and investments for the transformation toward a mobility
company.
Investment for transformation into a mobility company is expected to be increased, for the
proportion of capital expenditure and R&D expenses related to growth areas, by JPY500 billion
from the previous fiscal year to JPY1.7 trillion.
Lastly, Toyota alone cannot achieve structural reform of our business from now on, and we will
work together with our stakeholders. For that, we would like to use the resources that we have
been able to generate, thanks to our many stakeholders, to grow together with our customers,
shareholders, suppliers, dealers, employees, and local communities. With this, I would like to
conclude my explanation of the financial results. Thank you.
`Irie, Public Relations Department `
Thank you very much. Continuing on, `Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director), President of the Company, will give you the
explanation.
`Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director) `
I'm `Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director). In announcing these financial results, I would like to express our company's sincere
gratitude to its Toyota, Lexus, and GR customers as well as to all other stakeholders for their
support.
In the previous fiscal year, our diverse product lineup enabled us to provide our customers with
many cars. We believe that this achievement is the result of years of determined product-
centered management and the building up of our business foundation. Based on this business
foundation, we intend to draw further growth strategies for sustainable growth.
To that end, we will continue to focus on giving a concrete form to our vision of transforming into
a mobility company in this fiscal year. This means helping create a mobility-based society by
increasing the added value of cars with the aim of building a new industrial structure. To achieve
that, we will take on the challenge, together with many colleagues, with a sense of mission. We
believe that the key to this transformation is increasing the mobility of energy and data.
In other words, looking toward the future supported by electricity and hydrogen, we believe that
cars should serve as the medium to transport energy and contribute to creating a society
centered on renewable energy. Also, we aim to further enrich people's lives with mobility value
created through data.
This fiscal year's key themes in working towards that future are the materialization of multi-
pathway solutions and the creation of a foundation for software-defined vehicles, done in the
Toyota way, that will realize diverse mobility values for our customers.
Over the past year, we have been advancing towards embracing battery EVs, which were our
missing piece. Our challenge to create a new vehicle architecture is progressing due to
technological advances and aerodynamics and heat management as well as the development of
compact and lightweight powertrains and other major components. These elementaltechnologies can be applied in the future to the development of plug-in hybrid vehicles and
others, leading to a diverse, multi-pathway lineup of vehicles.
Regarding hydrogen, we have accelerated the creation of foundations for commercialization in
various regions. In addition to developing and implementing hydrogen mobility in the commercial
domain, we are also providing fuel cell systems for various applications, such as trains, ships, and
generators, and pursuing initiatives in producing and storing hydrogen.
Going forward, we would like to accelerate the social implementation of hydrogen mobility,
including infrastructure, together with our partners, especially in Europe, China, and North
America, where hydrogen consumption is particularly high.
Furthermore, we will continue to work with determination on the future of the internal combustion
engine. Even in a future in which energy centers on electricity and hydrogen, we plan to continue
actively advancing next-generation engines, with an eye toward using e-fuel and other liquid
fuels.
To realize a software-defined vehicle the Toyota way, we have spent the past year focusing on
developing our Arene on-vehicle operating system and building foundations for software. Moving
forward, we aim to increase our efforts to evolve mobility that utilizes generative AI, including
automated driving, and we plan to expand AI-related investments.
Also, to further develop a foundation for software-defined vehicles, we plan to establish strategic
partnerships beyond the automotive industry, including an infrastructure and apps and services
closely related to daily life.
Even as we pursue these initiatives, our unwavering core is being a carmaker. We will change the
future of cars. Meeting this challenge requires a foundation for solid car making. In that sense, our
top priority for future growth is to strengthen our work foundation by facing head-on the issues of
irregularities at member companies of our corporate group and Toyota’s lack of reserve capacity.
Therefore, this fiscal year, we will determinedly devote the money and time needed to
strengthen our work foundation. Desiring to create today how we will work 10 years from now, we
will strive to generate reserve capacity to ensure thorough safety and quality and firmly endeavor
to develop a skilled workforce by improving individual skills based on job descriptions.
This fiscal year, in addition to our JPY1.7 trillion investment in growth areas, we plan to dedicate
JPY380 billion to such investment in human resources to strengthen our work foundation and to
change how we work, together with our suppliers and dealers.
I have shared with you our thoughts and priority themes for the current fiscal year. The most
important thing is execution. We will take on the challenge of achieving a mobility-based society
together with many partners while responding to issues and changes that come to light only after
we have first decided what to do and have started doing it. We would greatly appreciate your
support and understanding.
Questions And Answers
A - `Irie, Public Relations Department `
Thank you very much. This is going to be followed by Q&A session. Please give us a while for the
stage to be set for the Q&A session, with the layout being changed. Thank you.We would like to start the Q&A session. Those respondents from TMC, please come up to the
stage. First of all, let me introduce who are on the stage: `Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director), Chief Executive Officer; Yoichi
Miyazaki, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President; and `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Executive Officer of Accounting Group, Chief
Officer for Accounting Group. Please take a seat.
We will open this Q&A session. First, I'd like to receive questions from those who are present in
the venue. If you have a question, please raise your hand so that the microphone can be brought
to you. Please state your affiliation and your name before asking your question, and we would like
to receive questions as many people as possible. We would like to ask you to limit yourselves to
two questions per person.
The person seated in the second row from the front, please.
Q - Unverified Participant
Chunichi Newspaper, [Sukito] is my name. Thank you very much for this opportunity today. My
question is related to President Sato. The financial results announced today, and also the forecast
for the next fiscal year, how have you assessed that? Last fiscal year, you made a record high in
both operating income and revenue. This fiscal year as well, you achieved the record high levels.
What are the factors contributing to that? What is the background contributing to that? What is
your assessment of that as President?
A - `Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director) `
Thank you for your question. First of all, in the previous fiscal year, in terms of the actual results of
that fiscal year, first and foremost, producing manufacturing cars, delivering them to customers.
Just to be able to do that is really something that we fully appreciate and feel very grateful for.
Looking back the past year, once again, a very fundamental foundation of the business, and to be
able to work on that is deeply appreciated by myself.
In terms of the actual results, it's a result of those activities. The fact that we were able to
manufacture those cars, being able to deliver that is in the background of that.
Also, as supported by serious efforts made by many stakeholders from many different aspects.
It's not just a single person working the hardest from the planning, development, manufacturing,
sales, and marketing.
In many different departments, people made efforts in many different ways, and that contributed
to the actual results we were able to announce today.
For the current fiscal year, in the sense, this business and corporate foundation we have today
and for us to be able to achieve properly the sustainable results, we will consider the most
important priority: to consolidate and strengthen the business foundation. To be more concrete,
to be able to generate such a profit, what was in the background was a very strong supply chain,
and the 5.5 million colleagues in this industry supported us. To protect that supply chain
foundation is something that we really have to squarely work on for us to achieve sustainable
growth. To protect and defend the supply chain with a strong determination, we will make
investment for that purpose.
From the perspective of strengthening business foundation within the company and also within
the group, there may have been areas in which reserve capacity was depleted, and therefore,
the fundamental action should be enabled. That is to say, we need to have some reservedo. We will spend money for that purpose as well. Those will lead to the sustainable growth over
long term. Those are the actual results and the projection for the next fiscal year. That's how I feel
about it right now.
Q - Unverified Participant
Thank you very much. Let me move on to the next question. You talked about strengthening the
business foundation, and it's related to that. You talked about the investment at the human
resources, a substantial amount. From your perspective, Mr. President, concretely speaking,
including supply chain and [various theme], what are the challenges, and what are the issues that
led you to make investments? How are you going to improve or rectify that situation?
A - `Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director) `
First of all, with respect to strengthening the business foundation, naturally, needless to say, the
operation of the work we are engaging right now on the current assumption we've been able to
enhance the efficiency. But those improvement in enhancing efficiency, some requires review and
reviewing. To change the way we work fundamentally and also generate, we do not have the
reserve capacity that enables us to change the necessary structure. For us to achieve sustainable
growth over many years, we need to review many aspects of our business fundamentally. The
structural reform of the automotive manufacturing cannot be achieved by just changing different
functions from the upstream to downstream.
For example, DX, if that is considered in certain aspects, it just results in improvement in that
particular area. But data starting from upstream to downstream and marketing sales end-to-end,
to achieve that, we will be able to change the way in which we are doing business. We need to
have some reserve capacity, which we are lacking right now, for us to be able to engage in those
fundamental reform and change. To create the situation you gave, for us to be able to take up
the challenge, we would like to make very proactive efforts for the future’s sustainable growth.
A - `Irie, Public Relations Department `
Thank you. Next question please. The person on the right side of the row, at the corner please.
Q - Unverified Participant
[inaudible] Kobe Shimbun. Thank you. I have two questions for Sato, the CEO. The supply chain
that you are going to return back to them, including to the suppliers, the capital human resource
investment over the JPY380 billion. But anyway, what is the specific way to support suppliers and
others that you would like sort of support their labor cost, that is about JPY380 billion, including
the labor expense as well for the support of the suppliers?
A - `Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director) `
Thank you for your question. The basic principle is, as you said, the suppliers would have the
incurred labor cost; equivalent portion should be reflected in our price for them. That is when we
procure products from them. That's our consideration. That has been taken into account in this
particular plan.
Q - Unverified Participant
Specifically, do you have any other initiatives and activities like return back to the supply chain
people there, your principle there?A - `Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director) `
Like, the DX digitalization support is one way. Toyota will give an order to those suppliers, based
on the past system that has been given to them in that way. But the way the data is transmitted
or ordered is given to them. When the demand supply fluctuations are so quick that the more
flexible change of the production plan is necessary, manual work is done to convey this kind of
message. But to do that kind of money work, we will give additional support. Digitalization can be
promoted even for the suppliers. It will be a continuous flow of digitalization. The workload of the
suppliers will be lowered because of this new support. It's one of the supports.
Another most important factor is the field in the game. In order to upgrade their productivity, their
game activity should be supported by us, by sweating together. To what extent could they have
this waste for practice where we detect it together and help them to solve those problems in the
game? Toyota will help the suppliers to do kaizen improvements. We assist them to change the
way they do, then their workload and burden will be lowered, then eventually the unnecessary
costs will be lower. That is the game improvement and digitalization activities. Then labor cost
support in our procurement practice, these are the package of deals to try to support.
Q - Unverified Participant
The second part of my question is to strengthen your foundation. You mentioned that some
priority is that the money and time will be spent for that purpose. But specifically, what are the
initiatives you are thinking about? To strengthen your foundation, the production volume, the
development period required, and productivity might be impacted and changed. How do you
strike a balance between the productivity pursuit versus strengthening the basic foundation?
A - `Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director) `
Thank you for your question. About strengthening our foundation, it should be looked at in the
long-term perspective because annual growth, and this annual-based growth, is our aim, so high
efficiency enables our current operation. Just because of the high efficiency, we couldn't change
our system fundamentally in a way, because inherently, conventionally, the vehicle structure
consisted of the system and the component system, and then all those different functions were
assembled together as a vehicle.
But currently, what we like to build is a new way of mobility toward the mobility. It should cover
both different disciplines, or some of the unprecedented new work will be required increasingly.
We have to have enough time, but we can't take enough time to do these things. Taking that into
account, our existing work volume should be reduced for the time being. That is the project, the
burden should be adjusted and each workload at each function in place that the manager and the
workers should talk about.
Then we should question whether this particular work is necessary or not, and we might need to
maybe stop certain work, something that the design department should do, or sometimes the
experiment department should do this and that. The job description should be rethought and
rewritten fundamentally. Then what we are doing every day? Is this really proper work? According
to this new definition, we're doing it properly and efficiently.
On another activities, every day about 30 minutes, each person's work should be spent for their
future growth. Every day, 30 minutes per capita, not just being occupied, finishing the work every
day, the duty, but rather as a professional to grow in the future, these 30 minutes should be
dedicated to think about the career promotion and scale. Eventually, it will improve the quality ofCurrently, it's a highly sophisticated development, and lots of rework is necessary. But taking into
account this rework, we set the standard lead time for the R&D. But the basic functions should be
fully standardized; the job description has to be fully defined. The rework will be minimized or
reduced. Then it seems like, on the surface, your efficiency is going down, but it's not the case
because, in total, the overall efficiency should be enhanced.
The current premise of the current work should not be just the binding condition at all. You have
to relook at this fundamental, what your work, and your definition in order to eventually boost the
productivity and efficiency, especially money-wise. Of course, Miyazaki-san will explain about that
monetary aspect.
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Member of the Board of Directors, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial `
Thank you. Yes, as was mentioned earlier, how best we can enhance the efficiency of the work,
that may be the best way of describing that, eliminating waste and enhance efficiency overall, the
network. To do that, we would like to make an active investment amounts and numbers that I
introduced to you already earlier. But if anything, vis-a-vis suppliers.
Also, as far as we are concerned, going down to the lower tier, we would like to discuss those
details. Otherwise, the attractiveness of the overall automotive industry cannot be enhanced in
my view. If we are successful in doing so, that will lead to the productivity; the people will stay in
the company. Also, it will result in net work being done.
Internally, within TMC, as Mr. Sato mentioned earlier, the time used for teaching others was
lacking that time. Therefore, that caused the reduction in efficiency or sometimes go above the
work done. And so, it might appear as if it is time wasted. But by spending time, spending
enough time for that, we would like to make efforts so that it will result in enhanced efficiency.
Earlier, I mentioned JPY320 billion investment for future growth and JPY380 billion for human
resources. But as I mentioned in my presentation, as far as the amount is concerned, the
resources given to us will be used for the purpose of further investments so that, working
together, we would like to create the attractive automotive industry. For that purpose, we would
like to spend such financial resources and money.
A - `Irie, Public Relations Department `
All right. At the front row, the person in the pink shirt.
Operator
Hans of Automotive News. Thank you very much. May I ask the question in English, please? I'd like
to ask two questions about the situation with sales of hybrids and the North American market's
importance. The first one is about hybrids. Have hybrids reached a turning point in public
acceptance now? It used to be an alternative kind of powertrain. Now, I'm wondering if it's now
seen as the first choice among Toyota buyers and that the ICE, the traditional gasoline engine, is
maybe seen as a second choice now.
Has it flipped finally for Toyota where the hybrids have become mainstream, in your opinion?
Also, regarding the North American market, that seems to be a very stronghold for not only
Toyota but Japanese automakers in general. I'm wondering how much more importance you put
on the US now, given the instability of other big markets such as China or Southeast Asia,
especially as Chinese automakers export more from China.A - `Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director) `
Thank you very much for asking those questions, Hans-san. Allow me to explain and also make
some additional comments with respect to hybrid vehicles. Earlier, I used some slides to explain
the situation in fiscal year ending in April 2023 and 2025. The electric vehicles increased by 1
million, and of that, 900,000 units were hybrid vehicles. The major reason in which the increase
was achieved, North America was at the top, followed by Japan, and China. Those are the
rankings for the areas where hybrid sales have increased.
In North America right now, roughly speaking, at the dealer level, the days’ inventory is 15 days.
That's the inventory days, 15 days. But as far as hybrid vehicles are concerned, it's between 5
days to 8 days. It continues that hybrid vehicles are selling extremely well in the North American
market. The major factor in the background is most of the models of Toyota have the hybrid
versions added to that in the lineup.
At the same time, you mentioned that hybrid used to be the alternative choice, but is it going to
be the mainstay powertrain? As we have been constantly saying, for Toyota, the enemy that we
need to address is the carbon. For us to achieve carbon neutrality, we have been trying to sell
hybrid vehicles. Since the introduction of Prius, that permeated quite well in the North American or
US market. It has been recognized as a main player. In addition, hybrid is synonymous to low fuel
consumption, and the acceleration performance, the ride comfort, and overall performance of
hybrid have improved. It has become an extremely attractive vehicle. It has those appeals. That's
the situation of hybrid right now.
About your second question, that is to say, the importance of North American market. As we have
been saying over the years, under the leadership of [Theo] for the region, we have the members
who gave the highest priority to their activities. That's how we are conducting business. To us, all
the regions of the world have carried the highest priority. On that, we are trying to strike a good
balance in conducting our business. Those are the approaches we take in doing our business.
As far as Asia is concerned, there are concerns of vehicles imported from China. As of today, our
market share in Asian markets have been maintained and kept. If anything, in Thailand, right now,
our market share has improved. Temporarily in Thailand, for example, there has been a period in
which the battery EV increased. But right now, it has been evolving quite steadily. Therefore,
together with our lineup and also the network of dealerships, we are working very hard to deliver
vehicles to the customers as quickly as possible.
A - `Irie, Public Relations Department `
Thank you very much. Another person, the person by the corridor.
Q - Unverified Participant
[Namaya] of TV Tokyo. I have a question for Mr. Sato, the President. My first question is that now,
is it something that's determined and will this be a plateau? But for the mid- to long-term growth
of Toyota in the future, how do you like to use this time? The JPY380 billion that will be spent for
this investment for human resources is huge. Is this going to end until this fiscal term? Are you
going to continue this human capital or human resource investment afterwards as well?
A - `Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director) `
Thank you for your question. Yes, it is the particular plateau that we implemented just through
determination and will. We need this type of plateau for the long-term future growth. It is anecessary period. Actually, we are so stretched with our activities, and we have to strengthen the
foundation. Otherwise, we would not be ready to smoothly challenge a new area. As I said in the
presentation, we will head toward becoming a mobility company transformation. Lots of new
projects need to be tackled with. But what is the origin? We are the carmaker, so we have to build
a solid, safe, comfortable, and good car. The good car making is a grand premise of all the
activity. With that said, we will be allowed to challenge brand-new areas. Our basic function has to
be secured. We have to spend money on people to do that.
What is the basis of the growth? Of course, we have to be able to do all the basic required
function properly, then we'll strengthen our foundation. This new investment for human
resources, I think we need to continue to a certain extent. However, as I said, the basic function
must be secured. We have to eliminate the waste for practice as well at the same time. In the
meantime, we will create like TPA, the waste for practice should be visualized, all the process
should be visualized. Then the before and after your process, you know what the other people
are doing what. Then your own function, your process, can be improved and changed. We'd like
to do that.
Finally, it will eventually lead to the over-increase of the productivity, including suppliers. A major
investment will be made for the suppliers as well. Based upon that investment, we will further
strengthen our foundation. Eventually, it will lead to higher productivity. We need that investment
for a certain period of time, but the improvements, we've made steadily one after another. It's
not a continuous fixed amount of investment. It's not like that.
Q - Unverified Participant
The second part of my question is about the EV because your hybrid products are doing well and,
in many markets, people are reevaluating the meaning of the EV. Based upon your multi-pathway
strategy, the hybrid is doing so well. Do you intend to maybe revise the plan for the EV
development and strategy?
A - `Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director) `
Thank you for your question. Yes. In the new setup and after I became the President, I've been
telling the same message. We maintain this multi-pathway strategy. We will not change it. We
maintain it. What we have to do is, for the sake of customers, we need to look at the actual
demand of the customers and respond to their demand, and we should be prepared to do that.
Therefore, there are many descriptions toward the battery EV, people with different
perspectives.
Basically, our pace, stance, or position has not been changed. We'd like to offer necessary
multiple options to the place where people need it, as I said. They are the basic standard units
that we are thinking about, which is the basic unit. But eventually, the supply chain should be built
to be able to supply that. Time schedule should be clarified, and the volume should be clarified.
Together with the suppliers, we should be prepared in advance. It's like the pace note or the
basic preparation. If times are changed, then we will flexibly change according to the changing
times. Then we'd like to optimize this timing of the investment.
In other words, my predecessor Akio Toyoda was the President. He had a strong belief at that
time, five years ago, in the battery EV. Some people said and criticized, “Oh you are behind,” but
he had the courage to say, Chairman Toyoda said, that we should maintain the policy of multi-
pathway, and we maintained the policy. Because of that, the technology has now advanced, the
battery EV that we built has become more visible, and the priority investment area is now clear.investment. Because of our strong belief in our steady policy, the multi-pathway concept is still
maintained, and we would like to continue to work based upon that.
Q - Unverified Participant
Thank you very much.
A - `Irie, Public Relations Department `
Now, at the center row, the person with his or her hand high up. Yes.
Q - Unverified Participant
Yomiuri Newspaper, Mizuno is my name. Thank you for the opportunity. I have two questions for
President Sato. My question also relates to BEVs. In the financial result material for the new fiscal
year, that is to say, in the sales projection, the BEVs unit in the previous year is 117,000 units. For
this year, it says 171,000, so it increased by 54,000 units. How should I interpret that change or
increase?
A - `Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director) `
Thank you very much for your question. In terms of the sales projections for the current fiscal
year, to a certain extent, the actual demand is assessed very conservatively. I hope you'll interpret
that in that light. Vis-a-vis BEVs, the infrastructure necessary for that, the conditions for that, are
not in place. For value-added introduced by BEVs are not adequate from the perspective of
customers, in my view. Therefore, the mobility installed with electrified major components has
been increasing in demand. We will solidly respond to that demand, and that is reflected in the
numbers we have mentioned.
In the phase following 2026, the situation might change. Aiming at that period, we would like to
make sure that we are ready to provide BEVs in the Toyota way.
Q - Unverified Participant
Let me move on to the second question. Earlier, you mentioned SDV. When you talked about
SDV, you said SDV in the Toyota way, created into the Toyota way. In terms of investment for the
current fiscal year, it seems that you're dedicating a lot of efforts for SDVs. Concretely speaking,
how do you intend to proceed with the investment for research and development? What is the
current situation of Woven City? Could you enlighten us on the Woven City situation as well,
please?
A - `Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director) `
Thank you for your question. First of all, the SDVs created and developed in the Toyota way, we
are the carmaker and therefore for the enhanced value-added of the vehicles, the software-
defined vehicle will be developed. As the value of our mobility is continue to supply, but not just
people and cargo, but data and energy can be also transported. It will serve as a medium for
that. When we are in that sort of period, the vehicles could be more integrated with social
systems overall. We need to show that in the concrete form.
Unfortunately, thus far, the vehicles focusing on ICEs, the electric energy was very difficult to be
used in that. Focusing on battery EVs or maybe PHEVs or hybrid as well, the vehicles installed with
electrified major components, we will keep in our vision the usage of electric energy, and that
enables easier use of data management. In the world in which data management is facilitated,the collaboration with infrastructure or including autonomous driving, AI, which could be your
partner, could be supporting you. If that is done vis-a-vis mobility and when you're faced with
mobility, the value provided by that will change. The application services could be added to the
value generated by the vehicle. The environment is to be developed to that extent. Also, the
foundation of the onboard platform is now being prepared.
As we do that, various value-added could be connected to open platform. Not limiting ourselves
to the world of vehicles and automobiles, but in the broader world, the vehicles could be
connected to other aspects of the world. One by one in a concrete form, we would like to show
to the world what we have in mind.
With respect to Woven City, the digital twin is playing an important role. We experiment in the
laboratory, a form of mobility. The interface with society and vehicles and energy is added to that.
What sort of value-added can be created, working together with many partners, we will validate
those SDVs. What sort of an active role can it play will be verified in the Woven City, and we are
now in the preparatory stage. That's the current status of the Woven City.
Q - Unverified Participant
Thank you.
A - `Irie, Public Relations Department `
The third row and the second line.
Q - Unverified Participant
[inaudible] News speaking. I have a question for Mr. Sato. It's a question relevant to earlier
questions about hybrids versus BEVs. Recently, for HEVs, the growth is so likely, so the outlook for
next year is almost 1 million additional units. Today, you mentioned and have continuously said
that in the mid to long term, the electricity and the hydrogen are the most promising energy
source for the future. But my question is the timetable, because it's so difficult to forecast the
future. But as of now, the hybrid demand trend is increasing. After which point, how long will this
increasing demand continue? That's my first question.
A - `Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director) `
Thank you for your question. It's a difficult question to answer because forecasting the future is
quite impossible. But there are many ways you get a feel of it. The automobile OEMs stand-alone
cannot change the future because the energy environment is different. The national government
and administration and many other relevant institutions, we have to build a new environment for
the new energy. For example, hydrogen-wise, automotive sector, the hydrogen use is currently
only 10% of the total hydrogen use in steel industry or the electricity power generators. We have
to collaborate; the amount of the hydrogen for each region should be increased. Otherwise, low-
cost hydrogen cannot be supplied.
What is low-cost hydrogen if that has become feasible? The secondary energy, in other words, e-
fuel is likely to be produced with the yeast and hybrid or HEV, vehicles, ICEs. But still, it's almost
like a zero-emission vehicle. Realistically, CO2 emission has to be lowered by that kind of effort.
The current infrastructure and asset should be utilized. Then for sure, you can reduce CO2
emissions. That is a very important approach too. They are not a material existing stand-alone,
but they are all linked and connected with each other.Therefore, in that sense, you have to build a partnership with different companies and institutions
and many others who are working very hard. Then hydrogen electricity and the so-called
renewable energy should protect the global environment. Then we should try to enable this kind
of future world as soon as possible. We have to keep acting. That's my frank view. It's not a direct
answer to your question. However, we are positively working with our utmost effort. That's
something we are doing.
Q - Unverified Participant
Thank you for your answer. My second question is about BEV. Earlier, SDV and so on that the
Toyota’s values are further created. Now, when you look at the market, the market is
decelerating. On the other hand, the manufacturers move. For example, in Japan, the US, and
Europe, there are different OEMs in three years. Launching quite the priority products, one after
another in the upcoming three years.
What is the major priority product for you as the new value you offer? You said you are going to
build the foundation and then create the reserve capacity. But the business structure itself is
changing in the meantime to build this new strong foundation. I would like to hear your message.
What is the most important value, the priority? What is the automobile BEV? That's my question.
A - `Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director) `
Thank you. There are two angles or perspectives I can give. First is the business structure change.
This is a trigger point for that. The electricity unit without the ICE, that kind of structure of the
vehicle is totally different from the conventional vehicle structure. In other words, in a way, the
vehicle architecture itself should be totally changed. But it's a big chance for us to change it. We
had a conventional engine, but that's now missing. During the collision, the engine would neither
collide nor collapse. That empty space without the engine. Maybe the car architecture can be
totally changed; the bonnet fluid hydros are determined by the engine space without engine.
Bonnet fluid can be lowered, so better visibility for the drivers.
It’s very important for drivers to have a good view. The basic function and performance of the
vehicle can be changed and the structural components can be changed. The building, assembly,
and the plant activity will be totally changed. The conventional production method is no longer
valid. Because of the change in the architecture, a new thing can be created. The first thing is that
it's a trigger leading to a structural change. That is a battery EV serve the one function for us.
The second point of my response is that if we change the components of the vehicle, the car
design will totally be changed into a different design or shape. During the mobility show last fall,
we have shown you some of the examples. If you get in the car, a totally different view can be
enjoyed. A different feel of driving can be enjoyed. That kind of new vehicle can be created. We
are the carmaker, so riding the car should be enjoyable. That is the value regardless of the
electric vehicle or the ICE.
Many changes can be done with a new possibility. Battery EV has all the potential. It's not just
simply to lower the carbon emission. It's not because of that. The car itself, its existence, will be
totally changed and become more attractive, and this is the chance. As a vehicle, mobility means
that we can change and create something new so that the total structural change can be
possible. Those are two perspectives we'd like to treasure. Thank you very much.
Q - Unverified Participant
Thank you very much.A - `Irie, Public Relations Department `
Thank you. At this juncture, I would like to entertain questions from those participants on the
web/online. Those of you who would like to ask a question, please click on the raise-hand button
or part, and we'll speak out your name, and please turn on your microphone and video camera
when your name is called.
Now, Inajima-san, I will switch the screen. If you see yourself on the screen, please start asking the
question.
Q - Unverified Participant
Inajima of . Thank you very much. I would like to ask about the share repurchase. One
of the reasons you said is to respond to the request coming from your company shareholders to
sell your shares. Could you share with us the details? Not just the group companies, but also the
strategically held equities by financial institutions. They might want to sell your shares if that is
included.
But in terms of the actual magnitude, what is your assessment of that magnitude? From a
medium- and long-term perspective, you already announced your policy vis-a-vis cross-
shareholding amongst group companies. But in terms of cross-holding, including some financial
institutional shareholders, from a long-term perspective, are you also willing to unwind those
shareholdings? Could you respond to the questions?
A - `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Executive Officer of Accounting Group `
Thank you for your question. Allow me to respond to that question. In terms of the share
repurchase, as we correctly pointed out, right now, not just Toyota, but many corporations are
trying to switch that or replace that with actual assets, so to speak. The proceeds generated by
share sales could be used for the investment for the next growth. We will be promoting with
various shareholders. I would like to refrain from mentioning any specific names. Those are the
activities we have been pursuing for many years. The potential impact on that market could
become quite significant from time to time for shareholders and stakeholders. Those
transactions should not negatively affect them, the stakeholders and shareholders.
Therefore, using the share repurchase, we would like to receive those total shares released by
the current shareholders. For that purpose, we set aside those repurchase programs to that end.
Including the group company shares and also strategically held shares, the basic approach of
principle remains unchanged. That is to say, we will rebalance those with active or lively assets.
Thus far, with various companies within the group, and historically speaking, the financial support
or the mergers in many different forms, the cross-shareholding size increased. With those shares
cross-held without saving any area of sacrosanct, we will transform them into the actual
meaningful shareholding.
Q - Unverified Participant
Thank you very much. One other question. In November this year, the presidential election,
depending upon the outcome of that, the US policy might change. There is such a risk. Given that
particular risk, what are the potential impacts on the automotive industry as well as Toyota? What
sort of preparations have you made in the Indiana plant? In relation to battery EVs, you
announced substantial investment, but in preparing for substantial change in the US policy, are
there cases where you might be postponing some investments or accelerating them, including
those potentials? Could you respond to that question, please?A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Member of the Board of Directors, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial `
Thank you for your questions. First of all, as I mentioned at the very outset, in each region and in
each country, we have placed the highest priority to our customers' smiles and happiness. As for
the political trends, the economic trends, which are in the background, we are carefully watching
them as we do business. But first and foremost, what we do is to become the best-in-town
company so that we can have the solid trust and relationship with the customers in any
community in which we are allowed to operate. In that sense, in line with the situations prevailing,
we would like to make necessary adjustments.
By doing so, in terms of our relationship with different companies, if some particular attention is
required, we would make actions in line with those adjustments.
Q - Unverified Participant
Thank you.
A - `Irie, Public Relations Department `
Thank you, Mr. Inajima. We’d like to entertain the next question. Inagaki-san, please. We will switch
the screen. When your image is on the screen, please start to ask a question.
Q - Unverified Participant
Thank you. I’m Inagaki of Financial Times. You've been talking about strengthening your
foundation for the upcoming year. But globally, the situation is getting quite severe, especially the
competitive environment is getting severe, and you are preparing for that. JPY1.7 trillion will be
invested for the growth areas, including AI, EV, and hydrogen, in many other new areas, I
understand.
However, in China, the competitive environment is getting worse. It's getting speedy, and the
new technology introduction is accelerated, and flexibility-wise, the situation is getting very
difficult for all the OEMs. To that kind of a change, are you getting ready for that? How will the
investment for growth impact that kind of competitive and other changing environment?
My second question is that earlier you talked about the possible influence by the US presidential
election, not just the result of the election. But, in the US and EU, the Chinese-made vehicles are
imported one after another, and then they made a move to raise the tariff against the Chinese-
made vehicles. Globally, there's a new trend of raising the tariff. Is that a risk factor that you are
analyzing as well? Thanks.
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Member of the Board of Directors, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial `
Thank you for your question. About the first question, JPY1.7 trillion investment for the future. Of
course, the competitive environment is changing and we should get ready for that. Frankly
speaking, to compare with China, in a certain area, we are behind the [mockery]. That's a fact
and we have to admit that. However, we are trying to supply vehicles, which make customers
happy.
As a Japan-based automobile company, we have to compete based upon that. There’s a certain
distance and then we had to keep that, and then we should not really shrink that difference. How
can we really achieve, enable ourselves to go through the game change so that the JPY1.7 trillion
will be allocated according to those optimal selection, in terms of the region and then theinvestment as well as the content will be briefed to you later on and the progress state will be
reported to you as well.
In addition, we have over 100 million vehicles that the customers are already operating; that's our
strength. In the past, we said that we just supplied the vehicle. Afterwards, as time went by, our
contact with the customers got diluted. But in the future, we will make use of that future
investment. We will maintain, strengthen, and prolong our contact and our relations with the
customers so we can transform ourselves to a mobility company. We have gained a new
competitive edge, and a new business structural change will be achieved by that kind of
extension. That's how we intend to spend our money for the future.
The second part of your question, in the US and EU, Chinese-made vehicles are imported, and
they are trying to raise tariffs possibly against Chinese vehicles. As you pointed out, depending
upon the political move, different options and valuations might happen. In that sense, as I've
been saying, for us, for each region, we have the regional CEOs, and then we have a contacting
and networking on the PR, and then we will collect the information if that’s possible, and then we
will be ready in advance to deal with the change or potential change and to pass the quick
decision, the optimal decision to deal with the situation. That's my answer.
Q - Unverified Participant
Thank you very much.
A - `Irie, Public Relations Department `
Thank you very much for those participants online for asking questions. I would like to come back
to the venue to entertain questions in this row. The person in the white shirt, please.
Q - Unverified Participant
Journalist [Momota] is my name. Thank you for the opportunity. My question is for Mr. Sato and Mr.
Miyazaki. You talked about transformation into mobility company and the investments. As a new
value, you talked about the strategic partnership relating to SDVs or partnership in energy field.
But on that basis, the existing business foundation, that is to say, the UIOs and the profit structure
and also including the number of units, there may be the discussion on the optimization of cars
and vehicles in the [slide] overall.
You talked about the strengthening of the business foundation 10 years from now, and this might
lead to the sales activities. But towards the major change in transformation of the business, what
are you going to do, specifically just to share your image, or how do you envision to do that?
A - `Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director) `
Thank you, Mr. [Momota]. Toward the transformation to a mobility company, what we have in
mind is something as follows. This requires a major reform of the business structure itself. In a
sense, the automotive industry, thus far, has been the labor-intensive industry and enhancing
productivity to achieve certain growth and produce most efficiently, the hardware selling them.
Our business is more or less focused on new cars and new car sales and expanding them. That
business model assumed the continued increase in the unit of sales resulting in the increase in
business size. That was the basic assumption.
But as you correctly pointed out, when trying to create the society, which is based upon
sustainability, the large volume of manufacturing and the large amount consumption are noa mobility company to promote structural change is absolutely necessary. What we have to do, to
that end, is to reliably create the value chain, not just relying on the value of hardware, the new
cars, but rather starting from hardware.
But on the further downstream, new values need to be created and generated, and those newly
created values should be monetized. Unless the business structure is based upon that, we will
not be able to transform and change from the business model based upon an increase in
volume. The fact that we are focused now holds the key to realizing that, in my view. Therefore, in
order to encourage such reform of business structure, we will conduct their exchange.
On the part of value chain, the area in which the value is actually created, the creator may not be
just automotive industry. There are many service providers creating those new services. Mobility
should be able to incorporate those service providers. When there is such a service provider,
mobility to be able to join hands with them, to be facilitated by the environment conducive to
that, is very important. This software foundation streamlining and also the Arene or OS platform
and also the environment that enables the incorporating the open architecture applications have
to be facilitated by the fundamental reform of the business structure. The way in which the
partnership is created is a very open structure where the mobility is accepted as a partner. With
that, we will enhance the value-added of the automotive industry as a whole. That's how we
envision the future situation. Thank you very much.
Q - Unverified Participant
Thank you.
A - `Irie, Public Relations Department `
The person in the center row, the fourth line, please.
Q - Unverified Participant
[Yokoyama] of [inaudible]. I have two questions. The first question is about the regional activity, as
you mentioned, in China. I'd like to hear the details about your outlook on China. Mr. Miyazaki, you
said that the price war and the competition are severe. In the last three months, what happened
in terms of profitability and data-wise that China is struggling. Could you please give us some
more details on China? What about North America during Q4, the deficit in Q4 in North America,
could you please explain more about that as well as this fiscal term’s outlook? That's my first
question.
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Member of the Board of Directors, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial `
Thank you for your question. About the Chinese market, I explained during the last meeting as
well, the price competition is getting worse every day. That's my understanding. As to the units
concerned, the last fiscal term, it has surpassed the previous year. As to this fiscal year, yes, it's a
positive. We will go beyond the previous year. But still, the price competition is getting worse,
fiercer. That's the one severe fact.
Battery EV is a focus, and there’s an oversupply in Chinese market from my standpoint. Trying not
to get involved in that competition is a key point. Of course, naturally, to locally do our business,
the plant needs to be operated right, but network has to be maintained. Otherwise, the business
visibility will be undermined in the future. Certain volume has to be produced. That has to be
maintained. To do that, price competition should not be something we should get involved. Ourmodel should be outside that frame. The network should be maintained so that we should be
ready to deal with the price situation. Then we should be ready for the future.
In that sense, for a while, I wonder if I should say this word or not. Mr. Sato didn’t give me
[inaudible]. But we have to endure through this difficult year for upcoming few years. After the
endurance, after several years, we will face maybe a new game change because we have more
attractive products, including the battery EV. Currently in China, the PHEV is increasing as well, and
we should be ready to launch a good product during the endurance period so that we will
achieve better growth after that period.
As to your question on Q4 in North America, what you said is true. The parts suppliers and we,
the capacity utilization problem was the issue, and we couldn't produce as much as possible. That
was the Q4 problem, and shifting the cost incurred at one time, that was the North American
problem. But up until Q4, the situation was different from the past. The cost reduction activity was
successfully done by one team; united efforts and product appeal were appreciated during that
time. We had a good communication with the dealers, and price improvement was also achieved.
In North America, the profit-making structure was improved properly, I think.
For this upcoming fiscal year, even in North America, competitive OEMs, the inventory level is
getting restored to a certain extent. The sales promotion expenses are now being increased as
well. We have to defeat them and have good competition. We take into account that potential
increase of budget. We should wisely spend the promotional money. In North America, we'd like
to make sure we achieve profitability.
Q - Unverified Participant
Thank you very much. My second question is about hybrid vehicles. Miyazaki-san, during the past
meeting, 5 million units was something as a yardstick for sales. You are almost reaching that 5
million. If the unit goes up, profitability should further improve, I understand. You make more and
then you achieve more profitability. About the hybrid profitability being equivalent to ICE or in the
North American models, there may be better. But anyway, do you have any updated profitability
information?
A - `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Executive Officer of Accounting Group `
Thank you for your question. Thanks to the customer support and appreciation, the price of
hybrid vehicles has been improved at a high level; it's almost equivalent to ICE or even better
than ICE in terms of profitability. If the units further go up, simply put, the profitability should be
improved substantially. That's my current understanding.
Q - Unverified Participant
Thank you very much.
A - `Irie, Public Relations Department `
May I move on to the next question? Center in the front row, the second person from the left.
Q - Unverified Participant
Thank you. [Ikeda Naoto] is my name. Mr. Sato, when you took office as President, you mentioned
the inheritance and evolution, and this term, you made a very high financial result. What you have
inherited that is to make ever-better cars. Also, with the TNGA, increase in profit margin and alsothe cost reduction. Both of those benefits played in the financial results this year. In a sense, this is
the inheritance from Mr. Akio Toyoda.
When it comes to evolution, you explained many factors relating to evolution, and it seems that it
is really an all-inclusive thing that implemented all of those in a well-balanced manner. But as far
as you're concerned, what are the areas that you would like to focus most? What sort of
company would you like to become in the future?
A - `Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director) `
Thank you, Mr. [Ikeda] for your question. When I took office, I talked about the inheritance, and
the evolution and the financial results that we have announced today reflect that. The profit of the
automotive company is the accumulation of year after year of activities. In the previous year, if
you look at the financial results of the previous year and compare that with the year before that,
despite enduring a major environmental change, a steady growth was still achieved.
That is to say, the accumulated efforts of strengthening the business foundation resulted in those
actual results. What remains unchanged is focusing on [game] and also face squarely with the
product and product appeals. Those factors will not change going forward in our mind. As a
carmaker myself, I would like to focus on those without wavering from them, driving or racing in
Toyota cars feeling safe and feeling secure and also enjoying the great pleasure. That’s the sort
of car I would like to continue making going forward.
Now with respect to evolution, the value created and generated by vehicles will continue to
expand in the future. The cars, even if you own them, the actual time in operation is maybe 10%
or even less than 5%. The remaining 95% of the time, the cars are not fully utilized. Our efforts to
enhance the value-added offered by cars by riding more on the cars and the attractiveness of
cars can be enhanced, and that is what is needed for the future. What we envision as a vehicle
and also the sort of vehicles that younger generation are keeping in mind are not exactly the
same. Therefore, by drawing out the actual vision of those vehicles that the younger generation
might have, to put an actual shape to that, is something that I would like to do.
As a carmaker, I would like to take up that change, and I'd like to realize the new shape of a new
car. At the same time, a certain heir system is needed. Vehicle sale has many negative impacts on
limited factors. Minimizing those negative aspects is something that we have to do, as our society
have mentioned. To reduce traffic accidents down zero is another one. Also, our efforts to reduce
emission is one aspect, while the congestion is another. To minimize the negative aspect of the
vehicles, it continues to be made and also to have the ecosystem that achieves renewable
energy circulation. Even if the vehicles exist, we need to change the environment conditions so
that the vehicles will be a positive factor, the beneficial factor in that. We are continuing to be the
carmaker, but in the area surrounding vehicles, we would like to capture those new values, and
addressing the negative aspects ourselves is the new talent that we will take up.
Q - Unverified Participant
Thank you.
A - `Irie, Public Relations Department `
Many people are raising their hands, and time is running short. We'd like to have just two more
persons to ask questions. In the center row, maybe a third line, please?
Q - Unverified ParticipantInagaki of Asahi Newspaper. I have two questions for Mr. Sato, CEO. The first question is about
hybrid boom. On the open BEV market, globally it’s decelerating, slowing down. How do you look
at this current situation? Is it a surprise for you or have you assumed that it will happen? What is
your future outlook? What will happen to the BEV market in the future? That's my first question.
A - `Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director) `
Thank you for your question. As has been mentioned, the actual demand of the customers and
their needs are most important in promoting the transition to electric vehicles, and, of course, in
being ready with the product in advance. Our pace has not been changed or affected at all.
According to different speed and the changing environment, we will perceive that. But there's no
big change for us. Anyway, maybe there was excess hiccup expectation on BEV that some people
just overemphasized BEV. But the actual use, the ease of use for the customers, or how the
customers will utilize BEVs, maybe reality was not really understood. Then, of course, the
renewable energy should be promoted first to achieve carbon neutrality. This is one of the means
to achieve that. The excess speed or to accelerate transition that will force us to miss something
meantime, lose something. Maybe we should face a bit of a turning point because of that.
But what about the future outlook of the market? Well, infrastructure has to be prepared; energy
environment has to be prepared. Added value by electric vehicles should be offered to the
customers. It's all up to those elements to really decide the speed. We cannot say the exact
timetable for when this will happen. But for us, 2026, to the electric vehicles that we have
announced certain scenario, so we are always prepared in advance. Actual demand in the market
will be affected by the environment at that time. We are always ready according to our own pace.
Q - Unverified Participant
My second question is a relevant question. As you mentioned, 1.5 million units by 2026 and then
3.5 million in 2030. But anyway, in China, the price competition is getting fierce; as Miyazaka
mentioned, the price competition should not be something we should get involved in. The
Chinese BEV market is changing itself. 1.5 million or 3.5 million units, might the figure be revised?
Is that likely to be revised?
A - `Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director) `
Yes. 1.5 million. the meaning of that figure we mentioned is as follows; the battery EV and how we
perceive that, of course, the car architecture will be changed by that, and business structure will
be changed by that trigger. The way the automobile should be will be changed. In the short term,
we cannot implement that overnight; the entire supply chain should be looked at. We have to be
prepared. Many partners and we have to work together to face the same timing schedule. Time
access, the outlook, as well as the volume outlook should also be prepared together with them.
Otherwise, you don't know what to prepare at which timing. All those have to be taken into
account as the yardstick. 2026 or 2030, we gave that kind of estimates. But can we really expect
the actual demand at that time? It's another story. 1.5 million units’ worth of battery can be
produced and supplied or we can purchase enough batteries or we can have structural reform
and realize that huge production capacity. Those are all considered in coming up with the
estimates. Whether we can sell or not is another story. Please understand those numbers with
that kind of context.
But lately in China, yes, the price competition got fierce, very fierce, and we fully understand the
competitive market in China. Not just us, but there is a practical, the electric vehicle. The PHEV
demand is going up now. It's like a different variation of battery EV. Taking that PHEV as anotheroption, we should think of the overall demand in the market, as Miyazaki-san mentioned.
Excessive price competition should never be the one that we should get involved in. We should
try to avoid that competition in our initiative so that we could maintain our principle and policy.
Q - Unverified Participant
In that sense, the estimate of 1.5 million BEV units will still be maintained as a basis. Will 1.5 million
still be maintained? As you mentioned, PHEV might be included in depth of 1.5 million units.
A - `Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director) `
PHEV can be included, yes, in 1.5 million because the ICE will be evolving new. It’s not just a range
extender of hybrid, but it's the battery EV which is added with the type of ICE. It's that kind of a
concept. That kind of PHEV is a part of the attribute of battery EV, I think, and we can include that
in that 1.5 million.
A - `Irie, Public Relations Department `
Thank you very much. Thank you for asking so many questions. So, the next one will be the final
question. The person in the front row, please.
Q - Unverified Participant
[TBS, Ueda] is my name. I would also like to ask two questions addressed to Mr. Sato. The first
question is as follows. This follows on from the previous question on the battery EVs. In your
explanation earlier, the situation of infrastructure development is one of the factors. Because of
that, the battery EV sales seem to be marking time, so to speak. There has been some slowing
down in the speed at which it's been spreading. But at the same time, the high price of BEV price
is one of the hurdles for customers. As you develop battery EVs in 2026, the affordable battery,
you said, will be introduced and launched. But the battery prices and the price of the vehicle itself,
once they are reduced to a lower level, do you think that the slowdown could be changed and
the marking time we see today may change?
A - `Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director) `
Thank you for your question. Now, what can improve the demand is something very difficult for
me to respond to or answer. The price range is one of the hurdles for higher demand. I think it’s
something that I can imagine quite well. Therefore, the continued efforts will be made to make
prices more affordable. Especially in the case of battery EVs, because of the structure of the
vehicle itself and starting from that basis, the battery itself accounts for a large percentage of
overall cost and price. The reducing battery vehicles means reducing battery costs itself
significantly, and that's a very important factor.
Therefore, we are trying to develop batteries in-house or manufacture those batteries in-house,
and we've been making multi-pathway efforts to that end. Of course, sometimes we will just
receive supply and including our efforts of in-house production development, we will enhance the
productivity further. Those need to proceed on the synergistic manner.
I may be repeating myself, but the fact that we've been able to make those efforts is attributable
to what our Chairman, Akio Toyoda, did. That is to say, he constantly said that we are a multi-
pathway strategy. Because of that, we are now ready to address our sales to the battery EV. We
seriously and properly studied what we should be doing for preparing battery EVs. With those
assumptions, we are trying to determine when we have to make investment and we are alsothinking about customers' demand in our own way so that we'll be ready with the ability to
produce the necessary volume.
In what way will the price enable the demand improvement, it's very difficult for us to answer. This
wasn't the case of hybrid as they spread widely, and with technology and being enhanced, the
vehicles become more and more profitable. We would like to make efforts to that end as quickly
as possible. It's not a clear answer to your question, but the price is one of the factors without a
doubt. You're right in making that point.
Q - Unverified Participant
The very last question relates to ForEx, foreign exchange rates. The operating income exceeded
JPY5 trillion, and one of the factors was the impact of foreign exchange rates. But at the same
time, as the yen depreciates further, the suppliers will find the business environment very tough.
And so, you are supporting or making investment to support suppliers among others. What is the
assessment and view of the current level of foreign exchange rate? In terms of support of
suppliers and returning some profit for their benefit, could you share your thoughts with us on the
point?
A - `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Executive Officer of Accounting Group `
Thank you for your question. With respect to the assumptions for ForEx rate, and that is included
in the profitability assumptions, it is done quite mechanistically without any subjective factors.
Based upon the most recent results this time, in the case of dollar, the assumption is JPY145 to
the US dollar. The automotive industry, including suppliers are based upon global business. Of
course, our home country is very important. Japan is very important, and we established facilities
and plans, and we set ourselves a growth in that and working with the community we do business
and that's a long-term business. Of course, the markets change from time to time. But with those
structures, we continue to compete, and that's been done year after year in the industry, and
they will be continued into the future as well.
Q - Unverified Participant
Mr. Sato, in terms of support to suppliers, could you share your thoughts with us?
A - `Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director) `
As I mentioned earlier, the automotive industry has a broad supporting industry. In a sense,
together with 5.5 million people working for this industry, we achieved our own growth, and
therefore, we consider including them in our own thinking. But in the lower tiers, deeper tiers
amongst each company trying to make the efforts, the major structural change may be very
difficult to implement. Vis-a-vis such industrial structure, we have to pay due attention to that. To
create the strategy to grow together with 5.5 million people working for that is our mission and
responsibility.
When you talk about this, you might say that you were talking about just protecting the existing
industrial structure and oftentimes ask that. But that's not the case. Just working together to
achieve the transformation on the reform is what I'm talking about, as I mentioned earlier. Unless
we enhance productivity of automotive industry by leaps and bounce, simply relying on the
volume, that sort of industrial structure, is no longer sustainable.
Therefore, changing that business structure itself is something that we need to do together with
5.5 million people working for this industry. I'm not saying that the existing structure relocates. I'msaying, working with 5.5 million, let's achieve change. Unless the supply chain overall is engaging
such change, the industry cannot be viable, not just through working alone. That's why we are
saying that we should work together to change the future. Vis-a-vis suppliers and dealers, we
have decided on this support through our spending and making investments winning.
Q - Unverified Participant
Thank you.
A - `Irie, Public Relations Department `
Thank you very much. Many people raise their hands. We’d like to entertain one more additional
question to conclude the session. One last question. The person in the second row, please?
Q - Unverified Participant
[inaudible]. I have a question on your investment to dealer. In SDV, you mentioned AI is
emphasized. The generative AI has become a big one to change the society, especially in the last
one year. How will Toyota deal with this generative AI? Are you going to create a service AI, or do
you invest uniquely to the AI data center?
My second question is, it's related to AI but the semiconductor strategy, if you have any changes
in Kumamoto, the second plant where you invest in. You are also investing there. But do you have
any change in your semiconductor strategy when we look at those investment practices?
A - `Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director) `
Thank you for your question. Generative AI and our thoughts on AI and about the semiconductor
strategy will be responded by Mr. Miyazaki. First of all, AI. There are different ways that the
automotive industry is integrating AI, like quality check; the decision and inspection is done by AI.
Many other control like operation and recognition in other areas, even the turning and running the
vehicles, AI is already being used; it’s especially mentioned that the generative AI will bring about
the huge barrier to cause the dream change. The one thing generative AI can change is that the
autonomous vehicle quality will be upgraded by AI. The safer and more comfortable vehicle and
secure vehicles will be achieved by AI, and that's something we should apply here, and
generative AI has advantage. That is to say for customers. They’re expected to be level. Then
through the proposal that the knowledge can be gained by the generative AI.
In other words, the SDV will offer new values and then the generative AI will be a key function to
really do that and offer the value. When you apply that to mobility, the important consideration is
that you have to have this computation resources, and capability has to be secured. Otherwise,
you cannot quickly respond to that because offered services depend on that service speed, so
that you have to have the computation resources, and telecommunication should be established
with security. Those are two aspects, which are essential. Of course, not just TMC, but many
other partners will work together to try to build this kind of a new platform. Generative AI, as I
mentioned, is where we prioritize and make investment.
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Member of the Board of Directors, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial `
Thank you for your question. About semiconductor strategy, the shortage of semiconductor was
the time we recognized. We were focused on tier 1, and we depended on tier 1 to do
communication with older networks. We reflected upon that. After that, we tried to have a more
direct dialogue with these semiconductor companies, and we have more direct communication.One of the examples is Chairman Toyoda and then TSMC have a good relation. Because of that
new relation, we invested in Kumamoto recently. That's our background. As Sato-san already
mentioned, in the future, autonomous driving will become very important. High performance in
semiconductor is crucial for automobiles. In that sense, the 14-nano to be more high level of the
semiconductor needs to be supplied and produced steadily.
That kind of good relation should be built with the different semiconductor suppliers, and we'd
like to further enhance this relationship. [LUNA] in addition to TSMC and our relationship need to
be further strengthened, and with other semiconductor companies, we would like to build a good
solid relationship.
Q - Unverified Participant
About the investment value, is it the same as before, or is there no additional investment in
semiconductor?
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Member of the Board of Directors, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial `
The number I presented today, it does not include additional new investment.
A - `Irie, Public Relations Department `
Thank you very much. We are behind the schedule, but this concludes all the question-and-
answer session. This concludes the financial results presentation on FY2024. So, could the
speakers now stand up, please? Again, thank you very much for your time to attend this
conference today. Thank you very much.
[END]