Y 2025 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Irie, Public Relations Department `
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for coming despite your busy schedules. Let us now
start the financial results meeting for the fiscal year ended March 2025. I will be the moderator
for today. My name is `Irie, Public Relations Department from the Public Relations Department. Now our EVP and Chief Financial
Officer, `Yoichi Miyazaki, Member of the Board of Directors, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial, will give you the outline of the financial results.
`Yoichi Miyazaki, Member of the Board of Directors, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial `
I am Miyazaki, CFO. I would like to express our heartfelt appreciation to our customers around the
world who chose us as well as the shareholders, dealers, and suppliers who support us.
So, first, I would like to tell you the summary.
Our operating income for the fiscal year ended March 2025 was JPY4.8 trillion. This high level of
operating income was secured through the effects of price revisions and expansion of value chain
profits while advancing comprehensive investments that led to the future and reinforcing our
operating foundation. The operating income forecast for the fiscal year ending March 2026 is
JPY3.8 trillion. We plan to reap the benefits of our efforts to reinforce our operational foundation
while continuing comprehensive investments from a mid- to long-term perspective, as well as
strengthening our management foundation and developing new pillars of future profits.
With regard to the impact of the US tariff, only the estimated impact of April and May 2025 have
tentatively been factored in. As for shareholder returns, the full-year dividend for the fiscal year
ended March 2025 is JPY90, an increase of JPY15 compared to the previous fiscal year. The
forecast full-year dividend for fiscal year ending March 2026 will be increased by JPY5 compared
to the previous year, reaching JPY95. Even in the face of a decline in profits, we will continue our
efforts to maintain a policy of stable dividend increase that reward our long-term shareholders.
From here, let me explain the details of the results for the fiscal year ended March 2025.
Consolidated vehicle sales for this fiscal year was 9,362,000 units, which was 99.1% of
consolidated vehicle sales for previous fiscal year. Toyota and Lexus vehicle sales was 10,274,000
units, which was 99.7% of such sales for the previous fiscal year due to the supply constraints
caused by the certification issue and other factors.The proportion of electrified vehicles was 46.2%, a significant increase from the previous fiscal
year, mainly led by HEVs, which were increased by 850,000 units from the previous year.
Consolidated financial results were sales revenues of JPY48,036.7 billion; operating income,
JPY4,795.5 billion; income before income tax of JPY6,414.5 billion; and net income of JPY4,765
billion.
I would like to explain the factors which impacted operating income YoY. From FY2024 results of
JPY5,352.9 billion, we excluded JPY352.9 billion of one-time favorable effect, which was
attributable to market conditions and other factors and JPY700 billion for the comprehensive
investments, resulting in the forecast of JPY4,300 billion at the beginning of FY2025. Although
there was impact from volume decline and model mix deterioration due to the suspension of
production at Toyota Motor Manufacturing in Indiana in the US, the profit amounted to JPY4,795.5
billion due to the improvement of earning power through price revisions, controlling incentives,
and expansion of value chain profits.
We believe that the major achievement was JPY510 billion output of cost reduction efforts and
marketing efforts, while steadily reaping the benefits of comprehensive investments and the
reinforcement of our operational foundation for the future, such as restoring the production pace
to the current cruising speed of 10 million units.
This slide shows operating income by geographical region. Japan continued to maintain a high
level of profit despite an increase in expenses due to the strengthening of the supplier base. In
North America, operating income decreased due to the factors such as the impact of lower
production volume caused by the four-month shutdown of Toyota Motor Manufacturing in Indiana
USA, due to the quality issues. Asia and other regions recorded higher profits due to price
revisions and other factors.
Operating income of consolidated subsidiaries and share of profit of investment accounted for
using the equity method in China decreased, mainly due to an increase in sales expenses.
Operating income in the financial services business increased largely due to the increase in loan
balances.
Next, I will explain the forecast for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2026.
Our consolidated vehicle sales is expected to be 9.8 million units, which is 104.7% of the previous
fiscal year. Toyota and Lexus vehicle sales are expected to reach 10.4 million units or 101.2% of the
previous fiscal year due to the recovery in production volume. Electrified vehicle sales is expected
to be a total of 5.184 million units or 49.8% of total sales.
Now let me explain the full-year consolidated financial forecast. We have adopted the full-year
foreign exchange rate assumptions of JPY145 per US dollar and JPY160 per euro. Based on this,
our forecast for the full year are sales revenue of JPY48.5 trillion, operating income of JPY3.8
trillion, income before income taxes of JPY4.41 trillion, and net income of JPY3.1 trillion.
Next are the factors which impacted operating income forecast YoY. A JPY400 billion increase
due to the elimination of one-time expenses related to Hino Motors, a JPY745 billion decrease
due to the impact of foreign exchange rates. The impact of material prices is JPY350 billion. With
regard to the impact of US tariffs, only the estimated impact in April and May 2025, JPY180 billion
has been tentatively factored in. Regarding comprehensive investments, we have added JPY470
billion. We will steadily strengthen our management foundation as necessary and develop new
pillars of future profit to realize sustainable growth from a mid- to long-term perspective and
transformation into a mobility company.Additionally, as in the previous year, we expect to reap some of the benefits of comprehensive
investments and achieve an improvement of JPY349.5 billion through factors such as increased
sales volume, cost reduction efforts, and expansion of value chain profits. As a result, the current
forecast is JPY3,800 billion, but we will use this as a starting point for future improvements.
I will explain Toyota's profit structure. In the past, as a result of pursuing a management style
focused on quantitative targets, we faced an extremely severe situation during the 2009 Lehman
shock, where we fell into a deficit of JPY461 billion, and we were left with only JPY1.5 trillion in
cash on hand. Subsequently, we rebuilt our financial base mainly by improving our breakeven
volume so that we can continue to survive under any circumstances.
As a result, we have been able to consistently achieve an ROE of over 10% after further learning
and making improvements during the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, we have significantly
improved profitability, increasing the marginal profit per unit by approximately 1.6 times.
The first driving force behind this improvement was product- and region-centered management.
We have been developing ever better cars tailored to each region, expanded the Toyota and
Lexus lineup, and nurtured GR as a new brand. And this has allowed us to increase the average
unit price, reduce incentives, and carefully sell each ever-better car.
The second driving force was the implementation of Toyota's strength TPS, Toyota Production
System, and cost reduction efforts. Since the COVID-19 pandemic, we have returned a cumulative
JPY3.7 trillion on a nonconsolidated basis to suppliers while working together with the
stakeholders to further enhance our cost competitiveness. We believe that these efforts are
reflected in the results of the fiscal year ended March 2025, as explained at the beginning of this
meeting.
Another newly emerging presence that is becoming a pillar of our financial foundation is the value
chain. The bar chart shows operating income by business. Compared to the fluctuating profits
from new vehicles, value chain profits such as those from parts and finance has been steadily
expanding at a pace of JPY150 billion annually over the past several years. The full-year forecast
shows that it will expand to more than JPY2 trillion.
We plan to further enhance the value of our 150 million units in operation, which is our strength
through expanding maintenance services, strengthening our connection with finance and
insurance by connected technologies, as well as expanding the used car business and
accessories business.
In addition to this, we will also leverage software-defined vehicles and expand profit from new
products and services created by working together with outside partners in Woven City. This
long-term stable financial foundation is the base of our group vision, Inventing Our Path Forward,
Together.
As a result of these efforts, we intend to expand and stabilize earnings, especially in the asset
business, which is less susceptible to market and economic conditions, and achieve a business
structure that allows us to reduce the amount of capital required to prepare for profit fluctuations.
On top of that, we intend to increase the flexibility of our capital policy, focusing on returns to
shareholders, including such things as further acceleration of stable dividend increases. An ROE
of 20% was set as an indicator to measure the progress of this transformation of our business
structure and capital structure towards a mobility company.
The next section explains shareholder returns.Our dividend policy is to increase dividends in a stable and continuous manner, in order to reward
our long-term shareholders. Despite a decrease in profit for the fiscal year ended March 2025,
we have decided to pay a full-year dividend of JPY90, an increase of JPY15 from the previous
fiscal year as announced. For the fiscal year ending March 2026, despite the difficulties in
anticipating the business outlook due to the impact of US tariff impacts and other factors, the full-
year dividend forecast is JPY95 per share, an increase of JPY5 from the previous fiscal year.
We have not set year-end share repurchase budget. However, depending on the stock price level
and other factors and the need to respond to requests to sell our shares, we will continue to
flexibly implement share repurchases in the future.
Lastly, Toyota alone cannot achieve structural reform of our business going forward. We will work
together with our stakeholders with their support. This concludes my explanation of the financial
results.
`Irie, Public Relations Department `
Thank you very much. I'd like to introduce the CEO and President, Sato, to present.
`Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director) `
Hello, everyone. This is Sato speaking. In the last fiscal year, we were able to deliver many
vehicles to customers by demonstrating our on-site capabilities, even as certification issues,
recalls, and disasters continue to impact production. I would like to express the company's
sincere gratitude to our Toyota, Lexus, and GR customers, as well as to our suppliers and dealers
who worked hard to adapt to fluctuations.
Facing various challenges over the past year, the entire company has reaffirmed the importance
of Toyota's starting point of carefully making and delivering quality cars. We will continue to build
each car with careful attention to safety and quality to demonstrate gratitude to our customers
and all our stakeholders through our actions. Currently, the environment surrounding the
automobile industry, including trade relations, is extremely flux. At a time when changes are rapid
and the future is unclear, we believe that we must continue to pursue making good cars without
wavering from our principles of product-centered management and striving to be the best in
town.
We will continue to establish development and production systems tailored to each region so
that we can respond to the needs of our customers from up close and deliver cars on time. Also,
in order to flexibly respond to environmental changes, we want to firmly maintain and enhance
our earning power.
In particular, reducing costs in mass vehicle production is an exercise not only increasing current
earning power, but also in learning fundamental manufacturing principles and in continuing the
evolution of technologies. Toyota's competitiveness spawns from workplaces that pursue
productivity and in which members think and act independently. To further strengthen this
foundation, this year, we will continue to focus on advancing our initiatives for strengthening our
operational base. We will do this by creating environments in which we can demonstrate our on-
site capabilities for supporting the production of 10 million cars, and our ability to continue taking
on diverse challenges for the future.
When we first began strengthening our foundations, we were very thorough about safety and
quality and followed proper work practices. Our initiatives focused on regaining fundamental
carmaking strength and extra capacity for taking on challenges, which I think were efforts to stopthe bleeding, so to speak. However, these efforts are now shifting to initiatives aimed at
solvencies for the future. Preventing recurrence of the certification issues has become an
opportunity to accelerate workplace-related improvements, leading to initiatives to strengthen
our company's foundation, including its workplace culture.
In the voluntary TPS Jishuken for certification work initiative established by Chairman Toyoda,
improvement activities for addressing essential issues are making progress by identifying waste
and bottlenecks throughout all processes from planning and development to production.
Centered on the Toyota Production System or TPS, we are rethinking in a future-oriented way
how we work, aiming to shorten lead times. We intend to expand this action company-wide
toward improving productivity.
Our plant members have tackled the medium-term to long-term challenges of a shrinking
working population and young people turning away from manufacturing. While stepping up
recruitment activities, we have improved workplace environments with efforts, including
measures to combat heat, creating production lines on which our diverse team members can
work comfortably, and also by implementing our future production plans projects, which look 50
years into the future.
When it comes to development, we are working to improve our carmaking productivity to
continue to meet diverse needs. Our Area 35 activities, which are meant to accurately grasp
customer needs and optimize specifications and component types have improved development
efficiency by the equivalent of three vehicle model redesigns on a trial basis in Japan. Going
forward, we intend to further improve our development and production efficiencies by expanding
these activities globally.
We are working on establishing a system that will use digital transformation advances for
seamlessly linking vehicle specification information from development to sales, which is currently
correlated by people. Working together with our suppliers and dealers, we intend to strengthen
our operational base for the future and improve our earning power. We will leverage this
foundation to steadily advance our efforts to change the future of cars, and we will aim to
transform into a mobility company. At the root of this is a desire to contribute to people's
happiness through cars and to provide freedom of mobility to all. There is no clear definition of a
mobility company. What is important is that we continue to act toward materializing our vision.
We have been sowing seeds for the future, including building Toyota Woven City, which is a test
course for mobility that will begin Phase I occupancy and demonstration trials this fall. Also, based
on our Toyota Mobility concept, we have been working to materialize our path toward becoming
a mobility company. Our path includes contribution to achieving carbon neutrality and expanding
the value of mobility. With this as our pillars, we have deepened industry transcending
cooperation and made efforts to expand the value of cars by integrating with social systems to
create a safe and secure mobility society.
This fiscal year, we will focus on our key themes of enhancing the resolution of a multi-pathway
approach and establishing a foundation for Toyota unique software-defined vehicles. In Toyota's
multi-pathway approach, our value desire is to contribute to the achievement of carbon neutrality,
while leaving no one behind. In contributing to CO2 reduction through various vehicle types, we
will also leverage technologies we [home] for next-generation battery electric vehicles to further
evolve powertrains overall.
In addition, to make each kind of powertrain a genuine option, we will work with many partners to
drive advances in fuel and infrastructure. For internal combustion engine vehicles, we arecontinuing to refine our elemental technologies and strive to achieve evolution of engines, hybrid
systems, and fuels. In terms of achieving carbon neutrality when considering the current units of
vehicles in operation, it is important to promote the shift to more environmentally friendly mobility
centered on hybrid vehicles, which can immediately reduce CO2 emissions and to accelerate the
spread of carbon-neutral fuels.
To meet the expectations of our customers around the world, we will continue to provide
practical options that contribute to carbon neutrality, including more affordable hybrid vehicles. In
order to popularize battery EVs in addition to technological innovation in vehicles and batteries, I
believe it is necessary to create a battery ecosystem from battery material procurement to
collection and reuse.
We will create a framework for industry transcending cooperation and work hard to create an
environment for popularization. When it comes to hydrogen mobility, the key to popularization is
reducing the price of hydrogen. By accelerating the social implementation of hydrogen mobility in
commercial vehicles, including through external sales of hydrogen fuel power units, we intend to
increase hydrogen usage, which will lead to cost reductions and infrastructure expansion.
We will continue our efforts throughout the entire value chain without wavering from our
aspirations for the future of hydrogen. Meanwhile, software-defined vehicles will play a leading
role in transformation from cars to mobility; through software-defined vehicles, we intend to
achieve safer, more secure, and more enjoyable mobility. The key to this is to increase the
expandability of cars by renewing our electronic platform and employing Toyota's software
platform AI [inaudible].
In addition, in doing so, chip performance will become more important than ever. Furthermore,
for cars to connect with society, it is important to develop infrastructure such as in the form of
seamless communications environment and data centers. Last year, together with Nippon
Telegraph and Telephone Corporation, we started building that foundation. Based on these
foundations, software-defined vehicles will help expand various possibilities of added value.
For example, we intend to materialize the diverse values that data and AI will create such as
database vehicle development and service evolution, AI agents that grow together with
customers, and services that utilize onboard sensors. Through co-creation with our partners, we
will continue to accelerate the development of a foundation for Toyota unique software-defined
vehicles.
I have now shared with you our key initiatives for this fiscal year. To transform into a mobility
company, we need to envision creating a mobility society and pursue nonsequential evolution or
in other words, innovation. Together with many partners, we will work toward creating values for
cars that are integrated with society and accelerate our efforts to change the future of cars. We
would greatly appreciate your support and understanding.
Questions And Answers
A - `Irie, Public Relations Department `
Thank you very much. We will now move to the Q&A session.
Let us now start the Q&A session. Will the responders of the Q&A session please come up onto
the stage?
Now let me introduce the attendees. First, `Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director), Chief Executive Officer; `Yoichi Miyazaki, Member of the Board of Directors, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial,Accounting Group.
Please take your seats. Let us now start the Q&A session. We have people in the venue and
online, but we will first take questions from people in this room. If you have any questions, please
raise your hand. We will bring a microphone to you. Because of time limitations, we'd like to limit
the questions each to two per person.
The person in the middle in the front, in the corner.
Q - Unverified Participant
I am [Sihito] from Chunichi Shimbun. Thank you very much for today. I have two questions. The
fiscal year ended March 2025, about the results, production stopped because of certification, you
are solidifying your foundation, but revenues increased, and profits were reduced. So, what is
your interpretation of the results? I would like to pose this question to Mr. Sato.
A - `Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director) `
So, should I answer? Can you ask your second question first?
Q - Unverified Participant
The second question about the additional tariff imposed on cars by the United States. You
mentioned that the impact for April and May would be JPY180 billion for the tariff impact. What is
the basis of this number? And if the tariff policy continues, how will this impact your results for
March 2026? I believe there will be further impacts, but what is your understanding of the impact,
Mr. Sato?
A - `Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director) `
Thank you very much for your questions. Let me start with the first question. About our
interpretation of the results for the previous fiscal year, I have three points to raise here. First,
appreciation to others. As you mentioned, a lot of things happened last year and globally, many
customers utilized our cars. And even when the delivery time is very long, they waited for our
cars. And we are very grateful to those customers. That is the number one reason behind the
results of the fiscal year ended March 2025.
I would also like to thank the dealers and also the suppliers, which allowed us to deliver those
cars, so appreciation to others is the first point that I would like to mention. There are two other
points. Looking at the results, how important it is to follow the basic principles. Not being able to
produce cars was very difficult for us. The people on the genba, the front lines, did their utmost.
And despite the fact that they were very busy, they worked very hard to recover and restart
production, and those efforts led to the financial results of last year. That is the second point.
And third, as Mr. Miyazaki mentioned in his presentation, the profit structure change has had an
impact on the financial results. Of course, new vehicles have a very large impact on profit, but
new vehicle impact fluctuates; when volatility is high, or how can we avoid high volatility is a
question. The supply chain has become stronger. We've been working on this for several years,
and the results are starting to be seen. And once those effects start to be seen, the extra
investment capacity and the strategy would be impacted by this. So those are the three points
that I would like to raise regarding the financial results for the fiscal year ended March 2025.
Your second question was about the US tariffs. Government-to-government negotiations are
ongoing at the moment, and the government officials are working hard now, so details of tariffsare still moving. So, at this moment, it's very difficult to forecast the future. But at the moment,
there is already tariffs that are being imposed, and that part has been reflected in our forecast
for this fiscal year. We don't want to waver from our basic principles, and we will stay the course.
So, depending on whether you're looking at short term or medium term, what we can do will
change. For exports to the United States, 1.5 million units. Of course, we have many customers in
the United States, so desirably, we want to allocate to the United States. But in the short term, we
have to look at how we allocate the cars. But over the medium- to long-term, appropriate
products for the local area should be produced locally and delivered locally.
Best in Town is something that we've always talked about in the community, in the country; as a
local citizen, we are taking actions, so that pillar will not waver. So, over the medium -to long-term,
we will continue to take that approach.
A - `Irie, Public Relations Department `
Thank you very much. I would like to entertain the next question. person in the back there. Maybe
second row from the front, please.
Q - Unverified Participant
I'm Ikeda of Sankei Newspaper. I have two questions as well. The first question is about this US
tariff policy. The impact is so difficult to forecast accurately. However, Toyota has been [inaudible]
the domestic production level of 3 million units. But is it unchanged and maintained at that level?
Is that the right understanding? Or as Mr. Sato mentioned about mid- to long-term perspective,
localization will be further promoted naturally, but in the mid- to long term, that area might be
revised or readjusted? And would that become necessary to readjust the 3-million-unit
production system in Japan?
You have a relationship with your suppliers, so as to the US tariffs, the parts suppliers might need
to transfer that increased cost to their transaction price to you. So, what is the position of Toyota
to deal with the suppliers' request like that? The suppliers' burden might be covered and
accepted by TMC itself? Is that the direction? Or there could be maybe a combination of
adjustment.
You work together with the suppliers to further reduce the cost to cope with that situation. So,
including the additional burden upon the suppliers, what do you think of the US tariff policy?
Operator
So, at the beginning, as the domestic production policy and aspirations, that's my first point I'd
like to mention, and Mr. Miyazaki will add as to the substance to respond to your question. So
actually, domestic production has a significance here in Japan. We should never forget that. It
should be unchanged. We'd like to maintain that level. However, because domestic production
and supply chain should be ensured and protected, and by continuing export, we will earn the
foreign currency and by the earned foreign currency, Japan can purchase the energy necessary
for the Japanese domestic activities and transactions.
So, from that standpoint, I think domestic production should be protected. As a manufacturing
industry initiative, it's an important point that we should keep in mind. From that standpoint, the
domestic production and our aspiration for that, will continue in our future initiatives. So based
upon that assumption, the details can be added by Mr. Miyazaki.A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Member of the Board of Directors, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial `
Thank you, Mr. Ikeda, for your question. Earlier, I said the profit structure of the TMC, so I'd like to
maybe recap that. So, if we can show that, I'd like to show that again to you. But anyway, right
now, as from your standpoint to the left-hand side, that the 2023, in March, the 7.56 million units
that is the consolidated figure of the sales. At the time of COVID-19, that was the situation that 1.3
million units, the consolidated sales reduction occurred. That is why it has come down to 7.5 to
JPY2.2 trillion of the operating income was still achieved. The right-hand side on top, you can see
that the activities were launched at that time. And then the margin of the profit went up to 1.6-
fold. As to this destined to the USA, the improvement is also achieved through these efforts.
So as to the potential impact by the tariffs, as to the profit structure and business structure is the
basis, we are not forced to take a too hasty action. We can continue a stable policy. And the 3
million units we are talking about, as Mr. Sato mentioned, the export to US is 500,000 units. So,
for the customers, it might cause some problems. We have a long list of back orders. So that's
the current situation. So, it doesn't force us to revise and look at this domestic production
structure, including the government-to-government negotiation, we will see and monitor how the
negotiation will take place between the two governments.
In addition, vehicles cannot be produced only by us, we need a cooperation of the suppliers, the
customers, the related sales, dealers’ networks so all those parties need to collaborate together
to take mid- to long-term initiatives. So, we are looking and monitoring the situation. We have
built this good profit structure already, so without taking any hasty action, we will play by ear and
then take stable actions.
And as I mentioned earlier, the automotive industry has quite an important significance and role
to play in the 3 million units of production in Japan. And then we export the vehicles and earn the
foreign currency of JPY20 trillion, and then JPY24 trillion is the import expense we pay for energy
and resources, so that we are playing an important role for Japanese economy, and we'd like to
continue to play that important role in the future as well.
For the suppliers, what is the care? For each supplier, we listen to the voices and requests to
decide upon how to address the issues, and we will have a very detailed care and listen to their
views. So, manufacturing should be promoted together with the suppliers and dealers and sales
networks, so we have to pay due care to them. And then final wish is the happiness for the
customers. And then we would like to continue the operation of automobile manufacturing as
well.
Q - Unverified Participant
The second point is, the operating profit forecast that you just showed us about the US business
is my question. The tariff burden, will it be transferred to the vehicle prices? Or will you not be
thinking about it for the time being? I understand it will be difficult to make a forecast, but in the
profits that you have forecast, what is the US sales volume that you assumed? People are talking
about reduction due to last-minute purchases in the previous year, but what is your outlook at the
time being? So, tell us about the relationship with the forecast.
Operator
I think it's a question of how to look at the sales volume. But when we plan or do a sales plan, for
our financial results, we look at the fiscal year, but for a business, we look at the calendar year. In
April, in the United States, there was a last-minute market demand going up and there might beto forecast the future. So, depending on how things develop, we would like to take the
appropriate action.
Maybe I shouldn't say fortunately, but in the United States, Toyota cars are still popular, and the
inventory level is less than 10 days' worth and for mainline hybrid, the turnover is in five days, so
we will look at real demand, and I think we can make appropriate adjustments. With regards to
sales price, we think it is up to the customer. The competitive situation, real demand situation will
be looked at as we did before. So far, customer demand was very strong. And in the past, we've
raised prices if and when demand was high. So, we will look at the situation and take the
appropriate action at the appropriate timing. Just because of tariff, rising prices hastily is not the
type of reaction Toyota is thinking of.
A - `Irie, Public Relations Department `
Thank you very much to Mr. Ikeda. So, we'd like to entertain the next question, the person in the
front row, please.
Q - Unverified Participant
Yao of Nihon Keizai Shimbun. I have two questions as well. Similar question about the US tax
policy, of tariff policy. In the future, will that have an impact upon your future business? As now,
how do you analyze and look at that potential impact, short -term versus long- and mid-term, the
countermeasures? But this tariff new policy, do you think it's a transient one-time change? Or for
your US business, is that going to be a more long-lasting impact for your business? Could you
please comment on the future outlook?
The second question is about 3 million units of the volume to be maintained in Japan. But to
maintain that level, how do you intend to take actions and measures? Because to the US, import
means increased cost incurred, so that maybe you increase export to other regions or sell more
in domestic market. What are those measures you are thinking about in order to maintain the 3
million units of production volume in Japan?
Operator
Thank you for your question, Mr. Yao. Let me repeat some of the points. Toyota wants to be the
best in town, that's a motto to be locally based company. So that the main access is that, even
though the US tariff policy might change, our access and policy will not change. As I said, that in
the long term, that the local production and local development will be emphasized. In the short
term, to the actual demand, the optimal response and operation should be devised. So, these
are the combination of efforts we will make to deal with the change.
On the other hand, the tariffs, would that be eternal ones, permanent ones? We are not in a
position to decide on the tax tariff policy. So, whatever the situation will change, we'd like to be
flexible to deal with and then we will maintain our basic pillar and policy on the course and then
deal with the situation. 3 million units of volume maintained in Japan. To do that, as I said, we
should strengthen our foundation. That is a strong activity.
To maintain the domestic production level, a strong foundation is crucial. In other words, so-called
supplementary efforts, we support and invest for the suppliers, but it's not that to return the
money back to them, but rather in order for them to further improve their productivity and have a
spare room, we just work so closely with the suppliers. It's a work together. So, we now have the
high level of the production operation in place, so maybe the people in the field, the workplacemight not have the enough energy or the spare capacity to improve further, so we should give
them the spare room and energy and capacity so that they can work better.
So, we will create a good climate and environment for them to do that. So, it's not just a funding
support for them and return the money back to them, but in the mid- to long term, it will
eventually boost our productivity together and further reduce the cost incurred and then
effectiveness will be improved. And then eventually, our total competitive edge will be further
enhanced. So domestic production level should be maintained. By that [protection] we will
strengthen our productivity and then competitiveness. And that, I think, is a very important cycle
we'd like to achieve. Thank you very much.
A - `Irie, Public Relations Department `
Thank you very much to Mr. Yao. In the middle, third from the front row.
Q - Unverified Participant
Kawaguchi from Nikkan Kogyo. Except for tariff impact, FY2025, what kind of year will it be? How
do you position this year? A major transformation in a century. It's been several years since this
has been discussed. And diversification and localization, you are working on these, but how is
business going to be this year towards 2030?
And my second question is about earning power. On the hybrid side, profitability is almost equal
to gasoline cars. I think it was last year that Mr. Miyazaki talked about 5 million hybrid vehicles. Is
this milestone unchanged? And what about your plans for improvement for PHVs?
Operator
Thank you very much for your question. The positioning of FY2025, as I mentioned in the
presentation, this year, in a sense, is a year where globally, we are now seeing the speed
towards electrification in each region. So, depending on the region, the speed, or how
electrification will develop will be clearer. In case of battery EVs, in the past, we discussed this on
a global basis. Obviously, now, China is moving fast. And not only electric vehicles, but intelligence
plus EV is pushing forward the mobility.
So, battery EV leading-edge technology will be incorporated, so that we can push forward
mobility. In the case of battery EVs, we will be delving deeper into this area. And for hybrids,
realistically speaking, we are seeing a shift to BEVs. But having said that, there are many ways to
realize carbon neutrality. So, an approach that combines vehicles with carbon neutrality will be
very important. So, from the fuel side, carbon neutrality will have to be realized. It will be a very
important turning point towards that. So, hybrid PHEV will be the pillar, but in addition to that,
carbon-neutral fuel will be combined. So that kind of practical solution will be accelerated. That will
be very important.
So, in a sense, the basic pillars remain unchanged, but the resolution of each element will be
higher than before. There's another point that we focus on, which is creating an environment or
ecosystem. Just pushing forward evolution of the vehicle does not lead to realization of mobility.
Battery EVs, hydrogen requires energy infrastructure and the legal framework. So, mobility or cars
alone will not allow us to push forward a mobility society, so a comprehensive approach is
necessary, which means that we have to work with energy or IT industry people, and we also
have to work with government to create the environment, and that will be the foundation. And
this year, we have to focus more on creating this foundation. Now earning power will be
discussed by Mr. Miyazaki.A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Member of the Board of Directors, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial `
So, in the past and this year, as everybody is pointing out, the future is unclear, uncertain. But in
this environment, what we have to do is to make sure we continue to produce, making happiness
for all. So, maintaining 3 million in Japan and full operation of overseas plants is necessary, and
we have to make sure we continue to produce ever better cars. Going back to the basics and
doing what we have to do is what we will do in 2025.
For this year's forecast, JPY3.8 trillion will be the starting point, but from here, we want to build up
so that we can realize more. I mentioned JPY3.8 trillion, but except for tariff and exchange rate, it
will be JPY1 trillion, that will be JPY1 trillion. So, JPY4.8 trillion in earning power is something that
we can realize. So how to step up from there is something that we want to think about.
We need to create products that meet the real demand of our customers. For hybrid vehicles, I
mentioned before that real demand is very strong. So initially, in 2026, 5 million production was
something that I mentioned, and I talked about bringing this plan forward. But after that, we've
decided to focus on strengthening the foundation, so we stopped for a while to reorganize
development and production.
So, for hybrids, last year, as was mentioned before, plus 850,000 compared to the previous year
is what we realized. But this year, we expect a growth of 5%. So, 4.7 million is what we expect. So,
the original 2026 numbers is the plan that we had, but how to front forward that plan is
something that we will continue to work on, and we want to accumulate our earning power as we
do so.
And about PHEVs. As we have continued to decrease on cost, other variation units, I believe, will
be able to produce profits. I will be repeating myself, but we will do what we have to do now, and
we want to further strengthen our earning power.
A - `Irie, Public Relations Department `
The person with the gray jacket.
Q - Unverified Participant
I'm [Alayu] with TV Tokyo. I have a question to Mr. Sato. Two questions. One is that the target
production volume this year, that the external environment is getting difficult, but the 10 million
units have been already I mentioned. Six months ago, Mr. Miyazaki said the production plan has
been prepared and the OEM has a duty to steadily produce according to the target. But in a
more difficult environment, the 10 million units were still launched. What's the purpose of these 10
million units announced?
The Group collaboration, the way it should be, that's my second question. The Toyota Industries
is now talked about going private. So, the Toyota Group, you have a policy-based cross-
shareholding, so the way the Toyota Group's structure should be the way it should be. What do
you think of including the potential rumor about the Toyota Industry going private?
A - `Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director) `
Thank you for your question. So, about the production and the volume, 10 million units announced
and what's the aspiration for that? Well, compared to the previous term that the actual
performance showed, you produce steadily and properly, that is the basis and important factor to
maintain the profitability. So, we focused in the last year to further strengthen our foundation.What does it mean? Of the 10 million units, we work so hard to strengthen the foundation, and as
the outcome, results and fruit has been [cropped]. In other words, the production has become
stabilized, produce a high-quality vehicle, and deliver that to our users, that's one of the
important targets for us, for example.
But the investment, the total comprehensive investment for human capital in the last several
years, for example, includes in the production line, the operation might stop. Sometimes you
need a maintenance work or sometimes frequent repair might be necessary in some of the
facilities. So maybe upgrading and re-investment for that is quite important and it's a big
investment as well. So frequently, the production line had to be stopped, but now it doesn't have
to be stopped. It's a kaizen improvement, which has been achieved in the last several years. So,
you don't have to stop this production line. That is a better efficiency of production. This in-
advanced investment has borne good fruit and then you could have a very good quality and
efficient production, which has shown, this has strengthened the foundation. That is the basis.
And that's why we are still quite aware of this units’ target and that units are so important to
support and protect our supply chain. From that standpoint, we put it at the threshold and the
target, and then we'd like to continue our efforts so that we can continue to steadily produce
high-quality vehicles.
And second point is the collaboration among the Toyota Group of companies. And of course,
we'd like to transform to a mobility company. That's a grand aim. And an entire group is trying to
become a mobility company. And that's a challenge, a common challenge for all of us, how
should we be prepared and what kind of information we need to achieve this goal.
I personally feel that the productivity and the efficiency should be improved. Then there's the
vertical integration that might be better. It's more efficient to have a vertically integrated
organization, but we aim at the long-term annual-based growth, so that the automotive industry
should continue to track this growth path. So, in that sense, each company within the Toyota
Group should have its own strength. Within the Group, what is the strength of that company
within the entire Toyota Group? And then that significance and meaning is quite important. We
are the vehicle supplier. That is the TMC. But the TMC, the vehicle producer, is supported by
different domains, and each member company has its own aspiration to achieve a certain goal,
and the CEO of each group of the Group companies, I think, are trying to set those goals.
Of course, I'm the CEO, Mr. Toyoda is the leader, the chairman of the entire group and his
message and aspiration is the basis of our efforts, and we will continue discussion within the
Group. The Toyota Industries and how it's positioned, of course, it's the original company of the
TMC. So, it's a very important company historically. And within the TMC Group, that is very
important to do the forklift, as well the engine and other businesses as well. So, it's an important,
one of the important companies within the Group, so their position stays the same.
Q - Unverified Participant
May I clarify one point, 10 million units, the target you said, now external environment is
deteriorating. You produce 10 million units. And do you have an outlook of global economy that
you can still sell these many vehicles you intend to produce? Maybe Mr. Miyazaki can add.
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Member of the Board of Directors, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial `
So, the outlook of the global economy, we cannot define the global economic outlook. However,
we have a regional headquarters system in each region, we have a CEO, and then we discuss the
global economy and the regional economic outlook to come to our overall outlook. So, our ownlike the basic standard sort of. It's not really the goal or target we'd like to achieve so please
understand the nature of these 10 million units. And in the past, I already told you, but in many
regions, we'd like to strike a good balance and a good business in each region. That is a strong
weapon for our company to achieve a stable business and profitability. Therefore, in a particular
region, if it catches a cold, maybe the remaining healthy regions can complement and
supplement each other.
So, in case that the very active region versus a sick region, the vehicle demand might not match,
then I think each regional markets and markets will collaborate among themselves and then we
try to strike the balance between the supply and demand, so that this system and structure can
be stably operated so that we would like to work harder with the suppliers.
Naturally, 10 million units is not the end of it. We are not aiming at achieving this target. We'd like
to build a good car, one by one and eventually, it might achieve 10 million units. So, we'd like to
keep the due care to build a good quality car for each customer and user.
A - `Irie, Public Relations Department `
Thank you very much.I apologize to the people raising their hand in this venue, but we would like
to take questions from people online at this juncture, and then we will come back to this venue
again later on. So, if you have any questions from online, please use the Raise Hand button,
please turn on your microphone and camera if you are called upon to speak.
Terasaki-san from [Best Car]. Please turn on your microphone and camera before you speak.
Q - Unverified Participant
This is Terasaki from Best Car. I have two questions. Slide 11, you talk about sales volume forecast
by region. Tariff and exchange rate impact was large. You mentioned JPY1 trillion, I think, but if you
look at sales volume to North America, 2.94 million for next year is your forecast. Compared to
this year, it is an increase of over 200,000 units.
Mr. Miyazaki talked about back orders, but are there any other factors that lead to this increase?
Please tell us about the basis of this number. That is the first question.
Operator
Maybe we should take the second question first. Can you give us the two questions together?
Q - Unverified Participant
Now to my second question. Also on page 11, you talked about breakdown of sales volume by
types of vehicle, 213% for BEVs, 110,000 is the number that you have. This is a big forecast. But as
of 2023, your announced plan was BEV 1.5 million by 2026 was the number that you gave us. So,
in one year, 5 times as many would be very difficult. Will you be reviewing your plan? According to
media reports, some people say that you have already reviewed the plan, but are you in the
process of review? So, the question is about BEV sales strategy. That is my second question.
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Member of the Board of Directors, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial `
Thank you very much for your question, Mr. Terasaki. First question. Last year, in North America, as
I mentioned in my presentation, the Indiana plant because of quality issues had to stop
production for a long time. But this year, this factor will be gone. So, Indiana factory production will
be back to full operation. And for vehicles for which we have back orders, we'll be able to seeincrease in production. But as I mentioned before, there may be many other changes, so we may
not have been able to forecast everything.
But at this moment, these are the numbers that we have in mind. But as the situation changes,
we intend to make adjustments as necessary. So, each vehicle should be sold and delivered to
our customer with attention to detail and the sum of those efforts, we are hoping will lead us to
achieve those numbers.
A - `Koji Sato, President, Member of the Board of Directors (Representative Director) `
Terasaki-san, to your second question, this is Sato speaking. I will respond to that second
question. About the BEV sales plan, an increase of more than 150,000 new vehicle impact can be
incorporated. So, there will be vehicles launched and announced and the outlook for those is the
basis. 3.5 million in 2030 or 1.5 million in 2026, those are the numbers that we have announced
before, but the basis of our calculation is real demand.
So real demand, but real demand will change. So, if the pace of real demand changes, based on
those changes, we will be changing those reference numbers, especially preparation of the
supply chain, and investment timing are things that we have in mind when we came up with these
numbers. Battery EV real demand is starting to be clearer, so 1.5 million is a number that will be
reviewed. Thank you very much.
A - `Irie, Public Relations Department `
I would like to entertain another person online. From [Newsweek] Kiara-san, please turn on your
microphone and camera. Kiara-san, please.
Q - Unverified Participant
Thank you. Can you hear me well?
A - `Irie, Public Relations Department `
Yes.
Q - Unverified Participant
Thank you. I have a question about US and China, I have one question about each country. The
first point is USA. It's a direct question. Earlier, you already mentioned that the mid- to long term
versus the short term, how you prepare yourself for potential tariffs, but in the mid- to long-term
outlook that you will provide this suite of products to the local customers, it's the best in town
through the local production.
If the tariff will stay permanently, that production capacity locally should be enhanced, or you
might have to build new plants there. Is it a possible scenario? That's my first question.
The second question is a question about China. So that in the material, you talked about China
YoY comparison, 94.1%, that was a number. But in terms of share in the last several years, the
company is getting strong, and you are having difficulty. But you will be launching, emphasizing
your effort in China to recover your activity. What's the strategy taking into account the change of
environment of the competitiveness in Chinese market. So, what's your outlook in China?
OperatorThank you for your question. Thank you, Kiara-san, for your question. The first is the mid- to long-
term outlook. Naturally, it's been doing this for some time. In the USA, we have USMCA, which is
the local production, the target to increase the local procurement level according to the rule, and
then so local production, local supply, and that local supply percentage ratio should be increased
steadily from BCP standpoint. Even though some incident occurs that the local production is still
possible, not just vehicles, but units as well, that the local production, local procurement should
be further promoted. We've been doing this for some time.
Because of that, even though the tariff is there, it's not our effort. We've been doing something
we should do and then we steadily perform our duty. That's something we intend to do. As a
result, if things go smoothly, we might accelerate that action. But as I said, everything is not 100%
predictable. Within that uncertainty, we should not sway from one way to other, but we will take a
steady one and stay in the course and make a final decision according to this monitoring.
As to China, let me respond on China. Our outlook on China, China is not one market, but rather
the 1.4 billion population in China, we are not in a position to take care of all those people by our
business. We are not in that position. So, from that standpoint, the local coastal areas, the big
cities are the population we like to target. That is where we will focus in terms of the segment of
Chinese market.
So, in that sense, naturally, there are local manufacturers and suppliers in China. OEMs are very
strong in certain provinces or regions. So Chinese market should be scrutinized in detail by region
and region, so we should avoid the direct competition, but there are a lot of areas where we can
coexist with the Chinese manufacturers. So, in that Chinese situation, of course, the market share
as well, that the units and volume targets were achieved, thanks to the suppliers and also the
dealers there.
As to the profitability in China, which we've been telling you, in the Chinese business, our
profitability level is highly evaluated; compared to the local competitors, our level is on par with
the Chinese competitors. So that's how we evaluate our Chinese business performance. So, our
strength should be leveraged further in the future. We announced last month that the
development structure will be enhanced in China so that BEVs suitable for Chinese customers will
be launched and Lexus brand, Toyota brands will be enhanced and protected further.
A - `Irie, Public Relations Department `
Kiara-san, thank you very much. Now going back to this room, we will take questions from people
in this room again. In the middle, the person in the second row.
Q - Unverified Participant
I'm Mizumachi from [Nikkon] Automobile. I have a question about the Japanese market. Last year,
there was a certification issue and quality issues leading to long lead time and low production. But
if you look at this year, we have some negative numbers. Can you tell us about the background?
And 3 million production in Japan, in order to maintain that, at least half of that number should be
sold in Japan. But over the medium- to long-term, what is your outlook about the domestic
market?
A - `Yoichi Miyazaki, Member of the Board of Directors, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial `
Mizumachi-san, is it just one question? About sales in the Japanese market. Of course, we have a
model life cycle. So, when you go to the peak, there will be a stable period. And then there are
some differences in numbers. But basically, we are aiming at 1.5 million being sold. So, there is nostrong will or background here. In thinking about the model life cycle, we came up with these
numbers. Now about the medium- to long-term outlook, it has always been said that in Japan, the
population is declining, and the birth rate is declining. How to reduce the vehicle replacement
cycle is something that we want to work on to revitalize the Japanese market.
Attractive cars will have to be launched. And in order to make the replacement cycle shorter, we
have to work more to sell them in a better way. So, including KINTO and other initiatives, we will
continue to try new efforts.
Operator
Let me add something. Thank you very much for your question. Your question was about the
future of the Japanese market. As Mr. Miyazaki mentioned, how can we produce and deliver cars
that people would want to buy? If vehicles are produced based on traditional thinking, we just
launched a new Crown series. But 10 years ago, Crown was an FR sedan and authentic product.
That was the stereotype image of the model Crown. But what is the significance of Crown being
a long seller?
That is something that we reviewed anew to come up with a new product. So rather than looking
at the old framework, what is necessary now in this market is something that we have to face. We
are a carmaker, so we need to produce cars that people would want to purchase in Japan. We
have to come up with ideas to launch those products. We would need to solidify the foundation,
come up with extra capacity so that we can produce cars that are suitable for the local market.
A - `Irie, Public Relations Department `
Thank you very much, Mr. Mizumachi. Time is running short, so we'd like to entertain just one last
question if we may. A person in the front section.
A - `Masahiro Yamamoto, Chief Executive Officer of Accounting Group `
Yamamoto, freelance journalist. Earlier in the presentation, you talked about the multi-pathway
strategy, which will be unchanged. But hybrid is a strong area. It's doing quite well. On the other
hand, the product BEV is not really growing as you expect a hydrogen vehicle. And so far, you are
trying to boost the spirit, but maybe that there's a turning down about the hydrogen vehicles, I
feel.
So, hydrogen engine might be applied to motorsports, and it's been five years since you applied
that, and then toward the end of the year, the Fuji 24-hour race that this hydrogen vehicle is to
participate. At that time, Mr. Sato was the President to launch that hydrogen engine for the
motorsports. So, what's the progress state of the hydrogen engine?
Another question. earlier, you told about this group strategy. You supply this suitable car to each
region. On the other hand, the enjoyable experience like the wow experience like that kind of car
that Mr. Sato likes, wow experience to be given by a car. Lately, we don't really see many new
models developed by you, which is suitable for that wow experience.
Operator
Well, about the multi-pathway strategy, yes, we will maintain that strategy. The ICE will be further
advanced and then the hybrid system will become more efficient. And then we will continue this
technology development. So smaller compact car with a higher efficiency and also the output, the
characteristics should be further enhanced. The technology development is being promoted. Soarea. On the other hand, in a way, fuel and energy might make a difference in terms of where we
emphasize the pathway toward the popularization.
So, the energy availability might make a difference, I feel, especially hydrogen. The major
challenge for hydrogen is that hydrogen itself, we are picky about this origin and hydrogen
becomes such an expensive energy source. Energy cost is so expensive. It's too expensive to
popularize. It's a barrier for popularization. So, in order for us to promote that, the hydrogen use
should be increased first, that is the initiative we first have to take. And then for the passenger
car, we will do our part. But 60 times more the sensitivity for the commercial vehicle. The heavy-
duty truck versus small passenger car, the size or the scale is 60-fold difference, so that we are
trying to make efforts in commercial vehicle as well so that the cost reduction efforts should be
made.
Then finally, the technology of the hydrogen engine could become quite useful because
hydrogen engine is combustion, the control is already in our in-house technology. So, efficiency is
one challenge and another one, the combustion of the hydrogen is an issue because for the ICE,
it's the combustion efficiency could be maybe enhanced by the better hydrogen combustion
biofuel, e-fuel, if they are supplied. In the engine technology world, because we develop the
hydrogen technology, we have benefits to be enjoyed by the accumulated technology. So,
hydrogen gives us a clue starting point. But eventually, it will give us a synergy to really lead us to
the multi-pathway development.
So stand-alone hydrogen should not be just scrutinized, but that's a starting point to lead us to
this synergy of multi-pathway strategy. And so, I think we now are seeing the visible sign. So,
hydrogen is just a kickoff. Of course, liquid hydrogen is one area where we will work toward and
work harder, and I hope you continue to support us.
Our chairman, Toyoda, is driving the car itself, the hydrogen vehicle, and he is a leading figure to
promote a hydrogen society. So, we would like to realize the hydrogen society and multiple,
simultaneous efforts are needed. So, we will never give up doing that. And we'd like to reassert
our strong determination on that.
The second point, the car which induces a wow spirit, I appreciate your question. Yes, I agree with
you, exciting vehicle is necessary. The car should be enjoyable. Otherwise, the car is not a car. It
will just turn into a commodity. So, we have a determination that the car should never be looked
at as a commodity, so that the function-wise and logical thinking wise, and based upon the left
side of the brain, you cannot sell just the products based upon the catalog of the vehicles. You
just merely change the motor switch and have a new design on the engine, it won't sell anymore.
So how passionate you are to produce a car, which will trigger the sense of a wow in you?
Of course, you have to be [sharp feeling] to have appealing. It's not just a sports car. For the
ordinary cars as well, you have to instill your passion to appeal to the customer to their heart, so
that I think each project team should share that sense. And I'm encouraging all the project team
members to build such a car, and we are really encouraging.
And that's the way TMC should be, and that's my passion. And in this fiscal year, we'd like to work
hard to achieve this goal. So, to your question, and you are thinking about motto, as time is right,
we will disclose the new model to you, but I cannot disclose the name right now today at the
press conference. So, on another occasion, we hope we could be ready to tell you and announce
you this new exciting car.
A - `Irie, Public Relations Department `Thank you very much to Mr. Yamamoto. Now it is time. So let us conclude the Q&A session. I
would like to ask the three gentlemen to stand up. Thank you very much.
With this, we conclude the financial results meeting for FY2025. Thank you very much for
watching and coming.
[END]