Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations", in Part II, Item 7, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities, equity, revenue and expenses. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, inventory valuation and contract manufacturer/supplier liabilities, income taxes and loss contingencies. If our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, our results of operations may be adversely affected and may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Escalating U.S. tax, tariff, import/export restrictions, and other trade or regulatory barriers, as well as countermeasures taken by affected countries, may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business. Because our products are primarily manufactured internationally, the import of our products may be affected by changes in applicable tariffs. Our products are primarily manufactured in Malaysia, Vietnam, and Mexico, and we also procure  some of our products directly from China. In February 2025, the U.S. government scheduled 25% tariffs to be imposed on products of Mexican origin. Although subsequent discussions between the President of the United States and the President of Mexico have resulted in an agreement to temporarily defer the effective date for these tariffs, this policy may be reversed at any time. In addition, imports of products manufactured in Malaysia and/or Vietnam may be targeted for U.S. tariff increases in light of the increased trade imbalances between the United States and these countries, which has increased significantly in the past decade as manufacturing operations have increasingly moved to these countries due to strained U.S.-China trade relations. An increase in trade-related costs associated with these imports may impair the profitability of such international production, may strain our suppliers’ ability to provide inputs necessary for the production of these items, and may otherwise affect our manufacturing partners’ ability to provide our products at previously contracted prices. We also may not be able to pass on the full burden of the increase in trade-related costs to our partners and/or customers which could impact our profitability and/or our competitiveness. Our products may also be subject to further increased U.S. or international tariffs as a result of the outbreak of and escalation in international trade wars between the U.S., China, Mexico and other countries. In response to the February 2025 U.S. government tariffs scheduled on goods of Canadian, Mexican, and Chinese origin, all three affected countries announced plans to implement retaliatory measures including new tariffs on certain U.S. goods, and, in the case of China, new export controls on certain critical metal items. The U.S. tariffs on Canadian and Mexican origin products and the Canadian and Mexican tariffs on U.S. origin products has been suspended for a period of 30 days pursuant to agreements between the U.S. government and the Canadian and Mexican governments, pending further negotiations between these countries. Such 40 agreements and negotiations may fail and result in the imposition of new trade measures between any or all of these countries and the United States. The February 2025 U.S. government executive orders scheduling the tariff increases on goods of Canadian, Mexican, and Chinese origin also included provisions allowing for further escalation of tariffs in the event affected countries implement retaliatory measures. Such increases could result in the imposition of extreme tariff or non-tariff measures, which may lead to a breakdown in international supply chains due to increased tariff costs and disruptions in the availability of goods. There is currently significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United States, and various other countries, most significantly China, Canada and Mexico, with respect to trade policies, treaties, tariffs and taxes. The U.S. government has and continues to make significant additional changes in U.S. trade policy and has taken certain actions that could negatively impact U.S. trade. In addition, there may be further changes in U.S. trade policy given the change in the presidential administration. For example, in 2018, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative ("USTR") enacted various tariffs of 7.5%, 10%, 15% and 25% on imports into the U.S. from China, including communications equipment products and components manufactured and imported from China. USTR has continued to expand these tariffs recently announcing new tariffs of up to 100% on certain products. Since then, China has retaliated through various trade related measures including imposing tariffs on imports into China from the United States.  Most recently, in February 2025, the U.S. government imposed an additional 10% tariff on imports from China, on top of existing tariff burdens, and the U.S. President has indicated that additional tariffs may be forthcoming. In response, China announced additional tariffs on certain U.S.-origin goods and implemented new export controls on various critical metals. Additional changes or threatened changes in U.S. trade measures have affected and may continue to affect trade involving additional countries as well, including Mexico, Canada, Colombia, the United Kingdom, and the member countries of the European Union among others. Each of these measures or threatened measures may instigate reciprocal countermeasures by affected countries, potentially accelerating further increases in trade measures. Such escalations in these trade measures may directly impair our business by increasing trade-related costs or disrupting established supply chains and may indirectly impair our business by causing a negative effect on global economic conditions and financial markets. The ultimate impact of these trade measures is uncertain, and may be affected by various factors, including whether and when such trade measures are implemented, the timing when such measures may become effective, and the amount, scope, or nature of such trade measures. The U.S. government continues to add additional entities, in China and elsewhere, to restricted party lists impacting the ability of U.S. companies to provide products, and in certain cases services, to these entities and, in some cases, receive products or services from these entities. Additionally, the U.S. government continues to expand controls enacted in October 2022 restricting the ability to send certain products and technology related to semiconductors, semiconductor manufacturing, and supercomputing to China without an export license. In 2023 and 2024, the U.S. government expanded the list of advanced integrated circuits subject to heightened export controls, including certain hardware containing these specified integrated circuits, expanded the list of destinations requiring export authorization for such items, and added new restrictions based on the headquarters location of the parties involved. Proposed regulations would further expand the controls to impose a worldwide licensing requirement on certain integrated circuits and computing resources that are used for training of AI models. The U.S. government also continues to expand the scope of restrictions on the development or production of advanced integrated circuits and certain semiconductor manufacturing equipment, and the restrictions on supercomputing, in China and other countries. Proposed regulations would expand these controls further and impose additional reporting requirements. Other foreign governments may in turn impose similar or more restrictive controls. These controls or any additional restrictions may impact our ability to export certain products to China or other countries, prohibit us from selling our products to certain of our customers, restrict our ability to use certain Integrated Circuits (“ICs”) in our products, or impact our suppliers who may utilize facilities or equipment described in these controls. It also is possible that the Chinese government will retaliate in ways that could impact our business. For example, China has announced controls on both the use of Micron products and export license requirements on certain materials used, among other things, in the production of semiconductors, optical components, and other electronic devices including germanium and gallium. China also has announced a new export control regime. Additionally, these restrictions could disrupt the ability of China to produce semiconductors and other electronics and impact our ability to source components from China. China has also announced plans to implement retaliatory countermeasures in response to the additional 10% tariffs imposed by the United States in February 2025, including new tariffs on certain U.S. origin goods, and has implemented export controls on various critical metal materials. These restrictions could impact the cost of components or inputs used to produce our products. 41 Should the relationship between China and Taiwan deteriorate, it is possible that the U.S. government could impose new controls on China, specific parties, or specific kinds of transactions in the region that could impact our business including our ability to source components from China and sell to certain of our customers. These restrictions could impact the cost of components or inputs used to produce our products. Additionally, these controls or any additional restrictions may impact our ability to export certain products to China and/or prohibit us from selling our products to certain of our customers. We cannot predict what actions may ultimately be taken with respect to trade relations between the United States and China or other countries, what products may be subject to such actions or what actions may be taken by the other countries in retaliation. If we are unable to obtain or use components for inclusion in our products, if component prices increase significantly or if we are unable to export or sell our products to any of our customers, our business, liquidity, financial condition, and/or results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. As well, due to concerns with products and services from certain semiconductor, telecommunications and video providers based in China, U.S. Congress has enacted bans on the use of certain Chinese-origin components or systems either in items sold to the U.S. government or, in some cases, in the internal networks of government contractors and subcontractors (even if those networks are not used for government-related projects). Further, the Chinese government has responded to these U.S. actions by indicating its intention to develop an unreliable entity list, which may limit the ability of companies on the list to engage in business with Chinese customers. If tariffs, trade restrictions, or trade barriers remain in place or if new tariffs, trade restrictions, or trade barriers are placed on products such as ours by U.S. or foreign governments, especially China, our costs may increase. We believe we can adjust our supply chain and manufacturing practices to minimize the impact of the tariffs and any impact on the supply chain of components sourced in China, but our efforts may not be successful, there can be no assurance that we will not experience a disruption in our business related to these or other changes in trade practices and the process of changing suppliers in order to mitigate any such tariff costs could be complicated, time-consuming, and costly. The U.S. tariffs may also cause customers to delay orders as they evaluate where to take delivery of our products in connection with their efforts to mitigate their own tariff exposure. Such delays create forecasting difficulties for us and increase the risk that orders might be canceled or might never be placed. Current or future tariffs imposed by the U.S. may also negatively impact our customers' sales, thereby causing an indirect negative impact on our own sales. Even in the absence of further tariffs, the related uncertainty and the market's fear of an escalating trade war might cause our distributors and customers to place fewer orders for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition, and/or results of operations. In June 2022, the import restrictions contained in the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act ("UFLPA") became effective. The UFLPA creates a rebuttable presumption that any goods mined, produced or manufactured, wholly or in part in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region (“XUAR”) of China, or produced by a listed entity, were made with forced labor and would therefore not be entitled to entry at any U.S. port. Importers are required to present clear and convincing evidence that such goods are not made with forced labor. While we do not source items from the XUAR or from listed parties, and we have increased our supply chain diligence, there is risk that our ability to import components and products may be adversely affected by the UFLPA. Given the relatively fluid regulatory environment in China and the United States and uncertainty how the U.S. government or foreign governments will act with respect to tariffs, international trade agreements and policies, a trade war, further governmental action related to tariffs or international trade policies, or additional tax or other regulatory changes in the future could directly and adversely impact our financial results and results of operations. In addition to laws aimed directly at trade, failure of our products to comply with a broader set of evolving industry standards and government regulations may adversely impact our business and in particular our ability to market in particular countries.  Our products must comply with various U.S. federal government regulations and standards defined by agencies such as the Federal Communications Commission, standards established by governmental authorities in various foreign countries and recommendations of the International Telecommunication Union. In some circumstances, we must obtain regulatory approvals or certificates of compliance before we can offer or distribute our products in certain jurisdictions or to certain customers. In recent years, certain jurisdictions have tied these approvals to concerns about international relationships, including, e.g., concerns about entities with components sourced from China.  Complying with new regulations or obtaining certifications, especially as standards evolve, may be costly and disruptive to our business and also may affect our ability to sell 42 our products where these standards or regulations apply, which in turn may prevent us from sustaining our net revenues or achieving profitability. Changes in our income taxes or our effective tax rate, enactment of new tax laws or changes in the application of existing tax laws of various jurisdictions or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results. Our income taxes are subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by several factors, some of which are outside of our control, including earnings that are lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; our ability to generate and use tax attributes; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; transfer pricing adjustments from tax authorities challenging our methods for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements; tax effects of nondeductible compensation, including certain stock-based compensation; tax costs related to inter-company restructuring; changes in accounting principles; changes in tax law and regulations, treaties, or interpretation thereof; imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries or customers; or a change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest certain foreign earnings. Significant judgment is required to evaluate our tax positions and determine our income tax liability. The accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely affect income taxes. Tax laws are dynamic and subject to change. Changes in tax laws and regulations and interpretations of such laws and regulations, including taxation of earnings outside of the U.S. may have adverse effects on our operating results and could impact the tax treatment of our earnings and cash and cash equivalent balances we currently maintain. Furthermore, due to shifting economic and political conditions, tax policies and rates in various jurisdictions, may be subject to significant change. Domestically, following the 2024 Presidential election, it is possible the newly elected Trump Administration and Republican controlled Congress will pass some tax reform in order to address certain provisions of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act expiring at the end of 2025. It is uncertain what proposals to reform U.S. and International tax laws might pass and whether such laws could increase or decrease the U.S. corporate tax rate. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (“OECD”), comprising 38 international member countries including the United States, has introduced a global minimum tax initiative (“Pillar Two”), which has been adopted by members of the European Union ("EU"), among other jurisdictions.  While the U.S. has not yet adopted Pillar Two, other OECD countries outside or the EU are actively considering changes to existing tax laws or have proposed new laws to align with the recommendations and guidelines proposed by the OECD, including Pillar Two. Enactment of such tax laws could increase our tax obligations in countries where we do business or cause us to change the way we operate our business. We have assessed the impacts of these new laws in countries that we operate in and do not currently anticipate any material impacts to our effective tax rate. However, we cannot provide any assurance that there will not be a material impact to our effective tax rate in the future as a result of these developments or other proposed changes. Finally, we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") and other tax authorities. Audits by the IRS or other tax authorities are subject to inherent uncertainties and could result in unfavorable outcomes, including potential fines or penalties. As we operate in numerous taxing jurisdictions, the application of tax laws can be subject to diverging and sometimes conflicting interpretations by tax authorities of these jurisdictions. The expense of defending and resolving such audits may be significant. The amount of time to resolve an audit is also unpredictable and may divert management’s attention from our business operations. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from tax examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We cannot assure you that fluctuations in our provision for income taxes or our effective tax rate, the enactment of new tax laws or changes in the application or interpretation of existing tax laws or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our tax returns by tax authorities will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Failure to comply with governmental laws and regulations could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our business is subject to regulation by various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies, including agencies responsible for monitoring and enforcing employment and labor laws, workplace safety, product safety, environmental laws (including new laws related to climate change), consumer protection laws, privacy, data protection, telecommunications, anti-bribery laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, import/export controls and sanctions, conflict minerals, federal securities laws and tax laws and regulations. In addition, emerging tools and technologies we utilize in providing our products, like AI and machine learning, may also become subject to regulation under new laws or new applications of existing 43 laws. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. In addition, in certain jurisdictions, these regulatory requirements may be more stringent than those in the United States, such as the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”). The GDPR provides for substantial obligations relating to the handling, storage and other processing of data relating to individuals and administrative fines for violations, which can be up to four percent of the previous year’s annual revenue or €20 million, whichever is higher. In the past, we relied on the E.U.-U.S. and Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield programs, and/or the use of standard contractual clauses approved by the European Commission ("SCCs"), to legitimize transfers of data out of the EU. EU courts later invalidated the E.U.-U.S. Privacy Shield and imposed additional obligations in connection with use of the SCCs. The European Commission subsequently issued new SCCs. The continued validity of these new SCCs for cross-border data transfer is uncertain and difficult to predict. Among other effects, we may experience additional costs associated with increased compliance burdens and new contract negotiations with third parties that aid in processing data on our behalf. Further, the UK has implemented legislation that substantially mirrors the GDPR, and which provides for fines of up to the greater of 17.5 million British Pounds or four percent of the previous year’s annual revenue, whichever is higher.  The relationship between the UK and the EU in relation to certain aspects of data protection law remains unclear following the UK’s exit from the EU, including with respect to regulation of data transfers between EU member states and the UK.  The UK has issued new standard contractual clauses that, like the SCCs, are required to be implemented. We may experience reluctance or refusal by current or prospective customers in the European Economic Area (the "EEA"), the UK, or other regions to use our products, and we may find it necessary or desirable to make further changes to our handling of personal data of residents of the EEA, UK, or other regions. The regulatory environment applicable to the handling of personal data of EEA and UK residents, and our actions taken in response, may cause us to assume additional liabilities or incur additional costs and could result in our business, operating results and financial condition being harmed. Additionally, we and our customers may face a risk of enforcement actions by data protection authorities relating to personal data transfers to us and by us from the EEA, UK, or other regions. Any such enforcement actions could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, distract management and technical personnel and negatively affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Several jurisdictions have passed new laws and regulations relating to privacy, data protection, and other matters, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. These laws continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”) became operative on January 1, 2020 and was amended by the California Privacy Rights Act (“CPRA”) going into effect over time through July 1, 2023. Aspects of the CCPA/CPRA and its interpretation remain uncertain and are likely to remain uncertain for an extended period and may require us to incur additional costs and expenses in an effort to comply. In addition to the CCPA/CPRA, numerous other states have enacted or are considering similar laws that will require ongoing compliance efforts and investment. For example, Connecticut, Virginia, Colorado and Utah have enacted legislation similar to the CCPA and CPRA that took effect in 2023; Florida, Montana, Oregon, and Texas have enacted similar legislation that took effect in 2024; Delaware, Tennessee, Iowa, Maryland, Minnesota, New Hampshire, Nebraska, New Jersey and Tennessee have enacted similar legislation effective, or taking effect in 2025; and Indiana, Rhode Island and Kentucky have enacted similar legislation that will become effective in 2026. Among other emerging laws relating to privacy and data protection globally, India has released its Digital Personal Data Protection Act 2023, India’s Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology has published Draft Digital Personal Data Protection Rules for public comment on January 3, 2025, addressing various matters under this law, but the full scope of the implementation remains uncertain. We maintain an employee and operational presence in India, and this act may require us to modify our policies and practices and incur increased costs in our efforts to comply. In addition, some countries are considering or have enacted legislation requiring local storage and processing of data that could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our services. Accordingly, we cannot predict the full impact of other evolving privacy and data protection obligations on our business or operations. Complying with emerging and changing legal and regulatory requirements relating to privacy, data protection and other matters may cause us to incur costs or require us to change our business practices, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We are also subject to environmental laws and regulations governing the management and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, including the hazardous material content of our products and laws relating to the collection, recycling and 44 disposal of electrical and electronic equipment. Our failure, or the failure of our partners, including our contract manufacturers, to comply with past, present and future environmental laws could result in fines, penalties, third-party claims, reduced sales of our products, re-engineering our products, substantial product inventory write-offs and reputational damage, any of which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We also expect that our business will be affected by new environmental laws and regulations on an ongoing basis applicable to us and our partners, including our contract manufacturers. To date, our expenditures for environmental compliance have not had a material effect on our results of operations or cash flows. Although we cannot predict the future effect of such laws or regulations, they will likely result in additional costs or require us to change the content or manufacturing of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. From time to time, we may receive inquiries from governmental agencies or we may make voluntary disclosures regarding our compliance with applicable governmental regulations or requirements relating to various matters, including import/export controls, federal securities laws and tax laws and regulations which could lead to formal investigations. Actual or alleged noncompliance with applicable laws, regulations or other governmental requirements could lead to regulatory investigations, enforcement actions, and other proceedings, private claims and litigation, and potentially may subject us to sanctions, mandatory product recalls, enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, fines, damages, civil and criminal penalties or injunctions. If any governmental fines, penalties, or other sanctions are imposed, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal litigation, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. In addition, responding to any investigation, action or other proceeding will likely result in a significant diversion of management’s attention and resources and an increase in professional fees. Enforcement actions, investigations, and fines, penalties, and other sanctions could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Issues in the development and use of artificial intelligence, combined with an uncertain regulatory environment, may result in reputational harm, liability, or other adverse consequences to our business operations. We use machine learning and AI technologies in our offerings and business, including in our Arista Guardian for Network Identity offering, and we are making investments in expanding our AI capabilities in our products, services, and tools, including ongoing deployment and improvement of existing machine learning and AI technologies, as well as developing new product features using AI technologies. AI technologies are complex and rapidly evolving, and we face significant competition from other companies as well as evolving legal and regulatory landscapes. Laws and regulations applicable to AI continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. For example, the European Union has adopted on an Artificial Intelligence Act that, when effective, prohibits certain AI applications and systems and imposes additional requirements on the use of certain applications or systems. Additionally, some U.S. states have proposed, and in certain cases enacted, legislation addressing aspects of the use and deployment of AI. The use of AI technologies in new or existing products may result in new or enhanced governmental or regulatory scrutiny, new or modified laws or regulations, claims, demands, and litigation, confidentiality, privacy, data protection, or security risks, ethical concerns, or other complications that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Uncertainty around new and emerging AI technologies may require additional investment in the obtaining, developing and maintaining of proprietary datasets and machine learning models, development of new approaches and processes to provide attribution or remuneration to creators of training data, and development of appropriate protections, safeguards, and policies for handling the processing of data with AI technologies, which may be costly and could impact our expenses. AI technologies also present emerging legal, ethical and social issues, including with respect to potential or actual bias reflected in, or flawed outputs of, models. AI technologies that we make use of may produce or create outputs that appear correct but are factually inaccurate or otherwise flawed, which may expose us to brand or reputational harm, competitive harm, regulatory scrutiny, and/or legal liability. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets or subject us to liability if we violate these controls. Our products are subject to various export controls and because we incorporate encryption technology into certain of our products, certain of our products may be exported from various countries only with the required export license or through an export license exception. If we were to fail to comply with the applicable export control laws, customs regulations, economic sanctions or other applicable laws, we could be subject to monetary damages or the imposition of restrictions which could be material to our business, operating results and prospects and could also harm our reputation. Further, there could be criminal penalties for knowing or willful violations, including incarceration for culpable employees and managers. Obtaining the 45 necessary export license or other authorization for a particular sale may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. Furthermore, certain export control and economic sanctions laws prohibit the shipment of certain products, technology, software and services to embargoed countries and sanctioned governments, entities, and persons. For example, in addition to the controls imposed on China, following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, the United States and other countries imposed restrictions on the import to the US of raw materials and goods from Russia and certain economic sanctions and severe export control restrictions against Russia, Belarus and regions of Ukraine as well as certain Russian nationals and entities which required us, in many cases, to terminate business relationships in those countries. These sanctions and restrictions have continued to increase as the conflict has further escalated, and the United States and other countries could impose wider sanctions and export restrictions as well as prohibitions on the import into the United States of additional raw materials from Russia and take other actions in the future that could further impact our business. Any deterioration in relations between Taiwan and China could lead to additional sanctions or export controls on China, on specific individuals or entities, or otherwise in the region which could impact our ability to sell to certain of our customers, source components from China, or otherwise negatively impact our business. Even though we take precautions to ensure that we and our channel partners comply with all relevant regulations, any failure by us or our channel partners to comply with such regulations could have negative consequences, including reputational harm, government investigations and penalties. In addition, economic sanctions that are vague and not subject to guidance by regulators lead to heightened compliance risk. Although we have developed procedures and controls to comply with export control and other applicable laws, historically, we have had some instances where we, or a business that we acquired, inadvertently did not fully comply with certain trade laws, but we made relevant disclosures to, and implemented corrective actions with, the appropriate government agencies. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology, including through import permit and license requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers’ ability to implement our products in those countries. Any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations or create delays in the introduction of our products into international markets. Any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Failure to comply with anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and anti-money laundering laws, and similar laws, could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (the “FCPA”), the U.S. domestic bribery statute contained in 18 U.S.C. § 201, the United Kingdom Bribery Act 2010, and possibly other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and anti-money laundering laws in countries outside of the United States where we conduct our activities. Anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws have been enforced aggressively in recent years and are interpreted broadly to generally prohibit companies, their employees, agents, representatives, business partners, and third-party intermediaries from authorizing, offering, or providing, directly or indirectly, improper payments or benefits to recipients in the public or private sector. We sometimes leverage third parties to sell our products and conduct our business abroad. We, our employees, agents, representatives, business partners and third-party intermediaries may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state-owned or affiliated entities and we may be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of these employees, agents, representatives, business partners or third-party intermediaries even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. We cannot assure you that all of our employees, agents, representatives, business partners or third-party intermediaries will not take actions in violation of applicable law for which we may be ultimately held responsible. As we have increased our international sales and business, our risks under these laws have increased. These laws also require that we keep accurate books and records and maintain internal controls and compliance procedures designed to prevent any such actions.  While we have policies and procedures to address compliance with such laws, we cannot assure you that none of our employees, agents, representatives, business partners or third-party intermediaries will take actions in violation of our policies and applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. Any allegations or violation of the FCPA or other applicable anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and anti-money laundering laws could result in whistleblower complaints, sanctions, settlements, prosecution, enforcement actions, fines, damages, adverse media coverage, investigations, loss of export privileges, severe criminal or civil sanctions, or suspension or 46 debarment from government contracts, all of which may have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations, and prospects. Responding to any investigation or action will likely result in a materially significant diversion of management’s attention and resources and significant defense costs and other professional fees. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile, and the value of your investment could decline. The trading price of our common stock has historically been and is likely to continue to be volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These fluctuations could cause you to lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. In addition, although the trading price of our common stock has increased significantly in recent years, it is uncertain to continue to increase at the same rate and it may decrease in the future. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the market price of our common stock include, but are not limited to, forward-looking statements related to future revenue, gross margins and earnings per share, changes or decreases in our growth rate, manufacturing, supply or distribution shortages or constraints, the decline in purchases from any of our large customers or the degradation in our relationships with any of our material vendors or partners, ratings changes by securities analysts, actual or anticipated announcements of new products by our company or our competitors, developments in the markets in which we operate, both in the U.S. and globally, litigation, actual or anticipated changes or fluctuations in our results of operations, regulatory developments, repurchases of our common stock, departures of key executives, the financial results or financial projections of our large customers, major catastrophic events, macroeconomic factors including the new U.S. presidential administration, international trade wars, inflation and interest rate fluctuations and other broad market and industry fluctuations. In addition, technology stocks have historically experienced high levels of volatility and, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the market price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The market price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us, or where actual financial results do not meet the expectations set by industry analysts or other market participants. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. If the market price of our common stock is volatile, we may become the target of securities litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources from our business and prospects. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We have adopted a stock repurchase program to repurchase shares of our common stock; however, any future decisions to reduce or discontinue repurchasing our common stock pursuant to such stock repurchase program could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Although our board of directors has authorized a stock repurchase program, any determination to execute stock repurchases will be subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital requirements, market and business conditions, stock price, acquisition opportunities and other factors, as well as our board of director’s continuing determination that the repurchase program is in the best interests of our shareholders and is in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the repurchase program. Our stock repurchase program does not obligate us to acquire any common stock. If we fail to meet any expectations related to stock repurchases, the market price of our common stock could decline, and could have a material adverse impact on investor confidence. Additionally, price volatility of our common stock over a given period may cause the average price at which we repurchase our common stock to exceed the stock’s market price at a given point in time. We may further increase or decrease the amount of repurchases of our common stock in the future. As part of the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 signed into law in August 2022, the United States implemented a 1% excise tax on the value of certain stock repurchases by publicly traded companies. This tax could increase the costs to us of any share repurchases, which could reduce the number of shares we repurchase. Any reduction or discontinuance by us of repurchases of our common stock pursuant to our current stock repurchase program could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Moreover, in the event repurchases of our common stock are reduced or discontinued, our failure or inability to resume repurchasing common stock at historical levels could result in a lower market valuation of our common stock. 47 Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that such sales might occur, could reduce the market price that our common stock might otherwise attain and dilute your voting power and your ownership interest in us. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and may make it more difficult for you to sell your common stock at a time and price that you deem appropriate and may dilute your voting power and your ownership interest in us.  In addition, we have registered the offer and sale of all shares of common stock that we may issue under our equity compensation plans. If holders, by exercising their registration rights, sell large numbers of shares, it could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Insiders have substantial control over us, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. Our directors, executive officers and each of our stockholders who own greater than 10% of our outstanding common stock together with their affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 17.9% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, based on shares outstanding as of December 31, 2024. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, could exercise a significant level of influence over matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. This concentration of ownership may also discourage a potential investor from acquiring our common stock due to the limited voting power of such stock or otherwise may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. Our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage takeover attempts and lead to management entrenchment. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it difficult for stockholders to elect directors that are not nominated by the current members of our board of directors or take other corporate actions, including effecting changes in our management. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which could delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors; • the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer; • the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill an unfilled seat on our board of directors created by the expansion of our board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders; • the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of our board of directors, our chief executive officer, our president (in the absence of our chief executive officer) or our board of directors, by a vote of a majority of the total number of authorized directors, which could delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; • the requirement that a director may be removed from office by our stockholders only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of holders of at least 66 2/3% of the voting power of our capital stock entitled to vote thereon; • the requirement for the affirmative vote of holders of at least 66 2/3% of the voting power of all of the then outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, to amend the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation relating to the structure of our board of directors, the management of our business, and certain rights of our stockholders (including the prohibition on 48 the stockholder’s ability to act by written consent), which may inhibit the ability of an acquirer to effect such amendments to facilitate an unsolicited takeover attempt; • the requirement for the affirmative vote of holders of at least 66 2/3% of the voting power of our capital stock entitled to vote thereon for stockholders to amend, alter or repeal our amended and restated bylaws, which may inhibit the ability of an acquirer to effect such amendments to facilitate an unsolicited takeover attempt; • the ability of our board of directors, by a vote of a majority of the total number of authorized directors, to amend the bylaws, which may allow our board of directors to take additional actions to prevent an unsolicited takeover and inhibit the ability of an acquirer to amend the bylaws to facilitate an unsolicited takeover attempt; and • advance notice procedures with which stockholders must comply to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a certain period of time. General Risks If we are unable to hire, retain, train and motivate qualified personnel and senior management, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could suffer. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, particularly software engineering and sales personnel. In addition, we are expanding internationally and into adjacent markets including the enterprise and AI market, which requires a significant investment of time, effort and financial resources into hiring and training our sales force to address these markets. If we do not effectively train our direct sales force, we may be unable to add new customers, increase sales to our existing customers, or successfully expand into new markets. Competition for highly skilled personnel is often intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area where we have a substantial presence and need for highly skilled personnel. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have to provide more attractive compensation packages and other amenities. Research and development personnel are aggressively recruited by startup and growth companies, which are especially active in many of the technical areas and geographic regions in which we conduct product development. In addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the high-technology industry, job candidates often consider the value of the stock-based compensation they are to receive in connection with their employment. Declines in the market price of our stock could adversely affect our ability to attract, motivate or retain key employees. In addition, our future performance also depends on the continued services and continuing contributions of our senior management to execute our business plan and to identify and pursue new opportunities and product innovations. Our employment arrangements with our employees do not generally require that they continue to work for us for any specified period, and therefore, they could terminate their employment with us at any time. If we are unable to attract or retain qualified personnel, or if there are delays in hiring required personnel, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be seriously harmed. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods, health epidemics and other catastrophic events including as a result of climate change and to interruption by man-made problems such as terrorism and war. Our corporate headquarters and the operations of our key manufacturing vendors, logistics providers and partners, as well as many of our customers, are located in areas exposed to risks of natural disasters such as earthquakes and tsunamis, including the San Francisco Bay Area, Japan and Taiwan. In addition, climate change may result in greater frequency and severity of natural disasters. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, tsunami, fire or a flood, or other catastrophic event such as the COVID-19 pandemic or other disease outbreak, could have a material adverse effect on our or their business, which could in turn materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects.  These events could result in manufacturing and supply chain disruptions, shipment delays, order cancellations, and sales delays which could result in missed financial targets.  Any health epidemic could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain components for our products that are supplied from Asia or to manufacture our products in Asia. Any such disruption of our suppliers, our contract manufacturers or our service providers would likely impact our sales and operating results. In addition, a health epidemic could adversely affect the economies of many countries, resulting in an economic downturn that could affect demand for our products 49 and likely impact our operating results.  In addition, acts of terrorism and war could cause disruptions in our business or the business of our manufacturers, logistics providers, partners or customers or the economy as a whole. Given our typical concentration of sales at each quarter end, any disruption in the business of our manufacturers, logistics providers, partners or customers that affects sales at the end of our quarter could have a particularly significant adverse effect on our quarterly results. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We have never declared nor paid any dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the future. As a result, you may only receive a return on your investment in our common stock if the market price of our common stock increases. 50