Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations, Income Taxes, and Part IV—Note 7, Income taxes, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our provision for income taxes and results of operations in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of income and expenses in countries with differing tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in applicable tax laws, regulations or administrative interpretations thereof. The 2017 Tax Act is complex and a large volume of regulations and guidance has been issued and could be subject to different interpretations. We could face audit challenges to our application of the 2017 Tax Act. 33 As previously reported, the OECD reached an agreement to align countries on a minimum corporate tax rate and an expansion of the taxing rights of market countries. As of January 1, 2025, select individual countries, including the United Kingdom, EU member countries, and Singapore, have enacted the global minimum tax agreement. Our legal entities in the countries that have enacted the agreement, along with their direct and indirect subsidiaries, are now subject to a 15% minimum tax rate on adjusted financial statement income. Additional provisions of the OECD agreement may come into effect in future years, and the OECD is expected to continue to release additional guidance that may impact the application and interpretation of the agreement that could further increase our tax liabilities. Other countries, including the United States and the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico, have not yet enacted the OECD agreement and implementation remains highly uncertain. The continued enactment of the agreement, either by all OECD participants or unilaterally by individual countries, could result in tax increases or double taxation in the United States or foreign jurisdictions. The tax rates associated with certain international provisions of the 2017 Tax Act are set to increase beginning in 2026. If those changes take effect as scheduled, we anticipate that the overall U.S. tax rate on our foreign income would increase. The Administration and U.S. Congress are discussing various proposals that would renew, modify, or eliminate the international and other corporate provisions of the 2017 Tax Act and U.S. tax law more generally. Changes to existing tax law in the United States, the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico or other jurisdictions, including the changes and potential changes discussed above, could result in tax increases where we do business and could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. Our business may be affected by litigation and government investigations. We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in legal proceedings. See Part IV—Note 20, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Civil and criminal litigation is inherently unpredictable, and the outcome can result in costly verdicts, fines and penalties, exclusion from federal healthcare programs and/or injunctive relief that affect how we operate our business. Defense of litigation claims can be expensive, time consuming and distracting, and it is possible that we could incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages or change the way we operate our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. In addition, product liability is a major risk in testing and marketing biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. We may face substantial product liability exposure in human clinical trials and for products we sell after regulatory approval. Product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could be costly and divert management’s attention and could adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our products. We and certain of our subsidiaries have previously been, and currently are, named as defendants in product liability actions for certain of our products. We are also involved in government investigations that arise in the ordinary course of our business. In recent years, there has been a trend of increasing government investigations and litigations against companies operating in our industry, both in the United States and around the world. See Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from government and commercial third-party payers, and pricing and reimbursement pressures have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our profitability. Our business activities outside of the United States are subject to the FCPA and similar antibribery or anticorruption laws, regulations or rules of other countries in which we operate, including the U.K. Bribery Act. We cannot ensure that all our employees, agents, contractors, vendors, licensees, partners or collaborators will comply with all applicable laws and regulations. We entered into a corporate integrity agreement with the DOJ and the OIG of the HHS to settle certain allegations relating to our support of independent charitable organizations that provide patients with financial assistance to access their medicines that required us to maintain a corporate compliance program and to undertake a set of defined corporate integrity obligations through April 2024, and that we completed on November 27, 2024. While we fully complied with all of our obligations under the corporate integrity agreement, we may be subject to future corporate integrity agreements and failure to comply could result in substantial penalties and potential exclusion from government healthcare programs. We may also see new government investigations of or actions against us citing novel theories of recovery. For example, prosecutors are placing greater scrutiny on patient support programs, including commercial copay assistance programs, and further enforcement actions and investigations regarding such programs could limit our ability to provide co-pay assistance to commercial patients. Greater scrutiny has also been placed on sponsorships, speaker programs and other arrangements where healthcare professionals receive remuneration, travel or other value to participate in certain events, and further enforcement actions could limit our ability to participate in such arrangements. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND OPERATING A GLOBAL BUSINESS Our efforts to collaborate with or acquire other companies, products, or technology, and to integrate the operations of companies or to support the products or technology we have acquired, may not be successful, and may result in unanticipated costs, delays or failures to realize the benefits of the transactions. We seek innovation through significant investment in both internal R&D and external transactions, including collaborations, partnerships, alliances, licenses, joint ventures, mergers and acquisitions (collectively, acquisition activity). 34 Acquisition activities may be subject to regulatory approvals or other requirements that are not within our control. Antitrust scrutiny by regulatory agencies and changes to regulatory approval process in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions may cause approvals to take longer than anticipated to obtain, not be obtained at all, or contain burdensome conditions, which may jeopardize, delay or reduce the anticipated benefits of acquisitions to us and could impede the execution of our business strategy. There can be no assurance that such regulatory or other approvals will be obtained or that all closing conditions required in connection with our acquisition activities will be satisfied or waived, which could result in us being unable to complete the planned acquisition activities. Acquisition activities are complex, time consuming and expensive and may result in unanticipated costs, delays or other operational or financial problems related to integrating the acquired company and business with our company, which may divert our management’s attention from other business issues and opportunities and restrict the full realization of the anticipated benefits of such transactions within the expected timeframe or at all. We may pay substantial amounts of cash, incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for acquisition activities, which could adversely affect our liquidity or result in dilution to our stockholders, respectively. For example, the primary sources of funds for our acquisition of Horizon were those received from our $24 billion of senior notes issued on March 2, 2023, together with the $4 billion drawn down from our term loan facility, of which we repaid $2.2 billion, and while the Company currently has investment grade credit ratings, this substantial additional indebtedness resulted in downgrades to our credit ratings. Further, failures or difficulties in integrating or retaining new personnel or in integrating the operations of the businesses, products or assets we acquire (including related technology, research, development and commercial operations, compliance programs, manufacturing, distribution and general business operations and procedures and ESG activities) may affect our ability to realize the benefits of the transaction and grow our business and may result in us incurring asset impairment or restructuring charges. These and other challenges may arise in connection with our acquisitions, including our acquisitions of ChemoCentryx and Horizon and/or our collaborations with BeiGene and Kyowa Kirin, or with other acquisition activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and stock price. We may not realize the anticipated strategic benefits of our acquisition of Horizon, including our efforts to leverage Amgen’s global presence and commercial and medical capabilities in inflammation and nephrology to accelerate revenue growth of Horizon’s products. Our assumptions and estimates about the future revenue growth of Horizon’s products may prove to be incorrect. Sales of our rare disease products acquired through our acquisition of Horizon will depend on our ability to increase awareness and educate physicians on the rare conditions that such medicines are designed to treat, as well as successfully identifying target patients and educating them about our treatments. We may also face greater than expected challenges associated with rare disease drug development (such as challenges obtaining patients for clinical trials and/or regulatory approvals) and reimbursement (such as obtaining reimbursement of orphan drugs by public health systems). We are in the process of completing the integration of the Horizon business into ours, including a number of complex operational and administrative systems, including with respect to information and information security systems and supply chain systems and third party relationships (including vendors and third party manufacturers). For example, Horizon adds more than 30 contract manufacturing organizations (CMOs) to our operations, many of which are single source suppliers (including the CMO that produces TEPEZZA drug substance and the CMO that produces all of our KRYSTEXXA drug substance in Israel that is affected by the current conflict in Israel and Gaza). Business integrations generally, and our integration of Horizon specifically, are complex, time consuming and expensive, and we may experience unanticipated costs, delays or other operational or financial challenges. These integration efforts may also divert our management’s attention and resources away from other business operations, which may disrupt to some degree our ongoing business. Failure to successfully fully integrate the Horizon business into ours and/or achieve its anticipated strategic benefits may result in our incurring significant asset impairment or restructuring charges, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and stock price. A breakdown of our information technology systems, cyberattack or information security breach could significantly compromise the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our information technology systems, network-connected control systems and/or our data, interrupt the operation of our business and/or affect our reputation. To achieve our business objectives, we rely on sophisticated information technology systems, including hardware, software, technology infrastructure, online sites and networks for both internal and external operations, mobile applications, cloud services and network-connected control systems, some of which are managed, hosted, provided or serviced by third parties. Internal or external events that compromise the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems and data may significantly interrupt the operation of our business, result in significant costs and/or adversely affect our reputation. Our information technology systems are highly integrated into our business, including our R&D efforts, our clinical and commercial manufacturing processes and our product sales and distribution processes. Further, as the majority of our employees work remotely for some portion of their jobs in our hybrid work environment, our reliance on our and third-party information technology systems has increased substantially and is expected to continue to increase. Remote and hybrid working arrangements, including those of many third-party providers, can increase cybersecurity risks due to the challenges associated 35 with managing remote computing assets and security vulnerabilities that are present in many non-corporate and home networks. The complexity and interconnected nature of software, hardware and our systems make them vulnerable to breakdown or other service interruptions, and to software errors or defects, misconfiguration and other security vulnerabilities. For example, in July 2024, businesses worldwide were affected by an information technology outage due to a faulty software update issued by a cybersecurity firm. Although our systems and operations were temporarily affected by the outage, the impact of this firm’s faulty update on the Company was immaterial to our business operations. However, there can be no assurance that a future similar incident would not result in a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Upgrades or changes to our systems or the software that we use have resulted and we expect, in the future, will result in the introduction of new cybersecurity vulnerabilities and risks. In 2022, we identified a number of security vulnerabilities introduced into our information systems as a result of flaws that we subsequently identified in software that we had purchased and installed, and these flaws required that we apply emergency patches to certain of our systems. While we did not experience any significant adverse effects as a result of these vulnerabilities, there can be no assurance that we will timely identify and address future vulnerabilities. Our systems are also subject to frequent perimeter network reconnaissance and scanning, phishing and other cyberattacks. For example, as a result of our cybersecurity monitoring of the Horizon legacy information systems, we detected phishing activity in the accounts of two Horizon executives. These accounts were de-activated, the incidents were investigated and the determination was made separately by both our internal cybersecurity team and our external digital forensics and incident response supplier that no confidential information had been exfiltrated, and the incidents are now closed. As the cyber-threat landscape evolves, these attacks are growing in frequency, sophistication, and intensity, and are becoming increasingly difficult to detect and increasingly sophisticated in using techniques and tools—including artificial intelligence—that circumvent security controls, evade detection and remove forensic evidence. Such attacks could include the use of harmful and virulent malware, including ransomware or other denials of service, which can be deployed through various means, including the software supply chain, e-mail, malicious websites and/or the use of social engineering/phishing. We have also experienced denial of service attacks against our network, and, although such attacks did not succeed, there can be no assurance that our efforts to guard against the wide and growing variety of potential attack techniques will be successful in the future. Attacks such as those experienced by government entities (including those that approve and/or regulate our products, such as the EMA) and other multi-national companies, including some of our peers, could leave us unable to utilize key business systems or access or protect important data, and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business, including developing, gaining regulatory approval for, manufacturing, selling and/or distributing our products. For example, in 2017, a pharmaceutical company experienced a cyberattack involving virulent malware that significantly disrupted its operations, including its research and sales operations and the production of some of its medicines and vaccines. As a result of the cyberattack, its orders and sales for certain products were negatively affected. In late 2020, SolarWinds Corporation, a leading provider of software for monitoring and managing information technology infrastructure, disclosed that it had suffered a cybersecurity incident whereby attackers had inserted malicious code into legitimate software updates for its products that were installed by myriad private and government customers, enabling the attackers to access a backdoor to such systems. In 2022, Okta, Inc., a provider of software that helps companies manage user authentication, disclosed that several hundred of its corporate customers were vulnerable to a security breach that allowed attackers to access Okta’s internal network. Although this breach did not have a significant effect on our business, there can be no assurance that a similar future breach would not result in a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Our systems also contain and use a high volume of sensitive data, including intellectual property, trade secrets and other proprietary business information, financial information, regulatory information, strategic plans, sales trends and forecasts, litigation materials and/or personal identifiable information belonging to us, our staff, our patients, customers and/or other parties. In some cases, we utilize third-party service providers to collect, process, store, manage or transmit such data, which have increased our risk. Intentional or inadvertent data privacy or security breaches (including cyberattacks) resulting from attacks or lapses by employees, service providers (including providers of information technology-specific services), business partners, nation states (including groups associated with or supported by foreign intelligence agencies), organized crime organizations, “hacktivists” or others, create risks that our sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons, our competitors or the public. Malicious actors, including those working under state-sponsored campaigns, have sought employment, often in remote information technology roles, as a means to gain inside access at targeted companies. In the third quarter of 2024, an individual used fraudulent identification in connection with their hiring by the Company. While the individual was detected and terminated before any data was extracted or malware installed, there can be no assurance that future attempts by similar actors will be unsuccessful. System vulnerabilities and/or cybersecurity breaches experienced by our third-party service providers have constituted a substantial share of the information security risks that have affected us. For example, in the first half of 2021, a supplier experienced a data breach in which an unauthorized third party acquired access to certain information provided to the supplier in the course of its provision of services to us, including business documents and certain personally identifiable patient information (not including social security or other financial or health insurance information). As required, we promptly notified the applicable state attorneys general and the individuals whose personally identifiable information was affected of this data breach at the supplier. In the third quarter of 2022, another service provider experienced a 36 similar cybersecurity breach in which an attacker exfiltrated certain data (including non-significant Amgen data) from the service provider’s systems. Additionally, in April 2024, one of our former vendors notified us that its subsidiary that had provided us with certain patient support services until mid-2022, experienced a cybersecurity incident that it discovered in February 2024 and that data containing individually identifiable health information of over 1.7 million Amgen patients (that was retained as required by FDA regulations) was involved in the incident. Pursuant to the Health Breach Notification Rule requirements, we notified the FTC of this incident. Although these supplier data breaches have not resulted in material adverse effects on our business, there can be no assurance that a similar future cybersecurity incident would not result in a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Further, the timeliness of our awareness of a cybersecurity incident affects our ability to respond to and work to mitigate the severity of such events. For example, in 2020 and 2022, two of our vendors experienced cyberattacks and each initially reported to us that neither event involved our data. However, upon further investigation, they each subsequently informed us that the attackers had accessed limited, non-significant Amgen information. Although neither of these breaches had a significant adverse effect on our business, in the future we may again not receive timely reporting of cybersecurity events and such events could have a material adverse effect on our business. Cyberattackers are also increasingly exploiting vulnerabilities in commercially available software from shared or open-source code. We rely on third party commercial software that have had and may have such vulnerabilities, but as use of open-source code is frequently not disclosed, our ability to fully assess this risk to our systems is limited. For example, in December 2021, a remote code execution vulnerability was discovered in a software library that is widely used in a variety of commercially available software and services. Although this vulnerability has not resulted in any significant adverse effects on us, there can be no assurances that a similar future vulnerability in the software and services that we use would not result in a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Domestic and global government regulators, our business partners, suppliers with whom we do business, companies that provide us or our partners with business services and companies we have acquired or may acquire face similar risks. Security breaches of their systems or service outages have adversely affected systems and could, in the future, affect our systems and security, leave us without access to important systems, products, raw materials, components, services or information, or expose our confidential data or sensitive personal information. For example, in 2019, two vendors that perform testing and analytical services that we use in developing and manufacturing our products experienced cyberattacks, and in April and September of 2020, vendors that provide us with information technology services and clinical data services, respectively, each experienced ransomware attacks. Although there was no breach of our systems, each of these incidents required us to disconnect our systems from those vendors’ systems. While we were able to reconnect our systems following restoration of these vendors’ capabilities without significantly affecting product availability, a more extended service outage affecting these or other vendors, particularly where such vendor is the single source from which we obtain the services, could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. In February 2024, Change Healthcare, a large U.S. insurance claim and co-pay card processing clearinghouse, experienced a ransomware attack that has caused significant disruptions to healthcare provider and pharmacy operations. While Change Healthcare does not directly provide us with services, disruptions to co-pay card support, insurance billing and Medicaid rebate processing led to lost sales and required us to take action to help patients access their medications and to provide extended payment terms to certain customers. Although services have been rerouted and restored, and the impact on our business has been immaterial, similar disruptions may occur in the future stemming from the interconnectedness of the U.S. healthcare ecosystem and industry reliance on centralized claims processing systems and networks, and such future disruptions may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. In addition, we distribute our products in the United States primarily through three pharmaceutical wholesalers, and a security breach that impairs the distribution operations of our wholesalers could significantly impair our ability to deliver our products to healthcare providers and patients. There can be no assurance that our cybersecurity risk management program and processes, including our policies, controls, or procedures, will be fully implemented, complied with or effective in protecting our information technology systems and sensitive data. Although we have experienced system breakdowns, attacks and information security breaches, we do not believe such breakdowns, attacks and breaches have had a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We will continue to experience varying degrees of cyberattacks and other incidents in the future. Even though we continue to invest in the monitoring, protection and resilience of our critical and/or sensitive data and systems, there can be no assurances that our efforts will detect, prevent or fully recover systems or data from all breakdowns, service interruptions, attacks and/or breaches of our systems that could adversely affect our business and operations and/or result in the loss or exposure of critical, proprietary, private, confidential or otherwise sensitive data, which could result in material financial, legal business or reputational harm to us or negatively affect our stock price. While we maintain cyber-liability insurance, our insurance is not sufficient to cover us against all losses that could potentially result from a service interruption, breach of our systems or loss of our critical or sensitive data. We are also subject to various laws and regulations globally regarding cybersecurity, privacy and data protection, including laws and regulations relating to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer and security of personal 37 data. The legislative and regulatory environment regarding privacy and data protection is continuously evolving and developing and the subject of significant attention globally. For example, we are subject to the EU’s GDPR, which became effective in May 2018, and the CCPA, which became effective in January 2020, both of which provide for substantial penalties for noncompliance. The CCPA was amended in late 2020, to create the California Privacy Rights Act to create opt in requirements for the use of sensitive personal data and the formation of a new dedicated agency for the enforcement of the law, the California Privacy Protection Agency. Similar consumer privacy laws went into effect in 13 other states, have been enacted (but not yet in effect) in 6 other states, and have been proposed in four additional states. Outside the United States, other jurisdictions where we operate have passed, or continue to propose, data privacy or cybersecurity legislation and/or regulations. For example, in China, the Personal Information Protection Law and the Data Security Law, which regulate data processing activities associated with personal and nonpersonal data, are in effect and build upon the existing Cybersecurity Law. Failure to comply with these current and future laws could result in significant penalties and reputational harm and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are adopting and exploring the use of artificial intelligence (AI) in our business, and as an emerging and rapidly evolving technology, our use of AI introduces potential opportunities but also presents risks that could adversely affect our operations, information security and reputation. AI systems may produce inaccurate or flawed outputs due to flawed algorithms, or insufficient and/or erroneous training data. Reliance on flawed outputs could result in lower quality decision-making or prevent us from effectively utilizing AI in our business. We may also become vulnerable to operational disruptions if the AI technologies we use experience downtimes or are compromised by cyberattacks. If we do not effectively implement guardrails and train our staff on the safe and proper use of AI, or if our staff fail to effectively adhere to our established guardrails and training on the use of AI, we may experience adverse effects on our business, including data breaches, the loss of confidential information (including our intellectual property), unintentional disclosure of personal data, or other misuse of our proprietary information. Further, several governments and regulatory authorities have proposed or passed laws and regulations governing the use of AI. For example, in March 2024, the European Parliament adopted the Artificial Intelligence Act that provides for EU-wide rules on data quality, transparency, human oversight and accountability with respect to the use of artificial intelligence. In April 2024, the EU also revised its Cybersecurity Directive NIS2 rules that create new cybersecurity risk management and reporting obligations. Failure to comply with these current and future laws could result in significant penalties and reputational harm and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our sales and operations are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including in emerging markets. As we continue our expansion efforts in emerging markets around the world, through acquisitions and licensing transactions as well as through the development and introduction, both independently and through collaborations such as our collaboration with BeiGene, of our products in new markets, we face numerous risks to our business. There is no guarantee that our efforts and strategies to expand sales in emerging markets will succeed. Our international business, including in China and emerging market countries, may be especially vulnerable to periods of global and local political, legal, regulatory and financial instability, including issues of geopolitical relations, the imposition of international sanctions in response to certain state actions and/or sovereign debt issues, and management of health policy in response to pressures such as global pandemics. For example, the BIOSECURE Act that prohibits federal contracting with companies that have commercial connections with enumerated “biotechnology companies of concern” located in certain geographies, including China, has passed in the U.S. House of Representatives, and, if passed by the U.S. Senate and signed into law by the Administration, could restrict our ability to contract or collaborate with such biotechnology companies in the future. If relations between the United States and other governments deteriorate, our business and investments in such markets may also be adversely affected. We may also be required to increase our reliance on third-party agents and unfamiliar operations and arrangements, including those previously utilized by companies we partner with or acquire in emerging markets. See We must conduct clinical trials in humans before we commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications . Our expansion efforts in China and emerging markets around the world are dependent upon the establishment of an environment that is predictable, navigable and supportive of biopharmaceutical innovation, sustained access for our products and predictable pricing controls. China continues to strengthen regulations on the collection, use and transmission of Chinese human genetic resources, and has expanded regulations on the conduct of biotechnology R&D activities in China. For example, between 2020 and 2022, we experienced delays in our applications to the Human Genetic Resources Administration of China that sought approval to conduct clinical trials in China. Our international operations and business may also be subject to less protective intellectual property or other applicable laws, diverse data privacy and protection requirements, changing tax laws and tariffs, trade restrictions or other barriers designed to protect industry in the home country against foreign competition, far-reaching antibribery and anticorruption laws and regulations and/or evolving legal and regulatory environments. For example, recent cross-border data transfer compliance requirements in China, as well as a new DOJ final rule on preventing access to Americans’ bulk sensitive personal data by “countries of concern,” may also impose additional costs of doing business, including costs associated with localizing operations. 38 In response to the ongoing armed conflict in Ukraine, the U.S. government, numerous state governments, the EU and other countries in which we conduct business have imposed a wide range of economic sanctions that restrict commerce and business dealings with Russia, certain regions of Ukraine and certain entities and individuals. Additionally, the recent armed conflict in the Middle East has caused regional disruptions to economic activity. For a description of the conflict’s impact on our third-party contract manufacturing of KRYSTEXXA, see Our efforts to collaborate with or acquire other companies, products, or technology, and to integrate the operations of companies or to support the products or technology we have acquired, may not be successful, and may result in unanticipated costs, delays or failures to realize the benefits of the transactions . T hese conflicts may also precipitate or amplify the other risks described herein, including risks relating to cybersecurity, global economic conditions, clinical trials and supply chains, which could adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition and results. As we expand internationally, we are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. While we have a program in place that is designed to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations through foreign currency hedging arrangements, our hedging efforts do not completely offset the effect of these fluctuations on our revenues and earnings. Overall, the legal and operational challenges of our international business operations, along with government controls, the challenges of attracting and retaining qualified personnel and obtaining and/or maintaining necessary regulatory or pricing approvals of our products, may result in material adverse effects on our international product sales, business and results of operations. We may not be able to access the capital and credit markets on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. The capital and credit markets may experience extreme volatility and disruption, which may lead to uncertainty and liquidity issues for both borrowers and investors. For example, in early 2020, there were significant disruptions in the commercial paper market and several borrowers were unable to obtain funding at normal rates or maturities, which resulted in a significant increase in draws of corporate credit lines with banks. Similarly, the bond markets experienced extreme volatility in terms of interest rates and credit spreads, with several days without new issuances of corporate bonds. While we have historically accessed capital markets to supplement our existing funds and cash generated from operations to satisfy our needs for capital expenditures, debt service requirements, to pay dividends and repurchase stock, and engage in other business initiatives, including acquisitions and licensing activities, in 2023, we substantially increased our outstanding indebtedness in connection with our acquisition of Horizon, which may limit our ability to timely obtain additional financing on desired terms. See Our efforts to collaborate with or acquire other companies, products, or technology, and to integrate the operations of companies or to support the products or technology we have acquired, may not be successful, and may result in unanticipated costs, delays or failures to realize the benefits of the transactions . While we have reduced, and plan to continue to reduce, our debt leverage levels before returning to the capital or credit markets for new funds, if we are required to access the capital and credit markets at an inopportune time, including when adverse capital and credit market conditions prevail, we may be unable to obtain financing on favorable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations or our ability to complete business acquisitions. Changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized credit-rating agencies could also adversely affect our ability to obtain capital and credit market financing and the cost of such financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. RISKS RELATED TO COMPETITION Our products face substantial competition and our product candidates are also likely to face substantial competition. We operate in a highly competitive environment. See