Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources.) We have received, and we continue to seek, additional patent protection relating to our products, including patents on our products, specific processes for making our products, formulations and particular uses of our products.  However, competitors may be able to invalidate, design around or otherwise circumvent our patents and sell competing products. Our sales and operations are subject to the risks of doing business in emerging markets. We expect a significant portion of growth in our future business to come from expanding our footprint and presence in emerging markets.  As we continue our expansion efforts in emerging markets around the world, through acquisitions and licensing transactions as well as through the development and introduction of our current products into new markets, we face numerous risks to our business.  There is no guarantee that the Company’s efforts and strategies to expand sales in emerging markets will succeed or that the growth rates experienced in these countries will continue in the future.  Emerging market countries may be especially vulnerable to periods of global political, legal, regulatory and financial instability, including sovereign debt issues and/or fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  The Company may also be required to increase its reliance on third-party agents and unfamiliar operations and arrangements previously utilized by companies that we partner with or acquire in emerging markets (See We must conduct clinical trials in humans before we can commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications.).  Our international operations and business may also be subject to less protective intellectual property or other applicable laws, diverse data privacy and protection requirements, changing tax laws and tariffs, far-reaching anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and regulations and an evolving legal and regulatory environment.  These legal and operational challenges along with the imposition of governmental controls, the challenges of attracting and retaining qualified personnel and obtaining and/or maintain necessary regulatory or pricing approvals of our products may result in a material adverse impact on the international sales of our products, our business and results of operations. 29 Concentration of sales at certain of our wholesaler distributors and consolidation of free-standing dialysis clinic businesses may negatively impact our bargaining power and profit margins. The substantial majority of our U.S. product sales are made to three pharmaceutical product wholesaler distributors, AmerisourceBergen Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and McKesson Corporation. These distributors, in turn, sell our products to their customers, which include physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. One of our products, EPOGEN ® , is sold primarily to free-standing dialysis clinics, which have experienced significant consolidation. Two organizations, DaVita and Fresenius Medical Care North America, own or manage a large number of the outpatient dialysis facilities located in the United States and account for a substantial majority of all EPOGEN ® sales in the free-standing dialysis clinic setting. Due to this concentration, these entities have substantial purchasing leverage, which may put pressure on our pricing by their potential ability to extract price discounts on our products or fees for other services, correspondingly negatively impacting our bargaining position and profit margins. Our business may be affected by litigation and government investigations. We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in legal proceedings. (See Note 18, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.) Civil and criminal litigation is inherently unpredictable, and the outcome can result in costly verdicts, fines and penalties, exclusion from the federal healthcare programs and/or injunctive relief that affect how we operate our business. Defense of litigation claims can be expensive, time-consuming and distracting and it is possible that we could incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages or change the way we operate our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, product liability is a major risk in testing and marketing biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. We may face substantial product liability exposure in human clinical trials and for products that we sell after regulatory approval. Product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could be costly and divert management's attention and adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our products. Amgen and Immunex have previously been named as defendants in product liability actions for certain of our products. We are also involved in government investigations that arise in the ordinary course of our business. As we announced on December 19, 2012, we finalized a settlement agreement with the U.S. government and various other parties to settle certain allegations regarding our sales and marketing practices. However, we may also be subject to actions by governmental entities, including those not participating in the settlement, and may in the future become subject to claims by other parties, in each case with respect to the alleged conduct which is the subject of the settlement. We may see new governmental investigations of or actions against us citing novel theories of recovery. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we do business. As a result, our provision for income taxes is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various places we operate.  Significant judgment is required for determining our provision for income tax and our tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. We believe our accrual for tax liabilities is adequate for all open years based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the complexity of the provision for income taxes, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. Our provision for income taxes and results of operations in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of income and expenses in countries with differing tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in applicable tax laws, regulations or administrative interpretations thereof. For example, there are several proposals under consideration in the United States to reform tax law, including proposals that may reduce or eliminate the deferral of U.S. income tax on our unrepatriated foreign earnings. A significant change to the U.S. tax system, such as a change to the taxation of income earned outside the United States including credits allowed for foreign taxes, or a  significant change to the Puerto Rico tax system, could have a material and adverse effect on our business and on the results of our operations. We may not be able to access the capital and credit markets on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. The capital and credit markets may experience extreme volatility and disruption which may lead to uncertainty and liquidity issues for both borrowers and investors.  We may access the capital markets to supplement our existing funds and cash generated from operations in satisfying our needs for working capital; capital expenditure and debt service requirements; our plans to pay dividends; and other business initiatives we plan to strategically pursue, including acquisitions and licensing activities. In the event of adverse capital and credit market conditions, we may be unable to obtain capital market financing on similar favorable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized credit rating agencies could adversely affect our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. 30 Our risk mitigation measures and corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we effectively manage all operational risks and that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable U.S. federal and state regulations and all potentially applicable foreign regulations and/or other requirements. The development, manufacturing, distribution, pricing, sales, marketing and reimbursement of our products, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive federal and state regulation in the United States and to extensive regulation in foreign countries. (See Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not maintain or gain regulatory approval and Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales.) In addition, our business is complex and involves significant operational risks. While we have implemented numerous risk mitigation measures to comply with such regulations in this complex operating environment, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to effectively mitigate all operational risks. Further, we are now operating under a corporate integrity agreement with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, OIG, which requires us to maintain our corporate compliance program and to undertake a set of defined obligations. The corporate integrity agreement requires us to make periodic attestations that we are implementing and following the provisions of the corporate integrity agreement, and provides for an independent third-party review organization to assess and report on our compliance to the OIG. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program, we cannot guarantee that we, our employees, our partners, our consultants or our contractors are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable U.S. federal and state regulations and/or laws, all potentially applicable foreign regulations and/or laws and/or all requirements of the corporate integrity agreement. If we fail to adequately mitigate our operational risks or if we or our agents fail to comply with any of those regulations, laws and/or requirements of the corporate integrity agreement, a range of actions could result, including, but not limited to, the termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of our products from the market, significant fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs or other sanctions or litigation. Such occurrences could have a material and adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. We are increasingly dependent on information technology systems, infrastructure and data. We are increasingly dependent upon information technology systems, infrastructure and data. The multitude and complexity of our computer systems make them inherently vulnerable to service interruption or destruction, malicious intrusion and random attack. Likewise, data privacy or security breaches by employees or others may pose a risk that sensitive data, including intellectual property, trade secrets or personal information belonging to the Company, its patients, customers or other business partners, may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. Cyber-attacks are increasing in their frequency, sophistication and intensity.  Cyber-attacks could include the deployment of harmful malware, denial-of-service, social engineering and other means to affect service reliability and threaten data confidentiality, integrity and availability. Our key business partners face similar risks and any security breach of their systems could adversely affect our security posture. While in the past we have experienced cyber-attacks and intrusions into our computer systems, we do not believe that such attacks have had a material adverse effect on our operations.  While we have invested heavily in the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions, or identify breaches in our systems, that could adversely affect our business and operations and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive information, which could result in financial, legal, business or reputational harm to us. Global economic conditions may negatively affect us and may magnify certain risks that affect our business. Our operations and performance have been, and may continue to be, affected by economic conditions in the United States and throughout the world. As more fully explained below, financial pressures may cause government or other third-party payers to more aggressively seek cost containment through mandatory discounts on our products, policies requiring the automatic substitution of generics or biosimilars, higher hurdles for initial reimbursement approval for new products or other similar measures. (See We expect to face increasing competition from biosimilars.) Additionally, as a result of global economic conditions, third-party payers may delay or be unable to satisfy their reimbursement obligations. In addition, as a result of the economic conditions and/or employer decisions regarding the insurance coverage mandate that goes into effect in the United States in 2015 and 2016, some employers may seek to reduce costs by reducing or eliminating employer group healthcare plans or transferring a greater portion of healthcare costs to their employees. Job losses or other economic hardships may also result in reduced levels of coverage for some individuals, potentially resulting in lower levels of healthcare coverage for themselves or their families. These economic conditions may affect patients' ability to afford health care as a result of increased co-pay or deductible obligations, greater cost sensitivity to existing co-pay or deductible obligations, lost healthcare insurance coverage or for other reasons. We believe such conditions have led and could continue to lead to changes in patient behavior and spending patterns that negatively affect usage of certain of our products, including some patients delaying treatment, rationing prescription medications, leaving prescriptions unfilled, reducing the frequency of visits to healthcare facilities, utilizing alternative therapies and/or foregoing healthcare insurance coverage. In addition to its effects on consumers, any economic downturn may have also increased cost sensitivities among medical providers in the United States, such as oncology clinics, particularly in circumstances where providers may experience challenges in the collection of patient co-pays or be forced to absorb treatment costs as a result of coverage decisions or reimbursement terms. Collectively, we believe these changes have resulted and may continue to result in reduced demand for our products, which could 31 materially and adversely affect the sales of our products, our business and results of operations. Any resulting decrease in demand for our products could also cause us to experience excess inventory write-offs and/or excess capacity or impairment charges at certain of our manufacturing facilities. Economic conditions continue to affect our operations and performance outside the United States as well, particularly in countries where government-sponsored healthcare systems are the primary payers for healthcare expenditures. Credit and economic conditions have adversely impacted the timing of collections of our trade receivables. (See