Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations, Income Taxes, and Part IV—Note 6, Income taxes, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In 2020, we received an RAR and a modified RAR from the IRS for the years 2013, 2014 and 2015, also proposing significant adjustments that primarily relate to the allocation of profits between certain of our entities in the United States and the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico similar to those proposed for the years 2010, 2011 and 2012. We disagreed with the proposed adjustments and calculations and pursued resolution with the IRS appeals office. We were unable to reach resolution at the administrative appeals level, and we anticipate that we will receive a statutory notice of deficiency for these years as well. We expect to contest any such notice related to 2013–15 through the judicial process. We are also currently under examination by the IRS for the years 2016, 2017 and 2018 and by a number of state and foreign tax jurisdictions. Final resolution of these complex matters is not likely within the next 12 months. We continue to believe our accrual for income tax liabilities is appropriate based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, application of the tax law to our facts 35 and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the complexity of the provision for income taxes and uncertain resolution of these matters, the ultimate outcome of any tax matters may result in payments substantially greater than amounts accrued and could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. Our provision for income taxes and results of operations in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of income and expenses in countries with differing tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in applicable tax laws, regulations or administrative interpretations thereof. The 2017 Tax Act is complex and a large volume of regulations and guidance has been issued and could be subject to different interpretations. We could face audit challenges to our application of the 2017 Tax Act. The Administration proposed and Congress is considering significant changes to existing tax law. These changes, if enacted, could substantially increase taxes we pay to the U.S. government. Further, the OECD recently reached agreement to align countries on a minimum corporate tax rate and an expansion of the taxing rights of market countries. If enacted, this agreement could result in tax increases in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. The U.S. Treasury recently released final foreign tax credit regulations that eliminate U.S. creditability of the Puerto Rico Excise Tax beginning 2023, which will increase our U.S. tax liability. The U.S. territory of Puerto Rico is considering changes to its tax system that may minimize or eliminate this impact, but the outcome of such potential changes are uncertain. Changes to existing tax law in the United States, the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico, or other jurisdictions, including the potential changes discussed above, could result in tax increases where we do business and could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. Our business may be affected by litigation and government investigations. We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in legal proceedings. See Part IV—Note 19, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Civil and criminal litigation is inherently unpredictable, and the outcome can result in costly verdicts, fines and penalties, exclusion from federal healthcare programs and/or injunctive relief that affect how we operate our business. Defense of litigation claims can be expensive, time consuming and distracting, and it is possible that we could incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages or change the way we operate our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. In addition, product liability is a major risk in testing and marketing biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. We may face substantial product liability exposure in human clinical trials and for products we sell after regulatory approval. Product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could be costly and divert management’s attention and could adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our products. We and certain of our subsidiaries have previously been named as defendants in product liability actions for certain of our products. We are also involved in government investigations that arise in the ordinary course of our business. In recent years, there has been a trend of increasing government investigations and litigations against companies operating in our industry, both in the United States and around the world. See Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from government and commercial third-party payers, and pricing and reimbursement pressures have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our profitability. Our business activities outside of the United States are subject to the FCPA and similar antibribery or anticorruption laws, regulations or rules of other countries in which we operate, including the U.K. Bribery Act. We cannot ensure that all our employees, agents, contractors, vendors, licensees, partners or collaborators will comply with all applicable laws and regulations. On April 25, 2019, we entered into a settlement agreement with the DOJ and the OIG of the HHS to settle certain allegations relating to our support of independent charitable organizations that provide patients with financial assistance to access their medicines. As a result, we entered into a corporate integrity agreement with the OIG that requires us to maintain a corporate compliance program and to undertake a set of defined corporate integrity obligations for a period of five years. While we expect to fully comply with all of our obligations under the corporate integrity agreement, failure to do so could result in substantial penalties and potential exclusion from government healthcare programs. We may also see new government investigations of or actions against us citing novel theories of recovery. For example, prosecutors are placing greater scrutiny on patient support programs, including commercial copay assistance programs, and further enforcement actions and investigations regarding such programs could limit our ability to provide co-pay assistance to commercial patients. Greater scrutiny has also been placed on sponsorships, speaker programs and other arrangements where healthcare professionals receive remuneration, travel or other value to participate in certain events, and further enforcement actions could limit our ability to participate in such arrangements. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO COMPETITION Our products face substantial competition and our product candidates are also likely to face substantial competition. We operate in a highly competitive environment. See