Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Income taxes. We perform a substantial majority of our commercial manufacturing activities at our facility in the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico and substantially all of our clinical manufacturing activities at our facility in Thousand Oaks, California; significant disruptions or production failures at these facilities could significantly impair our ability to supply our products or continue our clinical trials. We currently perform a substantial majority of our commercial manufacturing activities at our facility in the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico and substantially all of our clinical manufacturing activities at our facility in Thousand Oaks, California. The global supply of our products and product candidates for commercial sales and for use in our clinical trials is significantly dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of these facilities. See Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales . In late September 2017, Hurricane Maria made landfall on the island of Puerto Rico. The hurricane destroyed residential and commercial buildings, agriculture, communications networks and most of Puerto Rico’s electric grid. The critical manufacturing areas of our commercial manufacturing facility were not significantly impacted by the storm, and we have now resumed our full manufacturing operations. The restoration of electrical service on the island has been a slow process. As a result, our facility operated with electrical power from back-up diesel-powered generators through the end of 2017 and we received regular deliveries of diesel fuel under pre-arranged contracts. In January 2018, we reconnected to the Puerto Rico electric grid and began operating without the back-up generators. However, power has not been restored to the entire island, and it is possible that the electric grid may not remain stable and we may be required to resume use of our diesel generators. In addition, supplies of medical-grade oxygen and nitrogen used in biopharmaceutical manufacturing operations are limited on the island, and we have arranged deliveries of both gases from the U.S. mainland and other countries. See Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales . While nearly all of our staff have returned to work, some of them or their families may now or in the future be without housing, access to food and clean water, electricity, healthcare, sanitation, communications services, childcare, transportation or other essentials, and for these or other reasons some of our staff may be forced or elect to temporarily or permanently relocate elsewhere on or off the island. A substantial disruption in our ability to operate our Puerto Rico manufacturing facility (whether due to problems with the facility itself, the infrastructure and services available on the island, the unavailability of raw materials or supplies from vendors, the unavailability of key staff or otherwise) or get supplies and manufactured products transported to and from that location could materially and adversely affect our ability to supply our products and affect our product sales. See Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales . The impact of Hurricane Maria is certain to place greater stress on the island’s already challenged economy. Since June 2015, when the Governor of Puerto Rico announced that the government (including certain government entities) was unable to pay its roughly $72 billion in debt, the government’s liquidity position has continued to deteriorate and public reports indicate that the Puerto Rico government is not making certain payments with respect to its obligations. On June 30, 2016, President Obama signed into law the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA) to provide a mechanism for Puerto Rico to restructure its debt, achieve fiscal responsibility and gain access to capital markets. PROMESA established a federal Financial Oversight and Management Board (Oversight Board) to provide fiscal oversight through the development and approval of fiscal plans and budgets for Puerto Rico and to assist in the debt restructuring. In May 2017, after negotiations with creditors were unsuccessful and an automatic stay of creditor actions expired, the Oversight Board approved and certified the filing in the U.S. District Court for the District of Puerto Rico of a voluntary petition under Title III of PROMESA for the government of Puerto Rico, following thereafter with similar filings for certain Puerto Rico government entities. Title III of PROMESA provides Puerto Rico with a judicial process for restructuring its debt similar to, but not identical to, Chapter 9 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Given the severe conditions in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria, it is expected that resolution of Puerto Rico’s outstanding debt situation through the PROMESA judicial process will be delayed pending recovery efforts. Additionally, in January 2017, the Puerto Rico government enacted the Puerto Rico Fiscal Emergency and Fiscal Responsibility Act, which, among other things, declared a state of financial emergency in Puerto Rico and authorized the Governor to designate certain services as essential services, and other services as non-essential in order to prioritize the use of available resources to satisfy Puerto Rico’s obligations. The Puerto Rico government has continued to extend the emergency period. In June 2017, the Oversight Board certified the Puerto Rico government’s budget for fiscal year 2018. In January 2018, the Puerto Rico government proposed a revised fiscal plan. The revised fiscal plan 32 is subject to approval by the Oversight Board and calls for delayed and reduced payments to creditors and assumes U.S. federal disaster assistance of $35 billion. The Puerto Rico government is continuing to seek assistance from the U.S. government for disaster relief related to Hurricane Maria. In October 2017, the U.S. Congress approved a supplemental appropriation for disaster relief whereby Puerto Rico could receive a loan of up to approximately $5 billion to be used by the Puerto Rico government to provide essential services. U.S. and Puerto Rico officials are currently negotiating the terms and conditions of disaster relief loans that may be granted to Puerto Rico. In November 2017, the Governor of Puerto Rico submitted an additional request for federal disaster assistance to restore housing and rebuild a resilient power grid. It is not certain whether and what amounts will be appropriated by the U.S. Congress to assist in the hurricane recovery. In addition, the recently enacted U.S. tax reform legislation will no longer permit deferral of U.S. taxation on Puerto Rico earnings of U.S. companies (or their foreign subsidiaries), although these earnings generally will be taxed in the United States at a reduced 10.5% rate. Given Puerto Rico’s challenged economy and hurricane recovery needs, it may be difficult for Puerto Rico to sustain or grow its manufacturing base due to competition from other foreign locations subject to a similar level of U.S. taxation, or U.S. locations due to the reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%. The manufacturing sector currently contributes more than 45% of Puerto Rico’s gross domestic product, and U.S. companies with Puerto Rico operations contribute more than 33% of Puerto Rico’s revenue base. While PROMESA and the actions above continue to be important factors in moving Puerto Rico toward economic stability, there is still a risk that Puerto Rico’s ongoing economic challenges, the effects of Hurricane Maria and the potential impact of the 2017 Tax Act could negatively affect the territorial government’s provision of utilities or other services in Puerto Rico that we use in the operation of our business, create the potential for increased taxes or fees to operate in Puerto Rico, result in a migration of workers from Puerto Rico to the mainland United States, and/or make it more expensive or difficult for us to operate in Puerto Rico, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to supply our products and affect our product sales. We rely on third-party suppliers for certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components. We rely on unaffiliated third-party suppliers for certain raw materials, medical devices and components necessary for the manufacturing of our commercial and clinical products. Certain of those raw materials, medical devices and components are proprietary products of those unaffiliated third-party suppliers and are specifically cited in our drug applications with regulatory agencies so that they must be obtained from that specific sole source or sources and could not be obtained from another supplier unless and until the regulatory agency approved such supplier. For example, Insulet Corporation is our single source of the on-body injector for our Neulasta ® Onpro ® kit. Also, certain of the raw materials required in the commercial and clinical manufacturing of our products are sourced from other countries and/or derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine serum and human serum albumin. Among the reasons we may be unable to obtain these raw materials, medical devices and components include: • regulatory requirements or action by regulatory agencies or others; • adverse financial or other strategic developments at or affecting the supplier, including bankruptcy; • unexpected demand for or shortage of raw materials, medical devices or components; • failure to comply with our quality standards which results in quality and product failures, product contamination and/or recall; • a material shortage, contamination, recall and/or restrictions on the use of certain biologically derived substances or other raw materials; • discovery of previously unknown or undetected imperfections in raw materials, medical devices or components; and • labor disputes or shortages, including from the effects of health emergencies and natural disasters. For example, in prior years we have experienced shortages in certain components necessary for the formulation, fill and finish of certain of our products in our Puerto Rico facility. Further quality issues that result in unexpected additional demand for certain components may lead to shortages of required raw materials or components (such as we have experienced with EPOGEN ® glass vials). We may experience similar or other shortages in the future resulting in delayed shipments, supply constraints, clinical trial delays, contract disputes and/or stock-outs of our products. These or other similar events could negatively impact our ability to satisfy demand for our products or conduct clinical trials, which could have a material adverse effect on our product use and sales and our business and results of operations. Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales. Manufacturing biologic human therapeutic products is difficult, complex and highly regulated. We currently are involved in the manufacture of many of our products and plan to manufacture many of our product candidates. In addition, we currently use third-party contract manufacturers to produce, or assist in the production of, a number of our products, and we currently use 33 contract manufacturers to produce, or assist in the production of, a number of our late-stage product candidates and drug delivery devices. See