Q4 2014 Earnings Call

Operator
Good afternoon. My name is Kate and I'll be your conference facilitator today. At this time, I would
like to welcome everyone to Micron Technology's fourth quarter 2014 financial release
conference call. All lines been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the
speakers' remarks, there'll be a question-and-answer period. Thank you.
It's now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host, Kipp Bedard. Sir, you may begin your
conference.
Kipp A. Bedard `
Thank you very much and welcome, everyone, to Micron Technology's fourth quarter 2014
financial release conference call. On the call today is Mark Durcan, CEO and Director; Mark
Adams, President; and Ron Foster, Chief Financial Officer and Vice President of Finance.
This conference call, including audios and slides, is also available on our website at micron.com. In
addition, our website has a file containing the quarterly operational and financial information and
guidance, non-GAAP information with reconciliation, slides used during the conference call, and a
convertible debt and capped call dilution table. If you have not had an opportunity to review the
fourth quarter 2014 financial press release, again, it is also available on our website at
micron.com.
Our call will be approximately 60 minutes in length. There will be an audio replay of the call. You
may access that by dialing 404-537-3406 with the confirmation code of 2237916. This replay will
run through Thursday, October 2 at 11:30 PM Mountain Time. A webcast replay will be available on
the company's website until September 2015.We encourage you to monitor our website at micron.com throughout the quarter for the most
current information on the company, including information on various financial conferences that
we will be attending. You can also follow us on Twitter, @MicronTech.
Now please note the following Safe Harbor statement.
Unverified Participant
During the course of this meeting, we may make projections or other forward-looking statements
regarding future events or the future financial performance of the company and the industry. We
wish to caution you that such statements are predictions and that actual events or results may
differ materially. We refer you to the documents the company files on a consolidated basis from
time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, specifically the company's most
recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. These documents contain and identify important factors that
could cause the actual results for the company on a consolidated basis to differ materially from
those contained in our projections or forward-looking statements. These certain factors can be
found in the Investor Relations section of Micron's website.
Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are
reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements.
We're under no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of the
presentation to conform these statements to actual results.
Kipp A. Bedard `
I'll now turn the call over to Mark Durcan. Mark?
D. Mark Durcan `
Thanks, Kipp.
We had another strong quarter, benefiting from robust market demand as well as solid
operational execution. We set a new record for revenue of over $4.2 billion for the quarter. Net
income was $1.15 billion or $0.96 per diluted share. For the fiscal year 2014, we generated record
revenue of $16.4 billion, record net income over $3 billion, and record free cash flow of $2.6 billion
based on record operating cash flow of $5.7 billion less CapEx of $3.1 billion.
As we enter fiscal 2015, I'd like to touch on a few key areas of focus as well as provide a brief
industry update. Ron Foster will follow with a financial summary. And before turning to Q&A, we'll
close our prepared comments with Mark Adams covering additional details of our operational
performance and market conditions.
Beyond ongoing advanced component and technology development, we have three main
operational focus areas for fiscal 2015. The first is technology deployment, and includes
continued 25-nanometer DRAM conversion and 20-nanometer DRAM ramp, completion of 16-
nanometer planar NAND conversion and introduction of 3D NAND, TLC NAND deployment for
cost-sensitive applications, and building out our capability to deliver advanced packaging
solutions and controllers.
The second is optimizing manufacturing capacity, and it includes improving our manufacturing
efficiency through line balancing, cycle time, yield and metrology initiatives, and managing our
product mix in order to generate the best possible long-term margins and returns for our
business.And finally in 2015, we'll focus on growing our memory systems and subsystem solutions,
including expanding the market penetration and operating breadth of our advanced bit-
addressable memory solutions, building additional storage solutions such as enterprise SSDs, and
designing new and innovative mobile memory system solutions.
As we outlined at our Analyst Day last month, fiscal 2015 CapEx is expected to be in the range of
$3.6 billion to $4 billion. Roughly 30% of this CapEx will go towards non-supply expanding
investments, including manufacturing efficiency improvements, emerging memories, back-end
capability, and additional system manufacturing and engineering tooling to support system and
subsystem level products. This compares to about 25% of our $3.1 billion CapEx bill in fiscal 2014
and highlights our belief that these investments which are designed, among other things, to
enhance our value-added product portfolio, will generate some the highest returns going
forward. In terms of the more traditional investments in memory process technology, DRAM will
represent about 50% and NAND will represent about 20% of our total CapEx in 2015. This
compares to roughly 45% and 30% to 35% respectively in 2014.
We expect the bit growth we generate from technology in calendar 2015 to be in line or below
the market for both DRAM and NAND. Our bit growth profile is reflective of the strategy to grow
the mix of premium and value-added products while maintaining and improving operational
efficiency and costs. While this will lead to less pure supply growth, we expect we will generate
more attractive and sustainable margins over time with this approach.
Our long-term outlook for the memory industry remains favorable. For DRAM, we're forecasting
2014 industry supply growth of around 30%. In 2015, we expect DRAM industry bit growth in the
low to mid-20% range. And beyond 2015 we expect industry supply growth to slow somewhat,
ranging from the high teens to mid-20%. Part of this encouraging supply trend is due to the fact
that 20-nanometer and sub-20-nanometer process technology ramps significantly reduce the
wafer production for existing cleanroom space. We believe the DRAM industry supply/demand
balance will continue to be favorable for the foreseeable future. Demand elasticity has declined
from historical levels and cost per bit is no longer the major factor driving demand growth.
For NAND, we're projecting industry supply growth in the high 30% to low 40% range for 2014.
This includes an increase in industry wafer production of just over 10%, with the remaining supply
growth coming from technology. We expect 2015 industry supply growth to be in the high 30% to
mid-40% range. Beyond 2015, when 3D more prevalent in the market, supply growth will depend
on new capacity investment. Although 3D technology drives a significant increase in bits per
wafer, without capacity investment, this is offset by substantial decreases in wafer output per
square foot of cleanroom space.
The demand profile matches up well with the existing supply growth rate, and we also believe
that due to elasticity of demand for NAND in client enterprise storage applications, the demand
growth could be significantly higher over time. At Micron, we continue to manage our NAND
business focused on long-term returns.
I want to congratulate the whole Micron team for a tremendous year. We look forward to building
on this success in 2015. The memory industry continues to look very attractive, and we've never
been better positioned to deliver differentiated value for our customers and shareholders.
I'll stop here and turn it over to Ron and Mark before returning for Q&A. Ron?
Ronald C. Foster `
Thanks, Mark.Our fourth quarter 2014 and fiscal year ended on August 28. We posted to our website a file
containing the financial information I will cover, including GAAP the non-GAAP results, certain key
metrics for fiscal 2014, the fourth quarter as well as guidance for the first quarter of fiscal 2015.
For fiscal 2014, we posted record revenue and net income, as Mark mentioned, with net income
of $3 billion or $0.54 per diluted share on net sales of $16.4 billion. This compares to the fiscal
2013 results of net income of $1.2 billion on net sales of $9.1 billion. Recall that the 2013 results
include the $1.5 billion non-cash gain in the fourth quarter from the purchase accounting for Elpida
and Rexchip, which we now refer to as Micron Memory Japan or MMJ, and Micron Memory Taiwan
or MMT. The results for fiscal 2014 reflect continued healthy market conditions, particularly for
DRAM products and our focus on maximizing long-term returns in the business. Non-GAAP net
income increased significantly comparing 2014 to 2013.
Now focusing on the fourth quarter results, we have posted net income of $1.150 billion or $0.96
per diluted share on net sales of $4.2 billion. The fourth quarter gross margin of 33% includes a
$66 million charge associated with a patent license with Tessera. The go-forward license will have
cost of goods sold charges that are not anticipated to have a material impact to any future
quarterly period. In addition, gross margin in the fourth quarter was adversely affected by $38
million from a last-time sale of legacy architecture, mobile PCM or phase change memory
products, which was mentioned last quarter as part of our guidance. Without these two items,
gross margin for the fourth quarter would have been higher by approximately 2.5 percentage
points.
On a non-GAAP basis, net income for the fourth quarter was $961 million, or $0.82 per share.
Non-GAAP adjustments netted to a reduction of income of $189 million or $0.14 per share in the
fourth quarter and included the following: the charge related to the Tessera license mentioned
previously, restructure charges in the quarter of $22 million, which were primarily related to
employee termination benefits from a workforce reduction in Italy; amortization of debt discount
and other costs of $37 million in the fourth quarter includes imputed interest on our convertible
notes and the discount on the MMJ installment debt.
The loss on restructure of debt of $17 million related primarily to the repurchase and conversion
of convertible notes in the fourth quarter, including mark-to-market adjustments of the 2031B
Notes to be settled in the first quarter of this year. Non-cash taxes from the MMJ operations were
$118 million benefit in the fourth quarter, which includes a benefit from a change in the estimated
utilization of net operating loss carryforwards for MMJ and MMT.
A couple of significant gains recognized in the fourth quarter are also adjusted out of the non-
GAAP results as follows: A $93 million gain was recognized as a result of Inotera's equity GDR
offering in May that was executed at a price above the carrying value of our investment. This gain
was recognized in the fourth quarter since we account for our equity method results from Inotera
with a two-month lag. And $119 million gain was recognized from the sale of our remaining
interest in Aptina to ON Semiconductor. The transaction closed just shortly before the end of the
fiscal year. And finally, there's a 27 million share anti-dilutive effect of capped calls based on the
average stock price during the fourth quarter of $31.91.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2015, we expect the following non-GAAP adjustments: Between $40
million and $45 million for amortization of debt discounts on the convertible notes and the Elpida
installment debt. We are anticipating a Q1 net loss on restructure of debt of approximately $25
million as the conversions of the 2031B Notes are completed. Non-cash taxes related to the
Elpida acquisition are expected to be between $20 million and $30 million in the first quarter.Also, the anti-dilutive effect of our capped calls will be based on the average share price for the
quarter. Please refer to the convertible debt dilution table included in the earnings call data file
posted on our website.
Let's turn now to our results by technology and other guidance for the first quarter. On a
consolidated basis, we are guiding total revenue for the first quarter in the range of $4.45 billion
to $4.7 billion. Recall that our first quarter of fiscal 2015 will include an extra week due to the
periodic adjustment of our weekly fiscal calendar to coincide with the end of August year-end,
which will have a direct impact on operating expenses; however, revenue may vary differently.
Turning now to DRAM, DRAM revenue increased nearly 5% compared to the third quarter,
primarily due to an increase in bit sales volume and stable ASPs. DRAM gross margin remained in
the high 30% range with flat cost per bit. Cost per bit would have been down 2% absent the
effect of the Tessera license.
Our reported income from equity method investments for the fourth quarter was $119 million,
substantially all of which is in attributable to Inotera. DRAM gross margins for the first quarter,
using quarter-to-date ASP and projected mix for the quarter should be up a couple of points
compared to Q4 based on bit production up mid to high single digits, ASPs up low single digits,
and cost per bit down low single digits, which includes the effect from the Tessera license in Q4.
Key items affecting our DRAM guidance for the first quarter are continued favorable market
conditions, like-for-like pricing, generally flat to up for PC and server DRAM, and trending up for
mobile DRAM, which Mark will comment on in a few minutes.
On the Trade NAND side, revenue increased 6% in the fourth quarter with a 13% increase in bit
sales volume, partially offset by a 6% decrease in the average selling price. Trade NAND gross
margin was in the mid-20% range, down approximately 3 percentage points with ASP declines
outpacing cost per bit reductions of 2%. However, absent the effect of the Tessera license
agreement, cost per bit would have been down approximately 5%.
Trade NAND gross margins for the first quarter using quarter-to-date ASP and projected mix for
the quarter are expected to be down 1 percentage point to 2 percentage points compared to
Q4 based on bit productions expected to be up high teens, ASPs down low to mid single-digits,
and cost per bit down low single digits compared to Q4, which includes the effect of the Tessera
license.
Key trends for Q1 affecting this guidance are generally stable NAND market conditions and also
strong growth in client and enterprise SSD volumes, with more pronounced price competition and
initially higher BOM costs that impact margins.
Looking at other P&L and cash flow results and guidance, SG&A expense in Q1 is expected to be
up slightly from the normalized weekly run-rate from the fourth quarter. R&D expense in the first
quarter in fiscal 2015 is expected to increase compared to the fourth quarter even when
normalized for the 14th week in Q1 due to higher volumes of development wafers processed for
new technologies and new solutions development.
The company generated $1.35 billion in operating cash flow in the fourth quarter and ended the
quarter with $5.4 billion in cash and marketable investments, approximately $1.8 billion increase
over the fiscal year.
Expenditures for property, plant and equipment in the fourth quarter of fiscal year were $1.3
billion and $3.1 billion, respectively. Our cash tax rate continues to be in the low single-digit range
and at current profit levels, while GAAP taxes are expected to run in mid single digits this year.Throughout this past fiscal year, we've been in the market in each open trading window
revamping the capital structure of the company with a focus on reducing dilution associated with
our convertible notes. We've been repurchasing or converting convertible notes with cash and
replacing them with high-yield notes including the fourth quarter repurchase of the 2032 Notes,
and issuance of $1.15 billion, 5.5% notes. Approximately 90% of the free cash flow generated
during the year was used for these dilution management activities.
In addition, in the fourth quarter, we used $339 million of cash to prepay certain foreign loans and
leases. We've indicated that the pending conversion of the remaining 2031B Notes will be for
cash, resulting in an outflow in Q1 of approximately $390 million of cash.
Now I'll turn it over to Mark Adams for his comments.
Mark W. Adams `
Thanks, Ron. I will begin, as usual, with a review of our Q4 operating performance by business
units, as well as share commentary on market insights, key segment trends, and memory industry
dynamics.
Our computing and networking business unit, referred to as CNBU, had another strong quarter,
achieving $1.9 billion in revenues in Q4. DRAM pricing in CNBU was up quarter-on-quarter,
highlighting a continued healthy demand-supply balance in computing, server, networking, and
enterprise market segments. On the client side, we continued to receive strong demand signals
from our PC customer base. We locked our pricing through the end of our calendar Q3 and with
our three largest OEM customers, and have received interest in locking prices again for Q4.
We achieved record revenue and bit shipments in our server segment. Server DRAM growth is
being driven by customers adding more memory per system. In fiscal year 2014, we saw 40%
year-on-year growth in DRAM per server, while ASPs in the segment have strengthened over the
same period. This growth in server-based memory is based on increasing server workloads
continuing to require DRAM performance and density, and is a great example of a high-growth
segment with a demand profile that is not sensitive to price.
Networking revenues in DRAM were up 19% quarter over quarter. Demand for our networking
products remains strong, driven by LTE build-out in China and in other emerging markets. Next
year, we expect to see significantly more 4G handsets sold utilizing this capacity, which continues
to drive higher memory content per phone. I will address this more in the mobile section. The U.S.
will fully be engaged in a 4G LTE build-out throughout calendar 2015. And as a result, we
anticipate seeing continued strong demand in this area.
Lastly, our graphics business continues to flourish and increasingly contributes to an uplift in ASPs
and margin. We are starting to see strong gaming console demand ahead of the holidays and
remain optimistic for a good quarter in graphics.
We are pleased with the progress on the technology innovation front in DRAM. We commenced
early DDR4 shipments in Q4, as Intel officially launched DDR4-enabled platforms in early
September, and Micron is validated with their entire 4-gigabit-based portfolio. I want to recognize
our R&D organization, our engineering teams, and BU product development organization for
positioning Micron as first-to-market in what we feel can be a strong value-added business. We
are in qualification at major OEMs for both server and client opportunities for DDR4. We
anticipate a significant price premium for those customers looking to differentiate their solutions.We have also launched into the non-volatile DIMM category, providing for DRAM content backup,
which dramatically improves reliability. Our NVDIMM product launch, initially based on DDR3, is
going well, as we have received production orders from Tier 1 customers. We have also signed a
lead major OEM customer for the launch of our DDR4-based NVDIMM, targeting shipments in
calendar Q2.
Micron's Hybrid Memory Cube continues to gain significant traction at leading network and server
customers. In addition, similar technology for Micron will be used in Intel's Knights Landing
platform for high-performance and low-latency benefits in high-performance computing. And
finally, our GDDR5 product continues to gain wide adoption in gaming consoles, and is also being
sampled in high-performance networking applications.
Our Storage business unit, or SBU, recorded $907 million in revenue in the fourth quarter, up 4%
quarter-over-quarter. We continued to make progress in both the client and enterprise SSD
market. We set records for total SSD revenue, gigabytes shipped, and overall units in our fourth
quarter, while also achieving record revenue for both client and enterprise SSDs individually. We
increased client SSD shipments to Tier 1 OEMs by 23% quarter on quarter. For our fiscal year
2014, SBU revenue was up 23% when compared to 2013, coming in at $3.5 billion. Gross margin
dollars were up 17% year on year, reflecting the overall health of the NAND market.
We remain focused on improving the fundamentals of our NAND business, as we believe there is
upside to our performance relative to our competition in the coming quarters. I would like to
discuss some of the elements that we feel can bolster our NAND business.
First, we continue to invest in process innovation. We executed the fastest ramp in our company's
history for our 256-gigabit 16-nanometer planar product. TechInsights recognized Micron with the
Semiconductor Product of the Year Award and Most Innovative Memory Device Award for this
technology.
We are making progress in our 16-nanometer TLC product, with engineering samples still on track
for the end of this calendar year. We are targeting late spring shipments of TLC components to
consumer applications and expect to be shipping a TLC client SSD drive into the market during
our fiscal fourth quarter.
Micron will continue to increase our leadership in overall NAND scaling with our 256-gigabit 3D
NAND device, which we believe will have the highest density per square inch of silicon in the
industry. We remain on track for calendar Q4 samples and currently forecasting volume
production by the second half of calendar 2015.
Beyond innovation at the technology level, we continue to add controller and firmware resources
that are helping to accelerate product development and enhance the quality of our PCIe, SAS,
and SATA-based SSD products. Led by the launch of our M500DC enterprise product, which
targets data center applications, our enterprise SSD revenue was up 79% quarter on quarter. This
investment in system-level solutions has led to new customer wins in server, network security,
cloud, and video streaming segments in Q4.
In addition to chip and system level investments, we continue to recruit strong level sales and
marketing personnel to position our go-to-market engine for future success. We are investing
and expanding our customer engagement support, for it is increasingly becoming more of a
design-in custom solution type relationship with key accounts.
Finally, we are continuing to diversify our NAND business into more attractive end market
applications. As an example, revenue for NAND sold in the mobile segment was up 18% quarterover quarter. Coupling NAND with DRAM in the form of eMCPs is a high-growth opportunity.
EMCPs are essentially low-power DRAM packaged with a managed NAND product, all behind a
controller. We believe this solution is a great example of the value of Micron's portfolio. We
continue to grow share in our consumer product segments, with Lexar branded memory cards
and USB products gaining share in the U.S. and international markets.
We remain bullish on the long-term market opportunity in NAND, both in terms of the market
outlook and our ability to improve our operating performance. Upside potential in our NAND
business will be driven by chip-level innovation, including TLC and 3D NAND, investment in
system-level capabilities, additional organization capabilities, and focused execution on growth
and diversifying end markets.
We are very pleased with the performance of our Mobile business unit. MBU revenue came in at
$909 million with a 22% operating margin. We continue to see strong demand in mobile. The
iPhone 6 launch appears to be going quite well and reflective of consumer appetite for improving
smartphone application features and performance. On the high end, the Samsung Note 4 is now
shipping with 3 gigabytes of low-power DRAMs, as is the Xiaomi Mi4 product line as well.
In NAND, the higher-end configurations have shifted from 32 gigabytes and 64 gigabytes now to
64 gigabytes and 128 gigabytes. We are currently forecasting NAND growth in the mobile
segment of greater than 3x year over year for fiscal year 2015. The low to midrange priced
smartphone market has driven additional memory content as well, and even the entry-level
segment is evolving from phones with virtually no DRAM to new products such as the Android
One, which has 1 gigabyte of low-power DRAM. This is $100 smartphone targeting 5 billion users
in emerging markets. We are focused on our diversified set of mobile customers and continue to
balance our PC DRAM and mobile DRAM capacity to optimize for long-term profitability.
On the product front, we are growing our managed NAND business with increased shipments of
eMCPs, as I mentioned earlier. The rapid adoption of eMCPs for the low to mid-end smartphone,
which is the fastest-growing segment today represents a unique opportunity for Micron. Our
known good die flow from our MMJ fab, formerly Elpida, coupled with Micron's industry-leading
16-nanometer NAND technology enables us to capture share due to the accelerating market shift
to eMCP from eMMCP.
Over the next year, we are forecasting that roughly 25% of our overall mobile revenue will come
from memory combined with a controller. We believe that companies like Micron who have the
portfolio of NAND and DRAM will have a distinct advantage in the long run in the mobile segment.
In addition to managed NAND, we are currently working with our chip partners to enable low-
power DDR4 for future qualification in high-performance applications for mobile.
I want to congratulate the mobile team for their successful turnaround of a business that within
the last two years was losing money on the bottom line. We feel that the combination of
increasing memory content in mobile devices and the declining rate of mobile industry supply
growth due to the attractiveness of the other relatively higher-margin segments, will lead to a
healthy overall supply and demand outlook for mobile. We look forward to the teams continued
strong execution.
Our embedded business unit or EBU set a record of $1.774 billion in fiscal year 2014, which
represented a 39% year-over-year growth.
Our fourth quarter revenue of $476 million reflected a seventh straight quarter of record
shipments for embedded. Automotive revenues were 40% increased year-on-year. TheInfotainment and advanced driver assistance systems. Our commitment to the unique needs of
this market in areas such as quality, reliability, longevity and service has enabled us to strengthen
our market leadership in Q4.
The broad category of industrial and multi-market, otherwise referred to as IMM, achieved record
revenue for both the quarter and the year. Year-on-year revenue growth was 10% to 20% (30:47),
driven by continued growth in factory automation, machine-to-machine systems, and aerospace
and defense. As we see strong demand growth in areas such as automotive, infotainment,
consumer electronics, connected smart home devices and machine-to-machine systems, we
remain bullish on our EBU performance for fiscal year 2015.
Operationally, we had a tremendous year. In a year where we shipped a more diversified set of
products with more complex packaging and custom configurations to a broader set of end
customers, we were able to reduce overall inventory and drive our turns 18% higher compared to
the end of fiscal year 2013. This is all the more impressive given the significantly larger revenue
scale of our business than which we left 2013. Our DRAM and NAND front-end cycle times
improved 25% and 18%, respectively year-over-year, and our back-end test and assembly
facilities reduced their cycle times 33% and 34% for NAND and DRAM.
We see additional room for improvement in our operations during fiscal year 2015. The pricing
environment for our portfolio of products remains favorable. PC pricing has remained strong with
more than 90% of our computing capacity tied to OEM contract pricing, most of which with
quarterly pricing agreements in place. This has been a positive effect on mobile pricing as well,
having balanced our production to take advantage of PC DRAM ASPs in margins, which are
currently above the mobile business.
On the NAND front, pricing dynamics are relatively stable heading into the holiday build season.
We remain bullish on the long-term outlook for NAND with increasing attach rates in both client
and enterprise solid state drives with a strong content move from 128-gigabyte systems trending
upwards to 512-gigabyte systems, as well seeing a big increase in phones. As the industry
converged to 3D NAND, we think performance and cost will continue to improve, driving
accelerated adoption of NAND and client mobile and enterprise market segments. We see a
bright future in NAND and other emerging nonvolatile memory technologies.
In closing, I also want to congratulate our team for a great quarter and an outstanding fiscal year
2014. We look forward to a strong Q1, and we feel there is opportunity for improved performance
in fiscal year 2015 as we continue to drive our memory solutions to higher value-added customers
and segments.
With that, I'll hand it back over to Kipp.
Kipp A. Bedard `
Thanks, Mark. We will now take questions from callers. Just a reminder, if you are using a
speakerphone, please do pick up the handset when asking a question so that we can hear you
clearly. And please open up the lines.
Q&A
Operator
Our first question comes from line of `C.J. Muse, International Strategy & Investment Group LLC with ISI Group. Your line is open.
Q - `C.J. Muse, International Strategy & Investment Group LLCGood afternoon, thank you for taking the question. I guess the first question is around DRAM
pricing. You've talked about greater share in terms of contract and increased duration. I would
love to get an update on what percentages is out two months, three months, and what kind of
visibility you have into the new calendar year from where we are today.
A - Mark W. Adams `
I'm going to be careful about speculating too far out into the calendar year. My commentary
earlier tried to address that we have our top three PC OEM customers on a three-month pricing
agreement that ends at the end of September, and the current indication is that we're going to
have another discussion around and probably end on a three-month pricing agreement for the
calendar Q4 period and as current market suggests, we think those conversations will be in line
with stable or slightly improved pricing.
Q - `C.J. Muse, International Strategy & Investment Group LLC
Okay, helpful. And then on the cost side, can you provide an update on where you are on the
DRAM 25-nanometer ramp in terms of percentage output as you move into the November
quarter, and how we should think about that ramp beyond and the cost savings achieved?
A - Mark W. Adams `
Okay. Yeah. So just for review purposes, we currently have 25-nanometer product coming out of
both Hiroshima, which is targeted primarily at mobile, and then we also have our Rexchip facility in
production with mobile – 25-nanometer as well in mobile. Today, as we sit going into the quarter,
25% – I'm sorry, 25-nanometer product of DDR3 will be roughly about 25% in the quarter out of
Hiroshima, and in the mobile – I'm sorry, 50% in Hiroshima, and out of Rexchip will be
approximately 25%.
Q - `C.J. Muse, International Strategy & Investment Group LLC
Great, thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from line of `Betsy Van Hees, Wedbush Securities, Inc. with Wedbush. Your line is open.
Q - `Betsy Van Hees, Wedbush Securities, Inc. `
Good afternoon, and congratulations on another great quarter and guidance. I was wondering if
we could talk a little bit about the DRAM business and what percentage is PC DRAM, server
DRAM, and mobile DRAM, and then maybe within that, we could talk about what 25 nanometer
and how that's shaping up?
A - Mark W. Adams `
Sure. When you look at our DRAM business today, the best way to think about it is mobile is
roughly about 25% of overall DRAM and computes roughly around 30% of DRAM. And then if you
look at the specialty business that you asked about servers, server is roughly about just below
20%. Those are kind of the three areas you asked about.
Q - `Betsy Van Hees, Wedbush Securities, Inc. `Okay, great. And thanks so much. That's very helpful. And as we look at the percentage of your
DRAM mix today, how does that compare to last year at this time? And as you guys are looking
forward, you've been talking a lot about optimizing your mix. Are we going to see a shift more to
PC, which seems to be the better cost – lower cost for you and better pricing advantage?
A - Mark W. Adams `
I don't think we're going to – Betsy, I can tell you where we were last year, so I said that compute
was in the kind of mid to high 30%. It was slightly higher last year, but still under 40%. Mobile was
lower last year coming out of fiscal year 2013, but increasing as we left the year, and the server
business, it was slightly higher. By the way, the question on PC capacity and how we're optimizing,
it's not just the mobile to PC dynamic, it's also some of the low-end of the server business that
we shipped the capacity back to meet the demand of the PC business.
Q - `Betsy Van Hees, Wedbush Securities, Inc. `
Thanks, Mark, that's really helpful. And then my last question I'll jump out, is on DDR4, you talked
about a very nice pricing premium, and I was wondering if you could give us kind of a range of
what type percentage pricing premium we're going to see. An then as we're looking at DDR3
and the conversion of DDR4, how are you guys thinking that's going to play out over the next
couple of years?
A - Mark W. Adams `
We're not going to comment on the actual pricing premium, but suffice to say, our production
decisions will be driven around ROA and margin, not any market share goals necessarily.
Q - `Betsy Van Hees, Wedbush Securities, Inc. `
Okay, great, thanks again and congratulations on a great quarter and guidance.
A - D. Mark Durcan `
Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Romit Shah with Nomura Securities. Your line is open.
Q - `Romit J. Shah, Nomura Securities International, Inc. `
Thanks and great quarter. I just wanted to get your perspective on DRAM content in mobile.
We're seeing the iPhone 6 use 1 gigabyte of DRAM. Some people were expecting DRAM content
to be higher. And just your perspective on that; is that just sort of specific to the Apple ecosystem
because we're seeing in Android DRAM content go up? Or is it because DRAM pricing has gone
up so much that key OEMs are now trying to minimize the amount of memory in the phone?
A - Mark W. Adams `
I think it's a little bit of both, to tell you the truth. But if you look at the overall, so for the category,
for the mobile segment, DRAM content per unit is up pretty dramatically. And yeah, the Apple
ecosystem is more efficient, but I also would suggest that given how tight the memory business
is, there probably wasn't a lot of room for them to be able to address higher-end configurations.Q - `Romit J. Shah, Nomura Securities International, Inc. `
Okay, that's helpful. And then I guess just back to your outlook for 20% to, call it, 25% bit growth,
what is your assumption for mobile within that?
A - Mark W. Adams `
As we mentioned on prior calls, we think that mobile will be about mid-40%s next year in terms
of percent bit growth. But you also – just remember that we've stated and we'll say again today,
we're going to manage this from a balanced portfolio perspective and really look at the return
piece of the business. And mobile, as we said, we don't necessarily need to be the biggest
supplier of memory. We want to be the most profitable supplier of memory and helping our
customers innovate. And so, it's going to be roughly in that area, but we'll see over time how it
plays out.
Q - `Romit J. Shah, Nomura Securities International, Inc. `
And then just last question, is there any revenue impact from the extra weeks?
A - Ronald C. Foster `
This is Ron. There should be and we contemplated that in our revenue guidance of $4.45 billion
to $4.7 billion. Theoretically, you'd get about one-seventh additional cost on OpEx and one-
seventh additional revenue, and the COGS moves with the revenue. All I'd just add is – yeah, one-
fourteenth, excuse me – 7%. All I'd add is that when it's on the revenue side, you don't necessarily
get linear effect from adding one week to the quarter where you have some customers who are
pulling from stock, et cetera, on a monthly basis, for example. But in general, you can think of it
that way, about a 7% lift.
Q - `Romit J. Shah, Nomura Securities International, Inc. `
Okay, thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from line of Mark Delaney with Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
Q - `Mark T. Delaney, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Thanks very much for taking the question. I was hoping you could help us think a little bit about
the free cash flow dynamics in your business. You talked about some of the CapEx increases that
you're contemplating into fiscal 2015. Maybe you can just help us think about your ability to also
grow your operating cash flows, and if you could talk to where the free cash flow margins are
between your DRAM and NAND businesses.
A - Ronald C. Foster `
Sure. Mark, we don't specifically go through detail in terms of what our view on projecting
operating cash flow and free cash flow. We're giving you a view out one quarter. But if you look at
our current trajectories and the stability we're seeing right now in the marketplace, you can
extrapolate that going forward and potentially see trend lines in a similar range. But we don't give
guidance beyond one quarter out.We've also given you the CapEx guidance, and so you have a view of that. It is up some from last
year, $3.6 billion to $4 billion. But given current trajectories, we certainly would have that well
covered with operating cash flow. If you look at the DRAM versus NAND breakdown, we don't
break out operating cash flow and free cash flow by technology, so I don't have a view for you on
that.
A - D. Mark Durcan `
Mark, let me add just from a business perspective, clearly we've got a lot of margin opportunity
still in our business. Mark talked about some of the pricing trends. I talked about where we see
supply going. Internally relative to execution, we've talked about what we can do on the NAND
side relative to adjusting our mix on TLC and eMMC, the mobile space, SSDs, et cetera. So we
think we've got a lot of leverage in our business here, and we're just very focused on executing in
what's a pretty good market environment.
Q - `Mark T. Delaney, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
I appreciate that perspective. And for a follow-up, I was hoping you'd talk on the NAND business
specifically. I know at the Analyst Day and in some recent conferences, you guys have talked
about some improvements that you're expecting in NAND over the next two to six quarters, and I
understand TLC, for example, is part of that. Can you just talk in a little bit more depth about how
you're progressing with that? And maybe you could tie in some of the comments you made in
your prepared remarks on SSDs and how SSDs are impacting both pricing and cost, and then the
overall profitability levels of your NAND business as we think out over the next few quarters.
A - D. Mark Durcan `
I'll turn it over to Mark Adams here in a second. On NAND, we'll have 16-nanometer samples out
in calendar Q4 for TLC. We'll have TLC SSD in the marketplace in the summer, maybe slightly
before that. And we continue to have pretty good growth in our penetration of the client SSD
market as well as the mobile segment generally. Mark, do you want to add any color beyond
that?
A - Mark W. Adams `
I think it's important to know that in the cost curves in our NAND business, as SSDs continue to
grow as a percentage of our overall NAND business, that will add cost of goods impact because
we get things like controllers and PCBs and the rest of the bill of materials of an SSD that go into
our COGS calculation.
Secondly, I'd like to emphasize that, as you can see by the growth quarter over quarter for the
last two quarters, market access is not a problem. People are leaning on Micron to drive their
client SSD and enterprise opportunities, and we continue to invest. As these businesses are high-
value businesses, they're not ones that you necessarily can develop overnight. We're very happy
about the progress in the quarter, especially as I mentioned enterprise sales up 79% quarter over
quarter, well ahead of market growth.
Q - `Mark T. Delaney, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Thank you very much.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of John Pitzer with Credit Suisse. Your line is open.Q - `John W. Pitzer, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Hey, good afternoon, guys. Thanks for letting me ask the question. Guys, the first question I want
to talk to you a little bit about is the relationship with Inotera. They're clearly providing a lot of
CapEx in this move to 20-nanometer, but you're providing a lot of the IP to help them get there.
And I'm just curious. As I think about the pricing arrangement of market-minus, they're going to
get pretty good cost savings with the move to 20-nanometer over the next year or so and
probably grow bits at a much faster rate than the overall Micron DRAM business. How do I think
about your benefit on the gross margin line as they bring down their cost curve?
A - D. Mark Durcan `
Obviously, it's a complicated relationship. By way of background, you're right. We provide a lot of
advanced process technology products, customer access, customer service, a lot of things to the
relationship. What we get back is the full output of Inotera at market-minus transfer price. We also
get back equity gains on the bottom line.
Without going into too much detail, John, the supply agreement is a three-year agreement. It
calls for annual renegotiation. And any changes to the agreement will be negotiated with the
company, between Micron and Inotera and its major shareholders. We greatly value the strategic
relationship with Inotera and Formosa, and we intend to work closely with them to make sure that
it's a long-term sustainable relationship, where each party gets a reasonable return given what
they're bringing to the relationship, and not much to add to that.
Q - `John W. Pitzer, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Got it. And then, guys, as my follow-up maybe for Ron, Ron, can you remind me again on the
currency front? The yen-dollar relationship, I think you've historically said every one point move is
about a $5 million to $7 million hit to operating margins – or a benefit to operating profit, sorry. Is
that still the correct way to think about it?
A - Ronald C. Foster `
John, in terms of the yen, which is moving a lot just very recently, as we all know, and the
comment was on operating spending or general spending, yen-based spending, today our
calculus is that our operating spend is impacted of about, which is not just OpEx but all of our
yen-based costs of sales activities too, our impact is about $3 million to $4 million per ¥1 per
quarter. Most of the yen-based spending is in COGS actually, so the impact is delayed about a
quarter based on our inventory flow-through, so you need to keep that in mind. We have a lower
level of yen-denominated costs today, especially now that we have converted MMJ to U.S.
functional currency, and we also have a yen-neutral balance sheet. So the metric to use now is $3
million to $4 million per ¥1 change per quarter in our overall cost structure. And we contemplated
current levels of the yen in our guidance.
Q - `John W. Pitzer, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
And then, Ron, if I could just sneak a quick one in. The 30% of CapEx that's non-capacity related,
how do we think about the depreciation schedule on that CapEx? Is it similar to the capacity-
related CapEx or is it different?
A - Ronald C. Foster `The CapEx that's not – you mean the infrastructure in our front-end, back-end? Yes, it's the same
structure.
Q - `John W. Pitzer, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Perfect. Thanks, guys. Appreciate it and congratulations on the good results.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Rajvindra Gill, Needham & Co. LLC with Needham & Company. Your line is
open.
Q - `Rajvindra Gill, Needham & Co. LLC `
Yes. Thanks, and just echoing the congrats on good results and guidance. With respect to your
outlook for DRAM supply growth next year fairly favorable, could you perhaps maybe elaborate
on what you're seeing with your competitors or if you have a view on what your competitors are
doing with their respective capacity and kind of what your thoughts on their overall projection of
supply and how they're managing DRAM supply as well?
A - D. Mark Durcan `
We don't have any better insight into what the competitors are doing than you do. We read what
they say in their earnings announcements and in the press, et cetera, et cetera. But what we
understand is that Samsung has had a relatively effective 20-nanometer ramp and pulled forward
some of the gains that they otherwise were going to have a little bit later in terms of bit
production. And we have a sense as to what they're doing to replace wafers lost through that 20-
nanometer conversion based on what we've read in analyst and market reports. And so we
continue to believe that the supply growth is in that range, given those reported incremental
wafers coming from all the various parties in the marketplace.
Q - `Rajvindra Gill, Needham & Co. LLC `
And in terms of your overall gross margins, the DRAM margins continue to kind of drift higher and
the pricing commentary in DRAM is very positive. When do you think we're going to start to hit an
inflection point on the NAND gross margins? I know you talked about TLC kind of moving forward.
What percentage do you think of the output exiting next year will be on TLC, given the fact that
there's a big cost delta between MLC and TLC? So more specifically, on the NAND gross
margins, what's your long-term view?
A - D. Mark Durcan `
We're still very early in the ramp and deployment. I just mentioned we'll have a component in the
marketplace next calendar quarter. We're in calendar Q4. So it kind of depends on how successful
we are with market adoption and what goes on in relative pricing in all the various markets we
serve. We're still going to be looking at margin and long-term sustainability to that margin. But at
least we'll be in a position to address those markets as we move through the year, and we think
we'll see some continued deployment.
Q - `Rajvindra Gill, Needham & Co. LLC `
Thank you.
OperatorOur next question comes from the line of a Vijay Rakesh with Sterne Agee. Your line is open.
Q - `Vijay R. Rakesh, Sterne, Agee & Leach, Inc. `
Hi, guys. Congratulations on a solid guide. It looks like your earnings are approaching $1.25 here
pretty soon. I have two questions. On the DRAM side, how do you see the 20-nanometer mix
ramp through 2015? And I'll have the next question after you answer that. Thanks.
A - D. Mark Durcan `
So, our DRAM ramp in 2015 won't be significant volume until the second half calendar year, so
you should see some volumes show up in Q4 of our fiscal year.
Q - `Vijay R. Rakesh, Sterne, Agee & Leach, Inc. `
Got it, okay. And then on the NAND side, obviously, you are going to TLC and 16-nanometer.
When you look at the mix between client and enterprise on the SSD side especially, how do you
see that mix playing out? What's the mix today and how do you see that playing out next year,
exiting next year?
A - Mark W. Adams `
Today, our mix is roughly two-thirds to 75% client, and another one-third, 25% to the third
enterprise, and we think proportionally that's in the ballpark. A lot of it depends on market
conditions, and it'd be tougher to forecast out that far how much that would change from where
it is today.
Q - `Vijay R. Rakesh, Sterne, Agee & Leach, Inc. `
Good. Okay, thanks.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Alex Gauna with JMP Securities. Your line is open.
Q - `Alex D. Gauna, JMP Securities LLC `
Thanks, and nice quarter. I was wondering if you could give us an idea about how much of your
DRAM capacity is moving through the spot market right now and in considering these contracts
for the next quarter in the PC market, how you feel about leaving some flex capacity for price
changes? Thanks.
A - Mark W. Adams `
Well, I mentioned in my script earlier less than 10% of our capacity goes to the spot market in
DRAM. And so, the other way to think about it is greater than 90% go to OEM customers. That
being said, as it relates to how we see pricing and our willingness to hold tight, we feel pretty
confident where pricing is going in the quarter. We see stable to up pricing and holding inventory
and all that stuff. We've commented before we're in this business to make money and as a return
decision, we're not looking to liquidate anything, we're in good shape, and that's where we're
going to act.
Q - `Alex D. Gauna, JMP Securities LLC `Okay. I'm wondering, you've made some comments around the strength you're seeing in the
server market and I'm wondering your thoughts on how enduring that is, how much might be just
the near-term benefit from the Romley upgrade cycle. Are there legs to this going forward that
you can see? Thanks.
A - Mark W. Adams `
We think it's not – the argument that you just posed is that there's more server units being sold,
and our proposition is that there's more density, more memory bits going into every server. So if,
in fact, you're right, we'll see even faster memory growth in the server segment. But we're not –
we're talking about people wanting to put more capacity in a relatively modest single-digit
growth server business today.
Q - `Alex D. Gauna, JMP Securities LLC `
All right, one more if I could. I'm wondering when we get into the back part of next year and
you've got your 16-nanometer TLC, where do you expect the competition to be, and how do you
expect your products to stack up versus that?
A - Mark W. Adams `
It's hard for us to speculate because we're not inside those companies and their product
discussions. But remember something, we have made significant investments, and we're very
excited about our 3D offering, we've talking about seeing some 3D production out towards the
end of our fiscal year, calendar Q3 next year. And so we think there's a good combination in our
product portfolio in the second half of the calendar year next year for consumer and mobile
applications requiring 16-nanometer TLC as well as entry-level line devices, and we also are
pretty bullish about our 3D development and efforts and we think we'll have differentiated
solution there on the high end for high-performance NAND solutions.
Q - `Alex D. Gauna, JMP Securities LLC `
Okay, great. Congratulations again.
A - Mark W. Adams `
Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Newman with Bernstein. Your line is open.
Q - `Mark C. Newman, Sanford C. Bernstein (Hong Kong) Ltd. `
Hi. Thanks for taking the question. So actually, I had a question on a little bit related to mix and
how that impacts gross margins. So clearly it looks like enterprise NAND seems to be the biggest
area – enterprise SSD seems to be the biggest area of growth right now. You said 79% quarter-
on-quarter growth. Can you talk about how the gross – how much different the gross margin is for
enterprise SSD versus the rest of the business? And how that might be impacting the gross
margin going forward?
And then I have a follow-up question on your overall SSD business both the client side and
enterprise side. What percentage of that uses your own controller versus some external
controller solution?A - Mark W. Adams `
So, let me talk to the first question around enterprise and the effect on the overall business.
Without giving too much away for competitive reasons, just suffice to say that the enterprise SSD
business is an above-average gross margin business for Micron, and we're continuing to develop
products and try to maximize our opportunities there. So as we grow that business, it should have
a positive impact, all things being equal. As it relates to your second question about internal
controllers, we continue to invest internally in resources for both the clients and enterprise
market.
Today, we have a hybrid development approach, which is primarily around in-house development
for value-added controller systems, and for the more commodity-type products, we look at work
with third parties. Now remember, that doesn't mean we don't add value because we've got
firmware development tests and all that that goes on in the background with these partners. If
you're looking for a rough proxy, I'll ask Ivan and Kipp to follow up. But my suspicion is we're
somewhere in the 70% to 75% of external controllers, maybe closer to 80% and about 20%
internal controller development and we'll follow up, Mark, with you with the exact numbers.
Q - `Mark C. Newman, Sanford C. Bernstein (Hong Kong) Ltd. `
That's great. Thanks a lot for that, Mark. And then on DRAM any – and so, considering the strong
pricing guidance you gave for this current quarter we're going into right now, where is pricing
strongest? And how do you think mix might be changing? I'm just wondering if, because PC
DRAM pricing seems to be pretty strong and it seems to have higher margin than average, I
understand, for DRAM, I wonder if that percentage of mix might change going forwards, and so
how to think about that?
A - Mark W. Adams `
There are two components to that. There's the supply element, right, Mark? And then there's the
overall end market behavior in terms of demand. As it sits today, and we've talked about this in
prior calls, we have a certain amount of flex capacity to move between PC and mobile, and we
probably haven't emphasized enough, we also have the discretion to move some of that PC
capacity and server capacity back and forth. Given the strength in the PC market, we've
optimized around the PC business on a relative basis. Remember, we want to be in all three
businesses for the long term. As it relates to going forward, it's a tougher call in terms of trying to
predict that, but PC strength clearly today is helping lift mobile pricing and server and pricing, and
which led to pretty favorable results in the quarter.
Q - `Mark C. Newman, Sanford C. Bernstein (Hong Kong) Ltd. `
And so then just to follow up. So where do you think pricing is strongest now? Do you think – we
haven't really seen a huge increase in mobile DRAM prices yet like we have for PC DRAM prices,
and I just wonder if we might see some further strength in mobile DRAM prices going forwards?
A - Mark W. Adams `
I think that given how we've looked at our what I'd say variable capacity, I think that's a distinct
possibility assuming demand plays out the way we think it will. I think that mobile pricing is likely to
trend stable to upwards in the quarter given some of the new launches and some of the
configuration and density improvements.
Q - `Mark C. Newman, Sanford C. Bernstein (Hong Kong) Ltd. `All right, thanks very much and great quarter.
A - Mark W. Adams `
Thanks, Mark.
A - Kipp A. Bedard `
Thanks, Mark. We appreciate it. We'd like to thank everyone for participating on the call today,
and our apologies go out to those that are still on the line we didn't get a chance to chat with. But
if you'd please bear with me, I need to repeat the Safe Harbor protection language.
During the course of this call, we may have made forward-looking statements regarding the
company and the industry. These particular forward-looking statements and all other statements
that may have been made on the call that are not historical facts are subject to a number of risks
and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially. For information on the important factors
that may cause actual results to differ materially, please refer to our filings with the SEC, including
the company's most recent 10-Q and 10-K. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. This concludes today's Micron Technology fourth quarter 2014 financial release
conference call. You may now disconnect.