Q4 2015 Earnings Call

Operator
Please stand by. Good day everyone, and welcome to this Microchip Technology Fourth Quarter
and Fiscal Year 2015 Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, I'd like to turn the conference
over to Microchip's President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Steve Sanghi. Please go ahead, sir.
Steve Sanghi `
Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. During the course of this conference call, we will be
making projections and other forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future
financial performance of the company. We wish to caution you that such statements are
predictions and that actual events or results may differ materially. We refer you to our press
releases of today as well as our recent filings with the SEC that identify important risk factors that
may impact Microchip's business and results of operations.
As you know, in addition to earnings, we also announced the signing of a definitive agreement to
acquire Micrel. During this conference call, we will not cover anything in relations to the
acquisition, and we'll take your questions only related to the earning. After we conclude this
conference call, you will have to dial into the second conference call where we will cover matters
related to the acquisition and take your questions.
The second conference call has to be filed with the SEC, hence the separation of two conference
calls. The second call will begin at 5:45 PM Eastern Time.
With that, let me now pass this call to our Chief Financial Officer, Eric Bjornholt.
J. Eric Bjornholt `
Thanks, Steve, and good afternoon everyone. In addition to Steve Sanghi, Microchip's President &
CEO, Ganesh Moorthy, Microchip's COO is also participating in this call. I will comment on our
fourth quarter and full fiscal year 2015 financial performance and Steve and Ganesh will then give
their comments on the results and discuss the current business environment as well as our
guidance. We will then be available to respond to specific investor and analyst questions.I want to remind you that we are including information in our press release and this conference
call on various GAAP and non-GAAP measures. We have posted a full-GAAP to non-GAAP
reconciliation on the Investor Relations page of our website at www.microchip.com, which we
believe you will find useful when comparing GAAP and non-GAAP result. I will now go through
some of our operating results including net sales, gross margin and operating expenses. I will be
referring to these results on a non-GAAP basis prior to the effects of our acquisition activities and
share based compensation.
Non-GAAP net sales in the March quarter were a record $547.2 million and were modestly above
the midpoint of our guidance which was $546.6 million and were up 10.9% from the March 2014
quarter. Revenue by product line in the March quarter was $353.6 million for microcontrollers,
$127.6 million for analog, $33.2 million for memory, $23.6 million for licensing and $9.2 million of
other.
Revenue by geography was $106.2 million in the Americas, a record $126 million in Europe, and
$314.9 million in Asia. I remind you that we recognize revenue based on where we ship our
products to, which tends to skew some of the revenue towards Asia where a lot of contract
manufacturing takes place.
On a non-GAAP basis, gross margins were at the midpoint of our guidance at 58.3% in the March
quarter. Non-GAAP operating expenses were 25.9% of sales, well below the bottom end of our
guidance range. Non-GAAP operating income was 32.4% of sales and net income was $148.8
million. This resulted in record earnings of $0.68 per diluted share, which was at the high end of
our guidance.
For fiscal 2015 on a non-GAAP basis, net sales were a record $2.161 billion and up 11.9% year-over-
year. Gross margins were 58.8%, operating expenses were 26.4% of sales and operating income
was 32.4% of sales. Net income was a record $593.9 million or $2.66 per diluted share. GAAP net
sales in the March quarter were $543.2 million, and as originally guided, were $4 million lower
than non-GAAP net sales due to the contractual relationship change we made with the ISSC
distribution network to move them to a sell-through revenue recognition model in the December
quarter.
The revenue impact from this change was fully recognized as of the end of March and will not
create a GAAP to non-GAAP revenue difference in future quarters. On a GAAP basis, gross
margins including share based compensation and acquisition related expenses were 57.7% in the
March quarter. GAAP gross margins included the impact of $2 million of share based
compensation, $1.8 million of gross profit on the ISSC revenue recognition change previously
mentioned, and $1.5 million in manufacturing shutdown costs associated with the Supertex wafer
fab in San Jose.
Total operating expenses were $203.3 million or 37.4% of sales and include acquisition intangible
amortization of $47.1 million, share based compensation of $13.2 million, $0.7 million of acquisition
related expenses and special charges of $0.8 million.
GAAP other expense includes a $50.6 million loss on the retirements of 50% of our 2037
convertible bonds and an $18.5 million gain on the sale of a portion of investments that Microchip
acquired as part of the SST acquisition back in 2010.
GAAP net income was $99.4 million or $0.45 per diluted share. GAAP net income includes
nonrecurring favorable tax events of $26.7 million, which were primarily driven by the closure of a
tax audit and the expiration of the statute of limitations for certain previously established taxFor fiscal year 2015, GAAP net sales were a record $2.147 billion, gross margins were 57.3%,
operating expenses were 37.4% of sales and operating income was 19.8% of sales. Net income
was $369 million or $1.65 per diluted share.
In the March quarter, the non-GAAP tax rate was 11.4%. The GAAP tax benefit rate was 58.9%. The
GAAP tax rate was favorably impacted by the $26.7 million of nonrecurring tax events that I
mentioned before and the tax impacts of certain of the one-time events in the quarter. Our tax
rate is impacted by the mix of geographical profits, withholding taxes associated with our
licensing business and the tax effect of various nonrecurring item. Excluding any nonrecurring
events, we expect our longer term forward looking non-GAAP effective tax rate to be about
10.75% to 11.25%.
To summarize the after-tax impact that the non-GAAP adjustments had on Microchip's earnings
per share in the March quarter, acquisition related items were about $0.217, share-based
compensation was about $0.052, non-recurring favorable tax events were about $0.121, a
favorable difference on the sale of a portion of investments acquired in the SST acquisition was
about $0.084, the loss on the retirements our 50% of our 2037 convertible bonds was about
$0.144, the difference in the GAAP and non-GAAP non-controlling interest in ISSC was a favorable
of about $0.005 and non-cash interest expense was about $0.019.
The dividend declared today of $0.3575 per share will be paid on June 4, 2015, to shareholders
of record on May 21, 2015. The cash payment associated with this dividend will be approximately
$72.4 million. This quarter's dividend will be our 51st consecutive quarter of making a dividend
payment. We have never made reductions in our dividend, and in fact this quarter's increase
marks the 45th occasion we have increased the dividend payment and our cumulative dividends
paid amount to over $2.5 billion.
This program continues to be an important component of how we return value to our
shareholders. During the time period that Microchip has paid dividends, we have also purchased
back $1.4 billion of our stock, including the stock that we bought back with the issuance of our
convertible debenture back in 2008. Our cash returned to shareholders since the inception of our
dividend program is $3.9 billion.
Moving on to the balance sheet, consolidated inventory at March 31, 2015, was $279.5 million or
111 days, flat to the levels at the end of the December quarter. The inventory at our distributors
increased by 1 day in the March quarter and are at 37 days. I want to remind you that our
distribution revenue throughout the world is recognized on a sell-through basis. We intend to
grow the days of inventory on our balance sheet in the June quarter to support our business
growth and customer service levels.
The cash generation in the March quarter, excluding the purchase of additional shares of ISSC,
our dividend payment, changes in cash from the issuance and retirement of our convertible
debentures and changes in borrowing levels under our revolving line of credit was $155.5 million.
As of March 31, the consolidated cash and total investment position was $2.34 billion and our
borrowings under our revolving line of credit were $462 million. Excluding dividend payments and
our acquisition activities, we expect our total cash and investment position to grow by
approximately $160 million to $180 million in the June quarter.
Capital spending was approximately $29.4 million for the March quarter and $149.5 million for
fiscal year 2015. We expect about $40 million in capital spending in the June quarter and overall
capital expenditures for fiscal year 2016 to be about $160 million, as we are adding capital totechnologies and to bring in-house more of the assembly and test operations that we are
currently outsourcing. Depreciation expense in the March quarter was $25 million.
I will now ask Ganesh to give his comments on the performance of the business in the March
quarter. Ganesh?
Ganesh Moorthy `
Thank you, Eric, and good afternoon, everyone. Let's take a closer look at the performance of
each of our product lines, starting with microcontrollers. Our microcontroller revenue was up 8.4%
in the March quarter from the year-ago quarter. For fiscal year 2015, our microcontroller business
was up 11.4% over fiscal year 2014, crossing the $1.4 million mark for the first time and setting an
all-time record.
Also for fiscal year 2015, each of our three microcontroller segments, 8-bit, 16-bit and 32-bit set
revenue records. Microcontrollers represented 64.6% of Microchip's overall revenue in the March
quarter. As we mentioned in our January conference call, for competitive reasons, we will only be
providing overall microcontroller revenue and growth rates and not breakouts by segment,
consistent with the practice of most of our competitors.
Gartner Dataquest just released their microcontroller market share report for 2014. We are
pleased to report that Microchip has regained the number one position for 8-bit microcontrollers.
Four years ago, it took the merger of three Japanese semiconductor giants, NEC, Hitachi and
Mitsubishi in the form of Renesas, to knock us off the number one spot for 8-bit microcontrollers.
We assured you at that time that we would work relentlessly to gain market share and to wrest
back the number one spot in the coming years. Post their merger, Renesas 8-bit microcontroller
business in 2010 used to be 41% larger than ours. In every year since 2010, we have closed the
gap versus Renesas and in 2014, we wrested back the leadership position and finished 10.5%
larger than Renesas.
In the 16-bit microcontroller market, we were again the fastest growing 16-bit microcontroller
supplier among the top 10 suppliers in 2014, growing at over 2x the rate of any of the other top
10 suppliers. While our substantially faster growth rate closed the gap versus higher ranked
suppliers, we remained in the number five spot in 2014 and expect to continue to gain share and
move further up the rankings in the coming years.
In the 32-bit microcontroller market, we moved up to the number nine spot in 2014 from the
number 11 spot in 2013, continuing our relentless climb up the rankings since we entered this
market a few years ago.
Now, Gartner Dataquest's report is a backward looking indicator where we are performing very
well. Now to look at a forward looking indicator, in April also, UBM Tech, which is the parent
company of EE Times, released the results of their annual embedded market study. Once again,
Microchip was rated by the embedded system design engineers as their number one choice for
new designs using 8-bit and 16-bit microcontrollers in the performance range that we compete in,
and we were the number two choice among 32-bit microcontrollers. We're humbled and gratified
by the overwhelming preference by engineers for our solutions and see this as a positive sign for
future growth.
Our overall microcontroller results as well as each of our 8-bit, 16-bit, and 32-bit results are clearly
outperforming the market, with year-over-year growth rates well above the market, and what we
have seen reported by our competitors in their results. These outstanding results in a very
competitive market are a tribute to the tireless effort by the worldwide Microchip team. We havegained significant market share and have the new product momentum and customer
engagement to continue to gain even more share as we build the best performing
microcontroller franchise in the industry.
Analog products. Our analog business was up 18.7% from the year ago quarter. In fiscal year 2015,
our analog business was up 17.6% over fiscal year 2014, crossing the $0.5 billion mark for the first
time and also setting an all-time record. This business continues to have strong design win
momentum in a broad range of applications and represented 23.3% of Microchip's overall
revenue in the March quarter. We continue to develop and introduce a wide range of innovative
and proprietary new products to fuel the future growth of our analog business.
Now moving to the memory business, which is comprised of our Serial EE memory products as
well as our SuperFlash memory products. This business was up 0.2% versus the year ago quarter.
In fiscal year 2015, our memory business was down 1.8% versus fiscal year 2014. We continue to
run our memory business in a disciplined fashion that maintains consistently high profitability,
enables our licensing business and serves our microcontroller customers to complete their
solutions. Our memory business represented 6.1% of Microchip's overall revenue in the March
quarter.
I have one more topic to cover today. Given the importance of the Internet of Things market,
some of our investors and analysts have asked for more color about the size of our IoT business.
First, there is no consistent way in which semiconductor companies report their IoT revenue. As a
result, there are some who report their entire embedded market revenue or the revenue of
business units focused on the embedded market as IoT revenue. By that measure, pretty close
to 100% of Microchip's $2.2 billion of revenue could be classified as IoT revenue. But it would not
be as meaningful to investors in terms of its potential as a future growth driver.
We have a stricter definition for our IoT revenue, in that we only count end applications or things
that are both smart and connected, reflecting what the promise of IoT really is, which is the
possibilities are open up by adding connectivity to smart systems. Examples of smart and
connected applications for Microchip are things like alarm systems, access control systems,
thermostats, smoke detectors, exercise machines, asset tracking, wireless audio docks, set-top
boxes and other consumer electronics systems, hospital personnel locaters, patient monitors,
automotive telematics, building automation, vending machines, smart grid monitoring, wired and
wireless networking systems, GPS navigation tracking systems and many, many others that are
too numerous list.
More applications will continue to be added as they get connected. I'm sure you will agree that
applications like the examples we just provided, which are a combination of smart and connected
applications, are more real IoT applications and the products going into them would better
characterized our IoT revenue.
Microchip solutions that enable the IoT market include low power microcontrollers, analog,
sensors, memories, wired and wireless communication products. So using our stricter definition
for IoT revenue, Microchip estimates that our current annual IoT revenue is approximately $275
million and has been growing at a greater than 35% compounded annual growth rate over the
last three years. This revenue is already included in the public reporting segments for Microchip.
Let me now pass it to Steve for some general comments about our business as well as our
guidance going forward. Steve?
Steve Sanghi `Thank you, Ganesh. Today, I would first like to reflect on the results of the fiscal fourth quarter of
2015 and fiscal year 2015, then I will provide guidance for the fiscal first quarter of 2016.
We were very pleased with our execution in the March quarter. We achieved record net sales in
the March quarter and slightly ahead of the midpoint of our guidance. Our non-GAAP earnings
per share of $0.68 were a record and at the high end of our revised estimate. Recall that we had
revised our earnings per share higher after taking into account the accretive effect of our
financing transactions.
Looking at the fiscal year 2015, it was another record year for revenue and the first fiscal year to
cross the $2 billion revenue mark. For fiscal year 2015, revenue came in at a record $2.16 billion, up
11.9% from fiscal year 2014. All of our strategic product lines of microcontroller and analog posted
record revenue performance for fiscal year 2015. The March quarter was also our 98th
consecutive profitable quarter. I want to thank all the employees of Microchip for their
contribution in this remarkable achievement of 98 consecutive profitable quarters. We're also
planning a celebration for 100 consecutive profitable quarter which is two quarters away.
In the last two conference calls, we told you that we will be shutting down production in Supertex
San Jose fab, as well as test facility in Hong Kong. The San Jose fab is now closed, with the last
wafer out occurring in early April. The fab building is undergoing restoration to be returned back
to the landlord. The transfer of the Hong Kong test operations to a high-volume Thailand facility
was also completed in February.
Now I will provide guidance for the fiscal first quarter of 2016. As we look at the business
environment, it is clear that many of our industry peers are seeing weakness across various end
markets including PC and industrial slowing growth in China market and currency impacts from the
strong dollar. Taking all this into account, we believe that our net sales in the June quarter will be
between $547 million and $564 million.
On a non-GAAP basis, we expect our gross margin to be between 58.3% and 58.5% of sales. We
expect operating expenses to be between 25.75% and 26% of sales. We expect operating profit
to be between 32.3% and 32.75% of sales. And we expect non-GAAP EPS to be between $0.69
and $0.73 per share.
Finally, I want to remind you that given all the complications of accounting for the acquisitions
including amortization of intangibles, restructuring charges and inventory write-up on acquisitions,
Microchip will continue to provide guidance and track its results on non-GAAP basis. We believe
that non-GAAP results provide more meaningful comparison to prior quarters and we request
that the analysts continue to report their non-GAAP estimates to First Call.
Before we open it up for questions, I want to remind everybody in case somebody joined our
conference late, where in this conference call, we'll be only taking questions regarding our
earnings and we'll have a second conference call starting at 5.45 p.m. New York time, at which we
will talk about the Micrel acquisition and take questions related to that acquisition.
With this, operator, will you please poll for questions?
Q&A
Operator
Yes, sir. Our first question comes from `William Stein, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc. with SunTrust.Q - `William Stein, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc. `
Great. Thank you for taking my question. Steve, the guidance, a couple percentage points below
consensus and perhaps normal seasonal patterns, understanding that that's not out of line with
what other companies are guiding this season as well. I wonder if you can comment on whether
you see that small weakness extending further in the next quarter. You often have some strong
opinions on the cycle, and I think we'd like to hear them.
A - Steve Sanghi `
I have blocked my opinion on the cycle, and I'm not going to share it with you anymore. Basically, I
think as far as the seasonality is concerned, a company with a constant stream of acquisitions that
we have done, we believe seasonality often is miscalculated by the investors. Depending on how
many years back you go, we have had Supertex acquisition, which closed in April last year; we had
an ISSC acquisition last year. If you go five years back, we closed SST acquisition also in April.
So when you look at the June quarter number, sometime you do with or without acquisitions and
many times the breakdown of those numbers is not available two or three years out. So I believe
that seasonality changes a lot with these acquisitions. And I think, but the largest reason, as you
describe yourself, which is industry conditions are soft, just like announced by other peers. That's
what we are seeing and beyond that I'm not going to comment on cycle or anything else for the
future.
Q - `William Stein, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc. `
Okay. I understand that. If I can ask one follow-up, please. I wonder to what degree you see this,
the weakness, as FX related either sort of first order or second order effect? And whether there
are any end markets – you were good enough to call out IoT. I think historically you haven't done a
lot of talking about specific end markets, but is there one particular end market like either PC or
wireless infrastructure that may be weaker or stronger? Thank you.
A - Steve Sanghi `
So we don't really have much end market commentary. We serve 90,000 plus customers and
vast majority of them through distribution, and many time at the customers, we work with multiple
divisions. For some of them, the business is PCs; for some others, the business is industrial; for
some other, it could be called consumer. So we don't really have any end market flavor. But
Ganesh in his commentary described that IoT business, the way we defined it, a much narrower
definition of IoT for applications that are really smart and connected, is growing 35% a year. So
that's doing very well.
But if you take a broader definition of IoT, like include all the embedded business and all that, you
could almost call 100% of Microchip's business as IoT, which really would not be helpful. So that's
really what I have to say there.
Q - `William Stein, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc. `
Thank you.
A - J. Eric Bjornholt `
Other question on FX.FX, I don't really think we can delineate the FX that much, but we do business worldwide in U.S.
dollars. So 99% plus of our business will be in U.S. dollars. So we don't take a hit on our
receivables that way and when the currencies become weak overseas, it doesn't change our
revenue right away, because our prices are in dollars. But then it makes the products more
expensive for our customers, so as you are renegotiating the price and next bid comes in, next
order comes in, you're negotiating and then you will see some impact.
But doing it in dollars gives us more control, allows us to manage it, split it with the customer or
do whatever, but really allows us to manage it rather than having automatic full FX impact to drop
down. So I think the way we do it is probably better and has a delayed effect. It also impacts the
business of our customers. If our business of our customers includes lots of products from
overseas, which in most cases it does, then their end product becomes more expensive and
they're having more trouble in terms of ramping their own products.
So those results are real. Some are first tier, some are second tier, some are even third tier and
it's very hard to figure this out with 90,000 customers worldwide doing business in 100 countries,
and I don't think we can decipher that.
Q - `William Stein, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc. `
Thanks, Steve.
Operator
Our next question comes from Chris Caso with Susquehanna Financial Group.
Q - `Christopher Caso, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Yes. Thank you. The first question is along the lines of currency also. But I noted that your
business in Europe appeared to be very strong in the quarter. Wonder if you could talk about that
a bit. I didn't know if perhaps there were some currency related effects in there, perhaps having
an effect on customer demand in the quarter. I guess, was that European strength surprising to
you and just generally what do you think may be behind that?
A - Steve Sanghi `
Go ahead, Eric.
A - J. Eric Bjornholt `
So Chris, if you look back at our historical results, the March quarter is always a strong period in
Europe, and having growth of almost 19%, it was a really good quarter in Europe. But that's not
out of line with what we've seen historically. And so, with the FX rates really changing kind of late
2014, early 2015, the impact on the quarter from an FX standpoint was not significant in the March
quarter. And Steve talked about what the forward effects could be. But it's always a very strong
quarter in March in Europe and this quarter was no different.
Q - `Christopher Caso, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Okay. Great. Just as a follow-up, I know you're trying to take inventory levels up. If you could
remind us kind of where you're looking to take them, how long you think it's going to take to get
there and is there a sort of a leverage benefit on margins as you do that?
A - Steve Sanghi `I think like our inventory, product mix have gotten very complex. A significant portion of our
business is analog. Lots of our microcontroller business is very analog-like. There is a high amount
of analog on microcontrollers, with lots and lots of SKUs. So we're basically finding that inventory
level needs to be between 115 and 120 days. A few years ago, we used to talk about 110 days. So
I think it's gone up by about maybe 7 to 10 days to have a reasonable amount of inventory to be
able to do business in such a complex mix of SKUs. And our inventory today is 111 days.
A - J. Eric Bjornholt `
It's 111. We put in the release that we'd expect based on the guidance for the quarter for
inventory to grow between 3 and 9 days. So, take the middle of the road of that and we're kind
of getting real close to what our model is for the longer term. So I think inventory is in pretty good
shape.
Q - `Christopher Caso, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
We'll go to Craig Hettenbach with Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Craig M. Hettenbach, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Yes, thank you. Just a follow-up on the current environment, given the quarter itself came in line.
Can you just talk about maybe how it progressed. And it looks like within the last six months,
we've had a couple times a bit of pause here, just what you make of that from a demand or
inventory perspective.
A - Steve Sanghi `
Well, in terms of how the quarter progressed, it was a very standard March quarter that starts
slow with the New Year holidays around the world, then picks up some steam and then slows
down into the Chinese New Year, and then you have a barnburner March. It's probably the most a
back-end loaded quarter we do. Compared to June quarter, September quarter, December
quarter, March quarter is the most backend loaded, predominantly driven by the Chinese New
Year and slow start in January, so very typical.
A - J. Eric Bjornholt `
Yes, and I'd say that was within our expectations.
A - Steve Sanghi `
Yes.
A - J. Eric Bjornholt `
Yes.
Q - `Craig M. Hettenbach, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Okay. And then any color in terms of just kind of canvassing the landscape from a demand and
just some of the sluggish trends you're seeing out there?A - Steve Sanghi `
Well, I hate to go back and visit last year, but late last year the estimates for the industry were
double digit, 10% type. And we were able to see there that that's not doable. That just didn't look
possible with what we were seeing in the PC, the inventory we were seeing in the channel, and
what we were hearing from our customers. We just didn't think the industry had a driver to really
create another 10% growth year. And as you look at it now, the growth rates for the industry have
been cut in half. So I really have to say that I'm not surprised. I think that's what we thought it will
be.
Q - `Craig M. Hettenbach, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Okay. And then maybe just a longer term question. If you look across, you've been successful in
really ramping the analog business, as well as on the MCU side in terms of share gains over time.
But just as you look at those two businesses, any differences for long-term growth rates in terms
of which one you might think grow the fastest longer term?
A - Steve Sanghi `
Well, we're a very profitable company as you can see, 32.3% operating profit. So our
microcontroller and analog businesses are both very well funded and relatively independently.
We're not driving to a model that three years out, explosion of our business will be in this division
or that division. They're all well funded and it depends on basically achieving product success and
marketplace penetration and they meet in manufacturing and they meet at the customer base
and they meet in applications, where in the same application, we got lots of microcontroller as
well as analog products going into a single board.
So there is a lot of synergy that way. But in terms of making investments, there is not a
competition, because we can really take care of both. So it will largely depend on where we have
larger success. Analog has been growing faster, somewhat because that's where we have done
some of the acquisitions. Microcontroller acquisitions are a bit more difficult to do, because
everybody has a different architecture and you got different issues in trying to get synergy in
microcontroller. So, we have been able to acquire capability in analog both organically and
through acquisitions, and it has been a smaller business compared to the microcontroller.
Microcontroller is a $1.5 billion business and analog is about a third of that, $0.5 billion. So it's been
growing faster. But it's not something that we are, if microcontroller can grow faster with IoT, with
other applications, 32-bit is growing very fast, 16-bit is growing very fast, 8-bit did a record. But it
does have a $1.5 billion gorilla that has to move, and we are number third in the overall
microcontroller market, third or fourth, depending on which year you take versus in analog, we're
much lower. There are much, much larger analog companies that we can take share from for a
long time.
Q - `Craig M. Hettenbach, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Got it. Appreciate the color there.
A - Steve Sanghi `
You're welcome.
OperatorQ - `Kevin E. Cassidy, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Thanks for taking my question. On your CapEx plans for fiscal year 2016, you said $160 million.
Can you break it down a little bit? Is it front end or back end and just where the spending will be?
A - J. Eric Bjornholt `
So it's a combination of both, Kevin. We're continuing to invest in new processes and
technologies in both the front end and back end, and investing to not only support the growth of
our organic business, but then you invest to bring some things in-house that were previously
outsourced for acquisitions. So, kind of the same story that you've heard before. It is definitely a
split between front end manufacturing and back end manufacturing.
Q - `Kevin E. Cassidy, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Maybe to add on to that, what do you expect your split to be at the end of fiscal year 2016 for
internal versus outsourcing?
A - J. Eric Bjornholt `
So, if you're meaning how much of our wafer fab will be done in-house, so in fiscal 2015, about
39% of it was outsourced and 61% was done in-house. There will be modest movements from
that in fiscal 2016. Nothing will change dramatically.
A - Steve Sanghi `
Unless there is a large acquisition that moves the mix. From an organic basis, you can move 1 or 2
points a year something, so it's not very huge. But significant movements have happened when
we acquired SST which was 100% outsourced; when we acquired SMSC, that was 100%
outsourced. You could ask that question in the second conference call and might, clearly maybe I
can answer it there.
Q - `Kevin E. Cassidy, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Okay. Maybe I was trying to get a feel for it, too, is like I think with SMSC, the idea was to bring
the test and packaging in-house even though the wafer fab was out. Is that still the longer-term
idea, to do more of your own testing and packaging?
A - Steve Sanghi `
Yes. So, we when answered you question on 39% inside, it was not on a COGS basis, it was
basically on a fab basis, front end. In terms of back end, we do -
A - J. Eric Bjornholt `
88% of the test we do in-house and kind of high 50s, low 60% of assembly we do in-house, and
that moves around with the acquisitions as Steve noted.
A - Steve Sanghi `
Yes.
Q - `Kevin E. Cassidy, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Okay. Great.A - Steve Sanghi `
So we have continued to bring work from SMSC inside. We have closed Supertex test facility in
Hong Kong. All that is running into Microchip. So yes, case-by-case basis, when it runs outside,
we'd like to bring it inside for lower cost.
Q - `Kevin E. Cassidy, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question will come from Harsh Kumar with Stephens.
Q - `Harsh V. Kumar, Stephens, Inc. `
Yes. Hey, Steve, I was wondering if there were any bright spots in terms of end markets, some
markets that actually held up better both as far as March as well as maybe for the guidance?
A - Steve Sanghi `
I think it's fashionable to say IoT. That's what I would say probably. It grew 35% year-over-year and
I'm sure it did very well quarterly too.
Q - `Harsh V. Kumar, Stephens, Inc. `
That's fair. And then I think you, in response to a previous question, you talked about linearity of
the March quarter. We found that very helpful. I was wondering not specific to this June quarter,
but historically, maybe you can give us an idea how typically the June quarter trends for you guys
last couple of years?
A - Steve Sanghi `
In terms of monthly linearity?
Q - `Harsh V. Kumar, Stephens, Inc. `
Yes, just any kind of color you want to give us.
A - Steve Sanghi `
I would say June quarter is probably the most linear quarter. The March quarter is the most non-
linear quarter because of the Chinese New Year. Then when you get to September quarter, you
have the August, which is weak usually because of holidays in Europe and parts of Asia, and
December quarter, you have holidays at the end. So June quarter is actually the most normal
linear quarter. And I don't think we expect anything different.
Q - `Harsh V. Kumar, Stephens, Inc. `
Got it. Thanks, guys.
Operator
Thank you. And Chris Danely with Citi, please go ahead.Q - `Christopher B. Danely, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker) `
Hey. Thanks, Steve. So I guess if you just take a step back and you compare this soft patch to
what happened late last year or maybe even 2012, 2011, do you think it's similar, better, worse?
Do you think there is any chance that things could get worse or did we just kind of fall down a
month ago or a few weeks ago, and now we're kind of bouncing along the bottom and waiting
for things back up. Any perspective there?
A - Steve Sanghi `
I think, Chris, I resigned from my industry forecasting job last year. Gave it to you.
Q - `Christopher B. Danely, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker) `
Good luck with that. I guess as my follow-up, how about inventory out there with distributors and
your customers? Now that demand is a little lower, do you expect some sort of inventory burn
this quarter, or do you feel like everybody is pretty comfortable out there?
A - Steve Sanghi `
So, I think our distribution inventory is not high. Number one, we don't take it as a revenue, so it
doesn't really matter as much. But if the distribution inventory becomes too high and then they
correct it, then you can have a downstream effect then if we have to lower our own inventory. Our
own inventory is on the lower side and we like it higher. The distribution inventory is in the middle.
So when you combine those two inventories, they're not high. If anything they're on the low side,
despite the weakness, despite the guidance. So based on current numbers, our inventory is still
really on the south of the middle.
So I don't think that inventory is a problem. We are working very hard in our factories to make
more product for our customers and have expedites and challenges and others with the mix
being very complex, having closed down Supertex fab, accommodating all those products in our
fab. Manufacturing is challenging and inventory, high inventory is not a issue right now.
Q - `Christopher B. Danely, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker) `
Okay. Thanks, guys.
Operator
Thank you. And John Pitzer with Credit Suisse, please go ahead.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Can you hear me? Guys, can you hear me?
Operator
Yes, please go ahead.
A - Steve Sanghi `
We can, John.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `Perfect. Steve, I'm going to give my shot to try to bring you out of retirement and kind of follow-
up to Chris's first question. I'm just kind of curious, you're guiding flat to up sequentially for the
June quarter. A little bit below normal seasonal patterns, but you guys are comfortable enough to
continue to build inventory. I'm just kind of curious, if you thought this was going to be prolonged
or deeper, would you do anything around utilization? Would you not build inventory? Is the fact
that you're willing to build some inventory kind of a tacit sign that you think this is more of a soft
patch than anything else?
A - Steve Sanghi `
Well, I mean we really aren't making a call either way. I mean manufacturing is running normal. If
you look at our December quarter, we have holiday related shutdown we have to do to really do
the maintenance on the facility, so you lose a few days. And it's usually tight on total output in
December quarter, and in the March quarter you get the full days. And related to that, we're
working hard to build a few days of inventory. We said 3 to 9 days. Let's say at the end, it comes
out to be 4 or 5 days, that will still be only 114, 115 days of inventory, on the lower end of the 115 to
119.
So like I said, answer to Chris's question, I don't really think we have conviction either way to drive
the inventory much higher or much lower. We're largely basically trying to get to the middle of our
range and only going to get to the bottom of our range probably.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Good. That's helpful, Steve. And then maybe as a follow-up, Ganesh, really appreciated kind of
the more detailed definition of IoT, and you talked about a lot of the discrete IP and technology
you guys provide. I'm kind of curious to what extent you guys are providing that as a turnkey
solution when you think about microcontroller, analog, wire, wireless connectivity. How do we think
about kind of how much of your IoT revenue is complete turnkey solutions versus discrete and
what's the opportunity to go to turnkey?
And if you could talk a little bit about security within that IoT bucket as well, because clearly there
is a school of thought that secure and connected is what defines IoT. I'd be kind of curious as how
you guys are thinking about the security issue?
A - Ganesh Moorthy `
Okay. Good questions. So when we go to market, there are obviously many customers for whom
we can provide the complete bag of solutions, analog, microcontroller, wireless or wired,
whatever connectivity they want to have. In other cases, we may only win a portion of that and it
gives us a foothold to the customer to come back and look at their next generation of design. So
I don't have a good split of which way it is across so many different customers that are -- but our
obvious go-to-market is to win as much as what's on the board. That constitutes both the smart
side of the equation as well as the connectivity side of the equation.
Then your question on security is a very good one as well. So we know it's a key part of many,
many of these applications. We enable that security in some cases through hardware that's built
into our products in combination with software that we make available as well. And I think there is
a lot more coming in front of us from the industry at large on how to ensure that as IoT fills out
the range of applications, the security part of it continues to be addressed sufficiently. So yes, any
time you have a node that is connected, its security is a key part of what we need to think about
in the solution we deliver.Operator
Thank you. And with no additional questions in the queue, I'd like to go ahead and turn the floor
back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
A - Steve Sanghi `
Okay, we want to thank everyone for attending our conference call. After a little break at 5.45
Eastern Time, we'll be starting our second conference call, which is regarding the acquisition of
Micrel, and we'll hear some of you again on that call. So thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And again, ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference. Thank you
all again for your participation.