Q4 2019 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day everyone, and welcome to this Microchip's Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2019 Financial Results
Conference Call. As a reminder, today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the
conference over to `Eric Bjornholt, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead, sir.
`Eric Bjornholt, Chief Financial Officer `
Good morning, everybody. During the course of this conference call, we will be making
projections and other forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future financial
performance of the Company. We wish to caution you that such statements are predictions and
actual events or results may differ materially. We refer you to our press releases of last evening's,
as well as our recent filings with the SEC that identify important risk factors that may impact
Microchip's business and results of operations.
And in attendance with me today are `Steve Sanghi, Chief Executive Officer, Microchip's Chairman and CEO; and Ganesh
Moorthy, Microchip's President and COO. I will comment on our fourth quarter and full fiscal year
2019 financial performance, and Steve and Ganesh will then give their comments on the results,
discuss the current business environment, as well as our guidance and provide an update on our
integration activities on our integration activities associated with the Microsemi acquisition. We will
then be available to respond to specific investor and analyst questions.
We are including information in our press release in this conference call on various GAAP and non-
GAAP measures. We have posted a full-GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation on the Investor
Relations page of our website at www.microchip.com, which we believe, you will find useful when
comparing GAAP and non-GAAP results. I want to remind investors that during the quarter ending
June 30, 2018, we adopted the new GAAP revenue recognition standard, which requires revenueto be recognized at the time products are sold to distributors versus our historical revenue
recognition policy, where revenue on such transactions were deferred until the product was sold
by our distributors to an end customer.
We continue to track and measure our performance internally based on direct revenue plus
distribution sell-through activity and will provide a metric for this call to end-market demand in our
earnings release each quarter. Therefore, along with our GAAP and non-GAAP results based on
distribution selling, we will also provide investors with our end-market demand based on
distribution sellout. But will not provide a P&L on end-market demand. End-market demand in the
March 2019 quarter was $1.34 billion, which was $10.4 million above our GAAP revenue.
I will now go through some of the operating results, including net sales, gross margin, and
operating expenses. I will be referring to these results on a non-GAAP basis, which is based on
expenses prior to the effects of our acquisition activities, share-based compensation, and certain
other adjustments. Our fiscal 2019 non-GAAP results are calculated as the sum of the non-GAAP
sell-through-based information we disclosed previously for each of the first three quarters of
fiscal 2019, plus the non-GAAP sell-in-based information disclosed today for the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2019.
Net sales in the March quarter were $1.33 billion, which was above the midpoint of our guidance
and down 3.3% sequentially. We have posted a summary of our GAAP net sales in the end-
market demand by product line and geography on our website for your reference. On a non-
GAAP basis, gross margins were 62.2% and well above the midpoint of our guidance, which was
61.5%. Operating expenses were at the low end of our guidance range at 25.8% of sales, and
operating income was $484.1 million and 36.4% of sales. Non-GAAP net income was $370.4
million, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share was a $1.48, which was over $0.08 above the
midpoint of our guidance of $1.395.
For fiscal 2019, on a non-GAAP basis, net sales were a record $5.476 billion and up 37.6% year-
over-year. Gross margins were a record 62.1%, operating expenses were 24.3% of sales, and
operating income was 37.7% of sales. Net income was a record $1.636 billion and non-GAAP EPS
was a record $6.55 per diluted share.
Please note, that for fiscal year 2019 our non-GAAP results are based on our publicly reported
non-GAAP results, which Q1 through Q3 as mentioned before were based on sell-through
revenue recognition in the distribution channels, and Q4 was based on sell-in revenue recognition
in the distribution channel. Fiscal year 2020 non-GAAP results will be based on sell-in revenue
recognition, in line with our GAAP revenue reporting and the revenue recognition standard
adopted during the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
On a GAAP basis, gross margins were 61.7% and include the impact of $4 million of share-based
compensation and $1.8 million of acquired inventory valuation costs. Total operating expenses
were $535.9 million and include acquisition intangible amortization of $176.9 million, special
income of $23.3 million, $4.4 million of acquisition related and other costs, and share-based
compensation of $35.1 million. The GAAP net income was $174.7 million or $0.70 per diluted share
and includes an income tax benefit of $23.5 million.
The GAAP tax benefit in the quarter related to a variety of matters, including tax reserve releases
due to statute of limitations expiring, tax reform refinements, and tax benefits associated with
restructuring and the Microsemi operations into the Microchip global structure. On a GAAP basis
for fiscal 2019, net sales were a record $5.35 billion and up 34.4% year-over-year. Gross marginswere 54.8%, operating expenses were 41.4% of sales, and operating income was 13.4% of sales.
Net income was $355.9 million and EPS was $1.42 per diluted share.
The non-GAAP cash tax rate was 1.4% in the March quarter and 3% for fiscal year 2019. For cash
planning purposes, we were able to differ the payment of some of our fiscal 2019 taxes into fiscal
2020, and this is one of the reasons our FY19 tax rate was lower than originally projected. We
expect our non-GAAP tax rate for fiscal '20 to be between 5% and 6% exclusive of the transition
tax, any potential tax associated with restructuring in the Microsemi operations under the
Microchip global structure, and any tax settlements related to taxes accrued in prior fiscal years.
We have many tax attributes and net operating losses and tax credits, as well as U.S. interest
deductions that we believe will keep our cash tax payments low. The future cash tax payments
associated with the transition tax is expected to be about $246 million and will be paid over the
next seven years. We have posted a schedule of our projected transition tax payments on the
Investor Relations page of our website.
Moving onto the balance sheet, you will notice that Microchip's accounts receivable balance is up
significantly from the prior quarter. We have made an accounting presentation change to
reclassify the distributor price adjustments that reduce the amount of cash we ultimately received
from our distributors from a reduction in the AR balance to an increase in accrued liabilities.
Remember that we generally sell to our distributors at a price that is higher than the ultimate
sales price, and then that price has reduced by a distributor price adjustment when the ultimate
sale occurs to the distributors customers. Excluding this reclassification, our accounts receivable
balance was up about $5 million in the quarter.
Our inventory balance at March 31, 2019 was $711.7 million. All the inventory market for Microsemi
required for GAAP purchase accounting has now been sold through and is no longer reflected in
the ending inventory balance. We had a 128 days of inventory at the end of the March quarter, up
5 days from the prior quarter's level. Inventory at our distributors in the March quarter were up 35
days compared to 36 days at the end of December. We believe that barring any negative
developments in the U.S-China trade front, our distributors are holding a reasonable level of
inventory to support end-market demand.
The cash flow from operating activities was $403.4 million in the March quarter. As of March, 31,
the consolidated cash and total investment position was $430.9 million. We paid down $277.5
million of total debt in the March quarter and the net debt on the balance sheet reduced by
$272.3 million. At March, 31, our debt outstanding includes $3.267 billion of borrowings under our
line of credit, $1.912 billion of Term Loan B, $2 billion in high grade bonds, and $4.481 billion of
convertible debt. Our EBITDA in the March quarter was $544.4 million and our trailing 12-month
EBITDA was $2.212 billion. Our net debt to EBITDA, excluding our very long dated convertible
debt that matures in 2037 and is more equity like in nature, was $4.8 million [ph] at March 31,
2019.
Our net leverage metrics are based on 12-month trailing EBITDA, which will continue to provide
some headwinds due to the distribution inventory reductions that were made in the June and
September quarter for Microsemi, which caused our shipment activity to be significantly less than
the end-market demand during these periods. The weaker economic environment also was
negatively impacted our EBITDA in the December 2018 and March 2019 quarters. We are
committed to using substantially all of our excess cash generation beyond our dividend payments
to reduce our debt levels and we expect our debt levels to reduce significantly over the next
several years.Our dividend payment in the March quarter was $86.7 million, capital expenditures were $40.1
million in the March 2019 quarter and $228.9 million in fiscal year 2019. We expect about $35
million in capital spending in the June quarter and overall capital expenditures for fiscal year 2020
to be between $130 million and $150 million. We continue to add capital to support the growth of
our production capabilities for our new products and technologies and to bring in-house more of
the assembly and test operations that are currently outsourced. These capital investments will
bring some gross margin improvement to our business, particularly for the outsourced Atmel and
Microsemi manufacturing activities that we are bringing into our own factories. Depreciation
expense in the March quarter was $48.4 million.
I will now turn it over to Ganesh to give us comments on the performance of the business in the
March quarter and provide an update on some of the Microsemi integration activities. Ganesh?
`Ganesh Moorthy, President and COO `
Thank you, Eric, and good morning, everyone. Before I get started, I'd like to clarify that the
product line comparisons I will be sharing with you today are based on end-market demand,
which is how Microchip measures are performance internally. Let's start by taking a closer look at
microcontrollers. Our microcontroller business was sequentially down 4.6% compared to the
December quarter, reflecting the broad macro weakness in the markets we serve.
Microcontrollers, however, were up 8.6% from the year ago quarter. On a fiscal year basis, fiscal
year 2019 microcontroller revenue was a record at over $3 billion and grew 15% over fiscal year
2018. Microcontrollers represented 53.3% of our end-market demand in the March quarter.
During the quarter, we continued to introduce a steady stream of innovative new
microcontrollers, ranging from the industry's first ARM-based microcontroller with space-qualified
versions that have scalable levels of radiation performance, new dual and single-core dsPIC33
digital signal controllers with built-in functional safety, the industry's smallest IEEE802.15.4
compliant module that combines an ultra low power microcontroller with the sub-gigahertz radio
and last but not least, we unveiled our Unified 32-Bit Microcontroller software framework called
Harmony, extending support for Atmel originated Sam microcontrollers and Microchip's
development tool environment.
We now support our mix-based microcontrollers as well as our own based microcontrollers on a
single development environment of MPLAB Harmony. Last month, Gartner released their
microcontroller market share report for calendar year 2018. We are pleased to report that
Microchip retained the number one position for 8-Bit microcontrollers. Once again, we gained
market share as we grew faster than the 8-Bit microcontroller market overall and in fact, we are
now 73% larger than the number two player. In the 16-Bit microcontroller market, we remained in
the number five position and continue to gain significant market share as we grew faster than all
our top competitors and at about 5x the growth rate of the 16-Bit microcontroller market. In the
32-Bit microcontroller market, we remained in the number six position and gain significant market
share as we grew almost at 2x the growth rate of the 32-Bit microcontroller market. We were also
the fastest growing franchise among the top six players who make up over 80% of the 32-Bit
microcontroller market. These results are despite Gartner rolling up our 32-Bit microcontroller
revenue to be 30% lower than the over $1 billion revenue that we informed you off in our last
conference call. How Gartner used our actual calendar year 2018, 32-Bit microcontroller revenue,
we would have moved up to the number four ranking.
Additionally, our 32-Bit microcontroller revenue in fiscal year 2019 was over $1.1 billion,
demonstrating continued momentum. For microcontrollers overall, we remained the number
three position and grew faster than the two players ahead of us. The Gartner reported revenue is
considerably lower than our publicly reported revenue for calendar year 2018. Using our publiclyreported revenue, we would be approximately 13% and approximately 18% away from the top
two players ahead of us as we continue our relentless march towards the number one spot. Our
microcontroller portfolio and roadmap has never been stronger. We believe we have the new
product momentum and the customer engagement to continue to gain even more share in 2019
as we further build the best performing microcontroller franchise in the industry. Now moving to
Analog. Our Analog business was sequentially down 5.8%, compared to the December quarter,
reflecting the same broad macro weakness our microcontroller business experience. Analog,
however, was up 60.2% from the year ago quarter. On a fiscal year basis, fiscal year 2019 Analog
revenue was a record at well over $1.5 billion and grew 64.6% over fiscal year 2018. Analog
represented 29% of our end-market demand in the March quarter. During the quarter, we
continue to introduce a stage [ph] stream of innovative Analog products, including a new Analog-
to-digital converter family that enables high-speed, high-resolution analog-to-digital conversions
in harsh environments. Our FPGA business was sequentially down 5% as compared to the
December quarter, reflecting the same broad macro weakness.
However, design wins in our new low power mid-range pull-up fire family continue to grow
strongly and we are optimistic about this product family, adding another leg of growth for the
future. During the quarter, we introduced the PolarFire FPGA imaging and video solution that
supports resolution as high as 4K in the small low power form factors necessary for a wide range
of imaging and video applications. We also released our Libero SoC Design tool which delivers a
unified design suite. FPGA represented 7% of our end-market demand in the March quarter.
Moving next to our licensing business, this business was sequentially down 42.3% as compared to
the December quarter. The production activity of our licensing customers has been cut
significantly in response to industry conditions. Also, as we mentioned in our February conference
call, we did not expect nor have any meaningful patent licensing revenues in the March quarter,
while we did in the December quarter. Our patent licensing strategy is to monetize portions of
the substantial patent portfolio we inherited through our acquisitions by licensing select patents
to players and non-competitive fields of use, while retaining the rights to these patents in our
products as well. Investors should expect that the revenue contribution from patent licensing in
the future will be lumpy from quarter to quarter. Our memory business was sequentially up 3.8%
in the March quarter as compared to the December quarter. And finally, our multi-market and
other business was up 3.5% sequentially as compared to the December quarter.
A quick update about our Microsemi integration as we come up on the one-year anniversary after
the close. Business units, sales operations, and support groups are all making good progress.
Our thanks go to the combined company employees who are working hand-in-hand to achieve
accelerated synergy results. Overall, we're ahead of our synergy targets and expect continued
synergy gains for many quarters to come. Business systems and operations integration is taking
the longest time to complete as we are conducting this complex transition in phases. The first
and second phases were completed on November, 1 and February, 1, respectively, for a
combined total of four business units. The third phase went live on May, 1 and involved four more
business units. With that, we're about one-third of the way through the business systems and
operations integration and more phase releases are planned every quarter. We expect the
overall business and operational integration will take about another twelve to fifteen more
months to complete. Finally, prior to our acquisition, Microsemi had announced the closing of a
small 4-inch fab in Bend, Oregon. The last wafers came out of this fab at the end of the March
quarter and we ceased production on schedule. Additionally, we were able to find a buyer for the
fab and closed the sale last week. The sale price was not material to Microchip.
Let me now pass it to Steve for some comments about our business and our guidance going`Steve Sanghi, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you Ganesh, and good morning everyone. Today, I would like to first reflect on the results
of the fiscal fourth quarter of 2019. I will then provide guidance for the fiscal first quarter of 2020.
Our March quarter GAAP and non-GAAP net sales, based on the sell-in revenue recognition came
in just a tad above the midpoint of our guidance. The business in the quarter proceeded as we
had expected. Our end-market demand measured by sell-through was about $10 million higher
than the sell-in revenue, but unfortunately, we cannot sell-through market based demand as
revenue anymore, based on the new revenue recognition standard. The end-market demand
was stronger than sell-in revenue, which is consistent with that pieces [ph] that the channel is
continuing to manage their working capital conservatively, by reducing inventory due to
uncertainties.
Our consolidated non-GAAP gross margin at 62.2%, exceeded the high-end of our guidance. Our
consolidated non-GAAP operating margin of 36.4% was also above the high-end of our guidance.
These gross and operating margin percentages are the highest results we have ever posted at
the bottom of the cycle. Our consolidated non-GAAP earnings per share exceeded the midpoint
of our guidance by over $0.08 per share. On non-GAAP basis, this was also our 114th consecutive
profitable quarter. I want to thank all employees of Microchip, including employees from all of our
acquisitions for their contribution.
One other area I wanted to point out is our debt payments. In the March quarter, we paid down
$277.5 million of our debt. Our total debt payments since the end of June 2018 has been $1.156
billion. With expected $250 million payment in the June quarter, we expect to have paid down
about $1.4 billion of our debt since the closing of the Microsemi transaction on May 29, 2018,
which we feel is excellent progress. In addition, with Federal Reserve Board expected to be on
hold for any further interest rate increases, we are optimistic that the peak of our debt-to-EBITDA
leverage is behind us, and we should see meaningful reduction in leverage in the next one year
starting this June quarter.
Now, I will provide you guidance for the June quarter. The guidance we provided for the
September quarter of last year, which is reflected our caution on business conditions, turned out
in retrospect to be spot-on and was a harbinger for broader industry weakness through the last
several quarters. In our last quarter's earnings call, we said that barring any negative
development on the trade front, we see the March 2019 quarter to mark the bottom of this cycle
for Microchip.
Secondly, we said that last quarter, we did not know the shape of the recovery, whether it is a V,
U or L-shaped and it would depend somewhat on the outcome of the trade talks. Towards that
end, we did not get a settlement on the trade front. In fact, in recent days, the rhetoric has
turned more negative with 25% duties on $200 billion of Chinese goods expected to go into
effect this Friday. Therefore, the uncertainty related to U.S-China trade relations continues.
Given this continued uncertainty, we see weaker than seasonal business conditions for Microchip.
We continue to operate our business prudently for long-term shareholder value and we believe
that the end-market demand will continue to be stronger than the GAAP sell-in revenue in the
June quarter, and the channel and customer inventory will continue to decrease. Given this color
about our business conditions, we expect net sales for our products to be about flat sequentially
plus or minus 5% in the June 2019 quarter.
We want to correct some of the analysts and investor's perception about what is a seasonal
growth for us in the June quarter. If you take our past years revenue as reported and averagethem for a calculation of the June quarter seasonality, you will get a very wrong result. It is
because several of our acquisitions closed in April. Supertex acquisition closed on April 1 2014;
Atmel acquisition closed on April 3, 2016; and Microsemi acquisition closed on May 29, 2018. If we
make the calculation based on removing the acquired companies sales in the first quarter, then
based on the last seven years, our average net sales in the June quarter, were up about 3%
sequentially. Therefore, our current flattish guidance at the midpoint for June quarter is below
historical seasonality for classic Microchip.
We expect our non-GAAP gross margin to be between 61.8% and 62.2% of sales. We expect our
non-GAAP operating expenses to be between 25.3% and 26.3% of sales. We expect our non-
GAAP operating profit percentage to be between 35.5% and 36.9% of sales. We expect our non-
GAAP earnings per share to be between $1.26 per share to $1.49 per share.
Now, the next question is what happens after the June quarter? The hints coming out of
Washington regarding the status of U.S-China trade talks, continue to oscillate between positive
and negative. While there is no guarantee that talks will end successfully with the settlement, we
believe that any finality of such talks will remove some of the uncertainty and will have positive
effect on the business. China has already taken a number of stimulus measures to boost
business, including a cut in the VAT from 16% to 13%, cutting the personal income tax rate and
cutting reserve requirements of the banks, thus increasing the money supply. We have seen
some strength in our China business from the bottom in the March quarter and expect more
strength to pick up in the second half of calendar 2019.
The automotive business continues to be weak around the world because of car production
down in the U.S., Europe, and China. We expect that our automotive business bottomed in March
quarter two, and should start to recover from the low base and strengthen into the second half
of calendar 2019. Considering all of the above factors, we are renewing our belief that barring
any negative developments on the trade front, we will expect the business recovery to pick up in
the second half of calendar 2019.
Given all the complications of accounting for acquisitions, including amortization of intangibles,
restructuring charges, and inventory write-up on acquisitions, Microchip will continue to provide
guidance and track its results on non-GAAP basis, except for net sales, which will be on a GAAP
basis. We believe that non-GAAP results provide more meaningful comparison to prior quarters
and we request that the analysts continue to report their non-GAAP estimates to first call.
With this, operator, will you please poll for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We will now take our first question from `John Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse from
Credit Suisse. Please go ahead, your line is open.
Q - `John Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Yes, good morning guys. Thanks for let me ask the questions. Steve, my first question. Very
helpful to help us understand how you're viewing seasonality into the June quarter. But just given
all the acquisitions and I think a couple of quarters ago, you talked about still trying to understand
the seasonality of all the new businesses together. I'm wondering if you can just level set
everyone on the call and help us understand how you think about seasonality in September,
December and March, as well as June?A - `Steve Sanghi, Chief Executive Officer `
John, we are not able to give forward-looking seasonality for multiple quarters yet. We haven't
had enough experience on the Microsemi front. Some of the last year's performance was
affected by the inventory reduction we undertook in distribution. So we haven't had a number of
normal quarter, then we got hit by all this U.S-China trade issues for the last couple of quarters
that we have been fighting, and now looking for the recovery. So the historic seasonality for June
quarter I mentioned, was to remove the acquired companies first quarter revenue and then
average the last seven years. We certainly can do that for the September and December quarter
and provide that information to the investors but that would be backward looking seasonality. We
are not yet able to give you information on the forward-looking seasonality.
Q - `John Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
That's helpful. And then just as my follow-up on the CapEx guidance for the new fiscal year. It's
down fairly meaningfully year-over-year. To what extent is that just a reflection of the weak
business environment or is this just really some of the CapEx projects you had in place to help
integrate the acquisitions are mostly behind you and how do we think about kind of the run rate
of CapEx, whether as a percent of sales or an absolute dollar number from kind of what you're
projecting for the current fiscal year?
A - `Eric Bjornholt, Chief Financial Officer `
Okay, this is Eric. I can take that question. So as indicated, we're projecting somewhere between
$130 million and $150 million in CapEx for fiscal 2020. That's down from about $230 million in
fiscal 2019. Fiscal 2019 we have some kind of one-time events associated with some building
projects that we talked about the last few conference calls that was in the $60 million to $70
million range and we put capacity in place in the first half of last fiscal year, expecting the
environment to be stronger. So I think we're pretty well-positioned. And then we also have a full
year Microsemi or a couple more months in fiscal 2020 compared to fiscal 2019. So all that
combined, I think our CapEx projection is reasonable range for the current year. I think over the
course of time, will be in that 3% to 4% of sales and there'll be peaks and valleys to that as based
on the environment that we're facing at that time.
Q - `John Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Thanks guys.
Operator
Thank you. We will now take our next question from `Chris Danely, Citi from Citi. Please go ahead, your
line is open.
Q - `Chris Danely, Citi `
Thanks guys. Steve, your tone seemed a little more pessimistic than it did three months ago. So,
has anything changed? Is this just because we're looking at another $200 billion? Has anything
changed in your business over the last week or the last -- I guess three months since your last on
the call to make you a little more pessimistic on how things are going?
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chief Executive Officer `
What change is really the talk on the US-China trade front, going from lot of positive signalsmonths. And then turning into a tweet by President Trump on Sunday, that the 25% tariffs on $200
billion of Chinese goods are going into effect this Friday, resulting into a cancellation of the visit
by Vice-Premier of China first and then later on, he put back to visit and is now arriving on
Thursday. So the rhetoric has turned meaningfully negative here and causing significant
uncertainty. Now, there hasn't been a lot of time since that news to gauge the reaction of our
distributors and customers. And as you know, we have very broad distribution and thousands and
thousands of customers and in couple of days, you cannot really gauge all that. So yes, our tone
has turning distinctly negative due to those developments.
Q - `Chris Danely, Citi `
Sure. I guess if this wasn't going on, maybe last week or the week before, what would you
guidance be and what have you heard from your customers kind of as the quarter has
progressed on the business?
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chief Executive Officer `
I think that's kind of -- would I should or could, we don't know. But certainly the guidance would
have been much more narrow in the range versus the wide range and the guidance would have
been more positive on the midpoint and then the one we have provided now.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and COO `
Chris, I would add also, the trade resolution has also been delayed. So not only is the most recent
news from the weekend. When we were speaking to everybody back in February, there was a
much earlier a date for resolution. So that continues to push out and create uncertainty as well.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chief Executive Officer `
During our conference call last quarter, which was on February, 9 or something, the trade
resolution was supposed to happen prior to March, 1; so it was relatively imminent. Then it was
delayed to May, 1 and then it didn't happen on May, 1 and then they turned negative, so there has
been a substantial delay and change on that front.
Q - `Chris Danely, Citi `
Okay. Thanks.
Operator
Thank you. We will now take our next question from `Harlan Sur, JPMorgan from JPMorgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Harlan Sur, JPMorgan `
Good morning and thank you for taking my question. Last year at Analyst Day, which was held in
early March of last year, you guys were able to accurately call out the trends for the June quarter
and even provide June quarter sequential growth outlook. And I think a big part of the analysis
back then was the rate of backlog build for the June quarter, post Chinese New Year, which in a
normalized demand environment, kind of flattens out doing CNY and then rises post Chinese
New Year. So I guess the question is -- or it seems like you didn't see this type of recovery in the
backlog this year. So maybe if you could just provide us with some color here on the backlog
trends post CNY this year and what are the current backlog trends telling you about the
September quarter?A - `Steve Sanghi, Chief Executive Officer `
So I think the environment is of significant uncertainty because of US-China trade talks this year.
Then it was last year, there was no such uncertainty, the only uncertainty we were dealing with last
year was investor's perception about the letters we had in the year before with many investors
felt that pulls demand up and there will be a correction. And I think we showed to the charts that
there was no such effect of the letters we write. Those letters are simply to inform our
customer's broad base of 20,000 plus customers, the environment we were dealing with and
through. Backlog in terms and various metrics, we showed to the investors that our business was
in good shape and we will not really seeing any challenges. The environment today with
uncertainty with the two largest markets we have, which are the U.S. and China, together they
make close to 50% of our business if not more, is offs -- significant more uncertainty and simply
looking at the backlog in terms and all that in the middle of the quarter cannot make up for a
large amount of customer sentiment.
So having said all that, our backlog on April, 1 started lower than our backlog was in January, 1;
because last quarter bookings were weak. So our backlog started lower. However, the bookings
quarter-to-date in this quarter for the month of April and few days in May, has been stronger than
the bookings we got during the same time last quarter from January, 1 to February a timeframe.
So the bookings are stronger and the turns coming from those bookings are stronger because
the lead times are short. But with significant change in the sentiment driven by just the events of
last few days, it's very difficult to project what the distributor and customer sentiment would be in
the balance of the quarter. Just imagine if you would a supplier and you didn't know whether
you'll be able to pass on a 25% tariff increase to your customers. Whether your customer will then
choose to buy that product from Korea, Taiwan or somewhere else and not from the Chinese
supplier. In that environment, you would take actions to protect your business by not having large
amount of inventory, only building to farm orders and negotiating with your customers what kind
of price increase you can pass on. Those are all uncertainties that thousands and thousands of
customers have been dealing with for quite a while impacting our business.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and COO `
I think one other thing I would add to what Steve said is, comparing the sentiments at March, 1 last
year when we did our Analyst Day to today, the other significant change over that time period is
lead times have contracted significantly and so that is customer's flexibility to place a very short-
term orders on us, and to be responsive, which wasn't necessarily the case over a year ago back
in March.
Q - `Harlan Sur, JPMorgan `
Great, thanks for the insights there. My follow-up question is, strong showing on the market share
front of MCU for 2018. On 32-Bit, you guys grew your business almost 900 basis points faster
than the overall market and I don't think Microsemi had any 32-Bit MCUs, so pretty much all
organic, you've got your MIPS architecture, you've got your ARM family. You guys could you help
us understand the drivers of the strong outperformance? I assume maybe part of it is helping
your customers move up the stack, but what are some of the other dynamics driving the strong
market share performance?
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chief Executive Officer `
It is not completely correct that Microsemi had no 32-Bit microcontrollers. They did have a class of
what we call specialized microcontrollers, which are 32-Bit microcontrollers. But in general, theclassic Microchip 32-Bit products of both architectures, MIPS and ARM, have been doing
extremely well. As you know, we acquired the ARM microcontrollers through the Atmel
acquisition. So that has given us the ability to serve a broader set of customers, a broader set of
applications. And so that combination of both, what classic Microchip could do with the 32-Bit
microcontrollers we have, that are more general purpose, plus some of the specialized
microcontrollers that came through Microsemi, all contributed to the last twelve months.
However, the calendar year 2018 growth numbers that you see.
Q - `Harlan Sur, JPMorgan `
Great, thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We will now take our next question from `Rajvindra Gill, Analyst, Needham & Company from Needham & Company.
Please go ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Rajvindra Gill, Analyst, Needham & Company `
Yes, thank you for taking my question. Just to follow-up on the China trade issue. I'm trying to get
a sense in terms of how the issues with trade and how it translates to actual orders on the
ground. A lot of the companies in the coverage space saw kind of an abrupt cut in orders from
their customers in China, starting in December, different from kind of past cycles and have been
starting to see some rebound. And given kind of your guidance in June it reflected kind of a
weaker seasonal trends, even though the comment from Trump came out on Sunday; I'm just
trying to reconcile your guidance and the -- just a short nature of the change in sentiment
because of what happened last week and the actual impact that you're seeing on the ground. To
give way to give the guidance in the first place?
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chief Executive Officer `
Hi, Rajiv. It's very, very difficult to accurately assess the impact of a substantial negative turn on the
developments of our trade talks. That's why we have a fairly broad guidance not being accurately
able to model the impact. These are not the issues where there is a historical record of what
happens. I mean these kind of things haven't happened in history. It's only in the last couple of
quarters. And I think we predicted the downturn better than anybody in the industry, we were the
first one to predict that. And many of the earnings report this season came before the Trump's
tweets on Sunday, citing the talks had turned negative. So, having that knowledge that these talks
have turned negative, seeing that announcement last night in our earnings, we have to put the
possibility of negative customer behavior. One thing I have described before to analysts and
investors in our various calls and meetings is, the world economy largely runs on people building
to forecast.
Every manufacturer builds large amount of their products on forecast, from electronic stores to
grocery stores to furniture stores. You go to a store -- and the grocery store is full of grocery and
you put in the bags and you go home. If the manufacturers do not put the grocery store
inventory, you would go there and just place your order and come back in two days to pick it up.
So, in an uncertain environment when the -- when our customers are not able to figure out the
demand for their products because they do not know whether they will be able to pass it 25%
tariff to their end customers, in their environment they stop building to forecast -- to forecast.
And they largely want to build to hard orders, where they can negotiate the price increase. And
that is happening with our industrial customers, with our consumer customers, housing appliance
customers. You have heard where prices of washers and dryers and others have gone up 20%.So in that environment, the ecosystem squeezes down the inventory from end customer
inventory to loading docks, to intermediate hubs, to stores, to everywhere else. And that creates
a negative impact on our ability to supply chips, which then eventually go into parts. And you have
seen that phenomena experienced by every other semiconductor manufacture, whose revenue
has fallen in the last six, nine months, where back in August, nobody was confirming that there is
a problem, when we said there was a problem. Does that make sense, Rajiv?
Q - `Rajvindra Gill, Analyst, Needham & Company `
Yeah, I think that makes sense, it's a moving target. I just read that now the Trump's says the
Chinese Vice Premier is coming to the U.S. to quote, "make a deal." So, I guess it's a constant
change. But I appreciate. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We will now take our next question from `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch from Bank of America Merrill
Lynch. Please go ahead.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thanks for taking my question. Steve, I know we are trying to get the best sense for June and I
understand and appreciate that it's a moving target. So, the conservatism is justified. My first
question is that in just in terms of what you have actually seen so far in terms of bookings from
your customers in China or U.S. or Europe, is it fair to say that any of these concerns about trade
have not yet reflected in those bookings so far? That have you seen any trend? I realize that we
are just within a week of all these political developments. But so far, is it fair to say that you're not
really seeing any negative development in bookings from any geography or end market or
anything along those lines?
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chief Executive Officer `
So, Vivek, you have to first decide from what timeframe you're comparing. If you are simply
comparing it to what we talked last Friday, yes, we have not seen an impact in the last two days,
because it's too hard to gauge. But if your timeframe is February 9, our last call, then we have
seen the impact. At that time, the trade settlement was supposed to happen prior to March 1,
then it got delayed to May 1. Then we didn't see it on May 1 either. So, all that time we have seen
the impact on bookings and customers' ability to want to build the appropriate amount of
inventory for the business on -- from the endpoint inventories, to loading docks, to hubs to
everything else. If your reference point is our last earnings call, yes, the business is weaker than
what it could have been if there was a settlement on March 1.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Got it. I ask that, Steve, just because I think your March numbers were actually fine. And I think
what you mentioned was that so far in June, the bookings have also been fine. But let me leave
that aside for a second. On Microsemi, could you remind us how much earnings accretion you
finally saw now that fiscal 2019 is over, and how much earnings accretion we should be thinking
about from a fiscal 2020 perspective? Thank you.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. So, we have not broken out in the current quarter what the quarter we're just reporting
what the Microsemi contribution was. We are definitely ahead of schedule. We had mentionedwere above that, as of the end of the December. And the things are continuing to progress,
we're taking costs out of the system, can escape commentary in terms of how we're doing on
business units, sales, and support groups from an integration perspective. So, making good
progress. We still feel good about our long-term synergy numbers and are working towards that.
But we haven't broken out and or aren't breaking out at this point in time the specific accretion
that we have achieved so far.
Operator
Thank you. We will now take our next question from `William Stein, SunTrust from SunTrust. Please go ahead,
your line is open.
Q - `William Stein, SunTrust `
Hi, great, thanks for taking my questions. I have two. First, the company posted some better than
expected results on the gross margin line, can you help us understand whether that's attributed
more to mix or cost savings from Microsemi or anything else and then I have a follow-up, please?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and COO `
Okay. So, I'll take that. So, we exceeded the midpoint of our non-GAAP gross margin guidance by
about 70 basis points. The very strong gross margins were driven by a variety of reasons,
including favorable product mix and ongoing cost reductions. So, it always is a mix of things, is a
lot of moving parts -- margins, but we're making good progress on integration and other the
product mix was favorable in the quarter also to help us with that. And even the midpoint for
guidance in the current quarter at 62% were only really 1% away from our long-term target of
63%. So, I think things have really held up well in this downturn. Yes, our inventory situation is a
little bit higher than our target but with short lead times and customers and distributor has been a
pattern of decreasing their inventory levels it gives us the best ability to respond very proactively
to their needs.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chief Executive Officer `
I would reemphasize one point that I made in my prepared remarks that as we go through
various cycles, you can look at in the last 20 years, this would be the highest gross and operating
margin nearly at the bottom of the cycle. In the past, you would see this kind of gross and
operating margin usually on the top of the cycle. So, this is how much we have improved creating
higher highs and higher lows. So, as go further in the next couple of years complete this
integration have better loading in our factories with the demand coming back. It's really good
feeling to think about where the gross and operating margins could go.
Q - `William Stein, SunTrust `
I appreciate those comments. One follow-up, but I can. Turning to the Microsemi acquisition less
about the integration, but more about the inventory, I understand from the prepared remarks
that you've worked through all of the Microsemi inventory that was on your own balance sheet. I
was hoping you could comment on inventory, not only in the channel, but in any other places like
at customers to the degree you can see it. Has that worked down to more normal levels where
this is less of a deterrent to growth going forward or is there still some inventory in channel or
customers to work down? Thank you.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and COO `Yes. So, I think we've done a good job of working through the issues that were identified earlier
on in the acquisitions, the Microsemi distribution inventory, I'll take you back to the September
quarter, was reduced to about 2.6 months over the course of the first four months of holding the
asset and the shipment activity into this distribution was impacted dramatically by that, but that
has stayed very constant. That 2.6 months has stayed the same in the December quarter and the
March quarter. So, we think we've got a good balance there. And that can be a business unit two
that has a little bit of elevated inventory and it's just taking some time. So, I believe that down,
but overall, I think we're in good position. And the other things that we had talked about was
contract manufacturing inventory and things like that and I think all those have been corrected at
this point in time. Steve, I guess, might have some additional comments.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, the only comment I'd make is, I think in terms of end customers, we really don't get
inventory report. So, we don't think there's a big overhang there, but we don't have much visibility
into it. Our own inventory internally we continuing to work down. So, this is our production areas
and we have been running lower than what the sell-through is in terms of what we're building and
that is slowly coming back into levels it should be, but is not completely where it needs to be.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and COO `
And we did take a under capacity utilization charge in the quarter overall for various factories of
little over $7 million in the last quarter.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chief Executive Officer `
And as the demand comes back and when that $7 million charge goes away, that $7 million ends
up in the gross margin.
Operator
Thank you. We will now take our next question from `Craig Ellis, B Riley, FBR from B Riley, FBR. Please go ahead,
your line is open.
Q - `Craig Ellis, B Riley, FBR `
Yes, thanks for taking the question. I'll start with clarification on two operating items. First, our
debt reduction came in much better than expected, but at least on my front and the outlook
suggests that we have in the improvement that the company saw versus expectations is
structural. So, I wanted to get some clarification on that and further on the comments that can
actually out in his prepared remarks where you outlined three milestones that have been
achieved with business integration. The clarification there is, is the financial benefit fairly linear
with the milestones achieved so that we're about a third of the way through the financial benefit
or is it front-end loaded or back-end loaded?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and COO `
So, Craig, just to clarify you had started off with -- it's an OpEx question, right?
Q - `Craig Ellis, B Riley, FBR `
The first one is debt reduction and the $277 million. I thought that was above the expectation of
the company. What's the cause of the positive variance?A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and COO `
So, we've continued to really manage our working capital requirements quite tightly and had
good execution there and just managing our overall cash balances worldwide. So, we've
outperformed on debt pay-down, no doubt about that over the last couple of quarters and make
good progress. I'd mentioned that our debt to EBITDA is still $4.8 and we expect as we progress
in the second half of 2019 the EBITDA improves. We're going to continue to be using all our
excess cash generation to pay down debt that we will see some significant improvements in our
debt to EBITDA. So, I think it's working capital management, we talked about CapEx, a little bit
earlier also CapEx being down significantly in fiscal '20 as a projected number compared to fiscal
'19 will also help on the cash flow and we should expect to see the debt come down significantly
over the course of the next 12 months. To your second question on the business and operations
integration, on a longer-term basis, it's more linear but quarter-to-quarter, we're going to see
more or less effects depending on, are we able to retire some of the prior ERP systems
completely or not. And so, it's not entirely linear looking at it quarter-to-quarter.
Q - `Craig Ellis, B Riley, FBR `
Thank you. And then the follow-up is for Steve. Steve, you've given us a very clear picture of the
dynamics that you're seeing now and, in the way, recent political developments are impacting
your thinking. What I wanted to do is reconciled back with comments that I thought I heard you
say that that there could be a pickup in the back half of the year. Is that potential pickup more
predicated on a favorable set of developments that could happen on the macro front or is it
closer proximity to typical enterprise and consumer builds that will take place in the back half of
the year or something else? Thank you.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chief Executive Officer `
I think there are two possibilities on the trade front, actually three. One, the worst would be that
trade talks break and there's 25% duty, not only on the $200 billion of goods but another $325
billion of goods that are threatened, that will be the worst-case scenario. But the other
possibilities there is some very good settlement where whatever the issues are between the two
countries on IP theft and false [ph] transfers of technology and all those things, there is a system
put in place to monitor all these and issues the result and tell it to come down. That would be the
best-case scenario. And the other one is that there is some sort of finality where it's not as good
as the U.S. want. As long as it is a finality on the settlement with the people know what the rules
are, then the manufacturers can adjust to those rules and can negotiate with their customers to
pass that additional cost whether it's 5%, 10% duty cost as long as there's a finality, I think will be
positive for the business. Of course, it would be extremely positive if there is a settlement and
duties go away and there's a very good environment. But even if it is not the ultimate best, but
there is some sort of finality, I think that would be better than the uncertainty we're dealing with.
Operator
Thank you. And we will now take our next question from `Harsh Kumar, Analyst, Piper Jaffray from Piper Jaffrey. Please
go ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Harsh Kumar, Analyst, Piper Jaffray `
Hey, guys. First of all, we appreciate your position kind of guide in all the seaside trade chatter
and running the company prudently for the long-term. Steve, now you've taken share for quite a
bit of time in what is a mature 8-bit market. What do you think are some of the things thatA - `Steve Sanghi, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I don't really want to tell my competitors how I'm taking share. I would simply say that, if
somebody doesn't develop anymore 8-bit parts and adds no innovation to them simply because
the buyer teases that 8-bit market is not growing, and put all the energy in the 32-bit, then they
will continuously become more and more uncompetitive in the 8-bit and we'll continue to gain
share, which is really what's happening. There are many more things we're doing, but we are
continuously able to show 8-bit customers, how they can keep on utilizing our newer and newer
8-bit microcontrollers, and continue to add innovation and not having to go to 16-bit or 32-bit
microcontrollers, and therefore, we've taken a lot of share.
Q - `Harsh Kumar, Analyst, Piper Jaffray `
Fair enough. Steve, thanks for that color. And then, I wanted to ask about -- you cited some
bookings data and some other data, all of it seems to be improving and the back-half
commentaries improving. Would it be fair for me to assume that you're basically haircut it, what
you might have is -- let's say you were doing earnings last week, you might have had a
completely different commentary, completed different sort of guide, you simply haircut is that
based on the developments this week. Is that a fair assumption?
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, that's a fair assumption.
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We'll now move on to our next question from `Kevin Cassidy, Analyst, Stifel
from Stifel. Please go ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Kevin Cassidy, Analyst, Stifel `
Okay, thank you for taking my question. Steve, you had mentioned the automotive market you
thought that that have hit a bottom and it's coming back. Can you give a little more details around
that and also just maybe what your content increases might be for this year?
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chief Executive Officer `
So, I think the way to think about it is, it's not that it is rebounding into this quarter. I think we said it
is hitting bottom and it is heading to whereas as we look into the second half, things are getting
better. The content increase is a constant effort that we drive. We have shown you some of the
slides in investor forums where we have 60, 70, 80 different components. And that continues to
take place in various car makers, may not be for the same design in every car maker, but it is a
part of how we drive the market, it is a part of how the market is evolving. There is more and
more electronics that is going into safety, into convenience, into some of these new electric and
electrification and either those type of trends. And we have our fair share in all of those areas.
And I think the last piece is the European WLTP regulational change. I think the last remnants of
that will get cleared into the -- by the end of this quarter. It has taken longer to clear, but we
believe that all of that clears as we go through the end of this quarter. So, those are all the
different factors going into some of the color -- the color that Steve provided.
Q - `Kevin Cassidy, Analyst, Stifel `
Okay. Maybe just as a follow-up to China VAT tax. Have you seen more positive bookings fromA - `Steve Sanghi, Chief Executive Officer `
We haven't really broken down the Chinese automotive specifically. I think if you look at China
overall, we are seeing stronger bookings. And there should be a part of that reflected in most of
the other areas, markets that are in China.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and COO `
The lower VAT went into effect, I think on April 1. So, just like in the U.S. when tax law changes or
sales tax changes in a city or a state or some other rule change or interest rate changes, I mean,
it takes a while to affect the economy. And I don't know if that's enough time for us to measure
that a Chinese customer changed their orders based on the VAT. I think that takes longer term to
take hold in the economy. But we're going to get orders from Chinese customers based on them
having orders from their customers to build the modules, built the cars or whatever. And that's
not likely to change in four weeks of VAT changing.
Operator
Thank you. We will now take our next question from `Mark Delaney, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Mark Delaney, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Yes, good morning. Thanks for taking the questions. First question was on operating expenses,
which was pointed out came in at the low-end or just below guidance. Can you help us better
understand to what extent those are structural cost take out that helped the better performance
on costs or more timing or other temporary factors?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and COO `
So, I mean, we've done what I consider to be a very good job in managing OpEx over the last
several quarters. We've essentially beat significantly on OpEx in both September and December.
And came in at the low end of guidance here in the current quarter. So, we're managing the
operations very tightly. Given the environment that we're facing. And as the environment
improves in the second half -- if it improves, we will have investments to make in the business
that will have those dollars go up. So, we're holding OpEx flat at the midpoint of guidance in the
current quarter and that's pretty tight control. And again, we would expect that OpEx will increase
over time, as we need to invest in the business to drive the long-term health, that's 40% plus
operating margin goals that we have.
Q - `Mark Delaney, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Got it, that's helpful. There's lot of discussion on the call about the distribution business. I was
hoping maybe to pivot a little bit and better understand some of the trends in the direct business
that came over from Microsemi acquisition. I believe the servers and storage or markets that we
served, we have direct basis. Can you help us understand how our booking in market share is
trying in those areas and I think cross-selling the full portfolio was part of the strategy, how
successful has that been? Thank you.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and COO `
So, there is weakness in some of those markets as you have seen reported by other players as
well. I don't think there's anything in particular about bookings that would give us any insight there.
In terms of the cross-selling, those customers have given us access for other solutions of classicincorporated into next generation designs using Microchip classic solutions that surround some of
the storage and other the networking solutions that Microsemi brought. So, the customer access
has been extremely useful to take solutions that are necessary in the market, but we did not have
as good customer access as Microchip's standalone.
Operator
Okay. Thank you. We will now move on to our next question. It comes from `Christopher Rolland, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group
from Susquehanna International Group.
Q - `Christopher Rolland, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
Yes, one for Eric and then one for Steve. I guess, Eric, the $7 million in under-utilization. Is there a
level of company utilizations which you deem underutilized? And then also if you could talk about
where utilizations are now and your inventory levels, and if you have plans to bring them down?
Thanks.
A - `Eric Bjornholt, Chief Financial Officer `
Okay. So, really the under-utilization is looked at on a factory-by-factory basis based on kind of
historical norms. So, there isn't kind of a one size fits all for that. And we've got our three large
fabs, three large assembly and test that Microchip classic has had historically. And then a bunch of
smaller factories that have come through the Microsemi acquisitions. So, it's kind of a case-by-
case scenario that we look at there. And we don't break out the specific capacity utilization
percentage. We just haven't done that historically, but we've got lots of capacity in place. And so,
we're well-poised to be able to respond to the growth as it comes in the future with pretty low
CapEx. So that's a good thing. The second piece of your question was what?
Q - `Christopher Rolland, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
Well, was internal inventories. And do you guys have a plan to work that down? How do you feel
about that level?
A - `Eric Bjornholt, Chief Financial Officer `
Okay. So, inventory was up five days in the quarter to 128. We've kind of had a target of 115, 120
that we've talked about and so inventory is on the higher end, but I think it is prudent for us to
hold that level of inventory, given the fact that the distribution inventory has come down and
customers are managing their own inventory quite conservatively, we believe, again, we don't get
real-time reports from them. So, it allows us to respond quickly in this uncertain environment
where customers are meeting to respond quickly when they get demand, because they're not
building the forecast as Steve kind described before. So longer term, our goal would be get to
inventory down to 120 days or less but that's not the environment that we're facing right now.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and COO `
A little extra inventory at this part of the cycle also prevents CapEx expenses on the other side of
cycles. So, these are products with very long lives. There is little to no obsolescence risk and so, it
does help from an overall cycle standpoint to have some inventory investment that can then
defreight [ph] CapEx spending on the other side of the cycle. I would say also that our inventory
is lot lower than some of the larger other analog players inventory you have heard about. While
our target is 115 to 120, you would expect that this part of the cycle in near bottom of the cycle,
the inventory to be higher than the high end of that. And yet I think when I compare it ourQ - `Christopher Rolland, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
That is fair. And then Steve for you, if a free deal was reached, would you still view kind of the
return of business as a potential bonanza or are you more comfort here is that, is there
something that makes you more tempered just of these negotiations, it seems like even if we
think things finalized, they may not be?
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chief Executive Officer `
I think we haven't seen the yoyo sentiment on the trade talks. I would rather wait for the tax to
conclude, then analyze what that finality is whether it ends up in 10% duty or something higher
than that goes all the way to 0 and have a chance to understand our customers and distributors'
reaction through our salespeople and talking to some directly to really make an informed opinion
rather than just throw something out.
Operator
Thank you. We will now take our next question from `Craig Hettenbach, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead, your line is open.
Q - `Craig Hettenbach, Morgan Stanley `
Thanks. I understand all the focus on China in terms of what's happening from a macro but was
hoping, Steve, you can talk about the trends that you're seeing in Europe and the United States
as well?
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, trends in U.S. and Europe are really not that great either. A lot of U.S. customers are
impacted because of the same trade issues, industrial customers build a lot of their products in
China and are having to pay the tariff costs, which are currently 10% going to 25%. So, our
industrial business in the U.S. is impacted. Our consumer business, which is in the consumer
appliance area is impacted, the automotive business is impacted not because of tariffs, but I think
the automotive in general, automotive production is down in all three geographies.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and COO `
But China's week to answer, China was a big export for European automotive.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So, good comment on Europe. I was going to go there.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and COO `
I think Europe is seeing some of those headwinds that are -- none of these are confined to just
one geography. There is an interconnection between how global economies play. And so, for
example, on the European car-makers especially the luxury car-makers they've had significant
declines because the China market has been very weak for them and that proposed through into
some of the lower -- in recent times lower GDPs coming through some of the European
economies. And many of them like Germany are highly export-oriented kind of affected by any
impact in other regions of the world. And so, there is a continued uncertainty and weakness that
expands beyond just China and the U.S. but in part driven by what's happening in these
economies.Q - `Craig Hettenbach, Morgan Stanley `
Got it. And then just a follow-up question on the commentary of inventory. The expectation that
you think you'll be drawn down again in the June quarter, do you think the customers or
distributors will be reaching kind of limits of how far they will take it down or if things remain
uncertain directionally you think you would still go lower in terms of their inventory management?
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chief Executive Officer `
I think distributors will assess what sales out is. And if the sales out is decreasing because of
whatever, then there will continue to draw down inventory if they expect that sales out is
increasing then they will start to grow inventories to serve that sales are. So, it's not that the
inventory is changing that much in months of inventory it's mostly multiple of really what the
expectation of sales out is. And many after Chinese distributors, the sales out has been much
lower in December and March quarters, lot of it driven by trade issues because their end
customers couldn't sell their product given the duties.
Operator
Thank you. As there are no further questions at this time, I would like to hand the call back over to
you Mr. Sanghi, for any additional closing remarks.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, we want to thank you. There was a very large participation on this call compared to what we
have had in the last several quarters. We've got lots of very, very good questions from investors
and analysts. And thank you for giving us a chance to explain our views on US-China trade where
the things are, how the businesses and we'll see some of you as we get on the road to various
conferences this quarter. Thank you very much.
Operator
This will conclude today's conference. Thank you all for your participation. You may now
disconnect.