Q4 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, everyone and welcome to Microchip's Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2021 Financial Results Call.
As a reminder, today's call is being recorded.
At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Microchip's Chief Financial Officer, Mr.Eric Bjornholt.
Please go ahead, sir.
`J. Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. During the course of this conference call, we will be
making projections and other forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future
financial performance of the company. We wish to caution you that such statements -- our
predictions and that actual results and events may differ materially. We refer you to our press
release of today as well as our recent filings with the SEC that identify important risk factors that
may impact Microchip's business and results of operations.
In attendance with me today, are `Ganesh Moorthy, President & Chief Operating Officer, Microchip's President and CEO; and Steve
Sanghi, Microchip's Executive Chainirman. I will comment on our fourth quarter and full fiscal year,
2021 financial performance. Ganesh will then give commentary on our results and discuss the
current business environment as well as our guidance. And Steve will provide an update on our
cash return strategy.
We will then be available to respond to specific investor and analyst questions. We are includingmeasures. We have posted a full GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation on the investor relations page
of our website at www.microchip.com, which we believe you will find useful when comparing our
GAAP and non-GAAP results.
We've also posted a summary of our outstanding debt and our leverage metrics on our website.
I will now go through some of the operating results, including net sales, gross margin and
operating expenses. Other than net sales, I will be referring to these results on a non-GAAP
basis, which is based on expenses prior to the effects of our acquisition activities, share base
compensation and certain other adjustments as described in our press release. Net sales in the
March quarter were $1.467 billion which were up 8.6% sequentially and above the midpoint of our
quarterly guidance. We have posted a summary of our GAAP net sales by product line and
geography as well as our total end market demand on our website for your reference. On a non-
GAAP basis, gross margins were at record at 64.1%, operating expenses were at 23.4% and
operating income was a record 40.7%. Non-GAAP net income was a record $521.4 million, non-
GAAP earnings per diluted share was a $1.85, $0.12 above the midpoint of our guidance.
On a GAAP basis in the March quarter, gross margins were a record at 63.2%. Total operating
expenses were $618.8 million and include acquisition intangible amortization of $232.4 million.
Special income of $7.2 million, $2.9 million of acquisition related and other cost and sharebased
compensation of $47.2 million.
The GAAP net income was $116 million or $0.41 per diluted share and was adversely impacted by
$85.6 million loss on debt settlement associated with our convertible debt refinancing activities.
Our March quarter GAAP tax expense was impacted by a variety of factors, notably the tax
benefit recorded on the convertible debt exchange transactions occurring during the period.
For fiscal year 2021, net sales were a record $5.438 billion. On a non-GAAP basis, gross margins
were a record 62.8%, operating expenses were 23.2% of sales and operating income was a
record 39.6% of sales. Non-GAAP net income was a record $1.784 billion and EPS was a record of
$6.59 per diluted share. On a GAAP basis, gross margins were a record 62.1%, operating
expenses were 43.7% of sales and operating income was 18.4% of sales. Net income was $349.4
million and EPS was $1.29 per diluted share.
Our non-GAAP cash tax rate was 1.8% in the March quarter and 4.1% for fiscal year 2021. The non-
GAAP cash tax rate in the March quarter was lower than originally forecasted due to a variety of
factors including the receipt of a tax refund that had not been forecasted till we received until the
later date.
We expect our non-GAAP cash tax rate for fiscal '22 to be about 6%, exclusive of the transition
tax, any potential tax associated with restructuring in the Microsemi operations into the Microchip
global structure and any tax audit settlements related to taxes accrued in prior fiscal years.
Our inventory balance at March 31st, 2021 was $665 million. We had 112 days of inventory at the
end of the March quarter, which was down 8 days from the prior quarters level. Inventory at our
distributors at the end of the March quarter were at 22 days, which is a record low level and down
from 26 days at the end of the prior quarter. We are ramping capacity in our internal and external
factories so we can ship as much product as possible to support customer requirements.
In the March quarter, we exchanged $359.2 million of our 2025, 2027 and 2037 convertible
subordinated notes for cash and shares of our common stock. While these transactions did not
impact the overall level of debt on our balance sheet, we believe that these convertible
exchanges will benefit stockholders by significantly reducing share count dilution to the extent ofour stock price appreciates over time. The principal amount of convertible debt on our balance
sheet at the end of fiscal year 2021 is $1.263 billion compared to $4,481 billion at the beginning of
calendar year 2020, putting our overall capital structure in a much better long-term position.
Our cash flow from operating activities was $449.2 million in the March quarter. As of March 31,
our consolidated cash and total investment position was $282 million. We paid down $369.2
million of total debt in the March quarter over the last 11 full quarters since we closed the
Microsemi acquisition and incurred over $8 billion in debt to do so, we have paid down $3.61
billion of debt and continue to allocate substantially all of our excess cash be on dividends to
aggressively bring down this debt.
We've accomplished this despite the adverse macro and market conditions during most of this
period, which we feel is a testimony to the cash generation capabilities of our business as well as
our ongoing operating discipline. We continue to expect our debt levels to reduce significantly
over the next several years.
Our adjusted EBITDA in the March quarter was a record $652.3 million and our trailing 12 months
adjusted EBITDA was also a record at two $2.375 billion. Our net debt to adjust EBITDA, excluding
our very long dated convertible debt that matures in 2037 and as more equity like in nature was
3.71 at March 31st, 2021, down from 3.93 at December 31, 2020.
Please note that the amount of the outstanding 2037 bonds were reduced by a $156 million
during the March quarter as part of our financing transaction. And without this transaction, our net
debt to EBITDA would have been lower.
Our dividend payment in the March quarter was $106.6 million. Capital expenditures were $55.4
million in the March '21 quarter and $92.6 million for fiscal year 2021. Our fiscal year 2021 capital
expenditures came in lower than originally planned due to longer equipment lead times and
deliveries pushing out due to overall industry conditions. Our capital expenditures for fiscal 2022
are expected to be between $225 million and $275 million. Our forecast for the June 2021
quarters, capital expenditures is between $70 million and $90 million.
We continue to add capital equipment to maintain grow and operate our internal manufacturing
operations to support the growth of our business. We expect these capital investments will bring
gross margin improvement to our business and give us increased control over our production
during periods of industry-wide constrained.
Depreciation expense in the March quarter was $40.2 million.
I will now turn it over to Ganesh to give his comments on the performance of the business in the
March quarter, as well as our June quarter guidance. Ganesh?
`Ganesh Moorthy, President & Chief Operating Officer `
Thank you, Eric and good afternoon, everyone. Our March quarter results was strong by every
key metric. Closing out a tumultuous fiscal year on a very positive note, which was otherwise
dominated by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. March quarter revenue was an all-time
record at $1.467 billion, growing by 8.5% sequentially. Non-GAAP gross margins were another
record of 64 .1%, up a 110 basis points from the December quarter, as we benefited from
improved factory utilization and product mix. Non-GAAP operating margin was also a record at
40.7%. For the first time we have broken through the 40% mark.
Our journey towards our long-term business model of 65% gross margin and 42% operatingOur consolidated non-GAAP EPS was above the high end of our guidance at a record $1.85.
EBITDA was very strong and achieved another record at $652.3 million, continuing to
demonstrate the robust profitability and cash generation capabilities of our business through the
business cycles. The March quarter also marked a 120 second consecutive quarter of non-GAAP
profitability. I would like to take this occasion to thank all our stakeholders who enabled us to
achieve these outstanding and record results in the March quarter. And especially thank the
worldwide Microchip team, whose tireless efforts not only delivered strong financial results, but
also supported our customers to navigate a difficult environment and who work constructively
with our supply chain partners to find creative solutions in a hyper constrained environment.
Reflecting on our fiscal year 2021 results, we achieved a number of highlights and records in the
last year. Revenue was a record $5.438 billion, non-GAAP gross margin was a record at 62.8%,
non-GAAP operating margin was a record at 39.6% and non-GAAP EPS was a record at $6.59. All
in all, the record March quarter results and the record March ending fiscal year 2021 results marks
a seamless transition between Steve and I, as we each embarked on our new roles to build the
next phase of Microchip's long-term success. I'm truly fortunate to be the beneficiary of Steve's
years of managing Microchip for the long term.
Taking a look at our business from a product line perspective, our microcontroller revenue was
sequentially up 12.2% as compared to the December quarter and set new quarterly and fiscal
year records. On a year-over-year basis, our March quarter microcontroller revenue was up 12.3%.
Microcontrollers represented 55.6% of our revenue in the March quarter.
Our analog revenue was sequentially up 11.3% as compared to the December quarter. Analog
represent 28.3% of our revenue in the March quarter. Our revenue was sequentially down 6.4%
for other as compared to the December quarter and represent 16.1% of our revenue in the March
quarter.
Last month, Gartner released their microcontroller market share report for calendar year 2020.
Gartner continues to have a large discrepancy versus our publicly reported microcontroller
revenue. To the tune of $428 million of revenue understatement for all of 2020, predominantly in
the 32-bit microcontrollers revenue category. Adjusting the Gartner number to use our actual
microcontroller revenue, we are pleased to report that for microcontrollers overall, we remain the
number three spot, however in 2020, we substantially closed the gap between us and the two
players ahead of us. We are now within striking distance of each of the two players who are just
3.6% ahead of us in revenue. As we continue our relentless March towards the number one spot.
We gained market share in each of the 8-Bit, 16-bit and 32-bit microcontrollers markets. While our
8-bit and 16-bit microcontrollers businesses continue to do well, our 32-bit microcontrollers
business was our fastest growing microcontroller business. Our microcontroller portfolio and
roadmap has never been stronger.
We believe we have the new product momentum and customer engagement to continue to gain
share in 2021 as we further build the best performing microcontroller franchise in the industry.
Taking a look at our business from a geographic perspective. Americas was up 0.8% sequentially,
Europe was up 30.4% sequentially, stronger than what is normally the seasonally strongest
quarter. Asia was up 5% sequentially in a quarter when business is normally down due to the
Lunar New Year holidays.
Taking a look at our business from an end market perspective, the automotive, industrial and
consumer markets remain, the strongest markets. The computing end market was strong whilethe data center and communications end markets were flat to up a little. The aerospace and
defense markets which tend to be lumpy was the only end market that was weak.
Business conditions remain exceptionally strong through the quarter, with record bookings and
backlog for product to be shipped over multiple quarters. Demand outpaced the capacity
improvements we were able to implement, resulting in lead times continuing to extend out. In my
40 years in the semiconductor industry, I cannot recall a time when the imbalance between the
supply and demand has been more acute. In response, we launched our preferred supply
program or PSP to provide customers with supply priority, beginning six months after their order
in exchange for at least 12 months of non-cancellable orders. Customer response to the program
has exceeded our expectations with direct customers and distributors alike.
About 44% of our backlog is now in the PSP category. Although, it is almost 100% of our backlog
in some of the most constrained capacity quarters. Additional PSP backlog continues to come in
every week. This gives us a solid foundation to enable us to prudently acquire constrained raw
materials, invest in expanding factory capacity and hire employees to support our factory ramps.
But the strong demand we're experiencing constraints in all of our internal and external factories
and their related manufacturing supply chains. We started ramping our internal factories in
September as well as investing in capital additions to expand our internal capacity.
We are making incremental capacity decisions for our internal factories where possible, based on
the strength of our backlog, especially our non-cancelable PSP backlog, which is reflected in our
fiscal year '22 capital forecast of $225 million to $275 million. We also work closely with our supply
chain partners who provide wafer foundry, assembly, test and materials to secure additional
capacity wherever possible. Through the combination of internal and external capacity actions we
have taken, we expect our overall capacity will continue to grow every quarter in calendar year
2021.
While our capacity will continue to grow every quarter, we also believe that wafer fab as well as
assembly and test constraints will persist through 2021 and quite likely into 2022.
Now let's get into the guidance for the June quarter. Our backlog for the June quarter is very
strong. In addition, we have considerable backlog requested by customers in the June quarter
that currently cannot be fulfilled until later quarters. Despite of growing capacity from the last
quarter. This is because the entire semiconductor supply chain remains constrained.
Taking all the factors we have discussed in the call today into consideration, we expect our net
sales for the June quarter to be up between 3.5% and 7.5% sequentially. Our guidance range
assumes continued operational constraints, some of which we will work through during the
quarter and others that we'll carry over to be worked in future quarter.
For the June quarter we expect our non-GAAP gross margin to be between 64.1% and 64.5% of
sales. We expect non-GAAP operating expenses to be between 23.1% and 23.5% of sales. We
expect non-GAAP operating profit percentage to be between 40.6% and 41.4% of sales. And we
expect our non-GAAP earnings for share to be between $1.85 and $1.95.
Please keep in mind, that our non-GAAP EPS forecast for the June quarter includes a 420 basis
points higher tax rate assumption than the March quarter. We also expect to pay down another
approximately $325 million of our debt in the June quarter.
Given all the complications of accounting for our acquisitions, including amortization and
intangibles, restructuring charges and inventory right up on acquisitions, Microchip will continue to
provide guidance and track its results on a non-GAAP basis, except the net sales which will be ona GAAP basis. We believe that non-GAAP results provide more meaningful comparison to prior
quarters and we request that the analyst continue to report their non-GAAP estimates to first call.
Finally, as we announced on our February conference call, based on the strong cash generation
characteristics of our business. In up cycles and down cycles, we have modified our capital
allocation thought process to pivot to as cash return strategy, which has received very positive
investor feedback.
Steve will now provide more details on this strategy, as well as the long-term thinking that informs
our actions in this regard. Steve?
`Stephen V. Drehobl, Senior Vice President, MCU8 and MCU16 Business Units `
Thank you, Ganesh and good afternoon, everyone. Today, I would like to provide you further
updates on our cash return strategy. But before I do that, I would like to say, how I continue to be
very proud of all employees of Microchip that have delivered a flawless quarter and making new
records in many respects. Namely record net sales, record non-GAAP gross margin percentage,
record non-GAAP operating margin percentage and record EBITDA.
Now, I will turn to updating you on the cash return strategy. We completed the March quarter with
a net debt leverage ratio of 3.71 excluding the long-dated 2037 maturity converts, that are more
equity like in nature. At the rate, we are paying down debt, we expect to break in net debt
leverage ratio of three within a year and continue to decrease from there. Around that time, we
would also expect to achieve an investment grade rating, but the exact timing will depend on the
analysis of the rating agencies. At that time, we expect to begin distributing more of our
substantial amount of free cash flow to our investors in the form of dividends and stock buybacks.
Regarding buybacks, through our various convertible debt exchanges, we have essentially bought
a substantial amount of stock back from the future. This is because as the stock price stock price
rises and exceeds the conversion price of the debt convertible debt dilutes the share count.
Buying converts back, prevents future dilution as a start price rises. Our first convert buyback was
in March of 2020 when Microchip stock price was about $71, since then we have done five other
buyback transactions at various stock prices. By doing these various buyback transactions, we
have purchased a total of $3.884 billion in face value of a convertible bonds.
For the transactions from March 2020 to December 2020, we issued a total of about 27.5 million
shares of our common stock to the investors for in the money value of their bonds. If these
bonds had remained outstanding until an assumed stock price of $160 per share, the dilution
would have been about 36.4 million shares. Thus, our repurchases had the impact of creating a
savings of about $8.9 million shares, worth $1.424 billion savings to our investors at that assumed
price of $160 per share.
This calculation does not include our February 2021 transaction, which was very recent and
executed at 163.25 per share, so it is not yet accretive. While we have not done any open market
stock buybacks in the last year our convert transactions had the impact of a buyback of
approximately 8.9 million shares or about 3% of our outstanding shares. We expect to start stock
buybacks from the open market after we have achieved an investment grade rating which we
expect within a year depending on the rating agencies.
Meanwhile, we did not want to wait for starting higher dividends until our leverage ratio reaches a
given number. So we initiated a path to higher dividends in our February 2021 dividend
announcement with a 5% dividend increase. We are continuing on this path as we announced
today that the Board of Directors have approved a dividend increase of 5.9% sequentially to$0.413 cents per share up from $0.39 previously. We expect to continue to increase dividends
quarterly as part of our cash return strategy.
With that, operator, will you please poll for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
(Operator instructions) We'll take our first question from `Mark Lipacis, Jefferies with Jefferies.
Q - `Mark Lipacis, Jefferies `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question and congratulations on the great execution. Steve, I had a
question for you about the PSP program. On the surface, it seems like you instituted this program
to help customers on a more tactical basis. But I wonder if you believe there are secular drivers
that ultimately, may have led you to a PSP kind of a program anyway and do you think this is now
that you have this program, do you think it becomes a more permanent part of your standard
operating model going forward? Thank you.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, going back to as we implemented the program and why we implemented the program,
let's going to revisit that history. The backlog was so strong and constraints were so widespread
as Ganesh mentioned in his 40-year career and mine 42-year plus career years. We have never
seen this kind of shortage in constraints in the semiconductor industry.
So, the question really became how do we take our key customers in various segments, not only
automotive, but industrial and communications and data centers in PCs and all, and allow them
some mechanism, where they can get preferred supply of parts and it's something in it for them
and something in it for us. And the design of that program became this preferred supply
program, in which we ask that if you could give us 12 months of non-cancellable, non-
reschedulable backlog and there is a tremendous benefit to Microchip, we could buy supplies
ahead, we could hire people, we could make capital investment, we could do all these things with
the assurity of very, very large, solid, non-cancelable, non-reschedulable backlog. That's the
benefit to us and what the customer gets is after a six-month period and we did that six-month
period, because we didn't want to create a lot of churn in the first six months and there was more
availability of capacity after six months. So, at that point in time, we said anybody, who gives a PSP
backlog, they will get the preferred supply and if there is any shortage at that time, it will be
spread among the non-PSP customers.
So long answer, but that's really how the program came about. Not knowing what the acceptance
would be and the results just has been absolutely tremendous. We have billions of dollars of PSP
backlog, 44% of the total backlog. On some of the most constrained supply corridors, the PSP
backlog is almost equal to 100% of capacity. So, you can see the advantage, where we could go
ahead, make those investments, buy additional equipment.
Now, leading them to your question, could this become a permanent landscape. I think it will
depend largely on the experience of our customers and Microchip together in the year as we
progress, when the cycle ends on the other cycle, when there is a lot of capacity available,
customers may not be willing to make a year-long commitment that is now unchangeable. Soour intent would be to show the customers how well we serve them, because they had PSP and
what the benefits are, if they continue with that program going forward. And I think, I'll let Ganesh
comment on that. It's really going to be how we manage this going forward.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President & Chief Operating Officer `
So, my view is we are in the early innings of PSP. We've just launched it. It's a couple of months. It's
going extremely well. I think we continue to make fine-tuning of the program, and it's too early to
tell how long term it will be. I think for many, many customers, they have learned in this cycle that
are running low on inventory or low on backlog visibility can have extreme impact on their
business. And so, give it a few more months, let's see how it looks.
Q - `Mark Lipacis, Jefferies `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer `
A lot of buzzwords program, the industry develops, some of them last for a short period of time
in a cycle or so and some of them last a very long period of time. I think you're seeing the
beginning of the end of the word, JIT, the losses in the industry by our customers due to
constraints are so large that they have lost more money than all the money they say for a decade
on JIT, and that could be the long-term benefit, where industry plans better rather than just in
time, give me 50% more, where does it come from, lead times are very long.
A - `J. Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Let's go to our next question.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from the `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Securities with Bank of America Securities.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Securities `
Thanks for taking my questions. When investors look at this extreme level of supply-demand
imbalance that their reaction is that this will surely create a hard landing. And I'm curious to get
your perspectives, Ganesh or Steve that will this situation be resolved in an orderly way or when
does the industry get back to a more balanced environment? What is your visibility into inventory
at your end customers? Just when do we get back to normal and what does normal look like or is
there a hard or soft lining that we have to go through? Thank you.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer `
We do not have a line of sight for when things get to be normal. As I mentioned, the gap
between demand and supply grew in the March quarter and continues to be quite large. But we
have taken a number of steps to get ahead of when whatever change in cycle will come to soften
how that are landing will take place.
So, we just discussed the PSP in quite a bit of detail and that gives us 12 months of continuous
non-cancellable backlog and that will enable us to spot and plan for whenever that change
becomes apparent to us on longer-term backlog. The capacity additions were making. We're not
trying to solve the entire GAAP all in one quarter. We're making measured steps every quarterand improvements over multiple quarters and to the extent, we see a change, we will taper off
the bill plans and capacity additions consistent with that.
Third is, if you look at where our inventory is and where you look at our channel inventories are,
now that at historic lows from the channel perspective and pretty low for us as well and that gives
us time and ability to continue to replenish that inventory. It will help to minimize any under
absorption that might have happened otherwise and it positions us well to capitalize on whatever
the subsequent upcycle will be. There is going to be an upcycle to whatever next down cycle
there's going to be.
And when that happens, we actually push out capital requirements, because we will have
replenished some of that inventory. And finally, on that -- if and when there is that next hard
landing or soft landing. For us, what we are doing is our bonus programs and other variable
compensation programs, as you have seen in prior cycles, give us a fair amount of ability to
mitigate, which way our expenses go as we go through the cycles and that flexibility in operating
expenses is one more item that helps us in terms of getting to a soft landing.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Securities `
Thank you.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer `
You're welcome.
Operator
Thank you. We'll hear next from `Gary Mobley, Wells Fargo Securities from Wells Fargo Securities.
Q - `Gary Mobley, Wells Fargo Securities `
Hey, guys. Thanks for taking my question. Congrats on a strong finish to the year with a difference
a year makes. I wanted to ask about your target margin goals 65% and 42% on gross and
operating margin respectively. It would seem to me that you're in the most optimal conditions to
see the achievement of those goals with respect to revenue mix and manufacturing utilization.
And so my question to you is, is that target a best-case scenario or is it sustainable over the long
term and what revenue level are you looking forward to achieve those targets?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President & Chief Operating Officer `
We're making good progress towards that. We obviously, from quarter-to-quarter can make,
rapid progress and sometimes it will be a little slower beyond that. So, I wouldn't take last quarter
and apply that as how it's going to be every quarter going forward. We can introduce this new
model in December. So, it's not been that long and we've made a good start here and conditions
are strong for where we're at. We're executing well in the many different areas. We outline for
investors as to how will we achieve the gross margins. There are also other pressures. There are
cost pressures and some of the materials, and input costs as well that we're working through.
And then the operating expenses, we continue to have investments we need to make, so that
the long-term growth and profitability of the business can be realized.
So, let's continue to have a several more quarters as we go through this. But we feel good about
these long-term targets. And we think we're working on the right things operationally, as well as
in our business units and our other operating expenses to get to the place, where we have a
combination of good balance between growth and profitability.Q - `Gary Mobley, Wells Fargo Securities `
Thanks, Ganesh.
Operator
Thank you. We'll hear next from `Harsh Kumar, Piper Sandler with Piper Sandler.
Q - `Harsh Kumar, Piper Sandler `
Yeah. Hey, Steve, congratulations as well. Ganesh, congratulation on a strong quarter. I had a
philosophical question. With this kind of a supply-demand environment, is seasonality out the
door in the near-term, midterm? And then I have a follow-up.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President & Chief Operating Officer `
So, seasonality has been hard for us for many quarters, that hasn't been a normal environment
for quite a while we run through trade and tariff, which was an overriding issue that we went
through COVID issues and overriding issue, we're now in this significant demand growth
environment. Clearly, there is an underlying seasonality that has a contribution, but these
externalities are driving a much higher multiplier on that. So, for the moment, we don't have clear
bearings on seasonality other than directional statements as to where they will be.
Q - `Harsh Kumar, Piper Sandler `
And Ganesh, one more for you. With the PSP program, you're seeing tremendous amount of
success, are you seeing that backlog in the PSP program, mostly for the sole source kind of items
or the ones that are mostly very constrained. Is there also a risk that you may lose some of the
customers that are not able to commit or simply -- supply simply that bad that there's no place
for these guys to go.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President & Chief Operating Officer `
So, pretty much -- just about everything we do is sole source proprietary products. So, we don't
have a commodity product line, that's a big piece of this thing. Some of our memory products
may come the closest. And even there, we are often in very highly protected positions in those
sockets as well. I think the short answer is exactly what you said. There is not another place.
People can go to get capacity today. In fact, there's a lot more coming to us, trying to find ways,
in which we can help support them as they flee some of the other suppliers were not able to
provide them capacity in today's environment.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer `
So Harsh, let me add a comment to. PSP is not an absolute requirement. So, a customer, who
does not have visibility into their own business and does not want to give us non-cancellable 12
months backlog, can just place normal orders over 12 months and 90 days of those orders would
be from non-cancellable. And after that, they can change it. The only difference is they would not
be preferred and if there was a strong demand among the PSP customers, then they could get
allocated much more harshly. But that doesn't mean that they won't get any parts and they
should go really go with somebody else. If they go with somebody else, other people that
similarly constrained and may not have a PSP program to really help them. So, I think there is no
reason for loss of business. We're actually gaining business in this environment, have people
coming from other companies, where they cannot get the support.Q - `Harsh Kumar, Piper Sandler `
It's a great point, Steve. Thank you.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We'll hear next from `Chris Caso, Raymond James with Raymond James.
Q - `Chris Caso, Raymond James `
Yes. Thank you. I've got a two-part questions on some of the capacity additions that you spoke
of. First, if you give us some sense of the timing of these capacity additions, we know you're
growing CapEx all through the year, but there's some constraints and getting tool. So, when
those capacity become available to you? And then secondly, if you are adding this capacity
through the year and you're expecting, two main supply constrains with, I guess, some visibility
for the PSP program, is there any reason why your revenue wouldn't just continue to grow
sequentially as we go through the end of the calendar year?
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer `
So firstly, on the capacity additions, they are happening -- there's not a single discrete event
when it's happening. It's happening every month, every quarter. We have equipment on auto. We
have materials on auto. We're hiring people. There's a number of activities that are all going in
place to be able to do it. So, it'll be a more continuous process through the year, sometimes we
get delays on equipment, sometimes we are able to get the equipment on the time we have. So
that's the way we see it for the rest of the year and therefore, we are expecting that we will have
capacity will be higher order than the prior quarter, which should give us the ability to have
continued growth as you go into the second half of this year.
Q - `Chris Caso, Raymond James `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Ambrish Srivastava, BMO Capital Markets from BMO.
Q - `Ambrish Srivastava, BMO Capital Markets `
Hi. Thank you very much. Steve, I had a question and a follow-up on -- actually, on the comments
and capital allocation. could you -- that's a pretty substantial increase on DV over the last couple
of quarters. What's the right way to think until you get to the net leverage that you're targeting?
And then longer-term, what are your thoughts on DV versus buybacks? So, any color or any
thoughts you could share on that would be helpful. And then I have a quick follow-up on PSP,
Ganesh, how do you hedge for assuming that pricing is set earlier on when the customers are
committing to this, how do you hedge for the cost side of it when cost goes up on plan? So, just
help us understand that factor as well. Thank you.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer `So, let me take the capital allocation part of that and then Ganesh will take the pricing on the PSP
backlog. So, we have internally, had discussions with the board what happens now till we get
investment grade rating and what happens after as we bring the start by back into the mix, but
we're not prepared to dollarize that for you, well into the future regarding how much stock
buyback and how much dividend and when does it start and all that? So, I think it's directionally,
the Board is committed to continue to increase dividend every quarter. And then as we get to the
investment grade rating, then add the stock buyback into the mix, and what that mix would be
could also change from time to time depending on market conditions and start price and all that.
So, it's really not all figured out for the next five years. There have been some discussions, but I
think we will continue to advise you every quarter as we make further decisions.
Q - `Ambrish Srivastava, BMO Capital Markets `
I wasn't thinking dollars Steve, I was thinking more in terms of percent of free cash, but that's fine.
We'll wait.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer `
So, they're not willing to disclose well into the future what percentage of our free cash flow, we
will give it to the investors back. We would still, when we get an investment grade rating, we
would still have a leverage on the books of about three and desire is to continue to decrease
that leverage further, three is not a number, where we want to stop and give a 100% cash back.
So, the leverage will continue to go down, but the rate at which that leverage go down could
change as we start to give more cash back.
Q - `Ambrish Srivastava, BMO Capital Markets `
That's it. Thank you.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President & Chief Operating Officer `
Ambrish, on your PSP question. PSP is a priority for capacity. It is not a guarantee of price and we
will not be just making pricing is without good reason. So, if there are input costs that are
unexpected, that need to be passed on, PSP backlog can receive price changes at that point in
time. We're not anticipating that it needs to, but nothing in PSP backlog precludes price
adjustments if there are significant cost increases.
Q - `Ambrish Srivastava, BMO Capital Markets `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President & Chief Operating Officer `
You're welcome.
Operator
(Operator Instructions) We'll hear next from `Harlan Sur, JP Morgan with JP Morgan.
Q - `Harlan Sur, JP Morgan `
Good afternoon, and congratulations on the strong results in execution. With the current backlog
of PSP backlog, it's a pretty good picture for demanding based on that and combined that with
your current bookings trends, how far above your current supply capabilities as overall demandtrending. Is it 20% higher? Is it 30% higher? And then given the strong dimensions, it seems like
you and your distribution partners are building and buying products, and immediately, shipping
them out. So, given that and despite your capacity increases, do you guys anticipate your days of
inventory and distinct inventories declining again, in the June quarter?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President & Chief Operating Officer `
So firstly, to give you a sense of the what is our unsupported in a given quarter look like. I think a
quarter ago, we had said, hey, we have 30% more that we could be shipping than what we are
planning to ship and that number has since grown to over 40% that we could be shipping. So,
that's what we meant to earlier as in -- even as we add capacity, demand grows even faster. So,
there is a significant amount of unsupportive demand into each quarter and what happens is
every quarter we ship a little the ship a little more and we squeeze some of it out into
subsequent quarters with. Is there a second part of the question?
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. He was asking about what our expectations were for distribution inventory. That's a very
difficult thing to forecast, went down for days, last quarter, distribution inventory is at record lows.
What we're shipping in, they're shipping out right away to meet their customers' demands. So, I
don't anticipate it going up but I know it's at very, very low historic levels. So I don't anticipate a
large change.
Q - `Harlan Sur, JP Morgan `
Okay, great. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `John Pitzer, Credit Suisse with Credit Suisse.
Q - `John Pitzer, Credit Suisse `
Yeah. Good afternoon, guys. I've got a two-part question that speaks to the supply-demand
imbalance that both Steve and Ganesh, you've talked about. I'm just kind of curious on the supply
side, we've seen a significant amount of consolidation in the semi industry over the last decade,
you guys have been a big driver of that. I'm wondering Steve or Ganesh, if you can comment on
how that's impacting, both yours and the industry's ability to actually grow supply? And then on
the demand side, I'm just kind of curious, typically, when demand -- when your demand is this
strong, we're usually in an economy that's firing on all cylinders and yet we still have an economic
backdrop, which is probably best described as under potential. And so if we go to the back half
of the year Steve, when we start to see a macro recovery, is there a real risk that supply
shortages actually accelerate even further? And why not get ahead of that with even more
CapEx?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President & Chief Operating Officer `
So, let me start on the supply side. If you look at our eight, 10 years of acquisitions that we have
done in the consolidations from our perspective, the percentage of what we build particularly,
from a fab standpoint, internal versus external has changed. We used to have a higher
percentage of it in our in-house fabs, we are now down to about 39% of it is in-house, the
balance is down to the foundries. We obviously have a higher degree of control and ability to
influence in a shorter period of time. The capacity that we build in-house, then we do from aAnd so in that sense, that is something that has changed over this period of time. It has never
been an issue until this cycle, where the imbalance has been so large that the instantaneous
response from foundry has been difficult and a high percentage of what Microchip does through
foundry is what foundry would consider to be the trailing edge of capacity they have and that has
also been not where all their investments are gone. They're making some, but the majority of the
investments have been in leading edge, which is where not a lot of our capacity requirements are
into. Packaging and testing, we've been able to do more in-house and we have reported on the
increases. We're now into the mid-50s as a percentage of our packaging, that had been as low
as in the high-30s and low-40s as a percentage. So, there -- as and when we can, we're going as
fast as we can. We are looking at our capital investments and what do we need to be doing and
how -- and a bit of this is finding the right mix between stepping on the accelerator, where we
have high confidence, PSP backlog, for example gives us high confidence and being a little more
thoughtful, where we have risk of putting a lot of capital in place and then perhaps having under
absorbed capacity and that's always a judgment call, we make that every month, every quarter
with what should our capital posture be and we could yet change and have increased capital
posture as we go into the second half of this year, if that demand imbalance continues and
persists at the level that it is. Steve, you want to add some more?
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, let me add to the little economic macro side of his question. So John, what happened last
year was that the biggest destruction of demand really, was on the service side. The hospitality,
hotels, airlines, travel, restaurants, golf courses, basically, the service side of the industry got
estimated last year, because of social distancing and all that. The manufacturing side didn't do
that bad. I mean there was really not a single quarter, where our revenue even went down 10%,
most companies and the technology industry and manufacturing industry did reasonably well.
Automotive was really bad for one quarter, but overall not too bad. So, now when you get to the
recovery side of it, a fair amount of recovery is likely to take place on the service side, which got
so decimated, restaurants and hotels and airlines and travel, and vacationers and cruise lines and
all that coming back.
Now, as they come back and people have more money in their pocket with more jobs, certainly,
some of their money will flow to the hardware, electronics and cars and other things, where our
product goes and we will benefit from it. But the big part of the upcoming surge is really going to
be on the service side.
Having said all that, I think demand is very strong now and as you mentioned when the economy
picks up further steam with all these people coming back into job, could it really even get more
heated. The answer to that is definitely possible. But the other part of your question was, why not
add more capital now? Well, we can't get it, I mean, we have so much capital on order and lead
time is long and some of the schedule capital gets delayed by a month for the short notice,
because the supplier is also constrained. So, it's not a question of what you can order? We're
willing to order more. So question, what you can get? We can't get everything we want.
Q - `John Pitzer, Credit Suisse `
That's really helpful color. Thanks, guys.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
OperatorThank you. We'll take our next question from `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs `
Hi, good afternoon. Thanks so much for taking the question. Ganesh, you talked about higher
utilization rates and better mix being positive for gross margins in the quarter, I'm curious what
you saw from a pricing perspective in March relative to December. I was a little surprised, how
fast you were able to grow, your microcontroller business and analog business on a sequential
basis. I'm guessing pricing played a role there, but if you can kind of speak to that would be super
helpful and then separately, assuming you guys managed to execute on the CapEx that you have
planned today for the year. Where do you see your internal capacity exiting the fiscal year versus
where it is today? Thank you.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President & Chief Operating Officer `
So first, on the pricing front. We announced and we did raise prices in the March quarter. It wasn't
in place for the entire quarter, but it was in place for a good amount of that quarter. And not all
prices changed, all of the same time that our contractual requirements, different product lines,
and different things. But prices go up. With that, we also had cost go up that we were trying to
offset with these price increases. So -- and we continue to have increases coming through in our
supply chain. So, we think the price increases contributed some, but was really not the major part
of what drove our growth in the March quarter. You want to take the second part, Eric?
A - `J. Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
So, the second part was on our -- what our internal capacity can do in fiscal '22, which we're just
entering. I don't expect the fab mix to be much different. We -- last year, the year we just finished,
we did 39% of our fab internally. Don't expect that mix to change. For fiscal '21, we did 53% of our
assembly and 57% of our test in-house. Those percentages should go up as we're continuing to
invest and then bring some more capacity internal. But I don't have a specific number by the end
of the year. That's going to depend on what the demand environment is and how quickly, we can
respond with the CapEx.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President & Chief Operating Officer `
And some of the internal capacity, it takes time to as it comes through, and it may have an
ongoing impact as we go into the next fiscal year.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs `
Yeah. My question wasn't so much on the mix exiting the year. But again, assuming you guys do
get all the tools that you're asking for and you managed to spend $250 million. How much higher
could your internal capacity be in 12 months? Is a 10%, 20% a rough ballpark number would be
super helpful?
A - `J. Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I don't think that's a number we're willing to disclose. As Ganesh said, it takes time for the
capacity come on board at different stages, something in fab is going to take longer than it might
and assemble your test, and we're obviously not getting revenue guidance outside of the current
quarter. So --
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer `There are too many corridors of capacity, both internally and externally by process, by wafer
aside, by technology complexity and somewhere the capacity is being added, the other capacity
is not being added and to roll all that into a just general number, a capacity goes of X
percentage, when we are not really sure from foundries what we can get, we know what we can
do internally in terms of capital we are adding. So, I think that number is a complex one and not
willing to share.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs `
Got it. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho Securities from Mizuho.
Q - `Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho Securities `
Yeah. Hi. Thanks, guys. So just briefly, I know you mentioned shortages. If you give us an idea of
where you're seeing -- which segment you're seeing the highest shortages and where things
starting more kind of -- or getting to more normalized in lead terms?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President & Chief Operating Officer `
I think, if you listen to the media, you would think that automotive is the only place, where there
are shortages, and I think clearly, they've been the most vocal. Shortages are in every single
segment that are taking place to varying degrees and we do not see any segment starting to
come back to some form of equilibrium, where it is. So, there are shortages and growing
imbalances in every market segment we're in.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs `
Got it. And I know you mentioned very strong backlog orders as you look at the June quarter
here. Why don't you actually look at the backdrop in terms of Q3, or -- the Q3 and out. You think -
- are you expecting a better than seasonal output given our strong demand is and the pretty
strong signup on the PST side as well?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President & Chief Operating Officer `
We talked earlier on about seasonality and all of that. And right now, our revenue is not limited by
the demand side of the equation and often seasonality speaks to where is the demand at and
how does that come about. Our growth at this point is limited by how much can we manufacture
and ship? And that's where all hands on deck are . So seasonality by itself, is not as meaningful in
the current environment.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs `
Got it. Thanks very much.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President & Chief Operating Officer `
You're welcome.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `Craig Hettenbach, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley.Q - `Craig Hettenbach, Morgan Stanley `
Yes. Thanks, I had a question on data center in common. I mean that's been an area that's been
consolidating for a number of quarters. Just want to get a sense of what you see in that market,
and if there's any visibility as to how you think it will trend as we go through the year.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President & Chief Operating Officer `
So, we're not trying to provide guidance on how are going to do by market segment as we go
through the year. I think clearly, in the December quarter, we indicated to you that it seems to
have bottomed out that came to be the way the March quarter ended up, slight bit of
improvement from there. So, we're quite optimistic about the data center segment in particular,
as we look into fiscal year '22 and then the communications sector has its own set of
infrastructure rollouts that are taking place, but that's about as much as we're able to provide. We
don't really track at the level of specificity with exact numbers. We have more of a directional
statement, which is kind of what we've included in our conference call notes.
Q - `Craig Hettenbach, Morgan Stanley `
Understood. Thanks.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from Rajvi Gill with Needham & Company.
Q - `Denis Pyatchanin, Needham & Company `
Hi. This is Denis here, asking a question for Rajvi. I was wondering could you speak about as far as
these components, supply constraints go up, which end of markets are currently maybe, kind of
doing the best in terms of having some inventory available and also, what proportion of these
constraints is kind of on the frontend or the backend?
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer `
So, there is no -- as I said in the earlier question, there is no end market, in which there is
available supply, that's any better or not. They're all constrained to varying degrees. And so
there's nothing from an end market to thing -- as far as backend and frontend, we have
constraints in both internal and external factories in the backend and in the frontend, in the
material supply chain and depending on what exact combination, what capacity corridor you're in,
there might be more constraints and may be less constraints, but they're all constraints.
Q - `Denis Pyatchanin, Needham & Company `
Got it. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take our next question from `David O'Connor, BNP Paribas from BNP Paribas.
Q - `David O'Connor, BNP Paribas
Great. Thanks for taking my question. Maybe, a follow-up on the just in time that you mentioned
earlier. What changes that do you foresee in the level of inventory that the industry needs to
own? I mean, who needs -- supply chain is going to be forced to carry more infantry, if that's thecase and who's going to foot the bill for these -- if these higher inventories. Could you talk
around how you see that? That'd be great. Thank you.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President & Chief Operating Officer `
Let me take a shot of that and Steve, may want to answer -- may want to add to this as well. So, I
think what inventory people need to carry is going to have to be determined by the ultimate end
market equipment manufacturers, the OEMs.And I think it can be very different in different
product lines, right. When you build a $80,000 car and you're constrained by $10 a
semiconductor content, the decision you may arrive there could be different from when you're
building $200 consumer product that you have.
So, each industry depending on the value of the product that's creating, the profitability of that
industry has to decide based on the experience. What is the inventory level that they need to
assure themselves of the value of the product that they're trying to ship and those answers are
going to be different. I think some got burned quite badly, I suspect they will be the ones I want
to do the most here. But if there is not a single answer that comes with it and as far as who foots
the bill, ultimately the manufacturer, the original equipment manufacturer will foot the bill and
more than likely have to pass that on in terms of what they're building to there and customer to
the extent that they can. But if the choice is to invest in inventory that is two, three orders of
magnitude less than the value of the product that they're creating, many of them will have to
rethink that equation of what kind of just in time makes sense for them. Steve, you want to add
that?
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer `
I don't really have a whole lot to add. But I would say that, if you look at some of the Japanese car
manufacturers did much better this time around, because they learned their lesson during the
tsunami and when a lot of the renaissance in other factories were shut down due to earthquake,
and radiations and all that. So they learn from that time and built a structure, where they were not
as much relying on GIT and reach the current time with the level of inventory on the
semiconductor parts and they did lot better. And that's really the lesson, the U.S. and European
auto manufacturers need to learn and time will tell when the cycle goes the other way, is it all lost
and it's just the same standoff, we don't really know, but they have to start thinking that building
semiconductors is different than getting a bent metal for door knob or something.
Right now, we get some comments that are sometimes laughable, what's the big deal about the
lead frame, just bend the metal and make my part and it's just not that simple, building
semiconductors. So, I think a lot of learning needs to happen and we don't directly ship the parts
to the car manufacturers. We have the people in-between like the Conti's and Gentex and Aptiv
and Hella, and all these people. They're in between. So, it's really -- so, we have a buffer, but the
car manufacturers really need to really take the bull by the horn and drive the process to get out
of JIT, and I don't know whether they will. I don't know that.
Q - `David O'Connor, BNP Paribas
A positive step is many of the car makers have been at the forefront of embracing the PSP
program and requiring the tier ones to participate. At least for the moment, you can see how
they're trying to drive towards having a level of inventory that assures them they can build their
very expensive or very highly valuable end products. How that will persist year or two years from
now? We don't know. Okay. Thank you.
OperatorThanks. We'll move on to our next question from `Christopher Rolland, Susquehanna from Susquehanna.
Q - `Christopher Rolland, Susquehanna `
Hey, guys. Thanks for the question and it's a little bit more open-ended here. But can actually --
you said in 40 years, you haven't seen such an imbalance between supply and demand as acute
as this one. And Steve, you may want to chime in here as well. But can you guys talk about
maybe, something that was similar, the number two, most acute time or number three, and are
there any analogies to this? And how that eventually unwind where we had that match of supply
and demand, and do you see something like that taking place here? Thanks.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President & Chief Operating Officer `
All cycles eventually come to an end as the participants in the battlefield work on how they adjust
to where the situation is. In prior cycles, the semiconductor companies put in the additional
capacity in place and began to get closer in their self-interest to be able to grow and the players
on the market began to adjust with what they were building and how they were building. I would
say in my timeframe, probably, the sharpest rebound was probably 2008-2009. And again, we
were extremely fortunate in that time, because we did not shut down our factories and we kept
things running and we grew our inventory, but not all people did that and we know it did create
dislocations as a result of doing that. Steve, do you want to add to that?
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, finishing your thought, in 2008-2009, we didn't shut down our factory and continue to run
the factories although we had some rotating time off and then we entered the upcycle with a
very good amount of inventory position, and through that, we grew a lot and we did very well. We
didn't repeat that this time, because this time, we had a very substantial debt leverage, which
was very high and therefore, we didn't choose to really put the money into inventory and kept
the factories running and all that.
At that time, I recall, investor concern was what happens if your demand goes down 35%. Do you
miss the covenant? So, sometime your memories can be short. But this environment presented
different challenges. So, we were not able to repeat the experience of 2009 and did not reach
this time with a high inventory internally.
So -- and we're trying to build it now, but unsuccessful, because the shipping as we build. The
other point I wanted to make is people use this word double ordering. We don't really get double
ordering, because our parts are all proprietary. You cannot buy from us and from another
company for the same circuit, nor can two distributors ship the product into the same circuit. In
the way, we register and make it economically impossible for the non-designing distributor to
shift apart into that circuit. So, the only other remaining avenue is a customer orders a little more
than what they need, which we never know and we cannot detect if you want to call it, double
ordering, there could be some excess ordering by the customers, we can't be sure of. But one
thing we are sure of is, there's no double fulfillment. We are in daily phone calls, escalation
meetings with the number of customers, threatened line downs and actual lines down for many
other car manufacturers and others. There is no double fulfillment. People are -- everybody's
getting a fraction of what they need. So therefore, there is a fair amount of runway ahead with
such a large amount of demand, and I think it's going to be rest of the fiscal year, we're just trying
to get a head above the water.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President & Chief Operating Officer `And unlike prior cycles, right, we have non-cancelable windows that are significantly longer than
we have had another cycles, and that puts a little bit of a lot more responsibility in the customer
to have orders that they need and not orders that they don't need.
Q - `Christopher Rolland, Susquehanna `
Thank you, guys. That's helpful.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take a follow-up question from `John Pitzer, Credit Suisse with Credit Suisse.
Q - `John Pitzer, Credit Suisse `
Yeah. Guys, thanks for letting me ask another question. Just Eric, on the target model, I'm just
kind of curious on the gross margin line, what's been really impressive is the incremental margins
you guys have been able to put up over the last call it, six to eight quarters. I mean on quarters,
where you've had sequential growth, I think incremental gross margins have been right around
that 80% mark. And so was there something unusual about the last kind of six to eight quarters
that drove such high incremental gross margins and where should we think about that going
forward?
A - `J. Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, I think there's a couple things. In the more recent quarters, we had significant
underutilization charges, which have now gone away, right. So, those costs are now being
capitalized inventory running the factories more full, so that's gone away. And then we had a
large acquisition in Microsemi that we were integrating over that timeframe to and finding ways
to improve margins on the acquired business. Those are the two things that I would point to
Steve or Ganesh anything else.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer `
Only other thing I would add is, we continue to add value into many, many of our products
through a combination of hardware and software, which makes them more valuable as improved
gross margins we have on those products and as you then get to a weighted average of all these
products and what are we doing to make them more valuable, it shows up in the aggregate
gross margin.
Q - `John Pitzer, Credit Suisse `
Thank you.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer `
You're welcome.
Operator
Thank you. And that does conclude today's question-and-answer session. I'd like to turn the
conference back over to Mr.`Ganesh Moorthy, President & Chief Operating Officer for any additional or closing remarks.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President & Chief Operating Officer `Okay. We want to thank everyone for taking the time to join us. We do have investor meetings
that are coming up that we look forward to meeting and talking to more of you. Have a good
afternoon. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. That does conclude today's conference. We thank you all for your participation. You
may now disconnect.