Q4 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Greetings and welcome to the Microchip Technology's Q3 and FY 2023 Financial Results
Conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-
answer session will follow the formal presentation. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this
conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Mr.Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President and CFO.
Thank you, and you may proceed sir.
`J. Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Okay, thank you, and good afternoon everyone. During the course of this conference call, we will
be making projections and other forward-looking statements regarding future events for the
future financial performance of the company. We wish to caution you that such statements are
predictions and that actual events or results may differ materially. We refer you to our press
releases of today, as well as our recent filings with the SEC that identify important risk factors that
may impact Microchip's business and results of operations.
In attendance with me today are `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer, Microchip's President and CEO; `Steve Sanghi, Executive Chair,
Microchip's Executive Chair; and Sajid Daudi, Microchip's Head of Investor Relations. I will
comment on our fourth quarter and full fiscal year 2023 financial performance. Ganesh will then
provide commentary on our results and discuss the current business environment, as well as our
guidance, and Steve will provide an update on our cash return strategy. We will then be available
to respond to specific investor/analyst questions.
We are including information in our press release and this conference call on various GAAP and
non-GAAP measures. We have posted a full GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation on the Investor
Relations page of our website at www.microchip.com and included reconciliation information inGAAP results. We have also identified and posted a summary of our outstanding debts and our
leverage metrics on our website.
I will now go through some of the operating results, including net sales, gross margin, and
operating expenses. Other than net sales, I will be referring to these results on a non-GAAP
basis, which is based on expenses prior to the effects of our acquisition activities, share-based
compensation, and certain other adjustments as described in our earnings press release and in
the reconciliation on our website. Net sales in the March quarter were $2.233 billion, which was up
2.9% sequentially. We have posted a summary of our net sales by product line and geography on
our website for your reference. On a non-GAAP basis, gross margins were a record at 68.3%,
operating expenses were at 20.7% and operating income was a record 47.65%. Non-GAAP net
income was a record $907.8 million, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share was a record $1.64 and
a penny above the high end of our guidance range.
On a GAAP basis in the March quarter, gross margins were a record at 68%, total operating
expenses were $671.3 million and included acquisition and tangible amortization of $167.4 million,
special charges of $2.1 million, $2.3 million of acquisition-related and other costs, and share-based
compensation of $37.8 million. GAAP net income was a record $604 million resulting in a record
$1.09 in earnings per diluted share. As compared to a year ago quarter, our March quarter GAAP
tax expense was adversely impacted by a variety of factors, notably the tax expense recorded as
a result of the capitalization of R&D expenses for tax purposes.
For fiscal year 2023, net sales were a record $8.439 billion and were up 23.7% from net sales in
fiscal year 2022. On a non-GAAP basis, gross margins were a record 67.8%, operating expenses
were 20.9% of sales and operating income was a record 46.9% of sales. Non-GAAP net income
was a record $3.353 billion and EPS was a record at $6.02 per diluted share. On a GAAP basis,
gross margins were also a record at 67.5%, operating expenses were 30.6% of sales and
operating income was 36.9% of sales. Net income was $2.238 billion, and EPS was $4.02 per
diluted share.
Our non-GAAP cash tax rate was 10.8% in the March quarter and 10.9% for fiscal year 2023. Our
non-GAAP tax rate for fiscal year 2024 is expected to be about 14%, which is exclusive of the
transition tax and any tax audit settlements related to taxes occurred in prior fiscal years. Our
fiscal 2024 cash tax rate is expected to be higher than our fiscal 2023 tax rate for a variety of
factors, including lower availability of tax attributes, such as net operating losses and tax credits,
lower tax depreciation with our expectation for lower capital expenditures in the U.S. in fiscal
2024 as well as the impact of current tax rules requiring the capitalization of R&D expenses for
tax purposes.
We are still hopeful that the tax rules requiring companies to capitalize R&D expenses will be
pushed out or repealed. If this were to happen, we would anticipate about a 200 basis point
favorable adjustment to Microchip's non-GAAP tax rate in future periods. Our inventory balance at
March 31, 2023 was $1.325 billion. We had 169 days of inventory at the end of the March quarter,
which was up 17 days from the prior quarter's level. We have increased our raw materials
inventory to help protect our internal manufacturing supply lines. We are carrying higher work in
progress to help maximize the utilization of constrained equipment, as well as to position
ourselves to take advantage of new equipment installations, which should relieve bottlenecks.
In certain circumstances, we have allowed customers to push out delivery schedules for products
that were very far through the manufacturing process. We are investing in building inventory for
long-lived, high-margin products whose manufacturing capacity is being end-of-life by our supply
chain partners, and these last-time buys represented about seven days of inventory at the end ofMarch. We feel that we need to take actions to help ensure that our supply lines can feed our
growth beyond what we expect in the June 2023 quarter. We are targeting actions to reduce our
inventory down between 5 and 10 days in the June quarter. Inventory at our distributors in the
March quarter was at 24 days, which was up 2 days from the prior quarter's level.
Our cash flow from operating activities was $709.5 million in the March quarter. Included in our
cash flow from operating activities was a net $79.5 million of long-term supply assurance receipts
from customers and suppliers. We are going to adjust these items out of our free cash flow to
determine the adjusted free cash flow that we will return to shareholders through dividends and
share repurchases as these payments will be refundable over time as purchase commitments are
fulfilled. Our adjusted free cash flow was $517.3 million in the March quarter and was adversely
impacted by our working capital investments this quarter, including $158.4 million increase in
inventory and $130.3 million increase in accounts receivable, which we do not expect to repeat in
the June quarter.
As of March 31st, our consolidated cash and total investment position was $234 million. We paid
down $153 million of total debt in the March quarter and our net debt was reduced by $98.1
million. Over the last 19 full quarters, since we closed the Microsemi acquisition and incurred over
$8 billion of debt to do so, we have now paid down $6.35 billion of the debt and continue to
allocate substantially all of our excess cash beyond dividends and stock buyback to bring down
this debt.
Our adjusted EBITDA in the March quarter was a record at $1.139 billion and 51% of net sales. Our
trailing 12 month adjusted EBITDA was also a record at $4.288 billion. Our net debt to adjusted
EBITDA was 1.45 at March 31, 2023, down from 1.56 at December 31, 2022, and down from 2.32
at March 31, 2022. Getting our net leverage below 1.5 is significant milestone for Microchip on its
capital return journey, which Steve will talk about shortly.
Capital expenditures were $112.7 million in the March quarter and $486.2 million for fiscal year
2023. Our expectation for capital expenditures for fiscal year 2024 is between $300 million and
$400 million, as we still have a lot of equipment that was ordered with long lead times that will be
received over the next year. We expect that our capital investments will continue to provide us
with increased control of our production during periods of industry-wide constraints. Depreciation
expense in the March quarter was $54.1 million.
I will now turn it over to Ganesh to give us comments on the performance of the business in the
March quarter as well as our guidance for the June quarter. Ganesh?
`Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Eric, and good afternoon, everyone. Our March quarter results were strong in the
context of a slowing macro environment marked by our continued disciplined execution as well as
our resilient end market. Net sales grew 2.9% sequentially and 21.1% on a year-over-year basis to
achieve another all-time record at $2.23 billion. The March quarter represented our 10th
consecutive quarter of sequential growth.
Non GAAP gross margin came in at the high end of our guidance at a record 68.3%, up 171 basis
points from the year-ago quarter. Non-GAAP operating margin also came in close to the high end
of our guidance at a record 47.65%, up 292 basis points from the year-ago quarter. We continue
to make investments that we expect to drive the long-term revenue growth, profitability, and
durability of our business. Our consolidated non-GAAP diluted earnings per share was above the
high end of our guidance at a record $1.64 per share, up 21.5% from the year-ago quarter.Adjusted EBITDA was 51% of net sales, and adjusted free cash flow was 23.2% of net sales in the
March quarter, continuing to demonstrate the robust cash generation characteristics of our
business. We returned $469.9 million to shareholders in dividends and share repurchases in the
March quarter, representing 62.5% of our December quarter adjusted free cash flow. Our net
leverage exiting March dropped to 1.45x and, as we do mentioned a quarter ago, our capital
return this quarter will increase to 67.5% of our March quarter adjusted free cash flow as we
continue on our plan to return 100% of adjusted free cash flow by the March quarter of calendar
year 2025.
Reflecting on our fiscal year 2023 results, it was another one for the record books. Revenue grew
23.7% to finish at a record $8.4 billion. Non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating margin, non-
GAAP EPS, EBITDA and adjusted free cash flow all set new records. We significantly increased the
capital return to shareholders in fiscal year 2023 to $1.64 billion, representing a 76.6% growth as
compared to fiscal year 2022 through a combination of increasing dividends and our formulaic
share buyback program. My heartfelt gratitude to all of our stakeholders, who enabled us to
achieve these outstanding results, and especially to the worldwide Microchip team, whose
tireless efforts are what enabled us to navigate effectively through the business cycle.
Taking a look at our March quarter net sales from a product line perspective, our mixed signal
microcontroller net sales set another all-time record, coming in sequentially up 5.8% in the March
quarter and up 23.5% on a year-over-year basis. Our 32-bit mixed signal microcontrollers grew at
the fastest rate among our mixed signal microcontroller product line and represented over 48%
of our fiscal year 2023 mixed signal microcontroller evenue. As you may have noticed, we are
clarifying the nomenclature for our microcontrollers going forward to be mixed signal
microcontrollers as they have substantial analog and mixed signal content integrated on chip and
as a result exhibit business characteristics that are more like analog and mixed signal products.
Staying with mixed signal microcontrollers for a moment, Gartner just published their rankings for
calendar year 2022. Using our publicly reported mixed signal microcontroller revenue for calendar
year 2022, which Gartner inexplicably under-reported for Microchip, we ranked number three and
are just 1.4% away from number one. To put this in perspective, just three years ago, in calendar
year 2019, by our estimate combined with the Gartner data, we were 16.5% away from number
one. We are fast closing on the number one spot.
Moving next to our analog business, our analog net sales also set another all-time record, coming
in sequentially up 1.9% in the March quarter and up 19.9% on a year-over-year basis. Fiscal year
2023 analog sales were $2.4 billion and broke through the $2 billion mark for the first time ever.
We are gaining share in our analog business with our total system solutions approach continuing
to provide a tailwind for this product line. While we don't normally break out our FPGA product
line results, it is noteworthy to report that our March quarter and fiscal year 2023 revenue for
FPGA for both records. In fact, our fiscal year 2023 FPGA revenue exceeded $550 million, grew
more than 31% as compared to fiscal year 2022, and delivered operating margins of a north of
corporate average.
Our design win momentum is strong and we offer market leading mid-range FPGA solutions with
best-in-class low power, reliability, and security. At out Investor Day in November 2021, we
emphasized the importance of six market megatrends for our long-term growth and shared that
we expected our revenue growth from customers and applications within the megatrends to be
approximately 2x of Microchip's growth rate.
We just completed our revenue by megatrend analysis for fiscal year 2023. As compared to fiscal
year 2021, which is the last time we conducted the same analysis, Microchip overall revenue grew55.2%, while revenue from our megatrends grew 108.5%, right in line with our expectation of
roughly 2x growth from the megatrends. Revenue from the six megatrends represented
approximately 45% of our fiscal year 2023 revenue as compared to approximately 34% of our
fiscal year 2021 revenue.
We also just completed our revenue by end market analysis for fiscal 2023. As compared to fiscal
2022, our industrial business grew from 40% to 41% of our revenue. Our Data Center and
Computing business grew from 18% to 19% of our revenue and our Consumer Appliance
business declined from 14% to 12% of our revenue. Automotive and communications
infrastructure remained unchanged at 17% and 11% of our revenue, respectively. As you can see
from the data, slowly but surely, we continue to curate an increasing proportion of our business
towards less volatile and more resilient end markets.
Now for some color on the March quarter. While our overall business remained strong in the
March quarter, many of our customers felt the effect of slowing economic activity and increased
business uncertainty. Requests to push out or cancel backlog increase, and we were able to push
out significant amounts of backlog to later quarters to help customers with inventory positions.
This resulted in our days of inventory growing. We are comfortable with this inventory growth
given the very long life cycles and durable end markets for our products.
By taking action to reduce customer inventory overbill and carrying that inventory on our balance
sheet, we expect to increase our odds of achieving a soft landing and also expect to be better
positioned to respond to demand growth and the macro environment strengthens. Consistent
with the slowing macro environment and the growth in our inventory, we have paused most of
our internal factory expansion plans, reduced our capital investments plan for fiscal year 2024,
and taken steps to lower our inventory in the coming quarters.
As a result of the uncertain macro environment and multiple quarters' worth of backlog on our
books, our bookings have slowed down as expected over the last two quarters. In order to
provide customers with more flexibility in an uncertain demand environment, as well as to achieve
a more healthy and sustainable long-term supply-demand balance, we are striving to bring
average lead times down to under 26 weeks over the course of the second half of 2023. We
believe there are three reasons why Microchip's business continues to demonstrate more
resilience in the midst of the weakness seen by some of our semiconductor -- some other
semiconductor companies.
First, on the demand side. The end markets that we have the most exposure to, industrial, which
includes aerospace and defense, automotive and data center, and the applications within these
end markets where we are strong, are less volatile and comparatively more resilient. Second, on
the supply side, a vast majority of our products are built on specialized technologies, requiring
trailing edge capacity.
This is the capacity that has been most constrained over the last two plus years, and where there
was less opportunity to over ship the consumption. And third, our laser focus on organic growth
for multiple years by concentrating on total system solutions and higher growth megatrends,
which we just discussed a few minutes ago, has translated into increased assignments, further
share gains and a result in revenue tailwind. A quick update regarding the CHIPS Act. We have
been getting the benefit of the investment tax credit since the beginning of this year and we are
in the process of submitting our applications for grants to support expansion in several of our
domestic factories. The timeline for when grants may be approved is not yet determinable.Now let's get to the guidance for the June quarter. Although our backlog for the June quarter is
strong, we expect to continue to take active steps to help customers with inventory positions to
push out their backlog. Taking all the factors we have discussed in the call today into
consideration, we expect our net sales for the June quarter to be up between 1% and 4%
sequentially.
At the midpoint of our net sales guidance, our year-over-year growth in the June quarter would
be a strong 16.5%. We expect our non-GAAP gross margin to be between 68.3% and 68.5% of
sales. We expect non-GAAP operating expenses to be between 20.1% and 20.5% of sales and
we expect non-GAAP operating profit to be between 47.8% and 48.4% of sales. We expect our
non-GAAP diluted earnings per share to be between $1.63 and $1.65. At the midpoint of our non-
GAAP EPS guidance, our year-over-year growth for the June quarter would be a strong 19.7%,
despite a much higher tax rate than the year-ago quarter.
Finally, as you can see from our March quarter results and our June quarter guidance, our
Microchip 3.0 strategy, which we launched 18 months ago, is firing on all cylinders, as we continue
to build and improve what we believe is one of the most diversified defensible, high growth, high
margin, high cash generating businesses in the semiconductor industry. However, we also
recognize that we operate in a cyclical industry and that we are not immune to business cycles.
But if you review Microchip's peak to trough performance through the business cycles over the
last 15 plus years, you will observe our robust and consistent cash generation, gross margin and
operating margin results.
Although we don't foresee any significant decline in our business, if we were to experience a
semiconductor inventory correction like the industry has seen in the past, we are highly confident
that our non-GAAP operating margins would remain well above 40%. We remain cautiously
optimistic about navigating to a soft landing for our business in this cycle and expect our cash
generation, gross margin and operating margin to once again demonstrate consistency and
resiliency through the cycles.
With that, let me pass the baton to Steve to talk about our cash return to shareholders. By the
way, Steve just published a new book called Up and to the Right, which chronicles building
Microchip into a technology juggernaut. Investors and analysts can get additional insights from the
book, about the foundational elements behind Microchip's long-term business success. Steve?
`Steve Sanghi, Executive Chair `
Thank you, Ganesh, and thanks for the plug on the book and good afternoon everyone. I would
like to reflect on our financial results announced today, and provide you further updates on our
cash return strategy. Reflecting on our financial results, I continue to be very proud of all
employees of Microchip that have delivered another exceptional quarter, while making new
records in many respects, namely record net sales, record non-GAAP gross margin percentage,
record non-GAAP operating margin percentage, record non-GAAP EPS, and record adjusted
EBITDA and all of that in a continuing challenging environment. The board of directors announced
an increase in the dividend of 38.8% from the year ago quarter to $38.03 per share.
During the last quarter, we purchased $273.9 million of our stock in the open market. We also paid
out $195.9 million in dividends. Thus, the total cash return was $469.8 million. This amount was
62.5% of our actual adjusted free cash flow of $751.6 million during the December 2022 quarter.
Our pay down of debt as well as record adjusted EBITDA drove down our net leverage at the
end of March 2023 quarter to 1.45x from 1.56x at the end of December 2022. This also marks a
pivotal point of our net leverage going below 1.5x at which we further accelerate our cash returnrating for our debt in November 2021, and pivoted to increasing our capital return to
shareholders. We have returned $2.336 billion to shareholders through March 31, 2023 by a
combination of dividends and share buybacks.
In the current June quarter, we will use the adjusted free cash flow from the March quarter to
target the amount of cash returned to shareholders. The adjusted free cash flow excludes a net
$79.5 million that we collected from our customers and paid to our suppliers for long-term supply
assurance payments. These payments are refundable when purchase commitments are fulfilled.
The adjusted free cash flow for the March quarter was $517.3 million. We plan to return 67.5% or
$349.2 million of that amount to our shareholders with the dividend expected to be
approximately $209 million and the stock buyback expected to be approximately $140.2 million.
The above numbers reflect the pivot in one area. We are increasing the total return to
shareholders in 500 basis point increments per quarter instead of the 250 basis points we were
increasing until now. Going forward, we plan to continue to increase free cash flow return to
shareholders by 500 basis points every quarter until we reach 100% of our adjusted free cash
flow return to shareholders. That will take seven more quarters and dividends over time we
expect will represent approximately 50% of our cash return.
With that, operator, will you please hold for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you very much. We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session. (Operator
Instructions) Your first question comes from `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. Please proceed
with your question.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs `
Hi, good afternoon. Thank you so much for taking the question. I was hoping you could give a little
bit more color and context in terms of the demand environment. Ganesh, you talked about
experiencing push outs from your customers and uptick in cancellations. But are these sort of
events broad-based across geographies and end markets and device types? Or is it a little bit
more concentrated? And then I have a follow-up.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Generally speaking, I would say, there are a cross-section of those requests from many
geographies, many customers, many end markets. We also continue to have constrained
products on which there are shortages that we're trying to accelerate product for. So, it is not
only one directional in which the demand requests are coming in at.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs `
Got it. And then as my follow-up, just your thoughts on trough gross margins. You provided good
context in terms of operating margins. I think you said well above 40% in a kind of the
recessionary or contractionary environment. How should we think about gross margins off of
these record levels as you work down inventory and presumably reduce utilization rates? Thank
you.A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
They're going to be darn good. If you look at our history, you can get a pretty good idea of what
the gross margin trough to peak or peak to trough look like. We are sitting at 48% operating
margin, giving you 8 percentage points as a bottom end of where this is going to be an
operating margin. I think you can draw the conclusion relatively easily.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs `
Got it. Thank you.
A - `J. Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
And we have some charts on our website to look at the last 15 years of history, and you can draw
some conclusions from that.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from `Ambrish Srivastava, BMO Capital Markets from BMO Capital Markets. Please
proceed with your question.
Q - `Ambrish Srivastava, BMO Capital Markets `
Hi. Thank you very much. Yes, that chart was very helpful, Eric. I had my former first question. For
the last few quarters, you have been guiding for the quarter out. And so I just wanted to make
sure that you are not able to guide for September vis-a-vis if you just look at how the business
has changed and I'm just reading your comments it sounds like that confidence is not there this
quarter.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So we have not adopted a consistent practice of providing more than one quarter guidance. At
certain points of time, we have elected to provide more than one quarter of guidance or
directional guidance sometimes. And this is when we have believed it would help investors and
analysts better frame our current quarter guidance. I think provided the extra quarter of
directional guidance for three quarters in a row, it did not appear to add much value to analysts or
investors, who were more worried about the overall semiconductor industry cycle. And in fact, it
seemed to elicit more skepticism in our ability to provide guidance and confidence in our
understanding of the business. And therefore, we have decided to end the temporary practice
we started and revert to just providing one quarter's guidance.
Q - `Ambrish Srivastava, BMO Capital Markets `
Make sense, except it proved how wrong I was every quarter. You said a question on the push,
Ganesh, how do they come back to the overall PSP? I'm assuming that this is not in the NCNRs,
because those, you had said in the past, you're not willing to negotiate on, or less willing to
negotiate on. Is that the right way to think about it that PSP has both NCNRs and non-NCNRs, and
it push-out some more related to the non-NCNRs?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `So, maybe let me clarify. All PSP backlog is non-cancellable, non-reschedulable. What I have said
before is that, we are not flexible on the non-cancellable portion. We are flexible on the non-
reschedulable, and that's where we're pushing out. So we are pushing out backlogs, PSP or not,
into farther quarters. And that's the way in which we support customers whose business
environment has changed, and who have concern about their at inventory level and in the
process hopefully create less of an overhang that we will run into and more of a soft landing for
our own business. But we are flexible on the reschedulability, just not on the non-cancelability.
Q - `Ambrish Srivastava, BMO Capital Markets `
Got it. Thank you for the clarification. Thanks.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
You're welcome.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from `Vivek Arya, Bank of America from Bank of America. Please proceed with
your question, Vivek.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America `
Thank you for taking my question. Ganesh, I wanted to revisit again this question of end markets.
So, there is a perception that aerospace, defense, medical, parts of data center, these markets
are holding up better. So can you give us a sense that in the last three months, specifically which
end markets or customers in which end markets have asked you, or you have asked them and
they have agreed to pushing of some of their demand because I just want to make sure that are
we -- when you say a soft landing, are we talking about revenues kind of floating at plus minus
the levels you're giving for June? Or is this some bigger drop off? And like having that end
market view, I think we'll be better prepared to analyze, right, where -- how we should be thinking
about September and December?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
In an absolute sense, there is no end market that I can say is the only one that has a problem or
one that has no problem at all. It's all on a relative basis. And so, the strength comes from those
end markets where there is far better resilience, far better end market characteristics. Those are
the ones we've described as industrial, including aerospace and defense, automotive, parts of
the data centers that we have exposure to.
And even if you look at industrial, I know different people have had different comments on it, but
our exposure in industrial is dominated by aerospace and defense, renewable energy, energy
efficiency, factory automation, medical, infrastructure. These are all the parts of industrial that
dominate us. Now within that, is there going to be somebody asking for a push out or a
reschedule or a swap of certain products? Sure, there will be some of that. But in the aggregate,
that end market is doing extremely well compared to the rest of the end markets that perhaps
are in consumer and phones and others, which we don't have much exposure to.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America `
Got it. And for my follow-up, I just actually had two quick clarifications, perhaps for Eric. Eric, just
what is the right way to look at the other expense of line and any implication of kind of the rising
rates on your debt servicing? And then OpEx, right, it's kind of -- or OpEx intensity is lower thanyour long-term model. So how are you planning to manage expenses as the business goes
through this kind of slowdown in the near-term?
A - `J. Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Okay. So let me take the other expense piece first, which is obviously dominated by interest
expense. So yes, we are being impacted by the rising rate environment. We don't have much
variable rate debt left on the balance sheet today. It's just our line of credit, which is about $100
million. But we do have bonds coming due, in both June and September of this calendar year that
the current intention is to refinance those or retire those using our line of credit.
And the interest rate currently on the variable line of credit is higher than where those bonds are
at. So we are going to be facing a higher interest expense, each quarter as we go through this
fiscal year. It's not like a stair-step jump, but definitely the interest expense will be rising by
several million dollars per quarter. I think that debt schedule that's on our website can help you
model that, because it shows the maturity dates and the interest rates on those various pieces of
debt. And our current borrowing rate on our line of credit is about 6.35%. So I think with that
information, you can probably model that out appropriately.
On the OpEx side, yes, we are below our long-term model. And obviously, Microchip has grown
very fast over the last couple of years, and we've had a hard time keeping up with expenses and
expenses as a percentage of net sales is dropping again this quarter. At the midpoint of
guidance, OpEx is rising in dollars again, but the percentage is coming down. And the large factor
in there in terms of just our hiring activities is the variable compensation that we're paying to our
employees. And as the environment changes from one of very high growth to one of more
moderate growth, we will moderate those bonuses that are being paid to help us manage
appropriately within our long-term model. I don't know if Ganesh wants to add anything more?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
No, I think you stated exactly so. And as we've always said, right, the operating expenses are an
investment in a long-term growth, profitability, resilience of our results. And so those investments
need to be made and to have years and years of return on those investments. And we are below
our target, but as things settle out over time that will creep up, but not at any accelerated rate.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from `Joshua Buchalter, Cowen & Company from Cowen & Company. Please
proceed with your question, Joshua.
Q - `Joshua Buchalter, Cowen & Company `
Hi, team. Thank you so much for taking my question. I wanted to, I guess, ask about the pricing
environment. So when you were discussing the PSP, you mentioned that backlog is non-
cancellable, but it sounds like it's flexible on the timeline. Can you talk about how the pricing
discussions go both within your PSP program and then outside it? And if there's been any change
in that as you're going to -- you're starting to lower inventories a bit? Thank you.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `So pricing is not any different between PSP and non-PSP, so I'll give you a more general answer
for just our overall methodology. Pricing for us is a strategic exercise. We provide products that
are sole-sourced products. They're proprietary products. And customers place their trust in us.
Years before they go to production and then they're with us for many, many years to come.
Traditionally over the years, we have not had annual price reductions necessarily as a consistent
part of what we do. In the last two years, we've had inflation at a much higher rate than what we
could absorb with our improvements, and we did pass along price increases that would absorb
the cost increases, keeping it margin neutral. And that has not changed and that we don't expect
to change as we go forward. So pricing is stable and strategic in our -- I think in our thought
process.
Q - `Joshua Buchalter, Cowen & Company `
Got it. Thank you. And I was hoping you could maybe help us understand the utilization rates a
little bit better. Can you walk us through where things are at in your front end, and whether, I
guess, as you lower inventory, more of it is coming out of your internal facilities versus your
foundry partners? Thank you.
A - `J. Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So utilization in the factories has been very high throughout the last year and that continues
today. So we aren't facing underutilization charges or anything like that. We're still trying to get
caught up on our backlog. So the factories are still running at a pretty high rate.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And we don't expect the reduction of inventory days to affect what we're going to do in our
factories in terms of under-loading them. So the internal factories are running lower inventory and
they will run constant through this cycle. And so, there's no under-absorption issue to be
concerned about.
Q - `Joshua Buchalter, Cowen & Company `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from `Raji Gill, Needham & Company from Needham and Company. Please proceed
with your question.
Q - `Raji Gill, Needham & Company
Yes. Thank you for taking my questions, and congratulations on, kind of, solid results in a tough
environment. Just in terms of the backlog, so in the past you mentioned as -- as the backlogs
come down through the year as lead times start to normalize, you'll start to see that -- you'll see
more order volatility and I think you're indicating that. But in the past you mentioned that the delta
between the backlog and the actual sales is still quite wide and that backlog to sales delta could
offset that potential order volatility. So I wanted to get a sense of what are your thoughts on the
backlog to sales delta as we stand today?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So we still have significant backlog in excess of our sales, and we have backlog over multiple
quarters, and we continue to get new bookings and backlog that layers in over time. The backlogis a function of also where customers view lead times are going to be headed, not so much what
they're going to be consuming. And so as lead time slowly pull in, we do expect that customers
will slow down some of what they want to do in terms of placing backlog.
Now, any kind of inventory adjustment is not a permanent change in this industry, right. A year ago
we were -- we had a completely different view of where things work and a year from now we
may have a completely different view of where things are likely to be. I think many customers are
strategic in their thinking, have very high value end products in what they're doing. And so they
are more strategic in how they're thinking about their inventory over time and what backlogs they
will place. But we don't see any concern with the amount of backlog we need to be able to
achieve the guidance that we have provided and the soft landing that we're trying to drive
towards. Obviously, it still will require bookings to come in and that is all driven by how
consumption continues.
Q - `Raji Gill, Needham & Company
Thank you, Ganesh, for that. And just my follow-up. What is your latest pulse on China regarding
customer order patterns and channel inventory? Thank you.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So, I would say, China is stable. I don't see a major uptick from China post Chinese New Year and
we will see how the rest of the year goes. I think there is opportunity for China to strengthen and
contribute some tailwinds as we go through the rest of the year, but I can't say that we can see
that today in what we see with the auto patterns.
Q - `Raji Gill, Needham & Company
Thank you.
Operator
(Operator Instructions) The next question comes from Chris Danely from Citi. Please proceed
with your question, Chris.
Q - `Christopher Danely, Citigroup `
Hi, thanks guys. Can you give us a sense of how much of the backlog right now, let's just say, for
the next 12 months is PSP versus, I guess, the "can be canceled or can be pushed out," any kind
of percentage there?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So the percent of backlog, that is PSP has amazingly been consistent for the last, I would say, 9 to
12 months. So even as overall backlog has been slowly ticking down, right, PSP as a percent of
total backlog is well over 50% has stayed at that level. So it is resilient backlog. It is higher quality
backlog than what we see.
Q - `Christopher Danely, Citigroup `
Great. And have you had any customers try and renegotiate any of the PSP agreements, either
supply or price?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `Not on price. I think there have been customers asking for help on PSP backlog that they wanted
to have pushed out in time and, as I mentioned earlier in my prepared remarks that is something
that we have been actively doing to enable them to have that. It's a strange environment where I
think in the shorter term there are more people looking to push out because they're uncertain
about their business.
But we're also seeing cases where people who wanted to push out several months ago coming
back in and wanting to pull it back in as well. So I think sometimes there is an overcorrection on
both sides. And I would not be surprised as we go through the second half of this year that some
of all the push outs that are happening today, if the environment strengthens, could just as well
come right back out at that point in time. But in today's environment, it's very marquee.
Q - `Christopher Danely, Citigroup `
Yes. Thanks a lot, Ganesh.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from Joe Moore from Morgan Stanley. Please proceed with
your question, Joe.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Morgan Stanley `
Great, thank you. Thanks for all the color on the actions you guys are taking to match up customer
inventories. Can you talk about what you think the state of those inventories are? And I know
some of your competitors have talked about, we're trying to prune some of the backlog. We're
proactively making sure that our shipments are going into demand and not into inventory. Can
you just talk about where you think you are relative to others? How careful are you trying to be in
terms of preserving the customer inventory balance has been where you think got to be?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So our visibility into customer inventory is not there because they don't share that with us. We can
infer their inventory by their requests for push outs or cancellations as the case might be, where
there is cancelable backlog or cancelable -- basically anytime there's cancel -- or reschedulable
backlog, they can do that, where it is non-reschedulable and non-cancelable and they ask for
help, then we get involved in it. But it's hard for us to know where a customer is in good inventory
correction for this. We can see that in distribution.
And there we get a weekly report that tells us by distributor, different parts of the world, where
it's that. As Eric mentioned, distribution days of inventory went up by two days from 22 days to 24
days, still well in control below where it used to be historically and where it's at. And so that's
about as much color as we can give you on kind of customer inventory or end customer inventory.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Morgan Stanley `
Okay, that makes sense. And I guess, as you've described to PSP over the last couple of quarters,
you're now kind of taking a little bit more of an approach of helping the customers where they
want to reduce it. What -- is that because there's just more people asking now and so you're
trying to match it up? Or were they asking two quarters ago, but it wasn't broad enough? I amjust -- there's a perception, I guess, that because of PSP you may have more inventory of
customers than peers. I'm just trying to see if your behavior is really that much different than
anyone else.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So let me clarify. I don't know where that perception was set, maybe what we've said in the past.
We have been pushing out orders from customers, PSP customers from multiple quarters, right. I
mean, we're in this to be responsive to the market, but we also want to make sure that as non-
cancellable orders get placed, there is symmetric responsibility from us and from our customers,
and that's what creates some resistance to placing orders that they shouldn't be placing or that
are speculated from where they're at. So we've done this multiple quarters. This is not the first
quarter we're doing it, and it is in response to where markets and customers and specific
situations are at, and we will continue to do it as needed, including in this quarter.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Morgan Stanley `
Very helpful. Thank you for the clarification.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Executive Chair `
I just wanted to add one point. This is Steve. I think investors and analysts fail to appreciate that
when a customer is placing a year worth of orders, which by contract are non-cancellable and
non-reschedulable, it goes through a level of review at the customer at much higher levels than
just only the purchasing person. And the resulting backlog that is placed on Microchip is of much
higher quality. So therefore, even though we have taken some adjustments in rescheduling some
of the PSP backlog, the fundamental fact is that the backlog is of very high quality, relative to a
similar backlog at any other competitor.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Morgan Stanley `
Okay, thank you.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Executive Chair `
You're welcome.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from `Harlan Sur, J.P. Morgan from J.P. Morgan. Please proceed with your
question, Harlan.
Q - `Harlan Sur, J.P. Morgan `
Hi, thanks. Good afternoon. Was the unsupported backlog to actual revenue shipped still above
one in the March quarter? And where do you anticipate that ratio to be this quarter?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I believe the unsupported backlog was greater than the amount that we shipped in the quarter.
A - `J. Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
It was.A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
But I think it's becoming a less relevant indicator at this point, right? We are, unsupported means
that's in our backlog is non-cancellable, but we are helping to -- and non-reschedulable, but we
are actively allowing customers to reschedule it out in time. And so we don't pay as much
attention to it today as we did a year ago. Today, it's really making sure that we are shipping to
customers, who need the thing -- customers, who are asking for help and working towards
setting this thing up to not have an overhang to the best extent that we can.
Q - `Harlan Sur, J.P. Morgan `
Okay, perfect, thanks for that. And then your data center products are quite application specific,
right? So, a bit easier to track, right, storage controllers, enterprise, SSP controllers, Ethernet
supply and so on, right? The demand dynamics in cloud and more so in enterprise data center
have clearly weakened. I know you guys have said some products are strong, some products are
still weak. But is the aggregate data center franchise holding up on a quarter-over-quarter and
year-over-year basis?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Absolutely. And I would say, we are getting tailwinds from the AI servers, and we are represented
in those. Many of our PCIe switches are an integral part of that. The storage in general is stable,
but it has experienced substantial growth over the last year. And so, the data center is holding up,
obviously not as strong today as it was from a year ago growth, but still stable.
Q - `Harlan Sur, J.P. Morgan `
Thank you, Ganesh.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from `Tore Svanberg, Stifel from Stifel. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel `
Yes, thank you. I had a follow-up on the rescheduling of backlog. I mean, the semi industry has
obviously been struggling for a while now. So would you say that this more recent phenomenon is
due to some of the financial stresses that's going on? And the reason I'm asking that is because
I'm just wondering if people are pushing out because they feel a little bit uncomfortable with the
current financial environment and as soon as there's some stabilization, perhaps those push outs
will turn into pull-ins. So I'm just hoping you could give us your view there.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I'm sure there's a portion of it that falls into that. But you've also got to think about the
environment is more stressful for our customers today with where inflation is at, where interest
rate is at, what the economy in general is doing, in terms of relative growth rate from a year ago.
And so, they placed orders with the best intention, with the best information that they had back in
time. And as the environment has changed, are in some cases seeing their demand picture
different and therefore asking for our supply picture to adapt to where they're at.
I don't believe this is a permanent change. I think, these things go in cycles. And I do think as thestrength, many of these will come right back up. And then I do expect if history is to be repeated,
we will at some point go back into people asking for expedites on things that maybe three
months ago, six months ago, they were asking for push outs. That's the nature of the beast. And
people have the best visibility at any point in time. But as that visibility either pushes out their
need or pulls in their need, they will signal to us what we have to do to help them.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel `
Very good. And that was my follow-up. It's one for Steve, actually. Steve congratulations on your
new book. What was the reason behind the increase of the returns from 250 bps to 500 bps a
quarter? I guess my question is more on the timing of it. I mean, you just feel more confident
about the profitability of the company during this soft landing period. If you could just elaborate
on the timing, that'd be great.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Executive Chair `
So the reason in going from 250 bps increase per quarter to 500 was clearly hitting a target of a
total leverage going below 1.5x. So this is what we had said for long time that by paying down the
debt every quarter, we're going to bring the leverage below 1.5x. And when that happens, then
we will further accelerate the return to the shareholders. So, that happened last quarter, where
the leverage was 1.45. So therefore, we are accelerating the total cash return to shareholders
from 62.5% last quarter to 67.5% this quarter, the difference of 500 bps. And the following
quarter will be 72.5% then 77.5% and so on will take about seven quarters to get to 100.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel `
Great. Thank you again.
A - `J. Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
And over that seven quarters, we will continue to use the excess cash to pay down debts and
bring leverage down further.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Executive Chair `
Yes.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel `
Great. Thank you, Eric.
A - `J. Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Which we think is appropriate in a difficult interest rate environment.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from `Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho Securities from Mizuho. Please proceed with your
question, Vijay. Vijay, you may proceed with your question. If your line is muted, please unmute
your line --
Q - `Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho Securities `
I am sorry.Operator
--so that you can pose your question.
Q - `Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho Securities `
Thank you. I was just wondering -- hello?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, go ahead.
Q - `Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho Securities `
I was just wondering if you could give us some color on what ASP trends look like exiting 2022,
and how they are looking this year? And then I have a follow-up.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
To the earlier question, ASP trends tend to be reasonably stable. We have passed along price
increases to a lesser extent than what we have -- I don't know always absorbed from a cost
standpoint. Trying to be margin neutral to make sure that between the improvements we are
making in our own business and the pricing from a market standpoint being reasonable to the
customer. So, ASPs today, if you were to compare them with a year ago, are slightly higher, but
they are -- there are stable trends on the ASP.
A - `J. Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
And some of those trends is not necessarily price increase driven. It's introducing new
proprietary, more complex products that bring more value to our customers.
Q - `Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho Securities `
Got it. And then, just addressing the comment you had in your deck. Just wondering what
percentage of customers you are seeing kind of redeploy -- look to redeploy backlog or push out
or cancel, what you're seeing there, if you could give us some idea on if it's like any particular
segment that you're seeing it? That's it, thanks.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
It's next to impossible to give you a number, because we serve about 125,000 customers, about
115,000 of them are indirect through our distributor channel, so we don't really hear customer by
customer where it's at. I would say that it's not the majority of the business that we're doing, it's
specific customers and specific markets on any given day that's there. So there's not a wholesale,
I want to push everything out that's out there.
Q - `Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho Securities `
Got it. Thank you.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Do we have any more questions? Are we off the line?
A - `J. Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `Operator, are you there?
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, we apologize for the technical difficulty. We'll move on to our next
question, which is coming from the line of Chris Danely with Citi. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Christopher Danely, Citigroup `
Thanks, guys. I just have two quickies, and then I guess I'll let everybody go back to working on
the notes. Is there any way you could tell, like, how much of this changes in backlog is too much
inventory versus weaker demand? Is it 50:50 a little more on the demand side, a little more on
the inventory side? Any color, any clarity there?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
No, those two are interconnected, right. It's not that -- it's only one or the other. So, weaker
demand results in more inventory, which lasts some longer, or stronger demand results in
needing to expedite as well. So it's hard to parse those out. There's some of both that's in there.
And in many of these -- are customers who are also facing uncertainty, perhaps. So it may not just
be demand alone, but the environment that they're in. And they are trying to decide how should
they navigate their environment. And so what we see in the end is the aggregate feedback or
request that they provide us.
And with all of that, we're able to show continuing growth into this quarter, into the June quarter.
As it stands right now, we believe it is highly unlikely that the September quarter is going to have
a sequential down quarter and that's a basis of all of our integrated information from customers
on what they're seeing on internal data that we see in all of our indicators, bookings, backlog,
expedited requests, push out requests, all the external data that we track, GDP, PMI, consumer
confidence, inflation, et cetera. And so, that's what gives us the confidence in our business.
Q - `Christopher Danely, Citigroup `
Perfect. Thanks, Ganesh. Thanks for letting me ask another question.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
You're welcome.
Operator
Thank you. There are no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the call back to Ganesh
Moorthy for closing remarks. Thank you.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I want to thank everybody for your time and questions this afternoon. We will be seeing many of
you on the road as we come out to different conferences, et cetera, and thank you again.
Operator
Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's teleconference. Thank
you very much for joining us. You may now disconnect your lines.