Q4 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Greetings, and welcome to the Microchip Q4 and Fiscal Year 2024 Financial Results Conference
Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session
will follow the formal presentation. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference is being
recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, `Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President and CFO. Thank
you, Eric. You may begin.
`Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. During the course of this conference call, we will be
making projections and other forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future
financial performance of the company. We wish to caution you that such statements are
predictions and that actual events and results may differ materially. We refer you to our press
release as of today as well as our recent filings with the SEC that identify important risk factors
that may impact Microchip's business and results of operations.
In attendance with me today are `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer, Microchip's President and CEO; `Steve Sanghi, Executive Chair,
Microchip's Executive Chair; Rich Simoncic, Microchip's COO; and Sajid Daudi, Microchip's Head of
Investor Relations.
I will comment on our fourth quarter and full fiscal year 2024 financial performance. Ganesh willour guidance and Steve will provide an update on our cash return strategy. We will then be
available to respond to specific investor and analyst questions.
We are including information in our press release and this conference call on various GAAP and
non-GAAP measures. We have posted a full GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation on the Investor
Relations page of our website at www.microchip.com and included reconciliation information in
our earnings press release, which we believe you will find useful when comparing our GAAP and
non-GAAP results. We have also posted a summary of our outstanding debt and our leverage
metrics on our website.
I will now go through some of the operating results, including net sales, gross margin and
operating expenses. Other than net sales, I will be referring to these results on a non-GAAP
basis, which is based on expenses prior to the effects of our acquisition activities, share-based
compensation, and certain other adjustments as described in our earnings press release and any
reconciliations on our website.
Net sales in the March quarter were $1.326 billion, which was down 24.9% sequentially. We have
posted a summary of our net sales by product line and geography on our website for your
reference. On a non-GAAP basis, gross margins were 60.3%, including capacity underutilization
charges of $32 million. Operating expenses were at 27.4% and operating income was 32.9%.
Although our operating income was better than the mid-point of our guidance, our cash taxes
came in higher than forecasted. Non-GAAP net income was $310.3 million and non-GAAP earnings
per diluted share was $0.57 and at the midpoint of our guidance.
On a GAAP basis in the March quarter, gross margins were 59.6%. Total operating expenses
were $536.4 million and included acquisition intangible amortization of $151.2 million, special
income of $16.9 million, which was primarily driven by the settlements of an unclaimed property
audit at a value that was less than what we had accrued for.
Share-based compensation of $37.4 million and $1.1 million of other expenses. GAAP net income
was $154.7 million, resulting in $0.28 in diluted earnings per share.
For fiscal year 2024, net sales were $7.634 billion and were down 9.5% from net sales in fiscal
year 2023. On a non-GAAP basis, gross margins were 65.8%, operating expenses were 22% of
sales and operating income was 43.9% of sales. Non-GAAP net income was $2.698 billion and EPS
was $4.92 per diluted share.
On a GAAP basis, gross margins were 65.4%, operating expenses were 31.8% of sales and
operating income was 33.7% of sales. Net income was $1.907 billion and EPS was $3.48 per
diluted share.
Our non-GAAP cash tax rate was 18.8% in the March quarter and 14.5% for fiscal year 2024. Our
non-GAAP tax rate for fiscal year 2025 is expected to be about 13%, which is exclusive of the
transition tax and any tax audit settlements related to taxes accrued in prior fiscal years.
We are still hopeful that the tax rules requiring companies to capitalize R&D expenses will be
pushed out or repealed. If this were to happen, we would anticipate about a 200 basis point
favorable adjustment to Microchip's non-GAAP tax rate in future periods.
Our inventory balance at 31st March 2024 was $1.316 billion. We had 224 days of inventory at the
end of the March quarter, which was up 39 days from the prior quarter's level and in line with our
expectation, given the difficult revenue quarter we experienced.At the mid-point of our June 2024 quarter guidance, we would expect inventory dollars to be up
modestly and days of inventory to increase based on the lower cost of goods sold driven by the
depressed revenue levels at which we believe it is the low point of the current cycle for Microchip.
We also continue to invest in building inventory for long-lived high-margin products whose
manufacturing capacity is being end of life by our supply chain partners and these last time buys
represented 14 days of inventory at the end of March. Inventory at our distributors at the -- in the
March quarter were at 41 days, which was up four days from the prior quarter's level. Distribution
took down their inventory in the March quarter as distribution sell-through was about $125 million
higher than distribution sell-in.
The inventory days increased as this is reflective of the much lower cost of sales for Microchip in
the March quarter that is used in this calculation. Our cash flow from operating activities was
$430. -- excuse me, $430 million in the March quarter. Our adjusted free cash flow was $389.9
million in the March quarter.
As of March 31st, our consolidated cash and total investment position was $319.7 million. Our total
debt increased by $312 million in the March quarter and our net debt increased by $273.3 million.
Our adjusted EBITDA in the March quarter was $503 million and 37.9% of sales. Our trailing 12-
month adjusted EBITDA was $3.623 billion and our net debt to adjusted EBITDA was $1.57 at 31st
March 2024, up from $1.45 at 31st March 2023. Capital expenditures were $40.1 million in the
March quarter and $285.1 million for fiscal year 2024. Our expectation for capital expenditures for
fiscal year 2025 is about $175 million. Depreciation expense in the March quarter was $45.8
million.
I will now turn it over to Ganesh to give us comments on the performance of the business in the
March quarter as well as our guidance for the June quarter. Ganesh?
`Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Eric, and good afternoon, everyone. Our March quarter results were consistent with
our guidance with net sales down 24.9% sequentially and down 40.6% from the year-ago quarter
as we endured through a major inventory correction. Non-GAAP gross margin came in as
expected at 60.3% and non-GAAP operating margin was better than expected at 32.9% due to
the strong expense control programs we had in place.
However, as Eric mentioned, our tax rate was higher-than-expected and as a result, our
consolidated non-GAAP diluted EPS only met expectations at $0.57 per share. Our revenue
decline resulted in March quarter EBITDA dropping and as a result, our net leverage ratio rose to
1.57x. We expect our net leverage to rise modestly for a few quarters as trailing 12-month
adjusted EBITDA drops when replacing stronger prior year quarters with weaker current year
quarters.
However, our cash generation capability remains strong and we are committed to our capital
return plan. Our capital return to shareholders in the June quarter will increase to 87.5% of our
March quarter adjusted free cash flow as we continue on our path to return 100% of our adjusted
free cash flow to shareholders by the March quarter of calendar year 2025.
Reflecting on our fiscal year '24 results, it was a roller coaster year with a positive start that was
followed by a major inventory correction. As compared to fiscal year '23, revenue declined 9.5%
to $7.6 billion, non-GAAP operating margin was resilient at 43.9% as we took the actions required
to respond to the major inventory correction.Capital returned to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share buybacks in fiscal
'24 was $1.89 billion, representing a 15.4% growth as compared to fiscal year '23. My thanks to our
worldwide team for their support, hard work, and diligence as we navigated a difficult
environment and focus on actions that we believe position us well to thrive in the long term.
Taking a look at our fiscal year '24 net sales from a product line perspective. Our Mixed-Signal
Microcontroller net sales were down 10.2% and represented 56% of Microchip's overall revenue.
Our Analog net sales were down 52. -- 15.2% and represented 26.4% of Microchip's overall
revenue.
While we don't normally break out our FPGA product line results, it is noteworthy that our fiscal
year '24 FPGA revenue exceeded $670 million and set another record. FPGA revenue grew over
22% as compared to fiscal '23 and delivered operating margins of a north of corporate average.
We deliver market-leading mid-range FPGA solutions with best-in-class low-power, reliability, and
security and are especially well-suited for the fast-emerging opportunities around artificial
intelligence at the edge. Our overall FPGA design-win momentum is strong across multiple end
markets. A few other product line notes of significance.
Early in April, we closed our acquisition of Seoul, Korea-based VSI, an ADAS, and Digital Cockpit
Connectivity Pioneer to extend our automotive networking market leadership. This acquisition
adds automotive SerDes Alliance Motion Link technology, otherwise known as ASA-ML to
Microchip's broad Ethernet and PCIe automotive networking portfolio to enable next-generation
software-defined vehicles.
With the anticipated increase in the adoption of advanced camera-based driver assistant
systems, in-cabin monitoring, safety and convenience features, and multi-screen digital cockpits
for next-generation software-defined vehicles. There is a growing requirement for a more highly
asymmetric raw data and video links and higher bandwidths, which the ASA Motion Link open-
standard supports.
Also last month, we closed our acquisition of Neuronix AI Labs, whose innovative software
technology enhances AI-enabled edge -- intelligent edge solutions and increases neural
networking capabilities. This technology expands our capabilities for power-efficient AI-enabled
edge solutions deployed on FPGAs.
Neuronix AI Labs provides neural network sparsity optimization technology that enables the
reduction in power, size, and calculation for tasks such as image classification, object detection,
and semantic segmentation while maintaining high accuracy.
Finally, in July, we expect to announce our entry into the 64-bit embedded microprocessor
market with a suite of products, development tools, and other support requirements to address
high-performance embedded processing applications, including AI-enabled edge solutions. This
will extend our strong 32-bit embedded microprocessor portfolio to higher performance and
increased capabilities while preserving Microchip's historically strong ecosystem of leading
development tools to make adoption easy for embedded system design engineers.
Microchip is the only company to offer the widest embedded control and processing platform
from 8-bit to 64-bit as well as FPGAs with a common development tool ecosystem that's
empowering customers to innovate and reuse their work across a wide spectrum of markets and
applications.Now for some color on the March quarter and the general business environment. All regions of
the world and most of our end markets with the exception of aerospace and defense and the
artificial intelligence subset of data centers were weak. We believe that our product shipments
were significantly lower than the end market consumption of our products as our distribution
channels drained inventory during the quarter.
Our broad base of customers continued to lower their inventory and adjust their business plans in
the midst of a weak macro-environment and an uncertain outlook. With no major supply
constraints, coupled with very short lead times and a weak macro-environment, we believe there
is inventory destocking as well as reduction in target inventory levels that is underway at multiple
levels, that our direct customers and distributors who buy from us, our indirect customers who
buy through our distributors, and in some cases, our customers' customers.
We are, however, also seeing early signs of green shoots in our business. First, the level of
requests to cancellations and pushouts has started to subside. Second, our bookings have
started to pick up, albeit from low levels. February bookings were the highest in eight months.
March bookings were the highest in all of fiscal '24 and April bookings were higher than March.
Third, the new bookings are aging over a shorter period of time. And fourth, the number of
expedites and pull-in -- and shipment pull-in requests are growing. Collectively, these green
shoots, we believe are pointing to the formation of a bottom.
Our average lead times continue to be eight weeks or less. During a period of business
uncertainty, we believe short lead times are the best way to help customers navigate the
environment successfully and improve the quality of backlog placed with us. However, the
significant reduction in lead time is also resulting in reduced near-term visibility for our business.
Given the severity of the inventory correction, our factories around the world are running at lower
utilization rates and our three major fabs will take another two-week shutdown in the June
quarter in order to help control the growth of inventory. Our internal capacity expansion actions
remain paused. We expect our capital investments in fiscal year '25 will be low, even as we
prepare for the long-term growth of our business.
On the CHIPS Act front, we have nothing new to report. The CHIPS Office has completed their
diligence for the grants we are seeking and we are working towards an agreement. At this stage
of a major inventory correction, we believe that the days of inventory metric, whether for
Microchip or for our distributors can be deceptive as this is a backward-looking indicator
measuring of the baseline that is well below where we believe end market consumption is at.
For inventory planning, we are therefore focused on where we believe consumption is running
and will likely run in the coming quarters. We continue to work with our distribution partners to
attempt to find the right balance of inventory required to serve their customers, manage through
their cash flow requirements, and be positioned for the eventual strengthening of business
conditions.
The operating expense reduction efforts we implemented last quarter, including broad-based
salary sacrifices, are continuing this quarter. The shutdown for manufacturing team members and
pay cuts for non-manufacturing team members are consistent with our longstanding culture of
shared sacrifices and down cycles and shared rewards and up cycles.
Our culture of shared sacrifice protects our valuable employees from layoffs, helps enable us to
support customers and maintain our design-win momentum, helps ensure that manufacturing
capacity can be turned on quickly as business conditions strengthen, and helps enable ourNow let's get into the guidance for the June quarter. While we see a number of green shoots in
our business indicators, we still need turns orders within the quarter to meet our guidance.
Operating in a high turns environment has historically been normal for Microchip. It is just not a
position we have found ourselves in over the last few years due to the supply-constrained high
backlog environment we and the industry experienced.
Taking all the factors we have discussed on the call today into consideration, we expect our net
sales for the June quarter to be between $1.22 billion and $1.26 billion. We believe that the June
2024 quarter marks the bottom of the cycle for Microchip and that our business will return to
sequential revenue growth in the September 2024 quarter.
We expect our non-GAAP gross margin to be between 59% and 61% of sales. We expect non-
GAAP operating expenses to be between 28.25% and 28.75% of sales. We expect non-GAAP
operating profit to be between 30.25% and 32.75% of sales, and we expect our non-GAAP
diluted earnings per share to be between $0.48 and $0.56.
We believe that the fundamental characteristics of growth, profitability, and cash generation of
our business remain intact. We are confident that our solutions remain the engine of innovation
for the applications and end markets we serve. Our focus on Total System Solutions and key
market megatrends continue to fuel strong design-win momentum, which we expect will drive
above-market long-term growth. We remain committed to executing our Microchip 3.0 strategic
imperatives, which we believe will deliver sustained results and substantial shareholder value.
Last but not least, a month ago, we appointed Rich Simoncic as Chief Operating Officer. Rich is a
Microchip lifer who has been with us for 35 years in many different capacities. Rich has been
expanding his role over the last few years, and he and I will jointly lead the Microchip Global
Enterprise so that we can apply our combined leadership capacity to engage the opportunities
and challenges that are ahead of us.
With that, let me pass the baton to Steve to talk more about our cash return to shareholders.
Steve?
`Steve Sanghi, Executive Chair `
Thank you, Ganesh, and good afternoon, everyone. I would like to provide you with a further
update on our cash return strategy. The Board of Directors approved an increase in the dividend
of 18% from the year-ago quarter to a record $45.02 per share. During the last quarter, we
purchased a record $387.4 million of our stock in the open market. We also paid out a record
$242.5 million in dividends. Thus the total cash return was a record $629.9 million. This amount
was 82.5% of our actual adjusted free cash flow of $763.4 million during the December 2023
quarter. Our net leverage at the end of March 2024 quarter was 1.57 times.
Ever since we achieved an investment-grade rating for our debt in November 2021 and pivoted
to increasing our capital return to shareholders, we have returned a total of $4.23 billion to
shareholders through, 31, March 2024 by a combination of dividends and share buybacks. During
this period, our share buyback in the open market was approximately 30.4 million shares,
representing approximately 5.7% of our shares outstanding.
In the current June quarter, we will use the adjusted free cash flow level from the March quarter
to target the amount of cash returned to shareholders. The adjusted free cash flow excludes
amounts we collected from our customers for long-term supply assurance payments. These
payments are refundable when purchase commitments are fulfilled. Our adjusted free cash flowfor the March quarter was $389.9 million, so our target return to shareholders would be 87.5% or
$341.2 million of that amount.
However, as Ganesh mentioned, we did complete two small acquisitions in this June quarter. So
we are reducing our share buyback amount to reflect the cash outlay for those deals. Thus in the
June quarter, our cash return to shareholders is expected to be $315.3 million out of which
dividends are expected to be approximately $243 million and our expected stock buyback will be
approximately $72.3 million.
Going forward, we plan to continue to increase our adjusted free cash flow, return to
shareholders by 500 basis points every quarter until we reach 100% of adjusted free cash flow
return to shareholders through dividends and share buybacks. That will take three more quarters
and we expect that dividends over time will represent approximately 50% of our cash returned.
With that, operator, will you please poll for questions?
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. We'll now be conducting a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) Thank
you. Our first question is from `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Securities with Bank of America Securities. Please proceed with
your question.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Securities `
Thanks for taking my question. Ganesh, you're suggesting June to be the bottom-end for
September to grow sequentially because of green shoots. But to be fair, green shoots were
suggested on the last call also. So what's the difference between the last call and this call? And if
you could help us maybe quantify what has been maybe the pace of bookings increase year-on-
year or quarter-on-quarter so far, so we can get a sense for the pace of recovery into
September?
And then maybe if I could also ask Eric, on a related note is 60% also the trough for gross margin,
if June is the bottom, does it also mean 60% is the trough for gross margins? Thank you.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thank you, Vivek. I don't think we mentioned green shoots at the last earnings call, but we
did say it at one of our banking sessions that we were at. And that was the first time we began to
see it was in the March time frame and the momentum is picking up, right, as we go through
March and April and May, I mentioned what the bookings were doing on a relative basis over that
time. We can see how many more people are asking for pull-ins and expedites and all of that.
So it's a qualitative view looking at how we integrate the last two or three months of where
momentum is coming in, where the customer feedback is coming in, that reflects our view that
the June quarter is the bottom and September quarter is growth.
A - `Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
And then the follow-up question for me on that was on gross margin and would I expect if June is
the trough in revenue if gross margin would bottom out. And I believe that to be the case. I
mean, obviously, we haven't given guidance yet and there's factors that apply to that we don'tknow yet in terms of product mix and where we'll be running our factories. But I think that we are
bouncing along the bottom on gross margin.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Securities `
Thank you.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question is from `Chris Caso, Analyst, Wolfe Research with Wolfe Research. Please proceed with your question.
Q - `Chris Caso, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Yes, thank you. Good afternoon. I guess the question is if there's any difference that you're
seeing from any of the different end markets. I mean, you talked about some of the bookings
stabilization improvement that you've seen. Can you -- how would you characterize that among
the different end markets?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I don't -- on the stabilization, I can't really point to a particular end market are doing better or not.
As I said, in the aggregate, aerospace and defense and the AI segment of data center are both
doing well. And so that part is pulling it up.
On the others, there can be some industrial customers who are still seeing weakness, others who
are beginning to see the bottom and trying to come back in with rush orders that goes into the
other end markets as well. So no particular end market trend that is distinguishable on the
bottoming out of where their inventories are.
Q - `Chris Caso, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Thanks. As a follow-up, you know, Eric, you talked about perhaps if things go well, June is the
trough then June is likely the bottom for gross margins as well. As you go forward, as we pull our
way out of this, what do you think would be the trajectory of gross margins? And I guess I asked
that taking consideration the fact that your internal inventory is still high. So how would we think
about gross margins in the context of recovery as you have to bring your own inventories down
to normal?
A - `Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
So it does depend on the revenue trajectory and then how we would run our factories to respond
to that. And so it's not a question that I can 100% answer today. But our cost structures are still in
good shape. Average selling prices are absolutely hanging in there. So with that, we have
confidence in our long-term model and our ability to get back there, but the trajectory and how
we get there is going to very much be revenue dependent, which will drive certain actions to
increase output from our factories.
So I know that's not specifically answering your question, but I think that's the best we can do
right now.Q - `Chris Caso, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Yeah. Fair enough. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question is from `Harlan Sur, Analyst, J.P. Morgan with J.P. Morgan. Please proceed with your question.
Q - `Harlan Sur, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my question. Can you just talk about channel sell-through
dynamics from your global distributors? You know on March, you mentioned sell-through $125
million higher versus sell-in. Is that a similar delta here in the June quarter? And if excess
inventories at end customers of distributors are coming down, I would assume that distribution
sell-through is starting to grow. Are you seeing that this quarter? And is this maybe what's also
giving you confidence that June is the bottom?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So, Harlan, thanks for the question. You know, the level of inventory that is past what our
distributors had that is in with our customers is not always visible to us. I think we can get some
sense of that from what the distribution sell-through is. But there's also a second factor, which is
some of those customers are also reducing the months of inventory they want to carry.
So it's a multi-pronged answer to it. But what we can see is that distribution is part of the placing
of additional orders on us. So they are seeing how they are managing their end customer, their
inventory, and placing incremental orders on us. So that must have some relevance to how
they're viewing things, but I don't have a definitive answer on where sell-through is going to end
up versus sell-in here in the June quarter, at least not at this time.
Q - `Harlan Sur, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Thank you for that. And then just a quick follow-up. So direct customer shipments were almost
30%, -- were down almost 30% sequentially while disti[ph] shipments were only down 20%
sequentially in March. Does that suggest that excess inventories are maybe a bit more
pronounced at your direct customers? And if your lead times are sub-eight weeks, you guys only
have visibility through the end of this quarter. So what gives the Microchip team confidence that
shipments to direct customers post-June will be growing sequentially as you aren't booking
beyond that and you don't really have visibility into their sell-through dynamics?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So we know and customers are placing backlog into the September quarter -- into the December
quarter. So there's not a single answer that everybody is following. And we can see that as the
bookings are rising, they are placing them into the next three to six months on a more
predominant basis. So that level of where the momentum is coming in and how backlog is coming
in is what gives us a sense of where the bottom is and how things are going to be as we move
into the September and December quarters.
Q - `Harlan Sur, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Thanks, Ganesh.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from `Gary Mobley, Analyst, Wells Fargo with Wells Fargo. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Gary Mobley, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Hi, guys. Thanks very much for taking my question. I know you guys communicated that you held
the OpEx lower-than-expected, I think it sits today, what, $355 million on a non-GAAP basis. My
question is, how long can you hold that down? And is there any clawback provisions for the lost
wages during this temporary salary cut? And I'm just trying to get a sense of how we should think
about the OpEx increasing as revenue increases.
A - `Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
So I'll start with a response and Ganesh can add to it if he wants to. So there is not a clawback in
terms of what we're doing from a salary sacrifice for our employees. We have this shared
sacrifice, shared reward program. And in the past, when we have implemented something like
this that has worked out well for our employees that we keep everybody working on the things
that are important to drive the revenue growth as the cycle turns upward and we've gained
market share through that. And so we've had great financial results coming out of it and then
been able to share those rewards with employees through higher bonuses and taking away the
pay cuts at the appropriate time.
So we're going to have to see how this plays out from a top-line revenue perspective. It would be
my perspective that we will achieve the same types of results this go around with the actions that
we've taken. But there's no promise to employees that they're going to get this money back.
There's no retroactive clawback that would be implemented.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
This is a part of our culture that is not always as easily appreciable from a investor community. We
have 98% of employees around the world that are participating in this voluntarily. We have
another 700 employees who have volunteered for a higher salary reduction than what we have
requested from them.
It's very difficult to quantify how powerful culture plays a role in these type of difficult situations
and how much that the employees are part of the solution. And of course, they are part of the
shared rewards that come up as we get into better times as well. So this is very much of a
program that has worked many times in the past and is another time we're applying it and we
expect it to be successful.
A - `Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
I think the other thing that I'd add is we know this is difficult for employees. You know the inflation
still exists and this is a challenge for employees. So it's not that we want to keep these in place,
but at the time with where we're guiding revenue for the current quarter at revenue and
earnings, it's appropriate. And we hope that we can restore these things back to normal salary
levels as soon as possible.
Q - `Gary Mobley, Analyst, Wells Fargo `Thank you for that color. As my follow-up, I wanted to perhaps strike a more positive chord and
ask about design win metrics for the fiscal year. I don't know if you have those stats on handy with
you, but maybe if you can just give us some qualitative or quantitative measure of the lifetime
value of the design wins?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So we don't usually break that out and we have slightly different ways in which we look at that.
What we do constantly look at is how is the design pipeline progressing. And in the course of
2023, in addition to all the work that we did, we also saw customers shifting their priorities from
doing triage for some of the shortages that they were running into to bringing back the
innovation programs that they had put on hold.
And so if you put all of that together, the design win pipeline is strong. There's a lot more design-
in activity over the last 12 months than there was in the prior 12 months, just simply because
customer bandwidth was there to be able to run the development programs that they were
progressing with.
Q - `Gary Mobley, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Thanks, Ganesh.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Carlos (inaudible) with UBS. Please proceed -- please
proceed with your question.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS `
Hi. Hi, it's Tim on. So, Ganesh, can you give us a sense of book-to-bill? It sounds like it was below 1
for March, but I just wanted to confirm that. And I know that you did say that orders are getting
better month by month, but is the message that you think book-to-bill could be above 1 for the
June quarter? So I'm just wondering if you can talk to book-to-bill. Thanks.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So book-to-bill was below 1%. However, book-to-bill has never been an indicator for us of where
the business is going as much as an indicator of where our lead times are. During the 2021, 2022
shortages, we had book-to-bill in many, many multiples of where they were at, reflecting the long
lead times. Right now with short lead times that we have, we expect book-to-bill will be lower. But
the bookings are rising and I can't quite tell what May and June are going to complete. So I don't
have a -- anything, but I -- we don't really look at book-to-bill as a necessarily an indicator of
where is the growth going to be. It's more a reflection of as lead times get short, people replace
the bookings consistent with the shorter lead times.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS `
Got it. Okay. And then, Eric, one for you. So inventory was a little higher coming out of March than
I think some of us thought it would be. Can you talk about loadings in the factory? And sort of
how you're thinking about loadings into June? Are you just kind of drawing a line on the sandwhere you plan to bring down inventory on the balance sheet in June and yeah, just kind of talk
about that and its impact on gross margin. Thanks.
A - `Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So I'm honestly not quite sure where the Street had us modeled. We had talked about in
our last conference call that inventory days were expected to be between about 225 to 230 days
at the mid-point. We came in at 224. So I think we kind of delivered on what we told the Street we
were going to do.
In terms of utilization in the current quarter, we have been having some attrition in our factories,
and because of that, we can start less wafers on a monthly basis than we can because we have a
fewer number of employees. But it's -- in the big picture things relatively modest. So I don't think
utilization will be significantly different than it was in the March quarter, maybe just modestly lower.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS `
Perfect, Eric. Thank you.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Our next question is from `Tore Svanberg, Analyst, Stifel with Stifel. Please proceed with your question.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Analyst, Stifel `
Yes. Thank you. Let me move on from cyclical questions. And I have a question on 64-bit
microcontrollers. You also had an AI/O[ph] acquisition in the quarter. Just trying to understand,
Ganesh, your conversations with customers, we hear AI at the edge a lot, but it's hard for us to
get true visibility on that. So when will edge AI become a much more meaningful part of your
revenues, would you think?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Our target markets for Edge AI are predominantly in industrial, smaller extent automotive, some
in medical, the medical segment of industrial, factory automation, all that. So they are designs in
progress and they've been taking place over the last six to 12 months. They probably will just take
over 24 to 30 months of time.
So it's in that time. There's some of it, small amounts that are already taking place, but I think it
becomes a more and more meaningful part as time goes on. And each of these either product
line announcement or some of the acquisitions, which give us specific technologies just
accelerate where those designs can go and how our solutions can be differentiated from others
providing similar solutions.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Analyst, Stifel `
Great. And as my follow-up, you said that you're basically shipping below consumption. You're
about a billion dollars from your trough. Obviously, you're running inventory at a certain level. So
you must have some idea where the consumption is. Is that a number you could share with us?A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Not with any level of precision. But I think any form of a -- take a four quarter revenue divide by
four starts to get you into the ballpark. But even that is unclear, right? So I think that number will
get clearer as people begin to book and buy at a level that they need to, excluding any growth
just to get back to consumption. But there's not an easy way to make that number determinable.
It's clearly between where our peak a year ago was in the June quarter to where you're seeing
the guidance for this quarter.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Analyst, Stifel `
That's helpful. Thank you.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Hi, good afternoon. Thank you so much for taking the question. I had two quick ones. First on
inventory, maybe for Eric. So how should we think about inventory management throughcycle or
longer-term? I know you've got strategic inventory. I know you want to better service your
customers on the way up. But when you think 12 months out,18 months out, whether it be in
dollars or days, what are you managing the business to?
And then a quick follow-up on pricing. I think you mentioned that in the near term, pricing is
holding up. But as you think about calendar '25, I think some of your peers have talked about
pricing trends potentially reverting to pre-pandemic patterns down, call it, low singles. Is that a
view that you would agree with or share or do you feel or think differently on pricing? Thank you.
A - `Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Okay. All right. So on inventory days, longer term, our model is and this really hasn't changed from
what we shared back in our Analyst and Investor Day that we're targeting 130 to 150 days. Now
we are a long ways from that today and I'm not going to put a time horizon on when we will get
there, but that's still the goal, right.
We think with that level in a more normalized environment, we can have short lead times and
support our customers appropriately with that level. So I'll turn the pricing question over to
Ganash.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And I would add one more thing, which is we also have these last-time buys that we put into
place on very high gross margin product lines and those would be additive and they are
situational depending on when we're faced with that kind of situation.
On the pricing itself, our pricing is predominantly a function of what we have to compete with at
the point of design. And so in the near term, pricing is really driven by where designs werehistorically what we won them at. And a lot of these are products going into applications that
have long life cycles and they don't really change or unlike a consumer electronics or other end
markets, they don't really every nine, 12 months change things out.
We have products that have been in designs for five, seven, nine, 10 years in many cases as well.
We are being competitive on new designs with pricing where we need to be, but we also have
new products that we compete with. And so the most competitive new products are what we use
to go fight in the most price-sensitive new design applications. And that's been historically how
it's been -- it's not something new. And if we go back and look at 20 years of Microchip, that's
how we've done it. And we have a lot of business that continues. That will be existing business at
existing prices for a long, long time to come. And then we'll have new business at new pricing
and that new pricing we expect will have good gross margins as time goes on.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from `Joshua Buchalter, Analyst, TD Cowen with TD Cowen. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Joshua Buchalter, Analyst, TD Cowen `
Hey, guys. Thank you for taking my questions. I guess to start, maybe I can follow up on the
previous one. You mentioned pricing hanging in overall, but competing more on new design wins.
Have those -- are you observing those new design wins becoming any more price sensitive or
more price competitive as the shortages have eased and we've entered this correction mode or
sort of still normal operating and competitive conditions? Thank you.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
New designs have always been highly competitive. It's where people are trying to work on
winning platforms with multiyear implications. So it's -- in the couple of years of constraints, there
were fewer new platforms, new designs that customers are doing. But in the sense of having to
be competitive and the competitive intensity for new designs, yes, it's different from the last two
or three years, but it is consistent with what it has been over 20 years before that.
Q - `Joshua Buchalter, Analyst, TD Cowen `
That's clear. Thank you. I appreciate the color there. And then for my follow-up. The CapEx
guidance is obviously down meaningfully off of what was likely a peak two years ago. Could you
maybe just speak to your confidence in having enough capacity, both internally and perhaps more
importantly, investment from your foundry partners at the process geometries that you ship your
products on? Thank you.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So let me say it's a plan that we look at consistently both short, medium, and long-term. We
feel very confident with the internal capacity, both what is installed and underutilized, what isavailable and ready to go, and then eventually what we might add to it. And then we work with
our partners, both the foundries as well as the OSATs on their capacity planning across the
horizon that they have. We're obviously a small piece of a much bigger pie there that they're
running.
But we don't have any particular capacity constraints that we're concerned about. It may change
as demand begins to come back. And if in fact, there's a much sharper rise as some people are
predicting. But for the moment, we're quite confident both in our internal as well as our partner
capacity for the business we're running.
Q - `Joshua Buchalter, Analyst, TD Cowen `
Thank you.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah.
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Our next question is from `Chris Danely, Analyst, Citibank with Citibank. Please proceed with
your question.
Q - `Chris Danely, Analyst, Citibank `
Hey, thanks, guys. So now that we are yet another quarter into the correction and hopefully
coming out of it. If we look at your total drop in terms of revenue, it's probably going to be like
45% or something like that and that's worse than most of your competitors. So I guess, why do
you think that is? Do you think that the PSP program encouraged a little double-ordering? Is there
some geographic or something else going on just looking for some -- for your take on why that's
happened.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. No, great question, Chris. You know, when you look at peak-trough, it all is a question of
when does it start and when does it bottom out, right? You've seen one of our peer group
companies that tried to do a peak-trough in one quarter, and you could say, boy, that was one
way to do it.
Our objective has always been to try to respond as the -- as a business is changing. And so we've
had different end markets responding at different times. We had a lot of automotive and
industrial. They were later in the cycle and our mix is higher in some of those markets as well.
And in this case, the downturn is a substantially deeper than what anybody had expected on that.
And there's probably a component of PSP that may have amplified some of those things, et
cetera. But a lot of it has to do with restarted later and we are correcting stronger and the end
markets that we are predominantly represented in were the ones with the later in the cycle
correction than perhaps those that are more consumer of phone or PC, that kind of exposure.
Q - `Chris Danely, Analyst, Citibank `
Got it. Thanks, Ganesh.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `You're welcome.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from `Vijay Rakesh, Analyst, Mizuho Securities with Mizuho Securities. Please proceed with
your question.
Q - `Vijay Rakesh, Analyst, Mizuho Securities `
Yeah. Hi. Just a quick question on the competitive landscape, I guess, especially as you look at
kind of China supply. Is there any worry around them being aggressive on the microcontroller
supply coming out from there? I mean, what are you seeing in those trends?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
You know China has always been a competitor in many of the spaces that we're in. Their
approach is a little bit different. They have a lot of their attention going into things that can be
faster to market, you know, quicker, and those tend to take them into places like consumer
electronics and the other areas that are faster design-in cycles, a lot of the power supplies for
cell phones and those kind of things.
Clearly, they are also making product that can go into other end applications. And that's a
competitive environment that is not different today. You know, you could argue perhaps that
there's a lot of attention and priority that they have. But we win with new products. We win with
competitive solutions that we have and we need -- we win by providing the customer with a
solution that is better than what they can get otherwise. And that remains the way in which we've
gone to market and they will continue to fight for new business in China and anywhere else.
Q - `Vijay Rakesh, Analyst, Mizuho Securities `
Got it. And then as you look at the utilization, I don't know if you gave a hard number there, but
how do you see that playing out through the rest of the year? I know there's a lot of moving parts
to that, but any way to look at what utilization looks like? I know you cut CapEx pretty significantly
too. So that should help, but --
A - `Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So we don't break out a specific utilization in total. We have -- it varies very much by factory.
We have had some attrition in employee headcount, which I mentioned in response to an earlier
question that just makes it as we go by the months and aren't[ph] rehiring that capacity utilization
would come down modestly.
So I'm not expecting a huge change from March to June, maybe just a little bit lower. And then
obviously actions depending on what our outlook is on revenue and inventory will drive what the
rest of the year looks like as we gain a little bit more confidence in understanding where the
business is heading over the coming months.
Q - `Vijay Rakesh, Analyst, Mizuho Securities `
Got it. Thanks.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from `William Stein, Analyst, Truist Securities with Truist Securities. Please proceed with yourQ - `William Stein, Analyst, Truist Securities `
Great. It was interesting to see a couple of tuck-in acquisitions this quarter. I'm wondering if you
could talk about the relative focus of that approach to capital deployment or, let's say, product
development going forward relative to internal development.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So we have an internal development that works on the model that we have provided, which over
the long-term is the 68% gross margin, 23% operating expense, 45% operating margin. That
allows for the prioritization of our internal activities and where we want to apply it for different
opportunities that we have in front of us.
From time-to-time, find that our external opportunities where the speed at which we could do
something or the time that it would involve in trying to get to a solution can be a lot longer if we
were to do it just organically.
And there we have applied these tuck-in acquisitions as a way to speed up what we're able to
do, consistent with the direction that we are interested in or have been following for a while. And
we've done about six or eight of them now in the last four or five years of time ever since
Microsemi was the last major public acquisition we did. We've done about six to eight smaller
ones since then.
And it all is to speed up our agenda with a very tactical and a pinpoint strike on what the
acquisition can do for the areas that we're driving growth in. And we will do more of those as we
continue on as well. I'd say, we've always -- we've been public, that's an essential part of our
strategy.
Q - `William Stein, Analyst, Truist Securities `
As a follow-up, it does sound that while you anticipate revenue to grow in September, I would
imagine the inventory burn isn't done at the end of June. I wonder if you can maybe help us
understand when we should expect a situation where your revenue is approximately the same as
end demand? In other words, when the inventory reductions will be mostly done, do you think
that's -- have I misread you and that actually does happen in June, or do you think it's more like
September or even further out? Thank you.
A - `Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
So I'll start with the response here. I mean, I think the bottom line is, Will with 125,000 customers,
it is impossible to know when all customers and majority of customers have kind of corrected
their inventory to what they think the right level is. And that's somewhat a moving target as lead
times adjust based on whatever point in the cycle that we're at.
So we don't have a good answer to be able to answer your questions there. We'll obviously give
guidance for the next quarter, and we'll have more information that we can share at that time. But
I think that for some customers, this inventory correction is going to last beyond this quarter. I
think that absolutely is the case.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I think many customers made their own mistakes on how they viewed their business, what
they thought the prospects were. Many other customers were very thoughtful and continue to bestrong players in where they're at. And as we gave you some indications of certain end markets
where there's strength as well.
So it's all over the place. And just as a preponderance of people who are done with their
inventory correction and are now going back into buying for their consumption and/or into growth
that they may be seeing, the weighted average begins to shift, and that's the weighted average
that begins to shift in September.
Q - `William Stein, Analyst, Truist Securities `
Thank you.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Our next question is from `David O'Connor, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas with BNP. Please proceed with your question.
Q - `David O'Connor, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas
Great. Thanks for taking my questions. Two from my side. Maybe firstly, Ganesh, just on the green
shoots. Can you talk about them from a geographical perspective? Is it mainly China-driven and
now you're seeing that continue in Europe and the US, or how would you describe it
geographically?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. So the green shoots are not limited to any one geography, not limited to any one end
market. It's really across all of them. And as I mentioned, you're going to have in a geography or
in an end market, both customers with continued pain and other customers who are starting to
look at how to get back into growth mode and what they're doing. So no specific end market or
geography leading to the green shoots.
Q - `David O'Connor, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas
Okay. Got it. Thanks for that. And then maybe just on the acquisition, the Neuronix Labs
acquisition, it seems like it helps you address the Edge AI market with your MCUs. Can you
maybe talk about the kind of content tailwind for your MCUs for Edge AI this can generate, or
how much of your MCU portfolio or customers looking to add Edge AI content in their next-gen
products to kind of run those Edge AI models? Can you give us any more color on that would be
helpful. Thank you.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I don't know if there's a numerical way to give you that. I think this is what I'll say, I believe that
embedded customers are thinking about how AI can be used in delivering better solutions than
what they have in the past. No different from, if you go back in the chronology from 20, 25 years
ago, people added intelligence first because you could make a product better with intelligence
added. Then farther out in time, people added connectivity as a way to now make it even better
than just adding intelligence and then we added security as the thing. And now finally, I think AI is
the next leg of how people will add capability to the products to make them better.So it's a journey and there's going to be many customers who don't need to do anything with AI,
others who are seeing the opportunity and will take advantage of that in the next generation of
their products. But I think you should think of it as a continuum of customers. They're all looking to
innovate, AI gives them another opportunity in their platforms to be able to innovate and provide
better products than their previous generations.
Q - `David O'Connor, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas
That's helpful. Thanks, Ganesh.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from `Mark Lipacis, Analyst, Evercore ISI with Evercore ISI. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Mark Lipacis, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. I think this is for Ganesh or Steve. I'm wondering what is the
difference between the setup for Microchips business over the next six months and the setup
that you see at the bottom -- at the bottom of every cycle. It seems like there's a lot of
similarities and I'm hoping you can tell me the difference. The similarities I see are there is some
kind of demand shock or a big inventory build and then your customers and the supply chain
downstream from them recognize that. So they decide that they're going to supply themselves
out of their own inventories, they cancel orders or they take orders down and then you don't get
any visibility. So you and your peers take your utilization rates down and sometimes do temporary
fab shutdowns.
And then your customers have an epiphany that they overcorrected on the downside in three,
four quarters from here, everybody is taking their numbers up and everybody scrambling to get
components. So those are the similarities I see. What are the differences? And if you have a
disagreement over those similarities, I'd love to hear that too. Thank you.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Hey Mark.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Executive Chair `
Mark, I think you've answered your question. We couldn't say it any better. You asked a question,
then you answered it. I think it's perfect.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Mark, I was going to welcome you back.
Q - `Mark Lipacis, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Thank you.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `(Multiple Speakers) as well. And as you said, I think this is a cycle we've seen play out many times
and the elements that you answered or the elements that you proposed are there. I don't know
of any differences in this one. Obviously, you know, the length of the up cycle sometimes affects
the depth of the down cycle. But other than that, the elements are very similar.
Q - `Mark Lipacis, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Well, I was hoping that you might say (Multiple Speakers) -- I was hoping you might say, well, the
supply chain has learned their lesson over the last three years and recognize that you guys need
to have visibility because there's a manufacturing cycle time. So is that -- is the supply chain not
learned anything downstream from you? Is it -- we're just doing the same thing over and over
again?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
No. So yeah, I had assumed that during the depth of the constraints with all the different
discussions I was having with the senior executives at our customers that they would come out of
this cycle with a better understanding of how semiconductor supply works and what they would
need to be to be more strategic.
But I have been surprised at how quickly people have forgotten and how quickly people have
returned back to the way they used to think. Basically, they think semiconductors are like water in
your tap, you turn on the tap and the water comes and you turn off the tap and it goes away. And
so I am of the belief that those lessons will have to be relearned again as we go through the
cycle and we'll see how the cycle goes. But no, there has not been any -- there are a few, but for
the most part, those learnings have not carried forward.
Q - `Mark Lipacis, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
So (Multiple Speakers) repeat off the bottom.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Executive Chair `
Mark, from time to time, some people have written or talked about industry has matured and
there will not be any cycles anymore. I think all those predictions have been wrong. Industry has
always been cyclic and will always be cyclic. I think our customers, our distributors, vendors,
suppliers, they don't learn. And I think people change, new purchasing managers come in, new
people come in. And as Ganesh described, the lessons are forgotten very rapidly, leading to just
these cycles never going away. And this one was the most pronounced cycle, both on the upside
and now we are seeing on the downside.
A - `Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I was just going to make the point as I view this as inventory correction on steroids, right? I
mean that we had not seen our lead times for the vast majority of our products go to 52 weeks
before and then they contracted over a period of 12 months down to these very short lead times
that we have today.
Q - `Mark Lipacis, Analyst, Evercore ISI `Very helpful. Thanks, everybody.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Mark.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from `Joe Moore, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Joe Moore, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thank you. You gave us some color on the FPGA business, and I wonder you sounded like
some pretty good growth relative to the peers for the fiscal year. Can you talk about the
trajectory of that? Have you seen -- it's obviously been a tough patch for FPGAs as well. Has that
looked similar to the rest of your business? Has there been an outperformance relative to that?
And can you talk about your market share prospects going forward in there?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. So our FPGA business has in fact performed better than our other businesses. And in part,
it's because our FPGA business has historically had a large aerospace and defense component
and continues to. Now we have over the last four, five years been creating the new design
opportunities for FPGA in the longer term to grow in industrial and automotive and the historical
end market strengths that Microchip had before we got the FPGA business.
And so -- it is not immune to market forces and where things are going to go, but it has got a
better end market mix than some of our other businesses and therefore has performed better.
And of course, we are picking up designs that in the long-term that are falling off of you know,
erstwhile[ph] Xilinx and erstwhile[ph] Intel Altera as they take focus away from the mid-tier over
many years that they have done or end of life in products, right. Those are all creating
opportunities for our FPGA business. And so I'm very, very optimistic about prospects for our
FPGA business.
Q - `Joe Moore, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from `Christopher Rolland, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group with Susquehanna. Please proceed with
your question.
Q - `Christopher Rolland, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
Hey guys. Thanks for the question. I guess first of all, Ganesh, like in terms of this inventory, are
there any products, or markets that have surprised you either that they burnt inventory and have
normalized quicker than you expected, or that this is going to take longer for these products or
markets?A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I think not so much by-product, but I think if you look at specific customers, in many cases, even in
the same market, right? So we can have an end market, say, industrial. And we have examples of
certain customers who have burned through their inventory and they're back asking for new
orders at expedited times. We also have other customers, same industry who are still burning
through inventory and taking longer where they go. So I think a lot depends on a customer, their
market prospects, what did they do to create and grow their business and how well are they
executing. And so that's really been the difference is that it's customer-by-customer, the stories
are different.
Q - `Christopher Rolland, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
Yeah. Understood. And then if I'm hearing you correctly, you think June is the bottom, a lot of that
is inventory-based. I'd like an idea of how you're looking at the inventory position in September at
your customers more generally, do you think we can get back to seasonal trends in September
and going forward or is this -- or is there still this inventory drag overall?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
No, I think there's going to be customers at different points in the correction cycle. Some will have
corrected and moved on, others will still be correcting. So I think seasonality is perhaps one of
these things which you need a level of normalcy for some period of time before you can say,
okay, we now have all these variables that have been taken out.
So I can't say we have seasonality in the September quarter. I can say that incrementally, on a
weighted-average basis, there are more customers who are going to be out of their inventory
correction, but not that they're all done.
Q - `Christopher Rolland, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
Great. Thank you, Ganesh.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Our next question is from `Tore Svanberg, Analyst, Stifel with Stifel. Please proceed with your question.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Analyst, Stifel `
Yes. Thank you. Just one quick follow-up. Ganesh, you said that you still need quite a bit of turns
this quarter. Just wondering what is the turns requirement. And how does that compare with
previous cycle troughs? Thank you.
A - `Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
So we are not going to break out the amount of turns that are required. But we do have turns to
take to meet our guidance. And our guidance is obviously down another -- another down quarter.
But the lead times are short. We are getting these requests for pull-in. I don't have a good
comparison to give you in terms of prior cycles. If this turns out to be the bottom for us, which webelieve it will, we can probably give some commentary when we talk about our September
guidance as we kind of hit and move through that bottom.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So, one of the things which is more difficult to do is, you know, most people talk about turns in a
normal environment where there isn't inventory out there. And it's harder to -- we can say, hey, it
turns our x percent from a historical basis. But when there is inventory, we know those turns aren't
going to show up because people will burn through their inventory before they begin to place it.
And I think that's some of the hesitation we have in trying to provide some insight where we
know there's a lot of uncertainty.
What we have done is done the best of our assessment of what those are going to be, where
they're going to be and built it into the guidance. And so I think that's the best way to think about
it is that we have taken into account the risks that are present from inventory that would
otherwise cause headwinds to turns in the quarter.
Q - `Christopher Rolland, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
Very fair. Thank you.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Securities with Bank of America. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Securities `
Thanks for the quick follow-up. I just wanted to clarify what is the contribution of the acquisitions in
the June quarter, or in fiscal '25. And then Ganesh back to the September quarter, I think you did
say that you expect it to grow. I understand that it's hard to put a seasonal number on it. But
based on what you have seen in prior downturns, just the fact that Microchip has gone down so
much from peak-to-trough. Should we also expect kind of sharper recovery back to when you do
start recovering?
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So to answer your first question, these are small tuck-in acquisitions that are intended to
accelerate our effort on design-ins and design-wins and all of that. So they don't have any
revenue contribution in the June quarter, or in the September quarter for that matter.
In terms of the revenue and what happens as the correction happens, yes, you should think that
at some point and I can't tell you, is it in September or is it in December, you will see -- we will
see a sharper recovery. That's how it has played itself out in many other cycles as well. And there
are two stages to it. There's the first stage, which is just people needing to get back to -- they
burned through most of their inventory and they need to get back to at least buying to
consumption. And then there's a second phase, which is what is the macro doing and is the
macro driving further growth for them above just what their flattened consumption line alone
might tell us. And I think all of that, if you look forward into a likely environment over the next 12
months, should give us a sharper recovery.Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Securities `
Thank you.
Operator
This concludes our question-and-answer session. I would like to hand the floor back over to
`Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer for any closing comments.
A - `Ganesh Moorthy, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Great. I want to thank everybody for joining us on the call. I know we ran over a little bit, but I
appreciate the questions and we look forward to seeing and talking to many of you in the coming
days as well as in many of the conferences that are coming up. Thank you.
Operator
This concludes today's conference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your
participation.