Q4 2025 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Greetings, and welcome to Microchip's Q4 and FY '25 Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will
follow the formal presentation. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference is being
recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Mr.`Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President, the Executive Chair, CEO, and
President. Thank you, and you may proceed, sir.
`Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
Thank you, operator, and good afternoon, everyone.
During the course of this conference call, we will be making projections and other forward-looking
statements regarding future events or the future financial performance of the company. We wish
to caution you that such statements are predictions and that actual events or results may differ
materially. We refer you to our press releases of today as well as our recent filing with the SEC
that identify important risk factors that may impact Microchip's business and results of operations.
In attendance with me today are Rich Simoncic, Microchip's COO; Eric Bjornholt, Microchip's CFO;
and Sajid Daudi, Microchip's Head of Investor Relations.I will provide an update on our restructuring. Eric will go over fourth quarter fiscal year 2025
financial performance and Rich will then review some product line updates. I will then provide an
overview of the current business environment and our first quarter fiscal year 2026 guidance. We
will then be available to respond to specific investor and analyst questions.
Since I returned as Microchip's CEO on November 18, 2024, I have spent a significant amount of
time evaluating key aspects of Microchip's business. On March 3, 2025, I provided an update on
our nine-point recovery plan to set the company on a course to achieve its previous premium
status of performance.
Today, I will give you a brief update on our progress on that nine-point plan. The first action was
to resize our manufacturing footprint. Tempe Fab2 is now closed. The actions in our other two
fabs, namely Fab4 in Oregon and Fab5 in Colorado Springs, are complete. The actions in our
back in[ph] Philippines facilities are also complete. These actions reduce capacity but leave the
fabs in a position to ramp capacity rapidly when needed on short notice.
The second action was to reduce our inventory. Our inventory at the end of December 2024 was
266 days. Our target inventory is 130 to 150 days. Our inventory at March 31, 2025 was 251 days,
making it the first meaningful reduction in days of inventory in three years. In the March quarter,
we had reduced production for only part of the quarter. We will have reduced production for all of
the June quarter, thus we expect to reduce inventory more substantially in this June quarter. The
inventory at the end of June is expected to be between 215 and 225 days. During the fiscal year
2026, ending March 31, 2026, our goal is to reduce inventory by over $350 million, which will
liberate cash.
The third action was a review of our Megatrends and Total System Solution. We made two
changes to our megatrends. First, we replaced 5G with artificial intelligence. And, second, we
replaced ADAS with network and connectivity. ADAS is now part of network and connectivity,
which is essentially the movement of data outside of the data center, such as Industry 4.0 and
Automotive Networking.
The fourth action was to conduct a business-unit-by-business-unit deep dive. This was
completed, and resulting organization changes were made. The fifth action was a review of
Microchip's channel strategy. This action was also completed, and resulting changes have been
made in our channel strategy. We have not seen any negative impact from these changes in our
distribution channel.
The sixth point of evaluation was to strengthen our customer relationships. We met with over 700
customers in the past 130-plus days, giving customers a chance to communicate with us candidly.
The results are in based on customer feedback. Recall that we had said that, at 12% of the
customers, our relationship had deteriorated through the COVID cycle. Within this 12%, we have
already been able to restore 78% of these customers to either approved or preferred status,
leaving only 2.6% of the customers where our relationship remains stressed and in need of more
restoration effort. At this point, we will continue to work our customer relationships as a normal
course of business and believe that this concern is closed and behind us.
Point 7 was the long-term business model, which we unveiled on March 3. Point 8 was achieving
our operating expense model. We completed a global layoff of approximately 10% of our
employees to bring our expenses down. We plan to continue to improve our operating expense
percentage to revenue growth, attrition, and controlling other operating expenses. The ninth and
final area was the CHIPS Act activity. We re-initiated our discussions with the CHIPS Office. The
CHIPS Office is still reorganizing under the new administration.With that, I will pass the call over to Eric Bjornholt.
`J. Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Steve, and good afternoon, everyone. We are including information in our press release
and on this conference call on various GAAP and non-GAAP measures. We have posted a full
GAAP-to-non-GAAP reconciliation on the Investor Relations page of our website at
www.microchip.com, and included reconciliation information in our earnings press release, which
we believe you will find useful when comparing our GAAP and non-GAAP results. We have also
posted a summary of our outstanding debt and our leverage metrics on our website.
I will now go over some of the operating results, including net sales, gross margin, and operating
expenses. Other than net sales, I will be referring to these results on a non-GAAP basis, which is
based on expenses prior to the effects of our acquisition activities, share-based compensation,
and certain other adjustments as described in our earnings press release and in the reconciliation
on our website.
Net sales in the March quarter were $970.5 million, which was down 5.4% sequentially and $10.5
million above the midpoint of our guidance provided on February 6, 2025. We have posted a
summary of our net sales by product line and geography on our website for your reference.
On a non-GAAP basis, gross margins were 52%, including capacity underutilization charges of
$54.2 million. Operating expenses were at 38% of sales, and operating income was 14% of sales.
Non-GAAP net income was $61.4 million, and non-GAAP earnings per diluted share was $0.11,
which was $0.01 above the midpoint of our guidance.
On a GAAP basis, in the March quarter, gross margins were 51.6%. Total operating expenses
were $601.4 million and included acquisition and tangible amortization of $122.6 million, special
charges of $71.6 million, which was primarily driven by foundry contract exit costs and employee
separation costs. Share-based compensation was $37.2 million and $1.4 million of other expenses.
The GAAP net loss attributable to common shareholders was $156.8 million, or $0.29 per share.
For fiscal year 2025, net sales were $4.402 billion and were down 42.3% from net sales in fiscal
year 2024. On a non-GAAP basis, gross margins were 57%. Operating expenses were 32.5% of
sales, and operating income was 24.5% of sales. Non-GAAP net income was $708.8 million, and
EPS was $1.31 per diluted share.
On a GAAP basis, gross margins were 56.1%. Operating expenses were 49.3% of sales, and
operating income was 6.7% of sales. The GAAP net loss attributable to common shareholders
was $2.7 million. Our non-GAAP cash tax rate was 13.6% in the March quarter and 14.2% for fiscal
year 2025. Our non-GAAP tax rate for fiscal year '26 is expected to be about 12%, which is
exclusive of the transition tax and any tax audit settlements related to taxes accrued in prior fiscal
years.
Our inventory balance at March 31, 2025 was $1.293 billion and was down $62.8 million from the
balance at December 31, 2024. We had 251 days of inventory at the end of the March quarter,
which was down 15 days from the prior quarter's level, driven by our inventory-reduction actions.
Included in our March ending inventory was 18 days of a long lifecycle, high-margin products
whose manufacturing capacity has been end of life by our supply chain partners. Inventory at our
distributors in the March quarter was at 33 days, which was down four days from the prior
quarter's level. Distribution took down their inventory in the March quarter, as distribution sell-
through was about $103 million higher than distribution sell-in.Our cash flow from operating activities was $205.9 million in the March quarter. Our adjusted free
cash flow was $182.6 million in the March quarter. As of March 31, our consolidated cash and total
investment position was $771.7 million. In the March quarter, we completed a $1.485 billion
mandatory convertible preferred stock offering with a three-year term and purchased a cap call
that is generally expected to reduce or offset potential dilution to the common stock upon
conversion of the preferred stock, with such reduction subject to an initial cap price of $71.40 per
share.
The mandatory preferred convertible transaction was done to reduce our debt and preserve our
investment-grade rating. Our total debt decreased by $1.125 billion in the March quarter, and our
net debt decreased by $1.31 billion. Our adjusted EBITDA in the March quarter was $200.4 million
and 20.6% of net sales. Our trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA was $1.337 billion, and our net-
debt-to-adjusted-EBITDA was $3.66 at March 31, 2025.
Capital expenditures were $14.2 million in the March quarter and $126 million for fiscal year 2025.
Our expectation for capital expenditures for fiscal year 2026 is to be at or below $100 million.
Depreciation expense in the March quarter was $41.2 million.
I will now turn it over to Rich, who will provide some commentary on our product line innovations
in the March quarter. Rich?
`Richard J. Simoncic, Chief Operating Officer `
Thank you, Eric, and good afternoon, everyone. During this quarter, we have continued to
execute our strategic initiatives that deliver value across multiple markets. Our investments in
next-generation technologies, like the Switchtec PCIe switches, enable us to adapt and deploy
technologies initially developed for high-speed data centers into automotive and embedded
computing applications. These advancements create new capabilities in applications where
accelerated communication performance is critical, such as software-defined vehicles and
robotics.
We are strengthening our core portfolio through advancements in our ARM-based
microprocessors for human-machine interface applications, and our 32-bit microcontrollers
integrated with high-performance analog peripherals that serve industrial, consumer, medical,
and AI/ML markets. These high-speed peripherals and other analog-related functionality reduce
the need for external analog components, decrease system complexity and cost, and deliver
high-performance solutions.
Our innovative MPLAB AI Coding Assistant is helping customers accelerate their design cycles,
reducing their embedded software development time and increasing productivity by as much as
40%. We continue to enhance this tool with additional features and functionality. Additionally, our
new PIC64 product line continues to gain momentum and new design opportunities for the
space, industrial automation, automotive, and edge compute.
Our recently launched 10Base-T1S solutions continue to see market adoption with a growing
design funnel. These innovations, coupled with our operational efficiency efforts, demonstrate
our commitment to driving top-line growth and improved profitability as we continue to bring
differentiated solutions to our target markets.
With that, I will pass the call to Steve for comments about our business and guidance going
forward. Steve?
`Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `Thank you, Rich. As Eric described in his prepared remarks, our March quarter net sales were
$970.5 million, down 5.4% sequentially, and down 26.8% from the year-ago quarter as we
navigated through a very large inventory correction following a post-COVID super cycle. Our
revenue from our microcontroller and analog business units was down sequentially. FPGA was
about flat, and other businesses were up sequentially, mainly driven by technology licensing.
Geographically, our business was seasonally down sequentially in America and Asia and was
seasonally up in Europe.
Now let's get into our guidance for the June quarter. We believe substantial inventory destocking
has occurred at our customers, channel partners, and their downstream customers. While we
believe the inventory at our customers, channel partners, and downstream customers will
continue to correct, the customers and distributors are starting to increase their purchases. As a
result, I am finally calling the last quarter as a revenue bottom for us.
Our bookings were up significantly in the March quarter. After nearly three years of book-to-bill
ratio well below 1.0, our book-to-bill ratio in the March quarter was a very healthy 1.07. Our
backlog for the June quarter started out higher than the starting backlog for the March quarter.
The bookings in the month of April were higher than any month in the March quarter. Taking all of
these factors into account, we expect our net sales for the June quarter to be $1.045 billion plus
or minus $25 million.
We expect our non-GAAP gross margin to be between 52.2% and 54.2% of sales. We expect our
non-GAAP operating expenses to be between 33.4% and 34.8% of sales. We expect our non-
GAAP operating profit to be between 17.4% and 20.8% of sales. We expect our non-GAAP diluted
earnings per share to be between $0.18 and $0.26.
There are a couple of things I want to highlight in our guidance.
The first is the leverage in our business model. With a $74.5 million increase in net sales at the
midpoint of the guidance for the June quarter, we are taking approximately 85% of it to the
bottom line as non-GAAP operating profit. As the inventory drains further and inventory write-offs
decrease, our gross margin recovery will accelerate, and, with the incremental profits going to
the bottom line, we will have tremendous leverage.
The second point I wanted to make is on the revenue growth. There are three revenue
accelerators kicking in just from the inventory drain. The first is that our distributor's inventory and
our distributor customer's inventory is getting corrected. We're expecting the first increase in
distributors' sell-through after many quarters. Therefore, our distributors are starting to buy more
product to replenish their inventory and feed their customers' growth.
Second, the distributors' sell-in has to rise to meet the sales out. Last quarter, sell-in revenue was
$103 million lower than sell-through. If sell-in revenue were to catch up with sell-through, the sell-
in revenue will rise approximately $103 million higher and will further feed sales growth.
And, third, our direct customers' inventory is getting corrected, and we're starting to see the
direct customer shipments increase. We believe that this trifecta effect is a compelling setup for
sales growth going into this fiscal year. With sales growth, gross margin increasing, and inventory
declining, we expect to deliver significantly improved financial performance in this fiscal year.
Now, let me provide an update on our capital return program for shareholders. We are essentially
returning 100% of our adjusted free cash flow to investors in the form of dividends right now. Due
to depressed net sales, our adjusted free cash flow is currently less than our dividend. In certain
quarters, we have had to make higher bond interest payments and tax payments, and bondinterest payments are generally made every six months. So, every other quarter, this impacts our
adjusted free cash flow and results in a dividend exceeding our adjusted free cash flow.
As we begin to liberate cash from inventory coupled with very low capital expenditures, we
expect to bring the adjusted free cash flow above the dividend. In future quarters, we intend to
use this excess cash to bring our borrowings back down to at least the levels they were at before
our dividend exceeded our adjusted free cash flow. We're not considering any cut to the
dividend. Our financial activity last quarter in which we raised $1.4 billion in a mandatory
convertible preferred transaction improved our balance sheet and reaffirmed our investment-
grade debt rating.
With that, operator, will you please poll for questions?
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you very much. We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session. (Operator
Instructions) One moment, please, while we poll for questions. First question comes from Harsh
Kumar from Piper Sandler. Please proceed with your questions.
Q - `Harsh Kumar, Piper Sandler `
Hey, Steve. First of all, let me add my congratulations to the recovery. I know it's been a long time
coming, but we've seen you call bottoms in the past, and I'm excited that you see the bottom.
But the question we get, Steve, though, from a lot of our clients, our investors, is that maybe talk
about the demand signals that you're seeing, which you kind of did, but there is also another
aspect of maybe potential pull-ins from tariffs. If you could just help us understand why this may
not be a head fake from that.
And then also, if you could just, I'll ask my second question here, if you could just talk about the
recovery that you're seeing relative to your key end markets, if there's one that's acting better
than the other, or they're both acting the same.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
So, thank you, Harsh. The demand signals we are seeing really begin in starting early January. Our
January, February, March, each of those three month's bookings were significantly higher than
December quarter bookings, and we have shown them on a slide on the March 3 conference call
that we had, and that was really before any of the tariffs talk appeared. So, we're really not
seeing any tariff-related activity or pull-in.
If you look at downstream customers' information, many of the direct customers that were not
buying the product are starting to buy it because their inventory is getting depleted. Same way at
the distributors, they are starting to buy additional amount of product because, on many of the
SKUs, their inventory has gone back to very much normal. And our distributors' customers also,
downstream customers, their inventory is getting corrected.
So, all of the signals we have really are related to that, and a number of -- large number of
designs that we were designed in last year, many of them are turning to production. So, there is
also growth coming from new products and new design activity. We haven't seen any impact oftariffs. The tariffs are largely exempted on all the semiconductors that we make today, whether
shipping into China or shipping into U.S.
Q - `Harsh Kumar, Piper Sandler `
The second one was related to the key end markets.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
So, if we look at the last year's data, fiscal year '25 ending March 31. The notable thing that stands
out is the aerospace and defense. The aerospace and defense used to be 11% of our business in
the prior year. In fiscal '25, that is now 17%.
A - Unidentified Speaker
18%.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
18%. And it's almost the second-largest market now after industrial. And the underlying reasons
are, that business has stayed strong, defense budgets have been high, NATO has been
increasing their defense spending, and with two wars going on, while the automotive, industrial,
communication, consumer, other businesses were weak. So there is a notable shift in our end
market.
And if you look at the year that just started, on April 1, I think we're headed for a first-ever over a
$1 trillion budget for U.S. defense. And I recently met a customer from Europe, and the talk of the
-- the talk was around -- they were talking about their business growing 2x to 3x over the next
three years, because U.S. was pushing NATO to dramatically increase their defense spending,
and they're a major contractor to NATO and European defense. So, I think the opportunities in
that segment are very good, even this year, and we think that will be a very good segment.
Now, all the others, industrial, automotive, consumers, and others, we are seeing a broad-based
recovery in all of those segments, embedded in our bookings, fair amount driven by inventory
depletion, and also driven by new designs and new products.
Q - `Harsh Kumar, Piper Sandler `
Thank you, Steve.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from `Chris Caso, Wolfe Research from Wolfe Research. Please proceed with
your questions, Chris.
Q - `Chris Caso, Wolfe Research `
Yes, thank you. Good evening. I guess the first question, and we've been discussing this quite a
bit with others during this earnings season, is what sort of macro impact that the tariff
environment such will have as we go into the rest of the year? And, Steve, I'm judging by your
comments about improving bookings and that you're not seeing that, and -- but I guess the
question is, what are your customers telling you right now? And, from an investor standpoint,
there's been concern about pull-ins of demand from second half to now to get ahead of tariffs.
What's your view on that?A - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
So, I think there are two things. There is a direct impact of tariffs, like the tariffs on our products as
they ship anywhere into China or U.S. And then there is the indirect effect, which is the effect on
global economy and global GDP.
The second one, impact on global GDP, is below my -- above my pay grade. The customers that I
have met in the last couple of weeks personally, when I ask them how you're thinking about
tariffs, they turn around and asking me, how do I think about tariffs? And nobody knows, because,
as we speak today, there are really no tariffs on the semiconductors.
So, leaving that impact on the global GDP aside, and I'll comment a little more on that afterwards,
if you look at the direct impact on us, it's basically nothing. In Donald Trump's first term, he
implemented 25% tariffs on semiconductors made in China coming into U.S. At that time, about
10% or 11% of our parts were made in China. And we moved aggressively to move that
production assembly essentially from China to Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam, Indonesia, others.
And, today, less than 4% of our parts are made in China. And those don't come to U.S. They go
to Europe, they go to Japan, they go to Southeast Asia. A handful of orders that made in China
that might come to U.S., which may become subject to tariff, basically, we pass that tariff to the
customers, but it was negligible, because there was really very small.
Now, the other thing is, if there is a tariff for U.S.-made product going to China, and we're looking
at it all, parsing it together very carefully, many of our technologies run in U.S., so they also run in
Taiwan, and we'll try to portion our production so that the parts that are going into China are
made in Taiwan or Europe or elsewhere and are not made in U.S. And I'm sure we'll find that it's
not 100%; there's a very small amount. So, I'm really not that concerned about the direct tariffs
because of that setup.
Now, when it comes to indirect tariff, really nobody knows what the overall impact on the
economy would be. So, what we did, for a modeling purpose inside, is we took a hypothetical
haircut on our revenue, and we wanted to make sure that, if that kind of impact were to happen,
what would happen to the inventory, what would happen to our manufacturing, would we have to
take additional actions?
And the result of that very stress-case analysis is that we have already cut back on manufacturing
so much that, with this haircut our inventory is still declining, slower than in the normal plan but
inventory is declining because the production rate today would still be lower than the worst-case
scenario that we have modeled. Therefore there will be no other actions required; we simply
would ramp our factories later because the inventory is dropping slower. That's the answer to
your question.
Q - `Chris Caso, Wolfe Research `
That's a very helpful color. Thank you. As my follow-up question I wanted to dig in a little bit to the
margin leverage that you referred to in your prepared remarks as well, and maybe two parts of
that question. One is if you could discuss some of the charges that are acting as headwinds to
gross margin now, some of the underutilization charges and the reserve charges. And, with the
assumption that revenue starts to come back now, how does that play out over the next few
quarters and how is that leverage realized as the revenue comes back?
A - `J. Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `All right. Hey, Chris, this is Eric. So, the two main headwinds that we have right now are the
underutilization charges, which were a little over $54 million last quarter. We don't expect that to
really change significantly in the current quarter. We're still going to be running the factories at a
low rate, as we're focused on bringing inventory down.
And then the inventory reserve charges, which we provided a little bit more color on March 3, and
we went through the nine-point plan, those are still big numbers, and we expect that inventory
reserve number to still be large again in the current quarter, but they are going to start dropping
pretty dramatically as revenue increases, assuming that's what happens as we go through the
fiscal year because inventory is dropping at a rapid pace. Steve mentioned that we're targeting
reducing inventory by about $350 million plus in the fiscal year.
So, the products that are really subject to review for reserve charges coming down dramatically.
So, that that should start changing pretty soon outside of this quarter, and the leverage in gross
margin is going to be really high. So, we aren't putting numbers around it for investors today, but
it's significant.
Q - `Chris Caso, Wolfe Research `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from `Timothy Arcuri, UBS from UBS. Please proceed with your
questions, Timothy.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, UBS `
Thank you so. Eric, just on that point. So, given all the actions you've taken, if we sort of get back
to a point where, I mean pick your revenue number maybe like mid-ones back to 1.5 or something
like that, with all the actions you've taken and you assume that the reserves come down and the
underutilization comes down too, should we expect margins to be higher this time around than
they were at the same revenue level last time? I mean, you've closed three Fabs. So, I would think
that, ultimately, margins would be higher at equivalent revenue than they were last cycle. Is that
fair?
A - `J. Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
So, it depends on the slope of the recovery. And I think you said we closed two Fabs. We did not.
We've only closed one Fab, Fab2 in Tempe. But it depends on the slope of the recovery and then
where we're at in terms of needing to ramp our factories. We have higher cost inventory per unit
sitting in inventory today. And that will come out on a FIFO basis.
But the cost structure is in really good shape. Obviously, we gave a new long-term model of 65%
non-GAAP gross margins, which we're very confident in. And I know all of you will be looking on
how to model this going forward. But the leverage is significant, but I don't want to commit at this
point in time in terms of a margin level at a comparable revenue level in the past. It will depend
on the slope of how revenue returns there.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, UBS `
Okay. And then, Steve, do you have a way to determine what consumption is in June relative to
your guidance? I know, disti sell-through is finally growing in June. I would think that disti sell-in is
still going to be below sell-through in June. There's still some sort of slower-moving MCU partsthat seem to be moving a little slower. So, where do you think consumption is for June relative to
what you're guiding revenue?
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
So, our internal modeling shows that the disti sell-through will be higher than the guidance we
have given you, which is GAAP guidance based on sell-in. Last quarter, the difference was $103
million. We expect the difference would be lower than that. How much lower, we can't quantify,
but will be below $100 million, certainly may be well below $100 million. And that -- the gap will
continue to close in the coming quarters and which will result into one of the things out of trifecta
I talked about where the sell-in will close to equal to sell-through. It's not the sell-through coming
down. It's a sell-in going up.
And the second part of the consumption is on the factory side, what are we producing and what
are we consuming? And we have looked at it in our model based on our June quarter guidance.
We are consuming a lot of inventory and producing significantly less than what we are consuming
from the inventory. So, therefore, the inventory will continue to come down at an accelerated
pace, which will eventually lower the write-offs, and it will eventually improve the factory
utilization, and all of those will move in the right direction as the inventory continues to come
down.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, UBS `
Okay, thanks, Steve.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from `Blayne Curtis, Jefferies from Jefferies. Please proceed with your
questions, Blayne.
Q - `Blayne Curtis, Jefferies `
Hey, guys, good afternoon. I had two questions. I wanted to just ask about kind of big-picture,
your cadence has been different than other companies. If you kind of look at MCU share, maybe
you guys gained a little bit too much share during the pandemic and now your share looks quite
low as you're correcting, while others aren't correcting as much. I'm just kind of curious as you
kind of look through here, and there's been a lot of talk about share gainers in MCUs, kind of just
curious, when things normalized, how do you expect to get back to where you were pre-
pandemic?
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
Well, we certainly expect to gain share, and it's a quarter at a time, but we certainly plan to gain
share on the way up here as we recover. I think competitors are more closer to a full recovery
than we are. I mean, we just began, this is the first quarter. So, therefore, we should be gaining
share.
Q - `Blayne Curtis, Jefferies `
Thanks. And I want to ask you, there's a lot of kind of debate about China's strategy, and I guess
who knows how all this trade war works out, and I'm not sure they're tariffing semis in China, but I
think there are a handful of companies looking to do with China for China's strategy. I'm just kind
of curious your perspective, if you think that's the right move or the wrong move. I think you're
starting to hear that ASPs are lower because the costs are lower. So, I mean, it might be aheadwind for the overall market if that's what everybody does. So, I'm just curious your
perspective.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
Well, if you go back to the March 3 report we gave to the Street, we talked about China for
China's strategy in that report. And that was built around -- we have a Chinese partner with a
Chinese name and Chinese logo, a Chinese website, a Chinese data sheet, and we were going
to sell our dye to that Chinese partner, and then they were going to locally assemble and test it
and put a locally made logo and then sell it to Chinese customers as a local part, but the dye
inside was Microchip.
Now, there was a time when the rules were made in China, I mean, assembled in China. And,
since then, the rules are sort of being changed, where made in China or made in U.S. is where it
is diffused, which means where it is fabbed, not where it's assembled. So, with that rule change,
our Made in China strategy, which was parts made in our fab here, assembled in China and
shipped in China as a local product, that really doesn't work, so we are redoing our China
strategy. We could still do that based on parts made in Taiwan, and we can transfer some of the
other products from U.S. to Taiwan. So, we'll be redoing the strategy and talk to you at a later
point.
The point I'd like to make on record, which we are communicating to the Trump administration, to
Secretary of Commerce and all that, is that the current rules are actually incentivizing moving
product out of U.S., which is opposite of what they intended. They were trying to get more
people to make parts in U.S., and we are moving mask sets as we speak from U.S. to Taiwan,
wherever we have dual source, so that we don't have to pay a tariff going into China. So, we'll
come back to you on a China for China strategy.
Q - `Blayne Curtis, Jefferies `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Securities from Bank of America Securities. Please
proceed with your questions, Vivek.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Securities `
Thank you for taking my questions. On the first one related to gross margins and pricing, so
March quarter gross margins were I think kind of at the lower end of your outlook, even though
sales were slightly above, so just anything to call there? And then, in general, Steve, what are you
assuming for the pricing environment this year versus, say, three months ago?
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
The pricing environment we have assumed is basically mid-single-digit type of decrease.
A - `J. Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, and I think on your question on gross margin, why it came in on the lower end versus when
sales were above the midpoint, it's a number of factors, but the bottom line is we continue to
aggressively try to reduce inventory. So, our utilization was low, and our inventory reserve charges
were still high. So, it's really a combination of those factors.Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Securities `
All right. And, for my follow-up, Steve, you're calling June an inflection quarter. How should this
inform us about your visibility for one quarter out in September? Like, if we had to think about
September, should we be thinking, given that June is an inflection, that September should be
seasonal, above seasonal? Should it kind of be in the same range as June? Because modeling
your business when it is going through these periods of inflection gets really tough. So, I would
appreciate any help that you could provide in how we should be thinking about quarter plus one
for your business.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
So, if we look at September quarter backlog today and compare it to the June quarter backlog at
the same point in time, which means June 8, just go back a quarter and what June quarter would
be at the same point in time a quarter ago, the September backlog is higher than where June
quarter was at the same point in time. And the slope of the fill on the crawl chart looks quite
good. So, if I were to say today, I'm quite optimistic about the September quarter.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Securities `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from `Tore Svanberg, Stifel from Stifel. Please proceed with your
questions, Tore.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel `
Yes, thank you. So, Steve, one of the organization changes was to combine the 8-bit and 32-bit
microcontroller development tools under one group. I was just wondering if you could clarify, talk
a little bit more about what was behind that particular change and how that might impact your
share in the overall microcontroller market.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
So, the change was not combining the 8-bit and 32-bit development tools. The change was
combining 8-bit and 32-bit business units, the product groups. The development tool was always
one common group, but they reported in a way that they were not totally aligned with 8-bit and
32-bit.
The reason for the change that came out during my deep dives was 8-bit was pursuing 8-bit
opportunities and 32-bit was pursuing 32-bit opportunities, and nobody was minding the store as
some of the 8-bit customers wanted to convert to 32-bit. So, the 32-bit group was doing a lot of
middle-end and high-end products and leaving the low end of 32-bit vulnerable, so when an 8-bit
customer wanted to move to a low-end 32-bit, we didn't have the appropriate product. So, 8-bit
will keep fighting with 8-bit, trying to compete with 8-bit, but customer was trying to go to 32-bit.
Remember this 8-bit-to-32-bit conversion now has been talked about for about 35 years. People
were talking to me about that conversion back in 1994, and it didn't happen for forever, but it did
happen during COVID, accelerated, parts were hard to find, so people found whatever they did
and whatever parts they could find anywhere, and so a lot more designs were able to fulfill their
needs with 32-bit, and they stayed with 32-bit, and, going forward, they have adopted 32-bit.So, since combination of those business units, we have changed the developmental priorities to
fill that hole. And the first of those products will be introduced to the market in early January. And
we're already working with the customers to design it in, because customers can design in using
one of the other products, because the architectures are very compatible. And they would be
ready to go in production with our product when it is released. So, that was the change we made.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel `
That's great color. As my follow-up for Eric, Eric, the $90 million to $100 million in operating
expenses that you're saving from the recent restructuring, could you just talk a little bit about the
linearity of that? I mean, obviously, some of it has already played out, and we can see that in the
numbers, but any more color you could offer us for those savings for as we move into fiscal '26?
A - `J. Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I would say most of it is already played in, right? If you look at where our OpEx came in for
the March quarter compared to forecast, I think it was $7 million or $8 million below what our
guidance to the Street was, because we implemented the RIF beginning in early March. And so
most of those actions were fully reflected in the guidance that we gave today for the June
quarter. There still might be little small pieces to go, but most of those actions are completed at
this point in time.
Q - `Tore Svanberg, Stifel `
Great. Thank you very much.
A - `J. Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
You're welcome.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from `Harlan Sur, J.P. Morgan from J.P. Morgan. Please proceed with your
questions, Harlan.
Q - `Harlan Sur, J.P. Morgan `
Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my question. Steve, you already got the question on tariff-
related pull-ins, and you mentioned indirect impact is above your pay grade, but to be fair to the
team, right, if you look back in the 2018-2019 U.S.-China tariff and trade conflict, the market share
team was actually the first to call out seeing order patterns dropping within your China industrial
and manufacturing customers due to the demand uncertainty caused by tariff impact at that time.
Is that -- does the team has somewhat of a unique profile of having very large exposure to, like,
small and medium-sized manufacturers, and they tend to modulate their activities fairly quickly
and in real time? So, given the current trade and tariff dynamics, like, are you starting to see any
signs of a pullback or perturbations in order activity from your small, medium-sized China
manufacturing and industrial base?
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
So, Harlan, I don't recall, like, between then and now, I retired for about a few years, so -- I don't
recall what happened, but I think the tariffs were very pointed at that time only for China. Thistime tariffs are a lot broader in the whole world, and people are still going to be buying cars and
washers and dryers and equipment and appliances.
And what we do see is people from China, our customers in China, rapidly moving production
from China to outside of China. For example, a lot of our development tools, were made in
China, and our supplier who builds our development tools, our contract manufacturer has moved
their facility to Vietnam. So, a lot of those changes are happening, and they're accelerating now,
but they've been happening for five years, because this thing, Trump has been saying that for
two years now, during all his campaigns, so this is not new.
So, therefore, we just think that people are going to continue to build these products, but there
will be a lot of movements out of China. So, China may have a problem, but the world may not
have as big a problem.
Q - `Harlan Sur, J.P. Morgan `
I appreciate that. And then on the sixth megatrend focus, from fiscal '21 to fiscal '24, megatrend
revenues grew at a 20 -- 26% CAGR up, right? That's about 2x the growth of the overall
Microchip business, represented about 47% of your revenues. Can you guys just true us up? So,
what was the performance of the megatrend revenues versus their total sales in fiscal '25, and
what was the percentage mix of the megatrend revenues in fiscal '25?
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
Rich?
A - `Richard J. Simoncic, Chief Operating Officer `
So, our megatrend mix is pretty much held the same in terms of overall revenue growth. With -- in
terms of overall percentage growth, that trend has diminished or slowed down. Megatrends are
still growing above the Microchip rate in terms of CAGR. But, with all of the inventory correction,
megatrends were just as susceptible to inventory correction as our standard markets.
Q - `Harlan Sur, J.P. Morgan `
Thank you.
A - `Richard J. Simoncic, Chief Operating Officer `
Yeah.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from `Joshua Buchalter, TD Cowen from TD Cowen. Please proceed
with your questions, Joshua.
Q - `Joshua Buchalter, TD Cowen `
Hi, guys. Thank you for taking my question. You guys have been pretty transparent about your
limited visibility as we kind of went through the thick of the inventory digestion in the last few
quarters, and clearly there's been a lot of digestion. And I realize we touched on it a bit, but I was
wondering if you could maybe comment on what's improved from a visibility standpoint that's
allowing you to conclusively say we've hit the bottom here. I mean, is it simply that the bookings
have gotten high enough where you're able to get a better pulse on true end demand andA - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
Well, I think there are many pieces of it,. So, one of them is the distribution sales out is increasing
after many, many quarters. So, distribution is selling more to their end customers, which means in
some cases the end customers' inventory is getting corrected, so distribution is shipping more.
So, that's one.
Number two, the bookings in March quarter were up significantly from any prior quarter, and
bookings in April were higher than any other month, January, February, or March. That's number
two.
And, number three, when you look at the crawl chart, so crawl chart essentially on a daily basis
looks at what we have built for the quarter and what do we have bookings aged in the quarter.
So, if no more bookings come in in the quarter, that's the number we're going to be for the
quarter. And you can compare those crawl charts, one quarter versus the other at the same point
in time. So, the June quarter starting backlog was higher than March quarter on the first day of
the quarter. And, if I look at it now on May 8 and compare it to February 8, the backlog for June
quarter on May 8 is substantially higher than at the same point in time on February 8.
And then, when you look at the backlog for the September quarter, compare it to March or
compare it to June, it's higher than both of them. And slope at which it's increasing is also higher,
which means customers are increasingly thinking of buying more because either their inventory is
correcting or they have a new product that's going into production. So, it's multifaceted.
Q - `Joshua Buchalter, TD Cowen `
Thank you for all the color there. And then I think you mentioned more sustained shutdowns in
the June quarter. Can you elaborate on how you're thinking about the cadence of this? I think, in
the past, you've done some two-week ones, and, clearly, you're getting more aggressive now.
Should we think about sort of the sustained lower production levels until you hit, I think it's 130- to
150-day on-books inventory targets and similar where you feel comfortable in the channel? Thank
you.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
So, there are two factories where we are still working a little bit of rotating time off. One is an
Oregon facility, where we could have brought it down further, but we didn't bring it up as low
because it will get below a critical mass. We brought it to a point lower, and then we're running a
two-week rotating time off out of 13.
And then the reason for that is that is the factory where all our advanced products are. And, by
having a two-week rotating time off, we can ramp it very rapidly by just removing the rotating
time off. We're not doing the same thing in Colorado. We're not doing the same thing in the
Philippines. That facility was unique in the products it builds; why we decided to do it that way.
Now, our plan is to run the production at these levels, which is well below really what we are
shipping today so that the inventory could come down. But your last part of your question is,
would we continue to run this way till our inventory comes down to 130 to 150 days? And the
answer to that is not. And the reason for that is, if you wait until the inventory comes down to 130
to 150 days, then for the following quarter, your inventory can't decline anymore because you
really cannot size.You may have to grow your capacity 40%, 50% in a single quarter because we're running so
much below consumption plus revenue is growing. So, therefore, you have to model it where you
have to start growing capacity or start growing production a few quarters ahead of time so you
don't have a hill to climb that you can't climb in rehiring and retraining people.
Q - `Joshua Buchalter, TD Cowen `
Makes sense --
A - `J. Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
So, we don't believe that inflection point is in this quarter or next quarter. But, as we progress
through the fiscal year, we could get there where we need to start and start ramping the
factories.
Q - `Joshua Buchalter, TD Cowen `
Got it. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from `William Stein, Truist from Truist Securities. Please proceed
with your questions, William.
Q - `William Stein, Truist `
Great. Thank you. Steve, I appreciate all the clarifications you've provided. I wanted to dig into the
earlier question about China for China. And, as I recalled the business update from March
timeframe, I thought that you talked about some of the products in your portfolio no longer being
meaningfully competitive in China, especially I think what you characterize as standard products.
And I thought that was the reason for this partnership. Now, it sounds like that strategy has
changed.
So, can you talk about your competitive positioning in China going forward and how -- if some of
your products are less competitive, how that influences the total, I think it's called total solution
selling strategy that you have? Thank you.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
I think -- I don't know if you misunderstood, but I don't think we said our products that less
competitive. There's a push from the Chinese government to the local industry to design in the
local products. And so a lot of the customers want to use a local product to check that box.
Now, when we talk to the customers, they like the Western product better than the local product,
but they're under pressure from Chinese government, so if you can provide them the product
with the Western quality, Western design Western spec but under a local brand then you get the
best of both worlds. So, that's what we were trying to do, to provide our Western-made product
under a Chinese logo from a local company, and many of the customers were telling, yeah, that's
exactly what I want.
Now, what happened then is that they change the definition of where it is made of; it used to be
assemblies where the product is formed changes shape significantly, and they redefine that to
where it is diffused, which means where it is fabbed. So, therefore all of the U.S.-made product
won't fit into that China for China strategy. All of our parts made in Taiwan and Germany andJapan and everywhere else will fit, but that's not a complete portfolio. So, we're redoing that
strategy and may land up building relationships with some of our U.S.-made products are also
made in Taiwan or elsewhere.
But I don't want to rush to it. We are already transferring some of our mask sets where the
process already runs in Taiwan at one of the foundries, but we're not forming new relationships
to transfer our U.S. product. Instead, we're giving feedback to the government that the strategy is
having an opposite effect where it is an incentive to move U.S. production out. But if there is no
change in the strategy and the current rules continue in other few weeks then we will probably
start to move some U.S. production elsewhere.
A - `J. Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, well, I think I think maybe where some of the confusion came is we talked about how where
we have seen some and may see more competition over time from China-based companies and
semiconductors is in the kind of the lower end of the standard microcontroller and analog
products. But, yeah, we won't see it in kind of our higher and more complex products, at least not
in the near term.
Q - `William Stein, Truist `
Okay, thank you.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from `Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho from Mizuho. Please proceed with your
questions, Vijay.
Q - `Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho `
Yeah, hi Steve and Eric. Just a quick question on the Section 232 talking about you're bringing
product back to the U.S., what are you contemplating? How are you looking at that? What's the
time frame for that? Thanks, and I have a follow-up.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
Time frame for what?
Q - `Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho `
Just wondering if you're expecting any Section 232 rulings coming down in terms of trying to
bring product back to the U.S.?
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
Well, I just finished explaining that we're taking product from U.S. to elsewhere. The current rules
are such that produce the product anywhere but don't produce them in China and don't produce
them in U.S. You're in best shape if you stay away from U.S. and you stay away from China,
because China hates U.S. and U.S. hates China. So, if you produce elsewhere, you're loved by
everybody else. So, I think those are the rules the way I understand it today.
But we are -- the rules are changing every day. And we will do whatever the appropriate thing to
do is. We have a fair amount of overlap in our products where we produce them in U.S. and
produce them in Taiwan on many of our products. And some other products, we produce them inGermany, and we produce them in Japan. But, as the rules continue to change, we will evolve that
strategy to ensure that we're best positioned with whatever the final rules are.
Q - `Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho `
Got it. And then talking about visibility, just wondering how you're looking at utilization, I guess,
across the fabs as you go to the back half, if you have some visibility there in terms of demand or
how we should see that going. Thanks.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
So, we guided that the June quarter inventory is somewhere between 215 and 225 days. If I just
kind of project ahead in September, I think it drops below 200 days. I don't know what the exact
number would be. And our goal is 130 to 150 days longer-term. So, somewhere between that
150 and 200 days, there is a number at which we need to start rehiring people and start growing
production.
Because, if we wait till the inventory gets into that band, then we'll have to create the full output
of a quarter fresh without being able to take it from the inventory. It would be a growth
unachievable because that's a hill to climb. So, we understand that, how much we can grow per
quarter. And, based on that model, we think we will start growing the production well before it
hits 150 days.
Q - `Vijay Rakesh, Mizuho `
Got it. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from `Quinn Bolton, Needham from Needham & Co. Please proceed
with your questions, Quinn.
Q - `Quinn Bolton, Needham `
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my question. Steve, do you want me to just quick follow up on that last
question? As you guys start to -- you get below the 200 days, somewhere between 200 and 150
days, you start increasing production. Is that where you could see the incremental margin that you
talked about being 85% in the June quarter? Is that where it could start to tick even higher? Or is
there a scenario where you could see better than 85% incremental margins before that point,
maybe just because of the reduction in inventory reserves? Thank you.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
There are a lot of moving parts. As the inventory comes down, your write-offs go away, because
even the slow-moving parts are no longer higher than 18 months of inventory. Your utilization
starts to improve when you ramp the Fab. So, there are a lot of moving parts. But I think we can
roughly keep that sort of incremental margin falling to the bottom for a few quarters. That's sort
of the best I can describe.
Q - `Quinn Bolton, Needham `
Okay; thank you.
OperatorThank you. The next question comes from Chris Danely from Citibank. Please proceed with your
questions, Chris.
Q - `Christopher Danely, Citi `
Hey, thanks, guys. Steve or Eric, just a question on the inventory write-downs, write-offs, et
cetera, et cetera. How much of that has been written off, written down? And then when will you
start to sell that? And what's the impact going to be on the P&L for planning purposes?
A - `J. Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, it's a bit unpredictable on when we will see it, right? If we had an order on the backlog
today, we wouldn't have written it off this last quarter. So, it's just based on the pattern of orders
that come in. We know that we are building very long-life products that are going to sell over
time. It's just that predicting that is difficult.
But, every quarter, we have some sell-through of previously written-off inventory. And because
we've written off so much over the last five or six quarters, that tailwind to gross margin is going
to come. We don't necessarily think that's happening this quarter. But I think as we progress
through fiscal '26, we're going to start to see benefits of that.
Q - `Christopher Danely, Citi `
Okay. Thanks, Eric. And then as a follow-up, so either, Steve or Rich, Steve, now that you've been
there for several months, how would -- I guess, what would be your take on just Microchip's
product positioning in the microcontroller market, maybe how it's gone over the last year or so?
And do you think that anything needs to change? Do you guys think you need to add on anything
to the product lines or do anything differently? Or is it sort of autopilot right now? I just appreciate
your thoughts on the market share and the product positioning.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
Well, I mean, there's certainly nothing autopilot. There is an extreme sense of urgency Rich and I
have brought back to the groups, and we've made a number of organization changes. The 8-bit
combining with 32-bit is the most visible to you, but we made other changes across the company.
And there is a new sense of vigor and a new sense of urgency. And you're starting to see
essentially -- when I look across the company, every indicator is starting to move in the right
direction. Revenue growth, gross margin growth, operating margin growth, EPS growth, inventory
reduction, product schedules, pricing, everything else is really just lining up and --
A - `J. Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Customer counts.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Customer counts have --
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
Customer counts have mostly been -- So, all those things are happening, so it's nothing business
as usual. But I think, when it gets to specific products, you can't have a CEO admit on a
conference call to all the competitors that his products are XYZ. No, our products are great, butadmit that, I highlighted that, and we're correcting it. But, no, beyond that, I think products are
good.
A - `Richard J. Simoncic, Chief Operating Officer `
Yeah, -- and it's more to this conversion, too, and, even in development tools, we're going to
make it much easier for customers to move between our product lines. A great deal of
automation is being given to our customers to help them design in our products. So, we are
moving very aggressively on a number of fronts here, very aggressively.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
So, one other thing I would highlight is really kind of on the development tools. So, the past
strategy was that Microchip has its own unique development platform on 32-bit microcontrollers,
that was Harmony, and customers have to adopt that development platform to design with our
products.
Now, that was required when our products were with either the proprietary architecture, which
the third parties didn't support, or when very originally we were trying to do MIPS-based
products, which were not supported by the third-party ecosystem.
Now, since we now are doing most of our 32-bit products on ARM-based architecture, most large
customers are using either Keil or --
A - Unidentified Speaker
IAR.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
IAR or many a number of these development platforms, which are pretty standard. So, Microchip
was pushing its own platform to the people who already had a platform, just providing a sort of
resistance path for adopting our products.
So, I think what we have done very recently is change that strategy, and now we are up and
running to all of these third-party platforms. So, therefore, when we go into a large customer, we
just have to produce position our products and not ask them to change their development
platform. And that has really dropped one barrier, and we're succeeding getting new designs.
Q - `Christopher Danely, Citi `
All right, thanks a lot, guys. That's great.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from Joe Moore from Morgan Stanley. Please proceed with
your questions, Joe.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Morgan Stanley `
Great, thank you. I know the dividend's always been a big priority. Is there any scenario where you
could see that coming down in different economic circumstances? I'm just asking. I get that
question a lot.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `So, there is an absolute commitment that dividend reduction has not been a consideration. When
we were threatened that our debt rating could be downgraded, we took strong action last
quarter by raising this $1.45 billion mandatory convert and brought our debt level down by about
$1.1 billion. With that, we reaffirmed our investment-grade rating by both rating agencies and kept
the dividend intact.
Now, as we look at it going forward with our revenue increasing, cash getting liberated from
inventory, gross margins rising, we're talking about 85% of the incremental revenue fall through, I
don't really think we're in a situation where there is risk. So, I think we have put that behind us.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Morgan Stanley `
Okay, I appreciate that, thank you. And then I've also gotten questions on the non-GAAP
adjustments, the preferred dividend coming out of the non-GAAP numbers, can you just describe
the rationale for that?
A - `J. Eric Bjornholt, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, it's a dividend, right? So, for GAAP accounting purposes, the preferred dividend is shown on
the income statement, but there are many companies that have these mandatory preferreds in
place and exclude them from the non-GAAP results because it's really an equity instrument. It's
not a debt instrument.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Morgan Stanley `
Got it, makes sense. All right, thank you.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from `Janet Ramkissoon, Quadra Capital from Quadra Capital. Please
proceed with your questions, Janet.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
Hello, Janet.
Q - `Janet Ramkissoon, Quadra Capital
Hi, Steve. Thanks. Great job in what you've been able to accomplish in such a short period of
time. I wanted to drill down a little bit on the aerospace and defense. I was a little bit surprised
that it's up to 18%. And there are a lot of changes in the defense area where we're seeing a lot
of the traditional defense companies working more with some of the newer players in the
market, SpaceX and rural industries, and guys who are making drones and robots.
Can you give me a sense of what your exposure is to some of these newer markets? And I
noticed you did say that one of the focus was to switch from 5G to AI. How does that tie into this
defense business and addressing some of the newer opportunities with some of these more
innovative players in the space?
A - `Richard J. Simoncic, Chief Operating Officer `
So, a good question on that. So, when it comes to new space, we've been working with those
customers for quite some time. And now there's this new generation of new defense customers
coming up. And what we've been doing is taking some of our products. Instead of rad hard, youbecome rad-tolerant. We've been now introducing more plastics into our aerospace and defense
product line.
And then working with our different product BUs to convert more products to that rad-tolerant or
plastic product line, that is more focused towards these new defense or new space customers.
Q - `Janet Ramkissoon, Quadra Capital
Could you give me a sense of how you characterize the opportunity with BU, how large is it? Is
this just a small thing or could this be emerging to a good growth area for you?
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
So, I think, Janet, all these new things is an opportunity, and we're engaged with everyone. But I
think where the real growth is going to come from is two factors. Number one, U.S. defense is
talking about rebuilding its arsenal. They are depleted on missiles and bullets and rifles and tanks
and planes, and everything is aging, fleet is old.
So, they're going to be a substantial rebuilding of our defense arsenal. And we are in everything.
There's nothing in our U.S. defense. No battle tank, no plane, no missile, no nothing that Microchip
is not in it. We are in everything. So, I think that's where the growth comes in U.S. Now, you can
add to that drones and SpaceX and all that, but those are not multi-billion-dollar opportunities.
And the second piece on the growth is really what's happening in NATO. NATO is going to
double and triple its budget over the next two years, three years. And because they're being
pushed to really invest for their defense. So, they're rebuilding their arsenal, rebuilding missiles
and tanks and rifles and drones and radars and all that. And we are in all that stuff. So, we're
already hearing from defense customers in Europe about a significant opportunity.
Just about four weeks ago, one of the major customers from France heard about that we were
closing Fab2, Tempe Fab, and he flew down to Chandler to come see me, confronting me on
he's planning to double his business, why am I closing Fabs? Then I explained to him that his
products were not made in Fab2, or his products are rad hard or whatever, they're made in other
Fabs. And, in one or two items that may be in Fab2, we have inventory, and we're transitioning
them to other Fabs. So, you could kind of see that customers are looking for significant growth,
and they want to ensure that Microchip is in a position to meet their needs.
Q - `Janet Ramkissoon, Quadra Capital
Thanks. That's very helpful. Thank you.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
Welcome.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from `Christopher Rolland, Susquehanna from Susquehanna International.
Please proceed with your questions, Christopher.
Q - `Christopher Rolland, Susquehanna `
Thanks for the question. I'll try to be brief. Steve, how do you see market share dynamics in
Microchip, the actual MCU market playing out? Do you see China taking share? Are there anyA - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
I absolutely expect our share to increase in MCU in the coming couple of years, and some of it
has to be some of it is driven by many of our microcontroller customers that have been sitting on
a significant inventory, haven't been buying the full boat of products. And just starting this quarter,
we're starting to see increased bookings from them, increased purchasing from them. Our
guidance for the June quarter is on the upper end of the industry. And I think market share gains
are reflected in them.
Q - `Christopher Rolland, Susquehanna `
Thank you, Steve. One other, and I apologize if this was asked, but AI as a percentage of
revenue, and you had a bunch of new looks like AI product announcements, optical, power, PCIe.
Are you expecting any of these to be really needle-moving and/or of particular emphasis for you
guys moving forward? Thanks.
A - `Richard J. Simoncic, Chief Operating Officer `
So, we continue to see the percentage of sales, that increasing, I think we had given a number
last year, there was about 4% of sales. As of the latest measurement, it's just over 6% of sales.
So, we continue to see strength in that particular marketplace for us. And we continue to
introduce new product lines within that area. In fact, one of the reorganizations that we did was
we created an AI/ML product group to help, we've got almost eight different BU's within the
company that need either models or model zoos or accelerators on their products. And that
group is helping coordinate that activity within the organization.
Q - `Christopher Rolland, Susquehanna `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from `Craig Ellis, B. Riley Securities from B. Riley Securities. Please proceed with
your question, Craig.
Q - `Craig Ellis, B. Riley Securities `
Yeah. Thank you for taking the question. I wanted to go back to the point that Rich made earlier
about the significant changes that Microchip had made to improve our product development and
product development efficiency for customers. What I was hoping you could do is just share an
example or two of what those changes are and, more importantly, help us understand when
would investors see the benefit of the changes that you've made and how material could they be
in, say, 2026 and years beyond? Thank you.
A - `Richard J. Simoncic, Chief Operating Officer `
That's a -- what we've helped customers do is essentially speed up their development time. And
so it becomes a productivity tool in terms of time-to-market. So, we've been training an internal
model for almost two years in terms of writing code for our products. We've decided to provide
that tool that we've been using internally with over 1,000 engineers for their own productivity
free of charge. And so we've essentially handed our customers an internally trained tool that we
found is 40% plus percent productivity improvement to help their own embedded control
designers.And we continue to -- any enhancement that we make internally for our internal designers, we are
now passing that on to our customers as well. And so we've gotten great feedback from
customers that have started using it in terms of the productivity improvements. In terms of
relating that to revenue, that is difficult to say at this point. Our goal is to make our customers' life
easier and to make the transition to Microchip development environment or using Microchip as a
whole easier. Right? And also making customers tend to choose Microchip over someone else
because of the ease of designing in a Microchip product. That's the goal.
Q - `Craig Ellis, B. Riley Securities `
And is there anything about those tools, Rich, that would help them, if they're going to use
Microchip in one product on a system board, more easily designing Microchip products for other
parts of that system board so that the total system solution ambition that Microchip has had is
something that's facilitated with the capability you've developed?
A - `Richard J. Simoncic, Chief Operating Officer `
Yeah. So, we have work going on. So, we actually have AI product recommenders that actually do
that now for customers. We've started unleashing that to them. But, later in the year, we will
actually be offering board-related support for TSS-type solutions. And so you can see where
we're going. So, now you've got product recommenders. Now, you've got software development
tools. Now, you can start to combine product recommender with software development tools,
and you can start recommending block diagrams and putting that all together.
Q - `Craig Ellis, B. Riley Securities `
Thank you, Rich.
Operator
Thank you. There are no further questions at this time. And now I'd like to hand over to Mr.Sanghi
for closing remarks. Thank you, sir.
A - `Steve Sanghi, Chair of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President `
Well, thanks, everyone, for joining us. As you can see from our report that, we've turned the
corner, and we're looking for significant improvement in our financial performance in this fiscal
year. And we'll see many of you on the road as we go to the conferences this quarter. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's teleconference. Thank
you very much for joining us. You may now disconnect your line.