Q4 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
My name is Jason and I'll be the conference facilitator today for Amgen's Fourth-Quarter Full-Year
2022 Financial Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any
background noise. (Operator Instructions)
I would now like to introduce Mr. `Arvind Sood, Vice President , Investor Relations, Vice-President of Investor Relations, Mr. Sood. You
may now begin.
`Arvind Sood, Vice President , Investor Relations `
Okay, thank you, Jason and good afternoon, everyone. And welcome to our call to discuss the
results for Q4 and full-year 2022. 2022 was once again a year exemplified by great execution,
despite some of the macro challenges. Our Chairman and CEO, `Bob Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer will make some
opening comments, followed by prepared comments from other members of our senior
leadership team. You should have received the link to our slides that we posted. Through the
course of our discussion, we will make some forward-looking statements and use non-GAAP
financial measures to describe our performance. And just a reminder that actual results can vary
materially. So with that. I would like to turn the call over to Bob.
`Bob Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, thank you, Arvind, and hello, everyone, and thank you for joining our call. The beginning of
the year, feeling confident about the long-term growth outlook for our business. And let me offer
five reasons why. First, we have a number of innovative volume-driven products that still have
plenty of room to run and we saw that in 2022. Repatha, Prolia and EVENITY, each generated
double-digit sales and volume growth in the fourth-quarter and for the full-year. We expect
continued growth from these products in 2023 and beyond, with Repatha in particular, helped by
important new data from the FOURIER open-label extension study and new prescribing
guidelines.
Otezla delivered 7% volume growth in both the fourth-quarter and the full-year, benefiting from a
label expansion, that gives us the opportunity to reach millions of new patients in the US with
mild-to-moderate psoriasis.
Lumakras and Tezspire collectively contributed more than $450 million in full year sales and we
are pursuing additional indications for both products. We're especially pleased to see Tezspire
being utilized by patients across all types of severe asthma.
Murdo will share more about the performance of our in-line products in a moment. Second, weincluding Olpasiran for (Lp[a]), Rocatinlimab for atopic dermatitis, TEZSPIRE for eosinophilic
esophagitis, and of course, Bemarituzumab tarlatamab and BLINCYTO in cancer.
We've also begun enrolling patients in a Phase 2 trial for AMG 133. Based on early data, this
molecule, with its unique mechanism-of-action, looks like it may have an attractive profile for the
treatment of obesity. And more in our pipeline from Dave Reese in a moment.
Third, we have an industry-leading Biosimilars business that will contribute to our growth over-
time. In 2022, we delivered positive Phase 3 data for our biosimilar Candidate -- candidates to
EYLEA, SOLIRIS and STELARA, positioning us to be in the first wave of these launches, which we
know is critical to success.
We're also less than 24 hours into the launch of AMJEVITA in the US., and AMJEVITA is the leading
biosimilar to Humira internationally. And with a five months lead over the next entrant, we're well-
positioned for success in the US.
All told, we have six more biosimilar launches planned in the US and markets around the world
between now and the end-of-the decade, making this another source of long-term growth for us.
Fourth, we've often said that we would look to licensing and acquisitions in our stated areas of
strategic interest and that's what we've done. Building on our decades of experience in
inflammation with two significant transactions that will strengthen our presence in this space.
Through the acquisition of ChemoCentryx, we added Tavneos, a first-in-class treatment for
ANCA-associated vasculitis and we're off to a strong start there.
Our announced acquisition of Horizon Therapeutics will add several additional first-in-class early-
in-life-cycle biologic medicines, including Tepezza Krystexxa and Plissner that will add to our
growth profile through 2030 and beyond.
We're working our way through the regulatory review processes for that deal and are confident
that the deal poses no anti-competitive matters and we have received a second request from US
FTC, and we'll work with them to answers their questions, while remaining optimistic that we can
complete the deal in the first-half of the year.
Finally, we've stayed true to our capital allocation priorities, investing in our business to drive long-
term growth, while also returning capital to our shareholders through share repurchases and a
growing dividend. You'll hear more from Peter on this shortly. And everything we achieved last
year and everything we will achieve going-forward, is due to the hard work and commitment of
our people, they are passionate about our mission to serve patients, there are clear on how their
work contributes to our success and they're ready to seize the opportunities and meet the
challenges that await us. I'm grateful to all of them. I look-forward to your questions a little later
on, but Now let me turn the call over to Murdo.
`Murdo Gordon, Executive Vice President, Global Commercial Operations `
Thanks Bob. 2022 was another year of strong execution of our mission to bring (inaudible)
products to the millions of patients around the world who suffer from grievous illnesses. The
evolution of our portfolio by (technical issue) by record sales (inaudible). We saw strong volume
gains across our general medicine and hematology oncology growth brands. Our inflammation
therapeutic area expanded with the launch of Tezspire and the acquisition of Tavneos, two first-
in-class medicines that treat serious disease.In addition, our announced acquisition of Horizon Therapeutics will add several important
medicines to our portfolio. In total, volume growth for 2022 was 9%, with 7% growth in the US and
14% growth ex-US as we continue to deliver on our international growth strategy. Excluding the
impact of foreign-exchange, full-year global product sales grew 4%, as our volume increases
were offset by a 5% decline in net selling price, including 2% the negative foreign-exchange
impact, product sales increased 2% Year-over-Year.
In the quarter, we also saw strong volume growth, with a 10% increase year-on year. Starting with
our General Medicine business, which includes Prolia Evenity, Repatha and Aimovig; overall
revenue for these four products grew 21% Year-over-Year for the fourth-quarter and 18% for the
full-year, driven by 19% and 21% volume growth respectively.
In bone health, Prolia sales grew 14% Year-over-Year for the fourth-quarter, driven primarily by 11%
volume growth. EVENITY, which complements Prolia in our bond portfolio, had record sales of
$225 million for the quarter, driven by strong volume growth across markets.
Repatha sales increased 22% Year-over-Year for the Fourth-quarter, with volume growth of 31%,
partially offset by lower net selling price. In the U.S., we generated volume growth of 32% for the
Fourth-quarter, aided by broad adoption of Repatha by cardiologists and increasing adoption by
primary-care providers. We saw declining net selling prices in the US as we offered higher rebates
to support broad Medicare Part-D and commercial patient access.
Looking ahead to 2023, we expect less Year-over-Year US price erosion than we saw in 2022.
Outside the U.S., fourth-quarter sales of Repatha grew 36% Year-over-Year, driven by 31%
volume growth. Globally Repatha treated over 1.5 million patients since launch. Repatha's strong
Prescribing history in cardiology and expanding use in the primary-care setting, position us well to
bring Repatha to more patients globally. With the FOURIER long-term follow-up data, in addition
to evolving and more aggressive treatment guidelines, there's a clear rationale that lowering LDL-
cholesterol as much and as early as possible with Repatha will reduce cardiovascular risk for
patients around the world.
Transitioning to our Inflammation portfolio. Otezla sales decreased 2% Year-over-Year for the
quarter and increased 2% for the full-year. We saw 7% volume growth in both periods. This was
offset by lower net selling price stemming from enhancements to our co-pay and patient
assistance programs to support new patients starting treatment, as well as additional rebates to
improve the quality of coverage.
During the fourth-quarter, our US Otezla business was impacted by new patient demand from
free drug programs by newly-launched topical and systemic competition. We expect that impact
to continue in Q1 of 2023. We also expect to see the typical pattern of lower sales in the first-
quarter, relative to subsequent quarters, due primarily to the effect of insurance reverifications,
co-pays and deductibles for patients. The combined effect could lead to first-quarter OTEZLA
sales being similar to or below those from Q1 of 2022.
Longer-term, we continue to see strong growth potential for Otezla, given its established safety
profile, strong (inaudible) coverage with limited prior authorization requirements and ease of
administration. Otezla remains the only approved oral systemic therapy with a broad indication
and is well-positioned to help the 4 million US patients with mild-to-moderate psoriasis. 1.5 million
of whom have psoriasis that cannot be optimally addressed by a topical and can benefit from our
first-line systemic treatment like Otezla.
Enbrel sales decreased 1% Year-over-Year for the fourth-quarter, driven by declines in volume andproduct for patients due to its long track-record of efficacy and safety. TEZSPIRE continues its
strong launch was $79 million in sales in the fourth-quarter and $170 million for the full-year.
Allergists and pulmonologists have prescribed TEZSPIRE across a broad range of patients with
severe uncontrolled asthma. We're also seeing initiation of TEZSPIRE in both biologic-naive and
previously treated patients. Physicians acknowledge TEZSPIRE's unique, differentiated profile and
its broad potential to treat the 2.5 million patients worldwide with severe uncontrolled asthma,
without any phenotypic and biomarker limitations.
We are now preparing for the anticipated US approval of the pre-filled pen in the first-quarter,
which will offer patients convenient option to administer TEZSPIRE at-home.
Sales of Tavneos were $21 million in the fourth-quarter. Our integration of ChemoCentryx is
proceeding smoothly, confirming our belief that Amgen's deep experience in inflammation and
nephrology, and substantial market presence will allow us to bring Tavneos to more patients with
ANCA-associated vasculitis.
We're also excited about our announced acquisition of Horizon Therapeutics. Our combined
portfolio, which will include. (Inaudible) address the serious inflammatory diseases and improve
lives of many patients (Technical issue) to deliver important therapies that will make a meaningful
difference for more patients globally.
Today, we announced the launch of Amjevita, the first US biosimilar to Humira, a used by more
than a million patients living with serious inflammatory diseases. With our track-record of
developing and manufacturing biologics, and decades of experience in inflammation, Amgen is
uniquely equipped to supply patients with this biosimilar medicine.
Amjevita is the first significant US biosimilar in the pharmacy benefit space, and we expect
gradual uptake in the coming months as this market evolves.
Moving to our hematology and oncology business, which includes Lumakras KYPROLIS, XGEVA,
Vectibix, Nplate and BLINCYTO.
These six innovative products grew 14% Year-over-Year, with 17% volume growth for the quarter.
Full-year sales grew 13%, driven by volume gains. Kyprolis sales grew 14% in the fourth-quarter.
Nplate sales in the fourth-quarter included $207 million related to a onetime order from the US
government.
Given the strong performance of our (Inaudible) portfolio in 2022 and the recent positive data on
both BLINCYTO and Vectibix. I look-forward to the future growth potential of this portfolio.
Lumakras reported $71 million in sales in the fourth-quarter and $285 million for the full-year.
Quarter-over quarter sales declined 5% with 12% volume growth more than offset by a lower net
selling price, driven by a $12 million unfavorable price adjustment resulting from a reimbursement
approval decision in France, an unfavorable changes to estimated sales deductions. Outside the
US Lumakras has now been approved in over 45 countries.
We've launched Lumakras in 30 markets and rapidly pursuing reimbursement in the remaining
countries. As we've noted before, the market for Lumakras is focused on the 7,000 US and
20,000 ex-US patients in the second-line setting, longer-term we expect Lumakras growth to
come from moving into earlier lines of therapy and expanding into additional tumor types.
Sales of our oncology Biosimilars declined 40% Year-over-Year for the fourth-quarter and 30% for
the full-year, driven by lower-price, while our biosimilars for inviting KANJINTI, both hold leadingshares, we expect continued net selling price deterioration and accelerating volume declines,
driven by increased competition.
The most recently published average selling price in the US declined 38% Year-over-Year for
IMVEXXY and 51% for KANJINTI. Overtime, we expect long-term growth in our biosimilars
business to be driven by the addition of new molecules and additional launches.
And as we start the new year, I'm inspired by the hard work of the thousands of Amgen
employees around the world who wake-up every day-to serve our patients. Our expanding
international presence and diverse portfolio of products, further strengthened by the integration
of ChemoCentryx and the announced acquisition of Horizon position us well to serve many more
patients globally.
And with that, I'll turn it to Dave.
`David M. Reese, Executive Vice President, Research and Development `
Thanks, Murdo. Good afternoon, everyone. For research and development, last year was one of
high-quality execution and on-time delivery of results as we continue to progress our innovative
pipeline. In general medicine, we strengthened our cardiovascular franchise and emerging
portfolio of obesity assets. Two areas of significant unmet need, affecting millions of patients
globally. The path of course is the cornerstone of these efforts and last November at AAJ, we
presented FOURIER open-label extension data. These data were recognized by the American
College of Cardiology expert consensus decision pathway, which indicated there appears to be
no LDL-cholesterol level below which benefits thesis.
Additionally, LDL-cholesterol recommendations were updated to reflect a reduction in target LDL
levels and highest-risk patients from 70 to 55 milligrams per deciliter. This is a level that is not
attainable for a large number of patients without PCSK9 inhibitor therapy.
Another molecules that we're excited about is Olpasiran. At AHA, we presented Phase-2 data,
where Olpasiran dose 75 milligrams or higher every 12 weeks, reduced Lp(a) concentrations by
95% to 100% in patients with established atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, with baseline LP
Little a levels of approximately 260 amals per litre.
I'll pass around appeared both safe and well-tolerated in this study. We are encouraged by these
data, particularly our dosing frequency, safety and tolerability profile and degree of LP Little a
reduction. We have initiated a Phase three outcome study 6,000 subjects with think sclerotic
cardiovascular disease and significantly elevated Lpa levels of at least 200 nanometers per liter.
Now turning to obesity in December, we presented data from a Phase one study were AMG 133
appeared safe, well-tolerated and demonstrated a 14.5% reduction in body weight at day 85,
following three monthly subcutaneous injections. Party weight reductions were observed up to a
150 days after the final AMG 133 administration.
Given these favorable attributes. We are now enrolling a 570 subject Phase-II study to explore
AMG 133 in-patients with obesity with or without diabetes and related comorbidities. The study
will also investigate different dosing levels and regimens. (Technical Difficulty)
Operator
Attention, everyone. Sorry for the mishap here. This call will be moving over to WebEx, the call --
the numbers to call for WebEx is 1-844-992-4726. Once again, it is 18449924726. (Technical`David M. Reese, Executive Vice President, Research and Development `
(Starts abruptly) 4%. Recall, our Q4 2021 results included approximately $200 million of favorable
impact to other income and expense resulting from a gain on our Beijing Investment. Full-year
non-GAAP EPS of $17.69 grew 27% versus our recast 2021 results.
Non-GAAP Q4 operating expenses were unchanged Year-over-Year while full-year non-GAAP
operating expenses declined 12%. The full-year include the impacts in 2021 of the $1.5 billion five
Prime IP R&D charge and the $400 million licensing payment to KKC for Rocatinlimab.
We advanced our pipeline and invested in-product launch activities in 2022, while delivering 51%
non-GAAP operating margin as a percentage of product sales.
On a non-GAAP basis, Q4 cost-of-sales as a percent of product sales decreased 1.2 percentage
points on a Year-over-Year basis, down to 16.3%. For the full-year, cost-of-sales as a percentage
of product sales decreased by 0.5 percentage points, down to 15.9%.
Both the quarter and full-year improvements were primarily due to fewer COVID 19 antibody
shipments and lower manufacturing costs, partially offset by changes in our product mix. Non-
GAAP R&D spend in the fourth-quarter decreased 2% Year-over-Year, primarily due to higher
business development activity in 2021, including our upfront payments in connection with our
generate Bio Medicines and Iraq is therapeutics collaborations, along with lower marketed
product support.
This was partially offset by higher support for key assets in early and late-stage programs.
However, adjusted for 2021 BD activity, Q4 2022 R&D investment increased 7% Year-over-Year,
and for the full-year, non-GAAP R&D spend declined 8% based on the same drivers as the fourth-
quarter.
However, adjusted for BD activity, full-year 2022 R&D investment increased by 5%. Q4 non-GAAP
SG&A expenses increased 2% Year-over-Year, driven by higher marketed product support,
including investments in our priority products, Tezspire, Evenity and Repatha. For the full-year
SG&A expenses were unchanged Year-over-Year as increased investments for all priority brands
were offset by productivity gains, continuous improvement and reallocation from mature brands.
Non-GAAP other income and expenses were about $470 million expense in the fourth-quarter. A
$250 million increase Year-over-Year, primarily driven by the previously mentioned gains in 2021
that we recognized from our investment in Beijing. For the full-year non-GAAP other income and
expenses were approximately $1.7 billion.
So now, turning to the outlook for the business for 2023. Our outlook is Amgen-only on a stand-
alone basis without any adjustments for the announced Horizon acquisition. It's important to
remember that currently, at current publicly available consensus estimates are derived from a
combination of estimates of Amgen is a standalone company along with estimates from some
analysts to have already added Horizon into their estimates. So our 2023 revenue guidance is
$26.0 billion to $27.2 billion, and our non-GAAP earnings per share guidance of $17.40 to $18.60
per share. So now let me review several key points related to our guidance.
`Peter Griffith, Chief Financial Officer `
For total revenue. We expect the Year-over-Year comparison will not include about $700 million
related to several items from 2022 that we do not expect benefit from in 2023. We assume we
will generate COVID 19 antibody revenues in 2023, we also assume a lower amount of Nplatesales in 2023 compared to 2022 recall 2022, included a significant purchase of Nplate by the
United States government in the second-half of the year. Also several favorable changes to
estimated sales deductions that occurred in 2022 and the sale of our generics business in Turkey,
which closed late in 2022.
For product sales, we projected volume growth at a portfolio level, driven by strong growth in our
priority products Tezspire, Evinity, Repatha, Prolia and Tavneos, consistent with industry trends in
our recent history, we expect mid-single-digit price declines in our portfolio in 2023. Turning to
Neulasta in our oncology Biosimilars. We expect the recent trends to continue through 2023, this
will likely result in-full year Neulasta sales less than $700 million.
Further, we expect less than $750 million in combined product sales for our oncology Biosimilars,
Kanjiniti, and MVASI. And finally, we expect product sales of less than $300 million for Epogen, as
we transition through the expiry of our contract with DaVita.
For the full-year, we're guiding other revenues to a range of $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion. Note that we
recognized about $300 million of revenue from our COVID antibody collaboration with Lilly in
2022 that we don't anticipate repeating in 2023. So we will continue to manage our operating
expenses consistent with our historical cost discipline. So even with increasing 2023 sales
volumes, declining net sales, selling prices and inflationary pressures on costs, we still project full-
year non-GAAP operating expenses to be flat versus 2022 as we continue our focus on driving
productivity and cost efficiencies across the enterprise. We project non-GAAP cost-of-sales to be
in the range of 16% to 17% as a percentage of product sales. Recall that we mentioned during our
Q3 earnings discussion, that tax law changes enacted by Puerto Rico in June 2022 to replace the
Puerto Rico Excise Tax, the PRET, in favor of an income tax. This change will increase our income
tax expense beginning in 2023, while reducing our cost-of-sales by roughly an equivalent amount.
Note, however, there will be a negative impact in 2023 of approximately $125 million related to
the amount of the press that it's currently capitalized in inventory, there will be charged to cost-
of-goods-sold in the first-half of 2023. With most of the charge recognized in the first-quarter
without a corresponding tax benefit. We expect non-GAAP R&D expenses in 2023 to increase 3%
to 4% Year-over-Year, compared to our 2022 expenses as we advance a number of the
programs doctor writes referenced earlier. This is consistent with our first allocate capital
allocation priority to invest in the best innovation and our operating expense discipline provides
us the capital to do just that.
And for non-GAAP SG&A spend, we expect 2023 amounts as a percentage of product sales to
slightly decrease Year-over-Year, driven by productivity improvements. These all lead to a
projected non-GAAP operating margin as a percent of product sales of roughly 50% on a full-
year basis. We expect non-GAAP other income and expense of approximately $1.4 billion. The
expected Year-over-Year improvement is driven by a change in our accounting for our Beijing
investment we're making in 2023. Beginning in January 2023, will no longer report our share of
BeiGene results in other income and expense under the equity-method of accounting on our
non-GAAP income statement.
We'll now mark-to-market our investment with the impact recorded only on our GAAP income
statement. We expect a non-GAAP tax-rate of 18% to 19%. This rate reflects the new Puerto Rico
income tax, which, as I explained earlier, will replace the PRET, beginning in 2023. We expect
share repurchases, not to exceed $500 million in 2023 and we expect that we will continue to
meaningfully increase our dividend. We expect capital expenditures of approximately $925 million
in 2023, consistent with our capital allocation priority to invest in our business, including in our newenvironmentally-friendly facilities in Ohio and North Carolina. And after we complete those
facilities. We expect our capital expenditures to return to their historical levels.
I'd also like to make some specific comments around the first-quarter of 2023. I am encouraged
that our business is performing as expected. Through the first month of the year. However,
consistent with our historical revenue patterns, we expect revenue in the first-quarter of the year
to be the lowest revenue quarter of the year and slightly below revenue in Q1 2022. At a portfolio
level. We expect product sales to be unchanged from Q1, 2022 and other revenues to be lower
on a Year-over-Year basis, due to the reasons set-out above including about $225 million, related
to COVID antibody. Sales in the first-quarter of 2022. We anticipate about $80 million of foreign-
exchange headwinds in Q1 2023 compared to Q1 2022, the total of all these items creates
greater than $400 million of headwinds versus the first-quarter of 2022. So these revenue
patterns, along with the timing of expenses are expected to translate into our Q1 non-GAAP
operating margin being below 50% as a percentage of product sales. Although we continue to
expect operating margin as a percentage of product sales to be roughly 50% for all of 2023.
Recall, this is all Amgen stand-alone. We will continue to focus on our legacy of execution
excellence. In summary, despite macroeconomic headwinds, we delivered another strong year of
financial results in 2022, keeping us on-track with our long-term commitments to delivered
through 2030 and beyond. Our confidence in the long-term growth of Amgen is strong. And we
look-forward to completing the announced acquisition of Horizon during the first-half of 2023,
which will only strengthen our growth prospects. We would expect to provide updated guidance
as appropriate at some point after the transaction closing.
This concludes the financial update. My thanks to our 25,000 plus colleagues at Amgen around
the world for their commitment to serving patients and their tireless efforts in 2022,
I'll now turn it back over to Bob for our Q&A.
`Bob Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, well thank you, Peter. And Dave for soldiering on despite the technical difficulties. And
again, apologies to all of you who dialed-in join us for the call and found some disruption in the
proceedings here. A number of you have emailed your questions to Arvind, what I'd like to
suggest is that any of you who have questions directly email them down to Arvind, and Arvind will
read them and will try to answer them here in the room. And let me just assure all of you that we
will rearrange our schedule will be available to answer questions if we don't get to it at the end of
this conference call, be available with Arvind and his team to answer questions you may have
after we wrap-up, so. With that let me turn to Arvind and we'll tackle the questions that you've
already submitted.
`Arvind Sood, Vice President , Investor Relations `
Yeah, thanks Bob. And apologies to everybody for the technical difficulties that we have had and
as Bob said, just please email your questions to me directly.
Questions And Answers
A - `Arvind Sood, Vice President , Investor Relations `
So the first question that we have is from Yaron Werber of Cowen. And he has a submitted two
questions. His first question is as Amgen will move to fair-value from equity-method of accounting
for Beijing. As you also now own less than 19.9% equity in Beijing, will Amgen start consolidatingyou plan to file the high concentration of Amjevita, once you get the Phase-3 interchangable data
in the first-half of 2023?
A - `Bob Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, we'll do it in two pieces. Pete, why don't you hit the accounting question?
A - `Peter Griffith, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, quick question quick answer. Thank you, Yaron, for the question, on Beijing equity-method
of accounting. As I said in my remarks, we will record in our GAAP income statement, and the
mark-to-market, but that won't be recorded in our non-GAAP income statement. So the answer is
we will not include any earnings from or losses as our share of Beijing going-forward in our non-
GAAP income statement.
A - `Bob Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay and then on Amjevita, why don't we do a two-parter there. Dave, Reese and then Murdo,
you may want to add some thoughts?
A - `David M. Reese, Executive Vice President, Research and Development `
Yeah, in terms of the filing timelines, once we have the data in-hand important giving guidance as
to when we expect filing and potential approval about after the appropriate regulatory
interactions, it's important, I think, as Bob mentioned, to put this in context, let me ask Murdo to
comment here.
A - `Murdo Gordon, Executive Vice President, Global Commercial Operations `
Yes, thanks, Dave. We have had some inbound questions on this, as you can imagine, during the
day, given that we are launching. so-far launch progressing well. We have product making its way
into the channel, and we're already receiving inbound interest in Amjevita from payers,
prescribers and patients.
One thing that's important to remember is, the current product that we have in the market is a
lower concentration, original concentration Amjevita adalimumab, but it is Citrate-free, meaning
that the patient experience here, it's still one where we minimize the injection site pain by having
a citrate-free formulation and patient experience here has been positive in our clinical trials and
we anticipate that not having a high concentration will not be a barrier in the market.
These are very low volumes that are injected through an auto injectable pen, and we've seen
very-very good reliability of patients being able to administer. In addition, of course, we provide.
nurse support for patients and then, well, well, it wasn't asked, I think it's also important to note
that we are providing financial assistance, support and reimbursement support for both
prescribers and patients as we launch the product.
So really a full suite of services and support that you would expect for a branded launch being
applied to the launch of the first biosimilar adalimumab to launch in the US, that is Amjevita.
A - `Bob Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Thank you, Murdo. Let's go to the next question, Arvind?
A - `Arvind Sood, Vice President , Investor Relations `The next question is from Geoff Meacham from BofA Merrill Lynch and his question. He said,
know you have Amgevita, but are you expecting an indirect impact in the second-half of '23 or
the first-half of '24 from all the HUMIRA biosimilars and STELARA on Otezla and Enbrel, mainly
and he is interested in the volume and price impact.
A - `Bob Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Murdo you want to share your thoughts on that?
A - `Murdo Gordon, Executive Vice President, Global Commercial Operations `
It's hard for me, obviously, to comment on what competitors may do as other biosimilars of
adalimumab enter the market beyond July. But what we have seen coming into 2023 is a good
cycle of reimbursement negotiations. And we've been able to secure very broad coverage for
both Enbrel and Otezla.
We expect that insurance coverage to continue throughout the course of 2023, and as is usual,
we have small concessions on net price to secure that broad reimbursement, but nothing unusual
compared to prior years.
A - `Bob Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Let's go to next question.
A - `Arvind Sood, Vice President , Investor Relations `
The next question is from Chris Raymond from Piper Sandler, and he has two questions, the first
one is on Otezla, and Chris says, I know there are lot of puts and takes on this market and I know
you guys have highlighted a tailwind of mild-to-moderate psoriasis patients coming into therapy.
But Otezla is kind of unique, in that there is a sizable discontinuation rate, just with that, it's
probably not going away. Talk about why we shouldn't be more concerned about SOTYKTU and
maybe just as importantly, the next-generation SOTYKTU molecules that are coming behind
them. Especially, noticing that declined Q-over-Q, both in the US and rest of the world, even with
the 9% inventory build.
Any color on how you growth through this coming competition would be very helpful and then he
has a question on Amjevita as well.
A - `Murdo Gordon, Executive Vice President, Global Commercial Operations `
Okay, so first on Otezla. I will start with the fact that we are the only systemic product indicated
for a broad range of psoriasis patients without regard to the severity and really makes us the
ideal first-line, first systemic, post topical choice of therapy, and that is the positioning of the
brand. The size of that market is very large, there is 4 million patients with mild-to-moderate form
of psoriasis, about 1.5 million of those patients would be regarded as not doing as well as they
could on topical treatment by potential switching to a systemic like Otezla.
As I mentioned just a few moments ago, Otezla also enjoys very broad frontline access, that is, it
doesn't -- it doesn't require that you step through another systemic therapy and it also means
that prescribers can make it the first choice and these are busy dermatologists. They want
something that's easy, they don't want a lot of prior authorization -- prior-auth paperwork. And
they want to be able to provide an ability for patients to start quickly on their therapy. Only Otezla
offers that in the psoriasis market.I think what we're seeing right now is an effect of a number of free goods programs that were
launched at the end of last year and continue into this quarter. When physicians have free goods
programs or sometimes referred to as bridging programs, usually used at the beginning of a
product launch, when there hasn't been an opportunity to secure access with pharmacy benefit
managers, physicians will sometimes use those to try novel therapies coming into the market.
However, as those novel therapies go through the negotiation process with PBMs and payers,
oftentimes, it becomes more difficult to try those novel therapies, because of the nature of the
access that they result with and I think that's really where the sustained advantage of Otezla in
that first-line systemic post topical pre-biologic patient population really allows us a long-term
growth opportunity and we continue to feel confident in the long-term growth of this brand and
we have a very strong commercial presence in a number of markets around the world and we
continue to feel-good from what we're hearing from our prescribing base of dermatologists.
I will say that the short-term impact of these free good programs, we're watching it very closely
and we're making sure that we continue to be competitive in the marketplace.
A - `Arvind Sood, Vice President , Investor Relations `
Okay, Chris, the second question is the same as the question that we have from Salveen Richter
of Goldman Sachs.
And she says on Amjevita, could you offer more details on how the dual pricing option will work
and drive uptick and how should we think about net pricing? What are your expectations for the
market in midyear, once more biosimilars enter?
A - `Peter Griffith, Chief Financial Officer `
Maybe I can answer the second part first. We don't comment on product-specific, pricing, and so,
I really can't answer that -- the net price. I think it's fair to say that as additional entrants come into
the market, net prices usually go down. We've seen that in our other Biosimilars business, would
expect that to happen here. With respect to the two-list price approach that we've employed
here at this launch, this is really to address the complexity of the US market.
Pharmacy benefit managers have a model business model that requires that they negotiate
rebates with manufacturers and so they would prefer a high list price and negotiate rebates to
net the price down and then pass those rebates through to their upstream employer clients.
The -- there are other stakeholders and customers in the health-care system that prefer a net
price-based model and don't care about the difference between list and net, or gross price and
that price. And so for those, we have the lower net price product available. So just a reminder, we
have a high list price at 5% below HUMIRA. And then they will list price of 55% below HUMIRA. We
also intend to ensure that AMJEVITA is an affordable medicine for patients by providing co-pay
assistance, as well as helping patients secure reimbursement through their insurer.
We are also pleased to report that we enjoy broad access out-of-the gate on day-one of launch
with the three national pharmacy benefit managers, so broad, priority coverage, alongside
HUMIRA.
A - `Bob Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Let me just, I note that we're up to this half past the hour, but we will continue to take questions
for as long as, as long as necessary here to answer those questions and I'm told that there is arecording of this that will available in the form of a transcript for those of you that have conflicts
and can't stay beyond the set time. So Arvind, why don't you go to the next question?
A - `Arvind Sood, Vice President , Investor Relations `
The next question is from Colin Bristow of UBS and he has a question on the obesity pipeline.
What updates should we expect to get this year will we see data from the remaining three
cohorts from the Phase 1 study.
And then on AMG 786, when should we expect updates, more disclosure on this asset and
program?
A - `David M. Reese, Executive Vice President, Research and Development `
Yeah, in terms of the obesity pipeline, AMG 133, two additional cohorts you're referring to, I don't
know that we'll see data over the course of this year on that, if that changes, of course, I'll
provide guidance. AMG 786, it's a small-molecule with a different mechanism-of-action as
indicated to GLP one or GIPr[ph] receptor agonist or antagonists, that's going through dose-
escalation over the course of the year. I'll provide guidance in terms of when we may see data
from that program. And of course, at the time of data availability, we'll talk about the target as
well. Thanks, Dave. Arvind. Let's go to the next question.
A - `Arvind Sood, Vice President , Investor Relations `
So the next question is from Evan Seigerman from BMO Capital Markets. And Evan wanted to
know, he said that the slowing Lumakras sales, can you expand on how you may have revised
your commercial strategy to better align with the commercial potential of the assets?
A - `David M. Reese, Executive Vice President, Research and Development `
Yeah, I'm not sure we have a slowing overall volume growth. I think what we saw and I mentioned
this that might not have come through clearly on the audio but. In the quarter, we did see a price
effect. Based on reaching reimbursement decision, finalization in France. And so we had a $12
million. Charge in the quarter against Lumakras, grew 7%, volume in the quarter. But I think we
anticipated as the opportunity for Lumakras in second-line. Being limited to the incident
population and we are commercially and medically sized appropriately for that opportunity. I think
as we expand into earlier lines of therapy or other tumor types. We will continue to invest behind
the brand.
A - `Arvind Sood, Vice President , Investor Relations `
Okay, the next question is from Michael Yee of Jefferies. And Michael wants to know if he said on
2023 guidance, can you clarify what the input is for revenue growth versus EPS growth range.
Specifically, is there a positive impact from Beijing accounting and does the tax-rate of 18% to
19%, negatively impact EPS or is COGS offset as explained last year is 2023, OpEx growing more
than revenue.
A - `Peter Griffith, Chief Financial Officer `
Let me start by we're care away from the tax question. So on the tax side of it. The 18% to 19%.
It's increases by the Fred amount although as I've highlighted both last year and this year we have
a small carryover effect of about $125 million that's currently capitalizing cost-of-goods-sold that
will be released that excuse me, currently capitalized in inventory that will be released in the class
of goods sold primarily during the first-quarter, without a corresponding tax benefit. So theanswer is, going-forward after that, $125 million, works its way through cost-of-goods-sold, it'll be
roughly equivalent to move from the Puerto Rico excise tax of the PRET, which was recorded in
cost-of-goods-sold down to the actual income tax-rate.
The question on guidance and I think the question was what's included from Beijing and what's
not. As I said earlier to your own question what won't be included now as our share of either
losses or gains in Beijing income. So we will include on a mark-to-mark basis in our GAAP income
statement the results of Beijing. And then the movements in the security, but not in our non-
GAAP income statement. We will no longer record our share of their losses for their income.
A - `David M. Reese, Executive Vice President, Research and Development `
And then just, say, Michael, and to the prior question from M&A, if you need more details on that
to make sure you fully understand what we're saying in our response just like will get back to you.
I think particularly, Evan, for your question. If you're not familiar with that mechanism that's
common to us in France, happy just to provide more color for you.
And again, Michael, I know there's a lot going on here and again apologies for the disruption and I
don't know if you were able to follow the slides earlier. So if you need more color, let us know.
We're going back after the conference call.
A - `Bob Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Go ahead. Arvind, what's our next question?
A - `Arvind Sood, Vice President , Investor Relations `
And we have a second question from Salveen, asking could you flip the upcoming TEPEZZA
phase 4 data and (inaudible) into context for us? What do we need to see, how would positive
data expand the opportunity for the drug?
A - `Bob Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Subject to restrictions that we have on our ability to say anything beyond what's in the dossier.
A - `David M. Reese, Executive Vice President, Research and Development `
I mean, I think we're restricted of course by Irish Takeover Rules here. What we can say is that it's
worth reminding everyone that the current label is broad and encompasses patients with Thyroid
Eye Disease, the -- due to Autoimmune Thyroidrhinitis. This is primarily a study that will generate
data in a population that we believe will help with reimbursement and with our payers. And let me
ask Murdo to comment on that.
I would point out that mechanistically, there is no difference between chronic thyroid eye disease
and the acute form of the disease. In fact, it's a semantic definition as to when the disease
progresses to the chronic form, but the underlying pathogenic mechanism of being driven in
large part by IGF-1R is intact. And therefore, based on prior data and mechanistically, we're
optimistic about that study. Murdo?
A - `Murdo Gordon, Executive Vice President, Global Commercial Operations `
Yeah, look, I think the Horizon team is doing a very good job commercializing this product and
continue to help many patients within the broad current indication, as Dave mentioned, and I think
additional data here could be additive to the already very promising growth of the brand.A - `Bob Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, thanks, Salveen for your question. Let's go to the next one, Arvind?
A - `Arvind Sood, Vice President , Investor Relations `
The next one is from Christopher Schott of J.P. Morgan. And Christopher saying, can you
elaborate on Otezla in 2023, Bristol's suggesting that they're seeing some strong initial uptick in
their bridge program and would be interested how much of this market expansion for orals
versus something you're seeing in Otezla. And you mentioned an impact from competitor free
drug impact over the next few quarters, do you anticipate that will lessen as the year continues or
an impact for much of the year?
A - `Peter Griffith, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, it's a similar question to one asked earlier, but perhaps I can elaborate a little bit for Chris,
the It's fairly clear that dermatologists want to use the easiest product and safest and well-
understood product when moving to the first systemic treatment post topically. Many of these
topical patients are hesitant to try a systemic agent, and so, I think this is where Otezla's profile
studied extensively with over 700,000 patients globally having experienced this product. The
safety and efficacy of Otezla is extremely well-understood. As I mentioned earlier, the frontline
access coverage that we've secured in the US without a lot of prior authorization requirement,
the convenience of that for Dermatology practices is very clear and it makes it a really good first-
line treatment, systemic treatment, especially for a patient with milder, or more moderate
disease.
For moderate or severe disease, it is likely that you're going to need to use something like a
biologic or a second-line agent. And we think that given SOTYKTU has yet to go through the
market access process and secure payer reimbursement, we're not really seeing how it's actually
going to be used longer-term in the marketplace. And I think sometimes these feel good
programs can distort what the actual uptick curve would be for a product.
A - `Arvind Sood, Vice President , Investor Relations `
Murdo, there is a second question from Chris. He is asking, how are you thinking about Enbrel
pricing dynamics over time, given the expected significant price declines in the HUMIRA market. I
know you've talked about price continuing to erode, but not accelerate. Can you remind us why
we shouldn't expect a bigger step-down in price in 2023 or 2024 as the HUMIRA market price
resets down significantly?
A - `Murdo Gordon, Executive Vice President, Global Commercial Operations `
Well, as I mentioned before, we're primarily through our 2023 cycle and we secured, very good
access. We've had to concede a bit of price, as I mentioned, but not anything that looks
precipitous as compared to prior years. So we're pleased with that. Enbrel is an important
product for many indications, we see the safety and efficacy profile of Enbrel is well-understood. I
think physicians also want choice and I think that's where PBMs are also open to having more than
one TNF product on their formulary and I think that's really what we've been able to secure and
what we continue to think we'll be able to achieve in the future.
A - `Bob Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Let's go to the next question.A - `Arvind Sood, Vice President , Investor Relations `
Next question is from Mohit Bansal from Wells Fargo. And his question is, could you talk a little bit
more about your HUMIRA biosimilar negotiations thus far, seems like AbbVie has purity access
with majority of them and the pricing is different for the first-half versus the second-half and there
is more competition. Are your contracts similar and how should we think about the cadence of
launch as the year progresses?
A - `Murdo Gordon, Executive Vice President, Global Commercial Operations `
Well, I can't comment on our competitors' contracts with PBMs and payers. What I can say is we
secured broad access for Amjevita, the three national PBMs. We continue to work with other
customers to provide access for providers and patients alike. And we'll continue to compete
effectively as we have done everywhere else in the world with this product. And outside of the
US, we were able to establish a leadership position with Amjevita and we think given the services
that we provided and the commercial footprint we have, we're in very good competitive position
vis a vis other biosimilars.
A - `Bob Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
I know a number of you have asked questions. So we're continuing to work-through the list,
anybody who hasn't yet shot Arvind an email, going to go through those and we'll get a couple of
handfuls still to go. So let's Arvind go over the next question?
A - `Arvind Sood, Vice President , Investor Relations `
The next one is a question by Gregory Renza of RBC Capital Markets. And Dave, this is are you.
We were interested in hearing some color on the antibody-drug conjugate strategy in light of the
recent deals, how is the team approaching the space?
A - `David M. Reese, Executive Vice President, Research and Development `
Yeah, thanks, Greg. Well, I view this is as another modality in our toolkit. We've been watching the
antibody-drug conjugate technology quite closely for the past several years, it's advanced. So
what we feel is that we'll use ADCs on appropriate targets, I view it as an addition and an
extension of our modalities. These collaborations brings together our experience on target
identification and validation, as well as of course antibody generation or with some of the newer
conjugation technology. So as that progresses, more to come, but you should view this as an
additive to our armamentarium.
A - `Arvind Sood, Vice President , Investor Relations `
Okay. The next question is by Tim Anderson of Wolfe Research. And his question is on Amjevita in
the US. And he's asking, any commentary and your comfort with the sell-side consensus for US
sales, which seems to be around $600 million in 2023, and anything you can say about contract
specifics, such as whether there is price protection, if any of them go beyond 2023?
A - `David M. Reese, Executive Vice President, Research and Development `
Yeah, we don't give product-specific guidance and this is a new event in the US biosimilar market,
given this is the first big pharmacy benefit product to go up. So we will continue to update all of
you as the launch progresses. We have said, we think this will be gradual slope on this launch and
I'll be happy to keep you apprised as we go-forward.A - `Arvind Sood, Vice President , Investor Relations `
Okay, the next one is by Dave Risinger of SVB Securities and he has two questions, the first one is
for you. Dave, please discuss key novel drug candidate readouts to watch in 2023.
And the second one for you, Murdo, how do you expect formulary positioning for Amjevita to
potentially change in January of 2024 after Amjevita is assigned an interchangeability
designation?
A - `David M. Reese, Executive Vice President, Research and Development `
Yeah, thanks. David. This is a year where certainly my focus, my team's focus will be on execution,
a huge amount to carry-forward in the pipeline. So things that I would keep an eye on how well
we're enrolling the Phase 3 pass around trial. How well are we enrolling the AMG-133 Phase 2 trial
in the general medicine portfolio. In inflammation, our the suite to Rocatinlimab trials enrolling,
how are we delivering on Aspire additional indications. And then finally, in oncology, things to
keep an eye on are the Tarlatamab program not only the Phase 2 potentially registrational trial
readout in the second-half of the year, but also initiation of a Phase 3 trial in second-line disease.
These are some of the topline things and I'll be paying attention to, and then, of course, there
are a host of others earlier in the pipeline and in discovery research.
A - `Murdo Gordon, Executive Vice President, Global Commercial Operations `
And just on the Amjevita question, I would say that we have a commitment to continuing -- to
make sure that the product attributes of our Biosimilars provide payers, providers and patients
with all of the benefits that they're looking for and we're also trying to ensure that there is no
reason to switch away from Amgevita in the long-range, so we hope that interchangeability, the
high concentration and the fact that we already have a citrate free product on the market, along
with the services we provide, along with the fact that this is an Amgen team of people who
understand the inflammation indications of this product very well and they have relationships with
the customers that were prescribed HUMIRA, we feel really good about the durability of Amjevita
long-term beyond 2024.
A - `Arvind Sood, Vice President , Investor Relations `
Okay, the next question is from Umer Raffat from Evercore. And he has two questions, the first
one is for you, Dave, on OX40 and the monthly dosing in Phase 3. he says, and I don't see an
arm investigating extended interval quarterly or biannual, I'm just trying to tie the Phase 3 dosing
interval versus the durable efficacy seen through six months post last dose.
And the second question is for you, Peter, that the tax-rate step-up from 14% to 18% to 19%, just
wanted to get some additional color.
A - `David M. Reese, Executive Vice President, Research and Development `
Regarding the dosing of Rocatinlimab, as I've indicated before, we will explore different dosing
paradigms here and as that suite of Phase 3 trials are fully launched, I think it will become clearer,
what we're looking for there, based on both the mechanism-of-action of the molecule as well as
patient convenience. Peter?
A - `Peter Griffith, Chief Financial Officer `
Now, Umar, good question on tax again, it's just a change in what I would say the real-estate onconnection with the change in Puerto Rico for us, from a PRET to the actual income tax in Puerto
Rico, which began here in 2023. So that's the nature of that change and that's where the 18% to
19% comes in from where we've been here historically.
A - `Arvind Sood, Vice President , Investor Relations `
Okay, the next question is from Jay Olson of Oppenheimer. And Jay is asking, can you talk about
your plans for geographic diversification? It seems like ex-US revenues have become a smaller
percentage of Amgen's total revenues over the past few quarters and we were wondering what
underlying dynamics drove that shift in geographical mix and if there are any future launches or
other dynamics that might push the geographical mix back in favor of ex-US growth?
A - `Murdo Gordon, Executive Vice President, Global Commercial Operations `
Yeah, we're actually very pleased with the expansion internationally of the Amgen footprint being
in over 100 markets. We continue to launch products and secure reimbursement around the
world, I talked about Lumakras. Most recently, in China, we've been able to secure national
reimbursement drug listening for portfolio on Repatha, our Japanese affiliate is growing well.
In the recent history, I think what you're seeing is a function of just timing of launches coming a bit
earlier in the US and also some of our partnering products. I think longer-term, what we've got is
a very interesting portfolio of products that will continue to make their way around the world. The
announced Horizon acquisition has paid very large opportunity internationally and we see our
JAPAC region is actually our fastest-growing potential opportunities longer-term, so I wouldn't
look at short-term movement from quarter-to-quarter, the long-term prevailing trend is that we
will grow quickly as, I think, in the United States.
A - `Arvind Sood, Vice President , Investor Relations `
Okay, the next question is for you, Murdo from Michael Schmidt of Guggenheim Partners. And he
is asking how confident are you and achieving low-double-digit Otezla growth in 2023 and
beyond, given the current pattern of potentially flat sales since 2020 of $2.2 billion?
A - `David M. Reese, Executive Vice President, Research and Development `
Yeah. I think we remain quite confident in our long-term growth of Otezla. We are in a period
where there's a lot of new product entrants in the market competing for new patient starts. I think
the unique positioning of the product, as I've mentioned, allows us to source a very large pool of
patients and our coverage around the world and particularly in the US from an insurance
reimbursement perspective, allows us to penetrate that market, so we feel very good about
continued prospects to grow Otezla.
A - `Arvind Sood, Vice President , Investor Relations `
Okay, the next question is from Robyn Karnauskas from Truist Securities. So she is asking, big-
picture, your guidance implies potentially planned growth, given biosimilar pressures and pricing
pressures, do you think 2023 is a trough year? And regarding the guidance range, can you give
pushes and pulls on the biosimilar range?
A - `Bob Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
So Robert, maybe I'll start on the last piece and then, Pete, you can reiterate what we said about
'23, but as I said in my remarks, Robyn, we have six further biosimilar launches planned between
now and the end of the decade in the United States and other countries around the world, and itis the launch of those molecules through time, which will enable us to continue to grow that
franchise. So, I would reiterate what I said earlier in my prepared comments. I think you've heard
Murdo address as well, the attractive opportunities that we think will have here, particularly with
Amjevita, though we're at the first day of launch.
And with respect to '23, Pete, I don't know if you want to say anything in addition to what you
already have about the outlook for the year?
A - `Peter Griffith, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks. I think we covered that earlier. Just note a couple of items that happened in 2022 that we
didn't expect benefit from '23, just to reiterate those, we don't expect any and assume any
COVID 19 antibody revenues in '23, we're assuming a lower amount of Nplate sales in '23,
Robyn, compared to '22. Recall, '22 has a significant purchase by the US government in the
second-half of the year, we had several favorable changes decimated sales reductions that
occurred in '22 and we sold the generics business in Turkey, which closed late '22, so a couple of
puts and takes around those and so we look-forward to a year and 2023 with strong growth in
our priority products, Tezspire, EVENITY, Repatha, Prolia, Tavneos and then also -- and that's in
light of -- consistent with industry trends we've talked about in our recent history with mid-single-
digit price declines in our portfolio, but good volume growth. I think maybe to go back to the
question, Jay asked, so we expect strong volume growth outside the United States in 2023, so.
Looking-forward to taking on '23 with a lot of aggressiveness.
A - `Arvind Sood, Vice President , Investor Relations `
Okay, the next question is from Matt Phipps of William Blair. And Matt saying the oncology
biosimilar 2023 guidance suggests a Year-over-Year decline of 38% versus a 30% Year-over-Year
decline from '21 to '22. Is the rate of erosion in the oncology biosimilars expected to continue to
get larger beyond '23, or will this eventually hit something of a floor?
A - `Peter Griffith, Chief Financial Officer `
I wouldn't say we expect it to get larger, but we will continue to see a decline in that business,
which is a function of the average selling price decline that we've seen thus far.
A - `Arvind Sood, Vice President , Investor Relations `
Yes. Yaron Werber of Cowen, he said, I'm confused by the tax-rate going up to 18% to 19%, while
COGS are 16% to 17% and so I don't see any offsets in the COGS line, what am I missing?
A - `Peter Griffith, Chief Financial Officer `
I think, answer to that is -- that's our volume growth. The volume growth is quite large. And that's
really the offset you're on. That's a good question. And so we see that happening. We also -- in
terms of the move with the PRET down there, recall, two and cost-of-sales this year, we've got
$125 million coming in off of the -- off of the release out of inventory into cost-of-sales without any
corresponding tax provision. And so the percent of sales versus the percent of pretax two, but
you've got to be thinking about that in terms of the income tax provision itself. So that's the puts
and takes on that, but when you strip it all back, it's really that move into PRET down into the
income tax expense that increases that effective rate to 18% to 19%.
A - `Arvind Sood, Vice President , Investor Relations `Okay, the next question is from Sungmin from Credit Suisse and Sun is asking, he says, thanks for
the comments on Otezla and Enbrel. So can you add a bit more color into the dynamics in
immunology, are there any changes in the channel and mix of patients, has there been any
formulary disruptions?
A - `David M. Reese, Executive Vice President, Research and Development `
Overall, our immunology business. It looks very good. I think we're very pleased with the
TEZSPIRE launch. We continue to see broad phenotypes of patients regardless of biomarker
status being treated. We are seeing de novo patients who haven't seen a biologic before in their
treatment of their uncontrolled asthma. And we're also seeing patients being switched from
other products within the class. So we expect that area of autoimmune disease growing in terms
of the biologic penetration of severe uncontrolled asthma and we're well-positioned to compete
for that expanded treatment pattern.
Enbrel continues to serve many patients and the trends there are fairly predictable and fairly
consistent. Otezla, as we mentioned is seeing some pressure from new free drug programs,
both for our topicals, as well as new entrant oral SOTYKTU, to And then we also have just picked-
up Tavneos, which we're really excited about, a product that treats a severe autoimmune disease
ANCA-associated vasculitis, very young product, very early in its life-cycle, and I think a lot of
growth there to be had.
And then, of course, last but certainly not least, on the branded side, the announced acquisition
of Horizon, so. I think the inflammation area. Along with our own an innovative pipeline and the
pipeline of Horizon is very good growth opportunity for us long-term. And last but not least, here
we are on the first day of launch of a novel similar to the largest product in the US and that's
HUMIRA, so, I think we've got a lot of opportunities for growth ahead.
A - `Bob Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
All right. I think we're down to our last question, Arvind?
A - `Arvind Sood, Vice President , Investor Relations `
Yeah, let me quote the last question, Bob. And after that, you might have some concluding
comments. So the last question is from Brian Skorney of Baird. And Brian wants to know do you
expect this to be more of a longer-term tax rates, assuming no major changes to corporate tax
rates in the US?
A - `Murdo Gordon, Executive Vice President, Global Commercial Operations `
Arvind. Yes, Brian. I think as you know, we don't give long-term guidance on tax rates and so we
won't go beyond this year, so 18% to 19% and go back to your own, just to make sure we
understand the change in the press, the percentage of cost-of-sales sales as opposed to the
income tax-rate, which is pre-tax income. So that's a little bit of the difference to that you wrote
and asked about, so 18% to 19% this year is where we're at and that's where we'll. That's what we
give you for now.
A - `Bob Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
All right, well thank you very much again for your patience. Apologies, we had difficulty with our
vendor's connection earlier on the call. So if you have any further questions, shoot them into
Arvind, we'll be around here this afternoon, Peter, Murdo, Dave and myself to answer any furtherquestions you might have. And we appreciate your joining the call and look-forward to talking to
you during the course of 2023, thank you.