Q4 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
My name is Julianne, and I will be your conference facilitator today for Amgen's Fourth Quarter
and Full Year 2024 Financial Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to
prevent any background noise. There will be a question-and-answer session at the conclusion of
the last speaker's prepared remarks. In order to ensure that everyone has a chance to
participate, we would like to request that you limit yourself to asking one question during the
Q&A session. (Operator instructions).
I would now like to introduce, `Justin Claeys, Vice President of Investor Relations, Vice President of Investor Relations. Mr. Claeys, you
may now begin.
`Justin Claeys, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Julianne. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to our Fourth Quarter 2024
Earnings Call. Bob Bradway will lead the call and be followed by a broader review of our
performance by `Murdo Gordon, Executive Vice President of Global Commercial Operations, Jay Bradner, and `Peter Griffith, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Through the course of our discussion today, we will use non-GAAP financial measures to describe
our performance and have provided appropriate reconciliations within the materials thataccompany this call. We will also make some forward-looking statements, which are qualified by
our safe harbor statement and please note that actual results can vary materially.
Over to you, Bob.
`Robert A. Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. 2024 capped another year of
strong execution at Amgen. Our operations teams supplied every patient every time, our clinical
teams reliably delivered quality results across the portfolio and our commercial teams grew the
business across our four therapeutic areas and in each of our geographic regions.
The operating rhythm that we've established in our business will serve us well for 2025 and the
longer term. Looking ahead, our objective is to deliver long-term growth, while navigating
regulatory and political change, declining net prices, and losses of exclusivity. We have a track
record of doing just that. If you consider the past decade, we grew revenues above a mid-single-
digit percent level and EPS at approximately 9% per year over the period, despite facing
biosimilar and generic competition across products that accounted for about 50% of our
revenues.
As we look to the next decade, our novel medicines are well-positioned to address patient
demographics in a rapidly aging world and we expect that our operating discipline to enable us to
scale to meet the needs of patients while continuing to deliver for our shareholders. Reflecting
on our marketed products in 2024, we exited the fourth quarter with 14 medicines, each
annualizing at over $1 billion, and notably, several of these will be key drivers of growth through
the decade.
Let me highlight a few. Starting in General Medicine, Repatha and EVENITY continued to deliver
attractive growth. Heart disease remains the leading cause of death globally and Repatha, now a
multi-billion dollar product, continues to expand as access improves worldwide. We are the leader
worldwide in bone health, addressing the huge need for fracture prevention in those living with
osteoporosis.
The clinical performance of EVENITY since its launch demonstrates the leading role it can play in
reducing fracture risk for millions of postmenopausal women. In rare diseases, 2025 will be an
exciting year. We look forward to regulatory approvals for TEPEZZA internationally and launches in
new indications for UPLIZNA, further strengthening the growth trajectory of our rare disease
business.
In inflammation, we continue to be inspired by the strong performance of TEZSPIRE and the
progress we're making advancing into new indications, including COPD, which is the third leading
cause of death, where we intend to initiate Phase 3 studies, and of course, in chronic
rhinosinusitis, which runs in parallel with other respiratory diseases.
In oncology, our leading bispecific T-cell engager platform provides further opportunities for
growth with BLINCYTO moving into frontline treatment and demonstrating compelling survival
benefit in BALL. IMDELLTRA, showing impressive efficacy in hard-to-treat small cell lung cancer,
and Xaluritamig, advancing into Phase 3 in advanced prostate cancer.
2025 promises to be another milestone year for our rapidly advancing pipeline with important
Phase 3 data readouts for programs including across our general medicine, rare disease,
inflammation and oncology portfolios. Beyond these readouts, we'll be initiating several new
Phase 3 trials of MariTide in obesity and related conditions.This is an exciting time for innovation in our laboratories, in our factories with the science of
manufacturing and in leveraging technology across the company. When it comes to artificial
intelligence, we're finding new opportunities across our business and AI is helping us deliver
innovative medicines to more patients even faster.
To wrap up, 2024 demonstrated the strength of our business, the depth and breadth of our
portfolio and the power of our pipeline. As we step into 2025, we're poised to deliver continued
growth in innovation in the near term through 2030 and beyond. And I want to thank our global
team for their exceptional contributions and dedication to our mission.
With that, I'll turn it over to Murdo for an update on our commercial organization.
`Murdo Gordon, Executive Vice President of Global Commercial Operations `
Thanks, Bob. In the fourth quarter, product sales grew 11% year-over-year, capping off a year of
growth fueled by strong execution across the business. For the full year, product sales grew 19%
and 10 products grew by double-digits or better, creating strong momentum for growth in 2025
and beyond. Two products on a strong growth trajectory are Repatha and EVENITY, which
together grew 35% year-over-year, driven by 39% volume growth and accounting for nearly $1
billion in sales growth in the year. Both of these important brands serve large patient populations
that are mostly untreated despite the availability of highly impactful therapies, indicating robust
growth potential.
Repatha sales increased 36% in 2024, reaching over $2.2 billion in sales. There are 100 million
patients globally in need of effective treatment for lowering their LDL-C and we see strong
potential for growth of Repatha around the world as physicians, patients and payers recognize
the importance of therapies like Repatha for patients at risk of major cardiovascular events.
In the United States, Repatha sales grew 44% in 2024 with volume growth of 54%. The majority
of patients with elevated LDL-C are in the primary care setting. And in 2024, our increased
investment focused on primary-care physicians improved the number of Repatha prescribers by
50%, supporting future growth strategy.
Our direct-to-patient education efforts doubled the number of patients who asked their doctor
for Repatha. Volume growth was further supported by Repatha's broad access and
reimbursement and we see more payers seeking to ease or even remove prior authorization
barriers, making Repatha more accessible and affordable for patients.
Cardiologists and primary care physicians reported in a recent survey that Repatha access has
improved significantly versus two years ago. Outside the US, Repatha continues to grow across
major markets despite increased competition in the segment. Over the past several years, the
price of Repatha has been impacted by an expansion of coverage in the US and the growth of
new markets around the world. Moving forward, we expect less price erosion for Repatha with
2025 net price expected to decline by mid-single digits or less.
EVENITY sales increased 35% in 2024, reaching almost $1.6 billion in sales. EVENITY is the only
therapeutic that both builds bone and slows resorption, which can play a critical role in reducing
factual risk for millions of women who are postmenopausal. Despite the significant need, only
210,000 patients in the US have been treated with EVENITY to date, while millions remain at risk.
With over 90% of very high-risk patients not currently receiving appropriate treatment, we see a
significant opportunity to grow EVENITY in 2025 and beyond.In the US, EVENITY continues to be the segment leader in the bone builder market. We drove a
14% quarter-over-quarter increase in new customers ordering EVENITY and saw an increase in
prescription volume from both established and new EVENITY prescribers. We've increased our
investment in EVENITY and have fully shifted the focus of our US bone field force towards
EVENITY.
I'll move to our rare disease portfolio, which delivered over $4.5 billion in sales in 2024. TEPEZZA,
our largest product in the rare disease portfolio, generated sales of $1.9 billion in the year,
representing 5% year-on-year growth. Since launch, TEPEZZA has had a positive impact for
thousands of patients living with thyroid eye disease. There are roughly 100,000 patients
suffering from thyroid eye disease in the US who could benefit from TEPEZZA and to reach them,
we've intensified our efforts to engage a broad prescriber base of oculoplastic surgeons,
ophthalmologists and endocrinologists.
We're moving quickly in international markets to secure regulatory approval for TEPEZZA, which
will drive additional growth. And we've successfully launched TEPEZZA in Japan, where it's the
first and only medicine approved to treat active thyroid eye disease. In 2025, we expect to launch
TEPEZZA in seven additional countries.
In inflammation, TEZSPIRE continues its strong trajectory with nearly $1 billion in sales in the year, a
71% year-over-year increase. We've driven increased adoption by pulmonologists supported by
TEZSPIRE's unique profile to treat patients with multiple severe uncontrolled asthma triggers and
drivers. TEZSPIRE has strong future growth potential given the need to treat the 2.5 million
patients worldwide with severe uncontrolled asthma.
Our innovative oncology portfolio, including, BLINCYTO, LUMAKRAS, Vectibix, KYPROLIS, Nplate,
XGEVA and IMDELLTRA contributed almost $8 billion in sales for the full year. Year-over-year sales
grew 11%, driven by volume growth and higher net selling price. Our leading bispecific T-cell
engager platform, which developed BLINCYTO and IMDELLTRA continues to address critical
unmet needs in oncology while providing significant opportunities for future growth.
BLINCYTO sales grew 41% for the full year, reaching over $1.2 billion in sales. We expect continued
strong growth in 2025, driven by broad prescribing across academic and community segments.
Physician prescribing is growing and compelling new clinical data is redefining BLINCYTO as the
standard of care for both adult and pediatric patients with Philadelphia chromosome negative B-
cell ALL.
Our US launch of IMDELLTRA for the treatment of patients with extensive-stage small cell lung
cancer who are progressing on or after chemotherapy is off to a strong start and generating $115
million in sales in seven months since launch. We see increasing breadth of adoption in both
academic and community settings, driven by strong clinical conviction for BLINCYTO
transformational efficacy.
BLINCYTO has treated approximately 2,000 patients since launch. Each year, an estimated
8,000 to 10,000 patients progress to second line treatment for extensive-stage small cell lung
cancer. Our medical and commercial teams are operating with urgency to bring IMDELLTRA to
more patients living with this aggressive disease.
Sales of our biosimilar products were $2.2 billion in 2024, an increase of 16% year-over-year. In the
fourth quarter, our team readily executed the launch of PAVBLU, a biosimilar to EYLEA, with nine
weeks of sales totaling $31 million. Response from retina specialists to PAVBLU has been very
positive with strong intent to purchase and administer this high-quality antigen biosimilar,The next wave of biosimilar launches continues in 2025. In January, building on the strong
introduction of PAVBLU at the end of 2024, we launched WEZLANA, a biosimilar to STELARA. And
in the second quarter, we expect to launch BEKEMV, a biosimilar to Solaris. With this next wave of
launches, we anticipate robust growth and attractive returns from our biosimilar portfolio.
2024 were -- was a strong year of execution across Amgen. We view execution as a team effort,
the tightly coordinated integration between research and development, manufacturing
operations and our commercial teams enables us to serve record numbers of patients across the
portfolio and around the world. This relentless cross enterprise focus will accelerate our ability to
reach even more patients with Amgen medicines in 2025.
And with that, I'll hand it over to Jay.
`James Bradner, Executive Vice President Research and Development and Chief Scientific `
Thank you, Murdo, and good afternoon, everyone. At this time last year, we planned a very
ambitious R&D agenda and I'm very proud to say we delivered meeting or exceeding almost all
enrollment targets and generating impact and value across the portfolio. Specifically, in 2024, we
received two important US regulatory approvals in oncology, completed five positive Phase 3
studies and initiated three new Phase 3 trials while advancing the broad MariTide program.
Let's begin with MariTide, a therapy with a unique, differentiated and highly competitive profile.
Since our Phase 2 data disclosure last November, we have engaged extensively with key opinion
leaders and have received strong enthusiasm and support. This excitement stems from MariTide
ability to deliver consistent, predictable and sustained weight loss through 52 weeks without
hitting a weight loss plateau and convenient monthly or less frequent dosing, a clear advantage
over current weekly therapies.
Additionally, key opinion leaders conveyed their excitement for robust and clinically meaningful
improvements in cardiometabolic parameters, including hemoglobin A1C demonstrated by
MariTide treatment. With a further optimized simple dose escalation schedule and significantly
fewer injections per year, we expect to improve persistent and long-term health outcomes.
MariTide represents a promising treatment advance for people living with obesity and related
conditions and we are committed to fully realizing its potential.
In the first half of 2025, we expect to initiate the first studies in our broad Phase 3 MARITIME
program and expect to present the full MariTide Phase 2 dataset at a major medical congress. In
the second half of 2025, we expect key data readouts from both the ongoing Phase 2 type 2
diabetes study and part two of the ongoing Phase 2 chronic weight management study.
Beyond MariTide, in general medicine, we look forward to data from the Repatha VESALIUS
Phase-3 primary prevention study in the second half of this year. Having demonstrated profound
and sustained benefit of Repatha in the secondary prevention setting, we're excited about these
data and the opportunity to reach additional patients at high risk of a first cardiovascular event.
Turning to Olpasiran, our promising best-in-class small interfering RNA medicine targeting Lp(a),
we are bringing a precision medicine to cardiovascular risk reduction for the many individuals with
Lp(a) elevation. The fully enrolled OCEAN(a) Phase 3 cardiovascular outcomes trialable Olpasiran
continues to progress and we expect to initiate an additional Phase 3 outcome study in patients
with elevated Lp(a) and at high risk for a first cardiovascular event late this year or in the first-half
of 2026.Shifting to rare disease. We are very excited about UPLIZNA's potential to serve even more
patients facing rare inflammatory illnesses. In 2024, we generated compelling data from UPLIZNA
Phase 3 MITIGATE study in patients with IgG4-related disease, a serious inflammatory condition
with no approved therapies. These data are now under FDA priority review with a PDUFA date of
April 3, 2025.
The FDA also granted orphan drug designation to UPLIZNA for the treatment of generalized
myasthenia gravis based upon 26-week data from the Phase 3 MINT study. This study showed
UPLIZNA to be highly effective on multiple clinical outcomes, also reducing the need for steroids
with patient-centered convenient dosing. We eagerly anticipate the 52-week data later this year,
which will provide further insight into response and long-term durability.
With two anticipated approvals on the horizon in IgG4-related disease and generalized
myasthenia gravis, we are more confident than ever about UPLIZNA's expanding impact on the
management of rare inflammatory diseases.
In inflammation, we remain on track to initiate Phase 3 studies of TEZSPIRE in COPD, targeting
patients with moderate to very severe COPD with bloody eosinophil counts greater than or equal
to 150 cells per microliter. COPD is the world's third leading cause of death and we're excited
about the impact TEZSPIRE could have in this setting.
Beyond COPD, regulatory submissions are underway in chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps
supported by positive Phase 3 data and we continue advancing a Phase 3 study in eosinophilic
esophagitis.
The rocatinlimab Phase 3 ROCKET program in atopic dermatitis is progressing with additional
data expected throughout 2025. These studies will provide deeper insight into rocatinlimab's
profile. Beyond atopic dermatitis, we continue to explore rocatinlimab in moderate-to-severe
asthma and prurigo nodularis, a chronic skin condition characterized by extreme itchiness.
As previously indicated, we are pursuing B-cell depletion in autoimmune disease with both
blinatumomab and inebilizumab. Our initial focus is on systemic lupus erythematosus with plans to
expand into additional indications.
2025 will be an important year in oncology, where we expect three key Phase 3 data readouts. I
will start with our rapidly advancing BiTE portfolio. Last December, very exciting BLINCYTO data
were shared at ASH and published simultaneously in the New England Journal of Medicine. In a
Phase 3 study conducted by the Children's Oncology Group, BLINCYTO added to chemotherapy
improved three-year disease-free survival to 96% compared to 88% with chemotherapy alone in
the upfront treatment of pediatric B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
We are also advancing a subcutaneous formulation of blinatumomab with a potentially
registration-enabling study in adults and adolescents with relapsed refractory B-ALL expected to
begin in the second half of 2025. Based on our experience to date, subcutaneous blinatumomab
has the potential to improve the patient experience, efficacy and tolerability.
Our second approved BiTE therapy IMDELLTRA, a first-in-class bispecific T-cell engager targeting
DLL3 for small-cell lung cancer is rapidly advancing into earlier lines of therapy. Phase 3 studies
are ongoing in both extensive stage and limited stage disease. Data from DeLLphi-304 are
expected in the first half of 2025. This study compares IMDELLTRA with standard-of-care
chemotherapy in second-line extensive stage small cell lung cancer.Our first-in-class STEAP1 CV3 bispecific T-cell engager xaluritamig has entered Phase 3 clinical
development with a study in post-taxane metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer. We are
also exploring xaluritamig in combination therapy and in earlier lines of prostate cancer with
multiple Phase 1b studies ongoing.
We remain excited about the growth potential of our BiTE platform and the opportunity to reach
additional cancer patients with BLINCYTO, IMDELLTRA and xaluritamig.
Beyond our T-cell engagers bemarituzumab, our first-in-class fibroblast growth factor receptor 2b
directed monoclonal antibody is advancing to frontline gastric cancer therapy. We expect data in
the first half of 2025 from FORTITUDE-101, a Phase 3 study of bemarituzumab combined with
mFOLFOX-6 chemotherapy versus chemotherapy alone. In the second half of 2025, we expect
data from an analysis of FORTITUDE-102, a Phase 3 study of bemarituzumab combined with
chemotherapy and nivolumab.
On biosimilars, we are rapidly advancing three Phase 3 programs evaluating our biosimilars to
OPDIVO, KEYTRUDA and OCREVUS, the next wave of Amgen biosimilar products.
In closing, I want to thank my Amgen colleagues for their unwavering commitment to patients
facing grievous illnesses and for their focus and collaboration throughout a highly productive
2024. We look forward to an exciting year ahead and continued pipeline momentum.
I'll now turn it over to Peter.
`Peter Griffith, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Jay. We're pleased with our execution excellence in the fourth quarter and for the full
year 2024, and we remain on track with our long-term objectives. The financial results are shown
on Slides 28 to 30 of this slide deck.
Full year total revenues of $33.4 billion grew 19% year-over-year, driven by 21 products with
record sales. Product sales increased 19% year-over-year, driven by 23% volume growth.
Excluding products acquired from Horizon, product sales for the full year increased 7% year-over-
year, driven by 11% volume growth. For the full year, we delivered a non-GAAP operating margin
of 47%.
We continue to invest in advancing our pipeline with non-GAAP R&D spend increasing 25% year-
over-year for the full year to a record $5.9 billion due to investments in the late-stage pipeline,
including, MariTide, rocatinlimab, bemarituzumab, and IMDELLTRA, as well as Horizon acquired
programs. Excluding Horizon, non-GAAP R&D spending increased 15% year-over-year.
The Horizon integration is progressing well and we expect to reach the previously announced
$500 million in pre-tax cost synergies by year three post-acquisition. The acquisition was
accretive to non-GAAP EPS for the full year 2024. Full-year non-GAAP other income and expense
was up $1.1 billion year-over-year, almost entirely due to increased interest expense from the
Horizon acquisition. We continue to strengthen our balance sheet with $4.5 billion of debt retired
in 2024.
Our non-GAAP tax rate decreased 2 percentage points year-over-year to 14.5% for the full year,
primarily due to the change in earnings mix, including the addition of the Horizon business and
net favorable items. The company generated $10.4 billion in free cash flow for the full year and
$4.4 billion in free cash flow in the fourth quarter. These results reflect strong momentum in the
business and favorable timing of collections at year-end.We executed capital expenditures in 2024 of $1.3 billion, in line with the guidance provided with
the cash outflow being $1.1 billion and the remainder to be paid in 2025. Our commitment to
innovation is also evident as we deploy artificial intelligence across the value chain, including
informing molecule design and discovery research, enabling faster trial enrollment, and
streamlining regulatory filings in clinical development, and enhancing our responsiveness to
customers in commercial operations. In addition, we returned capital to shareholders as we paid
competitive dividends of $2.25 per share in the fourth quarter. This represented a 6% increase
compared to 2023. We expect that we will continue to increase our dividend.
Let's turn to the outlook for the business for 2025 on Slide 31. We expect our 2025 total
revenues in the range of $34.3 billion to $35.7 billion and non-GAAP earnings per share between
$20 and $21.20. Our revenue range reflects our strong growth outlook driven by numerous
opportunities across each of our therapeutic areas.
We expect continued growth across a number of products, led by our near-term growth drivers,
Repatha, EVENITY, TEZSPIRE, our innovative oncology portfolio, our rare disease portfolio, and
biosimilars. This growth will more than offset declines due to the upcoming denosumab patent
expiration, as well as continued price declines across our portfolio in 2025.
For total company revenues, we expect each quarter of 2025 to have a relatively similar year-
over-year growth rate. A reminder, as you model the first quarter of 2025 and consistent with our
historical trends, we expect Otezla and Enbrel to follow their typical pattern of lower sales in the
first quarter relative to subsequent quarters. Also, note that biosimilar sales in the US can
significantly vary quarter-to-quarter depending on customer ordering patterns.
For example, we expect Q1 AMJEVITA sales in the US to be in line with Q3 2024. For the full year,
we expect other revenue to be approximately $1.4 billion. In 2025, we are driving R&D
investments to support our promising late-stage pipeline, including MariTide and Olpasiran. As a
result, we project the full-year non-GAAP operating margin as a percentage of product sales to
be roughly 46%.
We project non-GAAP cost of sales to be in the range of 18% to 19% as a percentage of product
sales for 2025. This projection reflects the ongoing impact of sales mix, including profit-sharing
royalties. We expect non-GAAP R&D expense to grow year-over-year in the mid-teens in 2025,
with investments increasing to advance key pipeline assets, including MariTide and Olpasiran.
We see significant potential in our innovative pipeline and it is important that we strategically
invest now to fully unlock these opportunities. And for the non-GAAP SG&A spend, we expect the
2025 full-year amount as a percentage of product sales to decline by approximately 1
percentage point to 2 percentage points year-over-year as we continue to drive efficiencies and
prioritize resources, including leveraging both automation and our newly established innovation
and technology hub in India.
Overall, the operating margin of roughly 46% indicates our commitment to investing in the best
innovation, while also driving execution, excellence, efficiency, and prioritization across the
organization. Consistent with prior years and in line with typical lower product sales in Q1, we
expect Q1 non-GAAP operating margin to be the lowest of the year at roughly 42% and then
accelerate in each of the quarters following the first quarter.
We anticipate non-GAAP OI&E to be approximately $2.4 billion in 2025. We expect a non-GAAP
tax rate of 15% to 16%. Similar to 2024, we expect share repurchases not to exceed $500 million
in 2025, and we expect the share count in the first quarter of 2025 to be flat to the fourth quarterwith our capital allocation priority to invest in our business and scale capacity for growth in
marketed products and the pipeline.
We expect to maintain strong investment-grade credit ratings as we continue to generate strong
free cash flows, strengthen our balance sheet, and remain on track to return to our pre-Horizon
capital structure by the end of 2025. In 2025, we expect free cash flow performance to be similar
to 2023. This decline is primarily driven by 2024 working capital favorability and incremental
capital expenditures.
Free cash flow in the first half of 2025 will be impacted by strong 2024 year-end collections
timing. The shift in 2024 tax payments to the second quarter of 2025 and also the final $1.8 billion
repatriation tax payment in the second quarter of 2025. Our long-term outlook remains strong,
and I'm grateful to our colleagues worldwide for their dedication to serving patients.
This concludes our financial update. I'll now hand it back to Bob for our Q&A session.
`Robert A. Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Just to recap before we go to the Q&A session. As you can see, our results highlight the
breadth and depth of opportunities across our business. And we exited the fourth quarter with 10
products growing at a double-digit sales rate and 14 products annualizing at over $1 billion. And
for the year, to repeat, we had 21 products delivering record sales. So this momentum supports
our outlook for 2025 and through the long term.
And with that, we'd be happy to take questions.
`Justin Claeys, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Julianne, if you could please remind our participants of the procedures here?
Questions And Answers
Operator
Certainly. Thank you. (Operator Instructions). Our first question comes from `Yaron Werber, Analyst, TD Cowen from
TD Cowen. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Yaron Werber, Analyst, TD Cowen `
Great. Thanks for taking my question. Maybe just a couple of things on 514, the one that's on
clinical hold for obesity. Can you comment, was that an incretin or not an incretin mechanism? And
then secondly, maybe just for Murdo, a few things looked really strong. AMJEVITA was extremely
strong at 294. Is that sustainable from now on? What drove that? Thank you.
A - `Robert A. Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
All right. Let's take it in two parts. Jay, you want to address the 513? I think it is.
A - `James Bradner, Executive Vice President Research and Development and Chief Scientific `
Thanks, Yaron. AMG 513 is a novel investigational medicine for patients with obesity. It's currently
in Phase 1 investigation. We have not disclosed the mechanism of action. This remains a
competitive space, as you know.
A - `Murdo Gordon, Executive Vice President of Global Commercial Operations `And Yaron, it's Murdo here. We're pleased with overall biosimilar's performance in our biosimilar
portfolio, as I mentioned last year grew about 16% and we're confident we can continue to grow
that portfolio going forward, one of which of those growth contributors will be AMJEVITA.
A - `Justin Claeys, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Great. Julianne, we'll go to the next question. I will remind folks, we have quite a full queue today.
So if you can limit yourself to one question, that'd be great.
Operator
Thank you, Yaron. Our next question comes from `Courtney Breen, Analyst, Bernstein from Bernstein. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Courtney Breen, Analyst, Bernstein `
Hi, all. Thanks for taking my question today. I wanted to ask a little bit about Repatha. Obviously,
we're seeing kind of strong growth there and there's new indications coming, particularly in the
primary prevention space. Can you just talk a little bit about kind of how you anticipate this market
evolving as we think about the oral PCSK9 and Merck's CORALreef lipids trial that is also
scheduled to read out later this year? There seem to be suggestions that could perform as well
as an injectable in terms of the efficacy. So just wanting to understand how you would position.
Thank you.
A - `Murdo Gordon, Executive Vice President of Global Commercial Operations `
Yeah. Thanks, Courtney. We're obviously very pleased with the performance of Repatha in 2024,
putting up some very strong growth both in volume and in revenues, both in the US and outside
of the United States. And we expect to see that continue. We expect to be able to treat the
many patients who have not had their LDL cholesterol optimized. And there's millions upon
millions of these patients. We are barely scratching the surface when it comes to treating them.
And we think that Repatha offers a really ideal solution for patients to receive it and for
prescribers to prescribe it.
What we're really pleased about is the perception amongst prescribers now that Repatha is an
easy to access medicine and an affordable medicine and that's thanks to the efforts of our
access teams around the world making sure that Repatha is appropriately reimbursed and
positioned on formularies with PBMs. And we've been successful in removing those barriers. So
we really are an inflection point in Repatha's performance and feel very, very good about the
trajectory and momentum we established in 2024.
With respect to new competition, obviously, there's more than just LDL cholesterol-lowering
evidence that needs to be introduced here. Repatha has clearly demonstrated benefit in
secondary prevention of heart attack, strokes and other cardiovascular sequelae. And the goal, of
course, as you mentioned, is that with VESALIUS which reads out later this year, that we'll be able
to show that you can actually lower the risk of a first heart attack or stroke or other cardiovascular
event. So we're kind of -- we're in the mode of helping treat hard endpoints now in this market
and not just lowering LDL.
So we'll see what the evidence is and how it accumulates with not just the orals, but other
competitors that are trying to come into this market. But again, obviously, Repatha is a very
important growth driver for us now and into the future.A - `Justin Claeys, Vice President of Investor Relations `
All right. Julianne, take the next question, please.
Operator
Thank you, Courtney. Our next question comes from `Salveen Richter, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. Please
go-ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Salveen Richter, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my question. In the context of your 2025 sales guidance, can
you speak to where you feel the street is under appreciating growth and discuss how you
factored in the Part D redesign to your projections? Thank you.
A - `Robert A. Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Let me take it in two pieces. Murdo, why don't you first start on the Part-D redesign, and Pete,
why don't you jump in?
A - `Peter Griffith, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Sure.
A - `Murdo Gordon, Executive Vice President of Global Commercial Operations `
Yeah, the Part D redesign at a total portfolio level for us is relatively neutral between some
(Technical Difficulty) that chronic care cardiovascular products at an affordable price like Repatha
tend to do well when patients out-of-pocket is capped and smoothed. And that's what we
believe will happen for products like Repatha going forward. Peter?
A - `Peter Griffith, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Great. Murdo, thank you. And Salveen, thank you for the question. I would just remind you what
we've said, which is let's start from 10 products with 14 products annualizing or at blockbuster
status of $1 billion or more and 21 that were recorded in 2024. So strong in-market portfolio,
Salveen. So when we look at 2025, I'd really like to start with two and then add four more on to
think about. Murdo talked about Repatha. So as he said, 100 million people around the world
needing treatment. VESALIUS is coming later this year and less price erosion, maybe mid-single
digit or less this year on that you talked about the strong access globally. So we expect Repatha
to continue to be a strong medicine going forward.
And the second on EVENITY, it's got low single-digit penetration, greater than 90% of the high-
risk patients in the US haven't been treated. And there's a significant unmet need there with
EVENITY. So, we think those two are very, very important. But let me also share TEZSPIRE, up 71%
in 2024 to almost $1 billion. I think it was $972 million of product sales. Innovative oncology, up 11%,
the seven innovative oncology products we have in 2024. We think that's a very strong portfolio
to help patients with oncology and hematology disease. Rare disease, up to about $4.5 billion in
2024.
And remind you (Technical Difficulty) and when we think about those four, we see a lot of growth
there and a lot of opportunities. But then we get to biosimilars. We shared with you 16% growth
up to about $2.2 billion in 2024. We've got some launches coming this year and so we continue to
see a lot of growth in that. So we think there's a lot of opportunity to continue to grow thisbusiness in a strong way in 2025 and going forward. And as I shared in my opening remarks, we
see that driving us right past the expiry on denosumab.
So I'll leave it there, but we're very pleased with the business. And most importantly, we expect
more medicine to more patients in 2025 around the world.
A - `Justin Claeys, Vice President of Investor Relations `
All right. Julianne, let's go to the next question, please.
Operator
(Technical Difficulty) Salveen. Our next question comes from `David Amsellem, Analyst, Piper Sandler from Piper Sandler.
Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `David Amsellem, Analyst, Piper Sandler `
Thanks. So, wanted to switch gears and get your thoughts on some of the Horizon products.
KRYSTEXXA, how are you thinking about the growth runway there and the potential for biosimilar
down the road? And then (Technical Difficulty). Thanks.
A - `Robert A. Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Murdo, do you want to (Multiple Speakers)
A - `Murdo Gordon, Executive Vice President of Global Commercial Operations `
Yeah. Thank you, David. KRYSTEXXA had a very strong year in growth year-over-year. When we
look at the -- if we include the Horizon performance from the prior period, KRYSTEXXA was up
23%, UPLIZNA up 40%, TAVNEOS up 111% and TEPEZZA up 5%. So this is as Peter mentioned,
overall, it's a portfolio of products very early on in their life cycle. And with more data to flow, as is
the case, of course, with UPLIZNA with our IgG4 data and additional gMG data coming on 52
weeks.
So we have a number of catalysts that will grow our business in the US and then we have catalysts
for growth outside the US with, of course, international launches and expansion, which is well
underway with the recent approval of TEPEZZA in Japan.
With respect to KRYSTEXXA, overall, again, even though KRYSTEXXA is part of our rare disease
portfolio, severe uncontrolled gout is not a rare disease. It's not a rare condition. There are lots of
patients out there who suffer continuously. And with the immunomodulation data, we are now
able to help many of those patients. And so we see continued robust opportunity for growth
there. And we're also looking to develop additional pipeline assets. And so, Jay and his team are
looking at those opportunities.
A - `Justin Claeys, Vice President of Investor Relations `
All right. Julien, we'll go to the next question, please.
Operator
Thank you, David. Our next question comes from `Michael Yee, Analyst, Jefferies from Jefferies. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Michael Yee, Analyst, Jefferies `Hey, guys, thanks for the question. Other than MariTide, you've had one or two obesity assets
have some slip ups. Can you maybe comment about your strategic view about where you'd like
to be in a couple of years if you are so confident on MariTide, given that everyone is chasing a
multiple asset portfolio, including orals and you seem to be pretty early-stage outside of
MariTide? So maybe just comment about your appetite there and whether you can add to the
portfolio. Thank you.
A - `Robert A. Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Mike, I'm not sure we'd accept the premise. But anyway, let's talk about the portfolio of
obesity programs. Go ahead, Jay.
A - `James Bradner, Executive Vice President Research and Development and Chief Scientific `
Yeah, thanks, Mike. Akin to what Bob said, I wouldn't call these slip-ups at all. Early-phase clinical
investigation here at Amgen has a really high bar for what medicines go forward and the next
medicine up after MariTide did not meet that bar. Our obesity efforts fit very well with our
strengths in cardiovascular disease, nephrology, and more generally, the emerging presence in
primary care. And so, we're very confident that we have all the talent, capabilities, ideas, and
rising medicines to be a major player in obesity for the fullness of time, which we've studied for
more than a decade.
The research and early development pipeline has ideas targeting integrins, also non-integrins.
We have medicines that will be given orally, others by subcutaneous administration. We're also
interested to open partnerships through external innovation. And so, we're very confident in
MariTide and very confident in the pipeline behind it.
A - `Robert A. Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Sorry, Jay, just to clarify one thing, the 513 is still -- we still expect to have that development. We
don't believe the issue that we referenced is related to the drug, but we'll go through the usual
steps with the regulators on that. But Jay was referring to another product that we're no longer
advancing that was previously in the clinic, so when he said it didn't pass the hurdle. But again,
we're excited about the program and the molecules that are coming forward to the clinic out of
the obesity portfolio.
A - `Justin Claeys, Vice President of Investor Relations `
All right, Julianne, let's go to the next question, please.
Operator
Thank you, Michael. Our next question comes from `Jay Olson, Analyst, Oppenheimer from Oppenheimer. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Jay Olson, Analyst, Oppenheimer `
Hey, congrats. (Technical Difficulty)
A - `Robert A. Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Hey, Jay. Jay, we can't hear you. Jay, sorry, we can't hear you. You want to take another -- take
another start?Q - `Jay Olson, Analyst, Oppenheimer `
Can you hear me better now?
A - `Robert A. Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, go ahead.
Q - `Jay Olson, Analyst, Oppenheimer `
Okay. Could you describe the key lessons you expect to learn from the Repatha VESALIUS-CV
outcome study results? How you can leverage those lessons across your portfolio, including
Olpasiran and MariTide? And any synergies you plan to capture across these programs? Thank
you.
A - `Robert A. Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Jay?
A - `James Bradner, Executive Vice President Research and Development and Chief Scientific `
Sure. Why don't I start and then Murdo I'll invite you to speak to synergies and the like. We've
learned a lot from Repatha already. We have a leading capability in population genetics and
epidemiology. And the -- now the broad use of Repatha in secondary prevention is a fantastic
setup for VESALIUS-CV. As you know, this is a Phase 3 large cardiovascular outcome study of
more than 12,000 patients, placebo-controlled patients at high cardiovascular risk without prior MI
or stroke. This is ongoing. We have an event-driven readout expected in the second half of this
year.
This will be a large and valuable data set for us to mine to understand the further improvement
of cardiovascular outcomes for patients as it relates to LDLC, but also for other parameters. We
have already harvested so many insights from Repatha and carried that into the design and
execution of the Olpasiran Phase 3 program, which as you heard has an event-driven outcome,
expected a readout in the second half of next year. So very valuable data set that will no doubt
prompt significant further insights.
A - `Murdo Gordon, Executive Vice President of Global Commercial Operations `
Thanks, Jay. And the synergies here are significant and substantial given the leadership presence
we have in LDL lowering and being able to apply that to Lp(a) lowering with Olpasiran obviously is
successful in the readout of our Phase 3 trial. I do think there's going to be some differences
though, given that LP(a) cannot be modified by lifestyle, diet, and exercise. There are no other
generically available or branded available products that can lower LP(a).
We do think that the intentionality and the speed to move to a pharmacotherapeutic for LP(a)
lowering will be different than it has been for LDL. But nonetheless, we're clearly engaged with all
of the different stakeholders in the lipid-lowering and atherosclerotic market and we're engaging
them as appropriate to make sure that they understand the profile of Olpasiran and the design
of the trial that Jay mentioned and ultimately when we have results to share.
A - `Justin Claeys, Vice President of Investor Relations `
All right, Julianne, let's go to the next question, please.Operator
Thank you, Jay. Our next question comes from `Alex Hammond, Analyst, Wolfe Research from Wolfe Research. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Alex Hammond, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Thanks for taking the question. So with more and more companies looking to China for
innovation, what is Amgen's stance on looking overseas for clinical stage assets? And I guess
more broadly, what is your appetite for M&A now post the Horizon acquisition? Thank you.
A - `Robert A. Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
We're -- our position on business development remains pretty consistent, Alex. We're focused on
molecules that we think we can add value to irrespective of where they come from. So we have
had and maintain a very active search for interesting opportunities for licensing and acquisition all
around the globe. And yeah, we're open for business, looking for those opportunities.
A - `Justin Claeys, Vice President of Investor Relations `
All right, Julianne, let's go to the next question, please.
Operator
Thank you, Alex. Our next question comes from `Terence Flynn, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Terence Flynn, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Hi, thanks so much for the question. Also just wanted to say my thoughts are with all those
Amgen employees and everyone in the LA area who has been impacted by the devastating
wildfires. I had a two-parter on MariTide. I know you're doing part two of the Phase 2 to explore
quarterly dosing. Just wondering if there's an interim look there, so you can incorporate that
schedule into the Phase 3 program if you decide to. And then was wondering if you can tell us if
ADA is a fair assumption for presentation of the full MariTide Phase 2 obesity data. Thank you.
A - `Robert A. Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Jay?
A - `James Bradner, Executive Vice President Research and Development and Chief Scientific `
Yeah, thanks, Terence, for your question and really appreciate the call out for the associates here
and the area residents facing these fires. We have, as you know, an ongoing part two of our
Phase 2 study in chronic weight management. That is a 52-week study and we expect data
readout late this year. I can confirm that we look forward to presenting the Phase 2 Part 1 data at
the ADA meeting in June this year in Chicago and look forward to seeing you there.
A - `Justin Claeys, Vice President of Investor Relations `
All right, Julianne, next question, please.
OperatorThank you, Terence. Our next question comes from `David Risinger, Analyst, Leerink Partners from Leerink Partners. Please
go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `David Risinger, Analyst, Leerink Partners `
Yes, thanks very much. So I have sort of a simple question. Clearly, you've provided a lot of
helpful pipeline updates on the call, so thank you for that. So my question, Jay, is, could you just
explain why you're announcing today the plans to initiate a new Olpasiran Phase 3 trial in high-risk
patients when it's not going to be initiated until late '25 or early '26? What is pending initiating
that trial? Thank you.
A - `Robert A. Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Sorry, again, Dave, maybe I just clarify. I mentioned this in January at JPM in the context, this is
Bob speaking, Dave, in the context of what to expect for the year. But Jay, go ahead and address
the specific piece of the question if you'd like.
A - `James Bradner, Executive Vice President Research and Development and Chief Scientific `
Yeah. No, nothing more to add. We have already announced our intention to initiate Phase 3
clinical investigation of Olpasiran in primary prevention. This is a strong hypothesis for protecting
patients with elevations of LP(a) and we hope to initiate this study, intend to initiate this study in
the second half of this year or in the first half of next year. We just have a total commitment to the
benefit of patients facing, in this case, genetically defined risk of cardiovascular disease.
A - `Justin Claeys, Vice President of Investor Relations `
All right, Julianne, let's go to the next question, please.
Operator
Thank you, Dave. Our next question comes from `Chris Schott, Analyst, JPMorgan from JPMorgan. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Chris Schott, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Great. Thanks so much. Just wanted to kind of talk through TEPEZZA and just how we should be
thinking about growth in both the US and internationally here. I guess, specifically, can you talk
about ex-US, the Japan opportunity in some of these new markets? And can we think about the
rapid ramp that we saw in the US kind of repeating itself in those markets or were these more
gradual ramps as these roll-out? Thank you.
A - `Murdo Gordon, Executive Vice President of Global Commercial Operations `
Yeah, hi, Chris, it's Murdo here. Thanks for the question on TEPEZZA. In Japan, the epidemiology
is quite significant here. Roughly 25,000 patients, what we're talking about. The care model in
Japan does reduce the friction that prescribers and patients experience in terms of finding
access to the right physician and then access to a site of care. So we do expect there to be a
pretty good uptake in this market. I'm not sure about the bolus dynamic that we saw in the United
States. That did have some impact because it was a launch during the COVID period.
So I'm not sure I would compare curves there, but I would expect steady penetration of the
Japanese patient population. We know there have been over 550 patients already identified by
prescribers. I was there for the launch at the end of last year. The weekly data are showing somepretty good steady momentum. And so, Japan will be a very good source of growth for TEPEZZA
internationally.
As I mentioned, we've got seven other markets that we'll be launching in hopefully this year
pending regulatory approvals. And we do see that international catalyst, that international growth
as a catalyst for the overall brand and it's obviously one of the things that drove the acquisition,
the ability for Amgen's global footprint to bring these medicines to more patients.
In the US, we continue to focus on broadening the prescriber base for TEPEZZA. So helping
general ophthalmology and endocrinology diagnose not just the Graves' disease, but also the
thyroid eye disease and then find the site of care for patients to receive TEPEZZA treatment.
Just one overarching comment I'll make on TEPEZZA. It does follow the pattern we see in some
other products in our portfolio where that first quarter this year will be a little bit lower than the
other three quarters, mostly a function of people having their insurance reverified and/or
purchasing patterns in the market. So just something to watch out for. But long-term, TEPEZZA
growth is looking very good given the international approvals and the momentum that we plan to
generate in the US.
A - `Justin Claeys, Vice President of Investor Relations `
All right. Julianne, let's go to the next question, please.
Operator
Thank you, Chris. Our next question comes from `James Shin, Analyst, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `James Shin, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Hey, guys, thank you for taking my question. Any color on the indications for the MARITIME trials
that will start in first half '25? And can you say anything on whether or not MARITIME will have
head-to-head against incumbents such as tirzepatide or sema at this point? Thank you.
A - `James Bradner, Executive Vice President Research and Development and Chief Scientific `
Yeah, thank you, James. The MARITIME Phase 3 program has a focus on chronic weight
management, on cardiovascular disease, kidney disease, type-2 diabetes, sleep apnea, heart
failure and possibly additional indications. As our discussions are at a rather mature state with the
federal regulators, it would be premature to talk through any design principles around these trials
at this time, but we look very much forward to initiating the MARITIME Phase 3 program.
A - `Justin Claeys, Vice President of Investor Relations `
All right. Julianne, let's go to the next question, please.
Operator
Thank you, James. Our next question comes from `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Bank of America from Bank of America. Please
go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Bank of America `
Thank you. I know Amgen commonly says it doesn't get enough credit by the street firstEYLEA biosimilar, why can't that be a very significant product for you guys as the only seller into
that large market, right for the next few years? It seems like it could get to a $1 billion-plus type
sales level. And can you give us some idea of what's in your 2025 guide for this? Thank you.
A - `Robert A. Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, Tim. We couldn't hear the -- very clearly the beginning of your question, but it seems that
you're asking about biosimilars. Perhaps you suggested we don't get enough credit for what we
do in biosimilars. If that's what you said, we're grateful. We are a world leader, as you know, in
biosimilars and our focus has been to reliably supply biosimilars when we're appropriately able to
enter the market. And our objective is to be amongst the first wave of biosimilar entrants and
that's what we've achieved with PAVBLU.
But as to the specifics, Murdo, do you want to address Tim's question?
A - `Murdo Gordon, Executive Vice President of Global Commercial Operations `
Yeah, Tim, as you know, we don't give product-specific guidance. But given your comments, I
would say we're very pleased with how the launch is going. We, as Bob mentioned, always try to
target being in the first wave. We find ourselves being the only biosimilar available in the market
right now. And of course, that represents an opportunity that we will capitalize on.
The current feedback from retina specialists that we've been talking to is very enthusiastic, very
positive. They are pleased that Amgen is bringing yet another high-quality biosimilar in a very
easy-to-use prefilled syringe. Given the number of administrations these retina specialists do
each and every day, that device is quite important. And thanks to our legal colleagues and our
manufacturing operations and process development teams, they've done a very, very nice job of
making sure that we have a path to helping many more patients with another Amgen biosimilar.
A - `Peter Griffith, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Maybe to add on just a little bit, Murdo and Bob. I would suggest, Tim, we've built what we think
obviously is an industry-leading biosimilar franchise. We operate very efficiently. We leverage the
broader Amgen footprint, including manufacturing and operations. We believe we're earning
attractive returns for our shareholders in this. When we pursue an opportunity, we deliver to date,
I would remind you that we have a 100% success rate of FDA approval once we enter the clinic.
And with 10 billion in cumulative biosimilar sales through '24, we're on track to double 2021 sales
to over 4 billion by the end of the decade. I think this reinforces our leadership and ability to
deliver attractive returns. So it's a really important question. We're delighted and we think this is a
good use of shareholder capital.
A - `Justin Claeys, Vice President of Investor Relations `
All right. Julianne, let's go to the next question, please.
Operator
Thank you, Tim. Our next question comes from Evan Seigerman from BMO Capital Markets.
Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Conor Mackay, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets
Hi, there. This is `Conor Mackay, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets on for Evan. Thanks for (Technical Difficulty) our question and
congrats on the quarter. We just had one question on the Phase 3 ROCKET program with severalreadouts coming over this -- the balance of the year. What are you looking to see from those
readouts to get comfortable with your competitive positioning in the atopic dermatitis market
and sort of any updated thoughts on how you're thinking about that? Thank you.
A - `James Bradner, Executive Vice President Research and Development and Chief Scientific `
Yeah, thanks for the question. rocatinlimab, our T-cell rebalancing monoclonal antibody targets
the OX40 receptor. As you note is -- we are reading out this year a number of studies of this
ROCKET program. This eighth study, more than 3,300 patient program really gives a lot of
granularity to answer your question around the target product profile, the safety and tolerability
of rocatinlimab and its full efficacy in patients with atopic dermatitis.
In the SHUTTLE study, we study rocatinlimab combination with topical steroids or calcineurins in
adults with moderate-to-severe AD data first half of this year. In the IGNITE study, we study
monotherapy in adults with moderate-to-severe data first half of this year. And then in the back
half of the year, we have two studies, ASCEND and ASTRO. ASCEND will help us understand
maintenance in adults and adolescents. And then ASTRO is an adolescent study with moderate-
to-severe AD. And so, as you can tell, we're going to generate a lot of information about the
potential to contribute to better therapy for this very common in many cases, morbid disease as
well as the tolerability profile.
A - `Justin Claeys, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Great. Julianne, I think we've got time for two more.
Operator
Certainly. Thank you, Evan. Our next question will come from `Gregory Renza, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets from RBC Capital
Markets. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Gregory Renza, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Hi, good afternoon and thanks for taking my question, Bob and team. Bob, have you and the
team to [ph] talk about the global footprint and leveraging and penetrating new markets? I'm just
wondering if you could comment a bit about the opportunity in China and namely just about the
commercial opportunity for those oncology medicines and how that's being achieved through
your partnership with Beijing? And maybe just longer-term, how is that Beijing or B1 arrangement
just factoring into those longer-term goals? Thank you very much.
A - `Robert A. Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Maybe we'll take it in two parts. Let me just, at the high altitude, reiterate what I said at the
beginning, Gregory, which is that the business is growing globally. All three of our geographic
regions are growing. Our Japan, Asia-Pacific business is the most rapidly growing of our regions
right now. So we're really pleased with the performance in Japan and China and elsewhere in the
region. And the collaboration with Beijing continues to go well. And Murdo, feel free to jump in
and address any specifics about the portfolio there and the plans.
A - `Murdo Gordon, Executive Vice President of Global Commercial Operations `
Yeah, both elements of our business in China are performing well. The Amgen affiliate business is
growing nicely. That's essentially Repatha and Prolia, both products doing well, both products
listed on the national reimbursement drug list and growing rapidly as Bob described. And with B1,
formerly Beijing, our partnership, I think has exceeded our expectations in China. The teamexecuted extremely well across KYPROLIS, BLINCYTO and XGEVA. And we continue to enjoy that
partnership and feel good about it. And obviously, we continue to work closely with them on the
other R&D projects that we've partnered on. So overall, pleased with that.
A - `Justin Claeys, Vice President of Investor Relations `
All right, Julianne, we'll have time for one more question.
Operator
Thank you, Gregory. Our last question will come from `Mohit Bansal, Analyst, Wells Fargo from Wells Fargo. Please go
ahead your line is open.
Q - `Mohit Bansal, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Great. Thank you very much for taking my question. I have a question regarding denosumab and
mostly just [ph] franchise mostly in the sense of how should we think about the cadence of a
biosimilar erosion of the (Technical Difficulty) biosimilar is coming? I'm assuming it is more back-
half loaded, but would love to get any color how you are thinking about that.
A - `Robert A. Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Murdo, do you want to address that for Mohit?
A - `Murdo Gordon, Executive Vice President of Global Commercial Operations `
Yeah. Thanks, Mohit. Well, we have a bit of a clear understanding on the timing of when
biosimilars will enter given the settlements that we've reached. So I would agree that the slope of
the biosimilar erosion is going to be by definition of the timing more towards the back-end. I
would just encourage everybody to remember the cadence of biosimilar erosion in general and
the fact that we've got two slightly different situations here with XGEVA largely used in the
oncology setting and Prolia used in postmenopausal osteoporosis. So the slopes there could be
different. But overall, we are in a good position given our participation in the biosimilar market. It
teaches us lessons on how to defend successfully on the innovator side. And so, we have a fairly
large team of account executives that have been calling on our XGEVA and Prolia accounts for
many years now. And we are the bone market leader. And so, there's a certain incumbency that
we have that we think positions us well to defend against other biosimilar competition as they
enter the market.
A - `Robert A. Bradway, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Well, thank you all for your interest, and appreciate you joining the call. We look forward to
catching up after the next quarter. Thank you.
Operator
This concludes our 2024 Q4 and full-year earnings call. You may now disconnect.