Q4 2018 Earnings Call

Operator
Welcome to Cisco's Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2018 Financial Results Conference Call. At the
request of Cisco, today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may
disconnect.
Now, I would like to introduce `Marilyn Mora, Director, Head of Global Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations. Thank you. You may begin.
`Marilyn Mora, Director, Head of Global Investor Relations `
Thanks, Michelle. Welcome, everyone, to Cisco's Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2018 Quarterly Earnings
Conference Call. This is `Marilyn Mora, Director, Head of Global Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations, and I'm joined by Chuck
Robbins, our Chairman and CEO, and Kelly Kramer, our CFO.
By now, you should have seen our earnings press release. A corresponding webcast with slides,
including supplemental information, will be made available on our website in the Investor
Relations section following the call. Income statements, full GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation
information, balance sheets, cash flow statements, and other financial information can also be
found in the Financial Information section of our Investor Relations website.
Throughout this conference call, we will be referencing both GAAP and non-GAAP financial results
and will discuss product results in terms of revenue and geographic and customer results in terms
of product orders unless stated otherwise. All comparisons made throughout this call will be on a
year-over-year basis unless stated otherwise.
The matters we will be discussing today include forward-looking statements, including the
guidance we will be providing for the first quarter of fiscal 2019. They are subject to the risks and
uncertainties that we discuss in detail in our documents filed with the SEC, specifically the mostrecent reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q which identify important risk factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
With respect to guidance, please also see the slides and press release that accompany this call
for further details. As a reminder, Cisco will not comment on its financial guidance during the
quarter unless it is done through an explicit public disclosure.
I will now turn it over to Chuck.
`Charles H. Robbins, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Marilyn, and good afternoon, everyone. We had a very strong finish to a great year.
We generated our highest quarterly revenue of $12.8 billion and non-GAAP EPS of $0.70 as
growth accelerated for another consecutive quarter. Our momentum was broad-based across
our portfolio, customer segments, and geographies. We also continued to generate solid
margins, cash flow, and returns for our shareholders.
Our results demonstrate a combination of strong customer adoption of our latest innovations,
the ongoing value customers see in our software and subscription offerings, and excellent
execution across our customer segments and geographies. Our strategy is working and we
believe that we are well-positioned to capture growth across the portfolio with our pipeline of
innovation.
The broad adoption of multi-cloud environments is changing the very nature of how modern IT
infrastructures are built and secured, and Cisco is at the center of this transition. The recently
announced intent to acquire Duo Security is another example of how we are extending our intent-
based networking portfolio for the multi-cloud world.
Duo's SaaS-delivered solution will expand our cloud security capabilities to help enable any user
on any device to securely connect to any application on any network. Combining Cisco's network,
endpoint, and cloud security platform with Duo's zero-trust authentication and access solutions,
we will be able to further enhance the industry's broadest and most effective security
architecture in the market.
Now, I'll briefly highlight some of our innovation and the great momentum we're seeing across
our key product areas, starting with Infrastructure Platforms. We continue to rapidly innovate and
transform our technology portfolio to drive even greater customer value. A year ago, we
reinvented the enterprise networking with the launch of our intent-based networking architecture.
This quarter, we saw a continued strength in Infrastructure Platforms driven by the Catalyst 9000
as customers look to us to simplify and automate their networks. Over the last year, we
introduced additional innovations across our networking portfolio, including new access, WAN,
and data center offerings. In June, we announced new developer capabilities across our intent-
based networking portfolio spanning all network domains: campus switching, wireless, WAN, data
center, and cloud.
We're also excited that our developer program, DevNet, surpassed 500,000 registered
members. As part of this program, we introduced new offerings to help developers and network
engineers innovate throughout our intent-based architecture. As we all know, the WAN is
undergoing an architectural transition to a software-defined WAN to enable IT to rapidly respond
to changing business needs in a digital and cloud world. Our customers are driving this transition
and looking to Cisco to help them make this shift.Our SD-WAN portfolio leverages our leading networking products, automation, and robust
security architecture to enable greater flexibility, increased bandwidth, and lower costs. This
quarter, we saw significant traction with Viptela as it has now been deployed at over 800
customers, driven by our ability to provide higher capacity at a lower cost. We are pleased with
the ongoing integration of Viptela, with our core portfolio to drive even more value for our
customers.
As our customers move to a multi-cloud environment, we see tremendous opportunities to
provide value to them by redesigning their IT architecture, delivering security and building,
orchestrating, and managing applications. In Q4, we saw the production launch of our hybrid
cloud solution with Google, the introduction of a multi-cloud solution with NetApp, and numerous
engagements with customers redesigning their IT architectures. We continue to believe Cisco is
very well-positioned to benefit from the increasing adoption of multi-cloud.
Turning to Security, security continues to be our customer's number one concern and it is a top
priority for us. Our strategy is to simplify and increase security efficacy through an architectural
approach with products that work together and share analytics and actionable threat intelligence.
This architecture is supported by Talos, one of the largest commercial threat intelligence teams in
the world. We identify and protect against new and emerging threats like the recent VPNFilter
vulnerability through our sophisticated infrastructure and unrivaled telemetry of data.
Cisco is the largest network and enterprise security company and our approach of bringing
security into the intent-based architecture and offering security across the network, endpoint, and
cloud has proven to be very successful. This quarter, we saw a continued strong momentum, with
revenue again accelerating and growing double-digits year-over-year.
We continue to invest in our product and technology innovation as we are committed to helping
our customers on their multi-cloud journey. Our focus is on delivering cloud security solutions that
provide ease of use, scalability, and protect end users. As I mentioned earlier, with our acquisition
of Duo Security, we will further enhance how we deliver simple, automated, trusted access
anywhere for our customers' environments.
Moving to Applications, in May, we announced the launch of Webex Teams, bringing together
Meetings, Calling, and teamwork into an integrated experience as part of the Webex platform. In
Q4, we introduced major new enhancements to the platform, including a new user design for
Webex Meetings and a new solution with Google, combining their Contact Center AI service with
the Webex platform. With more than 3 million customer service agents globally using Cisco's
Contact Center software, our integration with Google will help to automate responses in our call
centers by leveraging data and intelligence from AI. We also achieved another robust quarter of
growth with AppDynamics, underscoring the importance and value of our unique end-to-end
visibility and analytics from the end user to the network to the application.
To wrap up, 2018 was a great year. We returned to growth, invested in our core franchises,
delivered new innovative platforms, and continued to shift our business to more software and
subscriptions. Our record results demonstrate the strength of our business as well as the
strategic focus and execution that we have delivered over the past 12 months. I want to thank our
teams around the globe for delivering these results.
We are looking forward to fiscal year 2019 with a clear focus on growth, execution, and
innovation. We see incredible opportunities across our business and believe we are uniquely
positioned to deliver on our vision to be one of the most strategic partners to our customers asKelly, I'll now turn it over to you.
`Kelly A. Kramer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Thanks, Chuck. I'll start with a summary of our financial results for the quarter then cover the full
fiscal year and the Q1 outlook.
Q4 was a solid quarter across the business. We executed well with strong orders, revenue
growth, margins, EPS, and operating cash flow. It was great to see accelerated momentum in
product orders which grew 7%. Total revenue was $12.8 billion, up 6%. Our non-GAAP operating
margin rate was 30.9%. Non-GAAP net income was $3.3 billion, up 8%, and non-GAAP EPS was
$0.70, up 15%.
Let me provide some more detail on our Q4 revenue. Total product revenue was up 7% with
broad strength across the portfolio. Infrastructure Platforms grew 7%, with growth in all
businesses except for routing which was down slightly.
Switching had another great quarter with strong growth in campus driven by the ramp of the Cat
9000 and growth in data center driven by the Nexus 9000. We saw good growth in wireless with
strength in Meraki and our Wave 2 offerings. Data center had very strong double-digit growth
driven by servers and HyperFlex. Routing declined slightly driven by weakness in SP Routing.
Applications was up 10% in total with growth across all the businesses. We saw very solid growth
in Unified Communications, TelePresence, Conferencing, and AppDynamics. Security was up 12%,
with strong performance in network security, unified threat, policy and access and web security.
Service revenue was up 3%, driven by growth in Advanced Services as well as Software and
Solution Support.
We continue to transform our business, delivering more software offerings and driving more
subscriptions and recurring revenues. In Q4, recurring revenue was 32% of total revenue, an
increase of 1 point from a year ago. Revenue from subscriptions was 56% of our total software
revenue, up 5 points year-over-year.
We drove good growth in deferred revenue, which was up 6% in total, with product up 15% and
services up 1%. Deferred product revenue from our recurring software and subscription offers
was $6.1 billion, up 23%. There was also a strong increase in the unbilled deferred, which is not on
the balance sheet. The combined total deferred revenue plus unbilled deferred was up 28%.
When we look at the impact of acquisitions on our Q4 results year-over-year, there was a 90-
basis point positive impact on revenue. We saw especially strong momentum in Q4, with total
product orders growing 7%. Looking at our geographies, Americas grew 6%, EMEA was up 6%,
and APJC was up 12%. Total emerging markets was up 12%, with the BRICs plus Mexico up 22%.
In our customer segment, Enterprise was up 11%, Commercial was up 9%, Public Sector was up
1%, and Service Provider returned to growth, up 6%. Our product backlog at the end of Q4 was
$6.6 billion, up 38% year-over-year.
From a non-GAAP gross margin perspective, total Q4 gross margin was 62.9%, down 0.8 points.
Product gross margin was 61.5%, down 0.4 points, and service gross margin was 67.1%, down 1.7
points. Product gross margin was down 0.4 points, driven by our APJC region related to some SP
specific deals as well as negative product mix. Product gross margin for the Americas and EMEA
were both up year-over-year.Overall, pricing continued to have relatively modest erosion as you have seen over the past
couple of quarters, and we continued to be negatively impacted by higher component costs
which we expect to continue in the near term.
In terms of the bottom line from a GAAP perspective, Q4 net income was $3.8 billion and EPS
was $0.81. The GAAP results include an $863 million benefit related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
We've excluded the benefit from our non-GAAP results.
We ended Q4 with total cash, cash equivalents, and investments of $46.5 billion. Q4 operating
cash flow was $4.1 billion, up 2%, with free cash flow of $3.9 billion, also up 2%. From a capital
allocation perspective, we returned $7.5 billion to our shareholders during the quarter that was
comprised of $6 billion of share repurchases and $1.5 billion for our quarterly dividend.
I'll now cover the full fiscal year. We delivered solid revenue, margins, net income, EPS, and
operating cash flows. Revenue was $49.3 billion, up 3%. Our non-GAAP operating margin rate
was 31.1%. Non-GAAP net income was $12.7 billion, up 5%, and non-GAAP EPS was $2.60, up 9%.
Our total non-GAAP gross margin was 63.8%, a decrease of 0.5 points, with product gross
margin down 0.4 points and service gross margin down 0.9 points. GAAP net income was $110
million, and GAAP EPS was $0.02, which includes the charges related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs
Act of $10.4 billion.
For the full fiscal year, we delivered operating cash flow of $13.7 billion. We paid approximately
$1.4 billion of one-time foreign taxes during the year related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
Operating cash flow increased 8% normalized for these tax payments. We returned $23.6 billion
to shareholders over the fiscal year, which represented 184% of our free cash flow. That was
made up of $17.7 billion of share repurchases and $6 billion for our quarterly dividend.
To summarize, we had a strong Q4 and fiscal year. We executed well with strong top line growth
and profitability. We're seeing the returns on the investments we're making in innovation and
driving the shift to more software and subscriptions, delivering long-term growth and shareholder
value. As a reminder, we are adopting the new revenue recognition standard, ASC 606, as of Q1
fiscal year 2019 on the modified retrospective basis. Its primary impact will be to accelerate our
revenue recognition for certain software licenses and sales to two tier distributors, as well as a
recognition of a deferred commissions asset that will be amortized over the terms of our sales
contracts.
Let me reiterate our guidance for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. This guidance includes the
type of forward-looking information that Marilyn referred to earlier. We expect revenue growth in
the range of 5% to 7% year-over-year. This range includes the impact of ASC 606 which we
estimate to be a benefit of about 1%. We anticipate the non-GAAP gross margin rate to be in the
range of 63% to 64%. The non-GAAP operating margin rate is expected to be in the range of
30% to 31% and the non-GAAP tax provision rate is expected to be 19%.
Non-GAAP earnings per share is expected to range from $0.70 to $0.72. The guidance includes
our Service Provider Video Software Solutions business that we recently agreed to sell and
excludes the Duo acquisition since both transactions have not closed. We expect the SPVSS
transaction to close in the first half of fiscal 2019, subject to customary closing conditions and
regulatory approvals.
I'll now turn it back to Marilyn so we can move into the Q&A.
`Marilyn Mora, Director, Head of Global Investor Relations `Thanks, Kelly. Michelle, let's go ahead and open the line for questions and as a reminder, please
limit yourself to one question only. I'll now turn it over to Michelle.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. `Vijay Bhagavath, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. from Deutsche Bank Securities, you may ask your question.
Q - `Vijay Bhagavath, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Yeah. Hey, good afternoon, Chuck, Kelly. Hope you can hear me fine.
A - `Kelly A. Kramer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yes. Hi, Vijay.
A - `Charles H. Robbins, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
We can, Vijay. Thank you.
Q - `Vijay Bhagavath, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Yeah and I'm here in New York. So my question to you, Chuck and Kelly, please chime in, is
reasonable to assume you'd be extending the software subscriptions idea and plan across the
portfolio? Give us an early glimpse as to how is it going or what were some of the challenges,
what were some of the positive surprises. And would the makeup of the software subscriptions
portfolio meaningfully change as you look to extend this model across the portfolio? Thanks.
A - `Charles H. Robbins, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Vijay. So most of you know that when we began the sale of the Catalyst 9000, that was
the first attempt to sell a subscription software offering on top of a core networking product and
that has gone, as we've said on prior calls, reasonably well. I'm very pleased with how the
adoption has been from our customers. They understand the value.
As I said early on, we put – we knew when we started that process that we would need to deliver
significant innovation that wasn't available in the traditional methodology of buying it in order for
our customers to adopt it and some of those were the Encrypted Traffic Analytics, the
overarching analytic – I mean, the automation capability and then recently, some assurance. And
you'll see us over the next coming quarters, when we bring new products to market in the –
particularly in the enterprise networking space, but across the portfolio, we will apply that same
strategy.
So I think that we've been pleased and our job now is to ensure that the operational
infrastructure of the company is prepared and we're working towards being able to ensure that
customers are deriving the value from that software, as well as obviously putting in the
operational capabilities to ensure the renewals, et cetera. So that's what we're focused on. Kelly,
any...
A - `Kelly A. Kramer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
No, I think you did it.
A - `Charles H. Robbins, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `Thanks.
Q - `Vijay Bhagavath, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Marilyn Mora, Director, Head of Global Investor Relations `
All right. Michelle...
Operator
Thank you.
A - `Marilyn Mora, Director, Head of Global Investor Relations `
Michelle, let's go and take the next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. `Rod Hall, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC from Goldman Sachs, you may go ahead, sir.
Q - `Rod Hall, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Yeah. Hi, guys. Thanks for the question. I'm kind of beside myself. Don't know where to start,
these are so good, but let me – I guess let me kick-off with a question on the deferred revenue,
Kelly. You said this off – including this off balance sheet deferred, it's up 28%. Is that total deferred
or product deferred? Can you just clarify what you meant by that? And also maybe help us
understand what the ASC 606 impact on deferred was because that was, I guess, negative.
A - `Kelly A. Kramer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yeah, sure. So on your question on the deferred revenue plus unbilled deferred, so that was up
28%. The big driver we have for that, that is just purely product, okay? So it is – what we mostly
have in our unbilled deferred is from our Collaboration, our Applications business. They have a lot
of periodic billing that they book month to month that is a very large number, so it is kind of
apples to apples of business that we have booked that we will recognize in the future. So that's
why we look at both.
When we do adopt ASC 606 for Q1, that will be one of our disclosures showing you the
combination of deferred plus unbilled so you have our remaining performance obligations, but it
is just product, that 28%.
As far as the ASC 606, we adopt that in Q1 so in the results, we just went through of the $6.1
billion of deferred from software and subscriptions, that is related to how we've been accounting
for it under the old ASC 605. So when we go into Q1...
Q - `Rod Hall, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Can you just clarify, though, would you write down – you'll write some of the deferred down in Q1
as a result of the change or not much or...
A - `Kelly A. Kramer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `Yeah, so – yeah, I can give you some direction. You'll see that in our K, so we will be writing off a
portion of that balance so of the $6 billion, we will be writing off and restating because you
basically restate your balance sheet for the new accounting rules and like we've said over the
past year, where we will have that impact is things that were term-based software licenses, things
like our ELAs or Cisco ONE, those will now be recognized upfront where they used to be
deferred. So the deferred revenue balance will be written down for that and will take -- so will
take -- we'll lower the balance of the deferred revenue and then as we go into Q1, we'll be
recognizing any new business that we bill upfront from that.
Q - `Rod Hall, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Great. Okay. Thank you.
A - `Charles H. Robbins, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Rod.
A - `Marilyn Mora, Director, Head of Global Investor Relations `
Yeah. All right. Thanks, Rod. Next question, please?
Operator
Thank you. `Ittai Kidron, Analyst, Oppenheimer & Co., Inc. from Oppenheimer, you may go ahead.
Q - `Ittai Kidron, Analyst, Oppenheimer & Co., Inc. `
Thanks and congrats. Great quarter. I guess, Chuck, maybe you can help me figure out how you
manage to navigate so well in what seems to be such treacherous waters out there where
between some deceleration in economic activity in Europe, the FX movement recently which is
not favorable to you, although your price in dollars nonetheless makes your products a little bit
more expensive internationally, poor CapEx matrix out of the large telcos, tariff wars globally. You
seem to be moving along, sidestepping all of those things. Which of these things really bother
you, concern you, you're watchful, you're preparing for?
And then second question, maybe you can kind of dig in a little bit on the networking, the Cat
9000, clearly good progress. Are there any customer matrix or anything you can give us there to
help us solidify or get better visibility into the trend there?
A - `Charles H. Robbins, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Ittai, I was feeling pretty good until you asked the first part of your question. No, I have said
publicly, I think we're operating in a -- we have been operating in what I would call it's been a very
consistent global economic scenario. There's clearly even in the last few weeks been things that
have risen -- you've got the strengthening of the dollar that you mentioned, you've got some
uncertainty in a couple of emerging countries, so those are clearly things that we'll watch and
where we've seen these in the past and we know how to deal with them.
We obviously have the impending tariff situation which we're watching closely and on that front,
we're in deep discussions in Washington with the administration on trying to get to a favorable
outcome. We like to see that land in a good place, but overall, all of those are things that we are
very actively involved with and we watch on a daily basis.As it relates to the networking business, the Catalyst 9000, as I said previously, has been the
fastest ramping product that we've ever built so the customer count became less of an indicator
pretty quickly and it flowed through to the infrastructure systems growth that you saw this
quarter, so we didn't see it as a metric that was – we usually use that metric on customer count
when we're just trying to give you visibility to the ramp of a new product when it hasn't become
real material to the revenue line. And I think that we exceeded that point in time with the Catalyst
9000 pretty quickly, but I will tell you just so you know, I think, Kelly, keep me honest on this, I
think we had roughly 9,650-plus customers on the Catalyst 9000 as of the end of the quarter.
We had a great Q4, great adoption, and we're very happy with where that product and that
architecture is.
Q - `Ittai Kidron, Analyst, Oppenheimer & Co., Inc. `
Fantastic. Congrats.
A - `Charles H. Robbins, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Marilyn Mora, Director, Head of Global Investor Relations `
Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Pierre Ferragu from New Street Research, you may go ahead.
Q - `Pierre C. Ferragu, Global Team Head, New Street Research LLP (US) `
Hi. Thanks a lot for taking my question. I actually wanted to ask you about Service Provider. So you
returned to growth this quarter, which is fantastic, and I think you mentioned as well that your
routing business was weak and most of that weakness was in the Service Provider vertical as well.
So I was curious to understand how you grew revenues there even if routing was negative or
maybe I got something wrong. And then, of course, I'm very curious to hear whether this recovery
in Service Provider spending might be driven by 5G already.
A - `Charles H. Robbins, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Let me answer the macro question about the overall situation we see in Service Provider, and
then, Kelly, maybe you can cover the routing and the impact of the first part of the question.
So, Pierre, in the Service Provider space, we were obviously pleased. I've said a number of times
over the last couple of years that this is a business that is dominated by large customers, and so
as we've always said, when we have several of them that are slowing their spending, then it looks
bad, when we have several that are spending, it looks pretty good, and that's just the nature of
this business.
Relative to 5G, I will tell you that – I think I've said this on prior calls. Starting at Mobile World
Congress earlier this year, we really – we heard these customers in earnest begin and engage in
discussions around what network requirements would look like for the infrastructure to support
5G, assuming that they're going to add lots of hype, speed, connections at the edge, will require
high performance networks with the quality of service and slicing and all those things.So I would say that – I would not say that this is a material result of the implementation of 5G, to
be honest. We expect that is still a year out before many will start and probably see it in earnest
into 2020, to be fair. But we're pleased with what our teams have done. It's been a tough market.
Our teams have continued to battle and our engineering team continues to work on next-
generation innovation and we're pleased with the results this quarter. Kelly?
A - `Kelly A. Kramer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yeah. And to the point of will I have better revenue, if you remember, last quarter, the SP
segment was down 4% and you're seeing that flow through the revenue this quarter when we
talked about routing overall. So, when I look forward, we don't kind of talk about our guidance in
the upfront by business, but some of this on the order side might play well as we go into Q1.
What I will say, adding on to Chuck's comments is, I do think and, as you know very well, our
Service Provider segment is made up of very, very large customers, and in any one quarter, we
can get big orders and that can fluctuate around. So, as to the sustainability, I would say we feel
good about our position, though I expect this could move around either way as we look forward.
A - `Marilyn Mora, Director, Head of Global Investor Relations `
Thanks, Kelly.
Q - `Pierre C. Ferragu, Global Team Head, New Street Research LLP (US) `
Thanks a lot.
A - `Marilyn Mora, Director, Head of Global Investor Relations `
Michelle, go ahead and (27:03).
Operator
Thank you. Thank you. `Sami Badri, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC from Credit Suisse, you may go ahead.
Q - `Sami Badri, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Thank you for the question. My first question has a lot to do with Europe and the strength you
saw in the region in this last quarter. And then is it safe to assume that going into next quarter
and your very strong guidance, are you expecting to see the same kind of magnitude of strength
in Europe again despite all the moving pieces politically?
And then the second question I really have is about the Viptela product launch. Are you
addressing customers that are already big users, end customers of the campus product and the
Meraki products to kind of upsell customers into your new Viptela product? Or maybe you can
give us just an idea on the sales cycle and the customer base that you're addressing.
A - `Charles H. Robbins, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
If you don't mind, Sami, I'm going to answer the second one and then I'll give you a little
qualitative color on Europe and then Kelly will answer the specifics on the business expectations.
So, on the second part of your question relative to Viptela and software-defined WAN, we have
two offers. We have – Meraki has an offer for those customers who have embraced the Meraki
architecture. They have a very effective SD-WAN solution that is actually being well-received intheir customer base and they're using it to extend their customer base. So that's being very
successful.
On the Viptela front, we have been working hard on the integration between the Viptela platform
and Cisco's product, and so we're going to have a variety of offerings for our customers. We'll
have a version that will have software running on different types of hardware. We'll have a
software-only solution. We'll have our integrated ISR solution. And so we're seeing a number of
those. This was a quarter where I would say we really saw the engagement level increase
significantly. We got the offers in the marketplace, the first wave of those. And I said on the Q3
call that our teams were signaling us that Q4 was where we're going to see some of this come to
fruition and we in fact did.
So we feel good about where we are right now. There's more work to go. We haven't gotten the
SD-WAN integration into DNA Center yet, so that will only be, I think, a positive boost when we
get that done. The teams are working on that. I think it's coming in one of the upcoming releases.
So, in general, we're pleased with where we are at this moment in time with Viptela.
Europe, our team's doing really well there. Our teams are executing well. I think that they are
competing very well because we have some very tough competition there. The team in Europe is
always one of the early teams leading with some of these new technology areas, so they've had
a lot of success in this core enterprise networking space as we move to intent-based networking,
so we're pleased with what they're doing. The entire global macro environment right now, there
are so many dynamics that we're calling it like we see it based on what we know today.
And Kelly, you want to comment just on how we see the...?
A - `Kelly A. Kramer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yeah. I think, just to add to your point, I think the environment is very strong in Europe despite the
political things that are going on. And just as a data point, the UK is up double digits for us on
product orders this quarter. So, again, I think like Chuck was saying, the overall environment is
very favorable as of right now, so we're hoping we see this continued strength.
A - `Charles H. Robbins, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. A lot of the innovation that we're bringing right now is actually targeted at helping our
customers lower the expenses of running this infrastructure, so there is a significant play to be
made in – almost like as customers look at where they are economically, there is reduction of
costs by going to this automation platform, there is reduction of costs by moving to SD-WAN, so
these are technologies that we are hopeful will continue to be important to our customers
regardless.
Q - `Sami Badri, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Got it. Thank you.
A - `Charles H. Robbins, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Marilyn Mora, Director, Head of Global Investor Relations `
Thank you. We'll go ahead and take our next question, please.Operator
Thank you. Samik Chatterjee, you may go ahead, from JPMorgan.
Q - `Samik X. Chatterjee, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Hi, Chuck. Hi, Kelly. Thanks for taking my question. I just had a question on the guide for the first
quarter. You clearly have good momentum on the top line, although when I look at the operating
margin guidance, it's kind of flat year-over-year. So I just wanted to check, is there something
that's limiting kind of the flow-through of the solid momentum on the top line to the operating
margin? Is there something that's limiting the leverage of that to the bottom line? And is that
something we should hope for in the future and provides kind of a second leg for the earnings
growth?
A - `Kelly A. Kramer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Hi. Yeah, thanks for the question. No. I don't think you need to read anything different of what's
happening on the margin. I mean, if I look at the puts and takes that we have to our margin, I
spoke a little bit about we can have – we have a little margin pressure this quarter and some
specific deals in APJC but otherwise, our margin is driven by the same things, right?
Our pricing is very robust. We're being very disciplined. The price that you've seen the last couple
quarters is in a range that's very, very strong so that's good. We are still facing component
headwinds, and even though it's less of a headwind, it is still higher year-over-year. The prices are
up as, again, just the slope is less, but that's part of what we see both in Q4 and the guide and
then everything else kind of balances out. So right now, this is kind of what we see. We obviously
are going to be driving for as much as we possibly can, but it's really the same dynamics.
Q - `Samik X. Chatterjee, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Okay. Got it. Thank you.
A - `Kelly A. Kramer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yes.
A - `Marilyn Mora, Director, Head of Global Investor Relations `
All right. Thank you. We'll go ahead and take the next question.
Operator
Thank you. `Paul Silverstein, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC from Cowen, you may go ahead.
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Thanks. Appreciate you taking the question. A clarification question. Kelly, just in response -- your
previous response, I trust you expect DRAM at a minimum to moderate come next year, and I'm
wondering if you have any thoughts on the impact. And the larger question, I recognize this has
been asked and answered in various forms, but Chuck and Kelly, my takeaway from your
comments is that there's an awful lot of things going right and my simple question is, how much
of this do you attribute to the macro? And I recognize even in that portion it's not simple in terms
of different moving pieces globally, but how much of the strength is macro-related? How much of
it is better execution in various areas like campus, switching, et cetera?A - `Charles H. Robbins, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
You want to take the clarification on...
A - `Kelly A. Kramer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yeah, sure. So on the component stuff, yeah, DRAM is loosening though, again, as I said, the
prices still are up whether you look quarter-on-quarter or year-over-year. But we are optimistic
that both on the demand side, which is also driving some of that pricing, we expect that to get
better through 2019. And I don't know if you want to hit the other broader...
A - `Charles H. Robbins, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Paul, it's a virtually impossible question to answer, although I'm pragmatic enough to know
that it's combination of both. I will say that I think that it's – clearly, the economy has been pretty
consistent and the markets have been positive so that has certainly helped and I think
correspondingly, this new architecture and the new technology that we brought out first -- about
four quarters back actually right at the end of Q4 from a year earlier has clearly been adopted at
a record pace for us, so I could never possibly give you any sort of split on what that looks like.
The best I can do is acknowledge that it's a bit of both and there are a lot of things going right,
right now but there's also, as we said earlier and Ittai asked a question, there's a lot of dynamics
out there that we're watching very closely. So sorry I can't give you a better, more specific answer,
but I think that's as honest as I can be.
Q - `Paul Silverstein, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
I appreciate it. Thank you.
A - `Marilyn Mora, Director, Head of Global Investor Relations `
Thanks, Paul. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. James Fish from Piper Jaffray, you may go ahead.
Q - `James E. Fish, Analyst, Piper Jaffray & Co. `
Hey, Chuck and Kelly. Thanks for the question. It's been a while since we got a Security Metric
update. Can you just kind of walk through some of the past metrics you've given or what you're
willing to give today? I know in the past you've given deferred revenue growth as well as
penetration of certain products like FireAMP.
And then secondly, HyperFlex version 3.0 was released, I believe, recently. Can we get an update
as to kind of how we should think about the sizing of that business or any metrics around
hyperconverged infrastructure and how it's competing against the new Gen-Xs of the world?
Thank you.
A - `Kelly A. Kramer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Sure. So like I said in the prepared remarks, on the Security side, they continue to have -- they're
over 60% of their business is software and so obviously, they have a lot of their business going
through deferred revenue and it continues to grow in high double-digits so we feel good aboutthat. They had a very strong Q4 and like I said, from a revenue perspective, it was broad-based
this quarter, driving that 12% up on revenue. It was across all of their sub-segments. So I'd say it's
continuing to grow very quickly and with this addition of Duo, it really just rounds out the portfolio
very well.
In terms of HyperFlex, I mean, that's growing very strongly for us. I think this new release has
been well received. And again, we find ourselves in a lot of head-to-head deals and winning
against new Gen-X, which is obviously a really tough competitor out there, but we feel good
about the offer we have. Now, it's really fairly small compared to the broader data center
business that has all of our servers in there, but we're pleased with how it's ramping and how
we're competing.
Q - `James E. Fish, Analyst, Piper Jaffray & Co. `
Yeah. I think that's exactly right. Thank you.
A - `Charles H. Robbins, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Kelly A. Kramer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yeah.
A - `Marilyn Mora, Director, Head of Global Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Simon Leopold from Raymond James, you may go ahead.
Q - `Simon M. Leopold, Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
Thank you for taking my question. I wanted to see if maybe we could talk a little bit long-term
trending big picture around the concept of multi-cloud, which you talked about at Cisco Live and
on a number of other occasions. Within the answer, I think, what I'm looking for is how does this
help the evolution transformation and importantly, how does this help Cisco do more business
with the web scale customers? Thank you.
A - `Charles H. Robbins, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, Simon, so it's a really good question and I think the key message for us that we're trying to
get across is that this transition to this multi-cloud world actually is changing the way our
customers look at building their IT infrastructure and how they secure it. So if you just think very
simply that -- look back over the last five to seven to 10 years, a great majority of the traffic in our
enterprise customers' networks was terminating in their private data centers, so networks were
architected and security architectures were built to deal with that reality.
Now, we're moving into a world where there is still some percentage depending on the customer
of their traffic that is obviously terminating in the private data center. Then they have traffic
terminating in SaaS applications in multiple public cloud providers. They have this whole IoT edge
data aggregation issue so what's happened is the traffic flows in the way data is moving across
their networks and across their infrastructure is much more complex than it was five to sevenour customers are going to just need to build a world where you look at the user, you look at the
application, you look at their policy and you look at the destination, and then you have technology
in the network that actually provides policy, routing, quality security in that world. And that's the
role that we're playing with our customers because they need to rearchitect their networks to
accommodate a massively diverse traffic flow scenario that they're going to deal with. So I'll stop
with that right now, but that's why it's so important.
And you ask, what does that do to our partnerships with the web scale providers? Well, they
understand this dynamic that is going on, and so many of the -- you're seeing some of the early
work we're doing with some of the web scale providers to ensure that we have integrated hybrid
cloud solutions so that we can provide security and policy, whether applications or in the private
data center or in the public.
They're interested in our ability to process data at the edge. As customers are building out IoT
applications, they're interested in us helping define security architectures that make it simple for
our customers to take advantage of their services so it's emerging as a really attractive
partnership because of the reality that everybody sees in the marketplace today, and hopefully,
that was clear. If not, we can have some folks talk to you afterwards.
Q - `Simon M. Leopold, Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
Great. I appreciate it. Yeah, I understand it. It's obviously a complex topic. Just trying to figure out
how to bake it into a model.
A - `Charles H. Robbins, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
I'll let Kelly talk to you about that one.
A - `Marilyn Mora, Director, Head of Global Investor Relations `
All right. Thanks, Chuck. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. James Suva from Citigroup Global Markets, you may go ahead.
Q - `Jim Suva, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Thank you very much. A quick question, Chuck. Earlier in your remarks, you mentioned with
Service Provider strength coming back that you don't believe it's 5G-related. That's more of a
2020 phenomenon. Can you give us a little bit about a history lesson here of back in 3G or 4G or
2G uptakes, was there a linear into the build that happens? Is there a pause before the positive
end (41:14) happens or is it just more of a steady as you go as we kind of look ahead more longer
term and strategically to 5G and impact to Cisco?
A - `Charles H. Robbins, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, Jim, it's a good question. And I think if you go back and look at the earlier transitions in this
space, they have largely been around delivering – I don't want to say incrementally better, but a
better performance for mobile devices that are connected to the network already. So when you
go from 3G to 4G, you get better data performance, you're happier with your apps on your
phones, et cetera.This is a step level difference because we're talking about the latency dynamics of 5G and the
belief that this will actually enable them to deliver real-time business applications to small offices
or remote branches over 5G networks. That's a completely different dynamic. And so I would tell
you that we don't know yet, but I think if you operate under the assumption that it lives up to its
billing, then it is going to create a significant demand on the core networks of the service
providers.
And so I can't say that there's a huge historical example for us to learn from. But I think what
you're going to see is just between now and when they start building these things out, they're
going to be working on design and then we're just going to see them begin to gradually build
out. As they open up a certain market, they'll build out bandwidth and backbone capacity, and
that's how we're thinking about it. And we'll be able to give you guys updates on upcoming
quarters as to how we see this thing emerging. It's not going to happen overnight.
Q - `Jim Suva, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Thank you so much for the details.
A - `Marilyn Mora, Director, Head of Global Investor Relations `
All right. Thanks, Jim. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. `Tal Liani, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch from Bank of America Securities Merrill Lynch, you may go ahead, sir.
Q - `Tal Liani, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hello. I want to ask about the routing. Just again, it's repeatedly under pressure and you gave an
answer before about Viptela. You're saying that it's going according to the plan. I'm wondering if
there's a link between the two yet or that the pressure in routing has to do with other things and
not to do with SD-WAN. That's the first question kind of to understand or maybe you can provide
different explanation to understand the pressure on routing and what's the outlook for recovery.
Or is it like Nokia and others are saying that maybe there is a long-term pressure on this market.
Second question, just a follow-up on ASC 606; what's the impact on operating margin if you've
provided this or you provide this information. Thanks.
A - `Charles H. Robbins, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Tal, let me make a comment on the first one and then Kelly can add to it and she can give
the ASC 606 answer as well. I think when you look at our routing business, first of all, Kelly, half of
it, 50%, 60% of it is SP, right? I mean it's – so it's significantly impacted by the SP. Some of the
players you mentioned, they probably have a much higher percentage of their routing businesses
coming from service providers would be my guess. So that's just sort of couched in the discussion
on 5G and everything that we've said so far, but SP, I'd say, is the answer on that piece of it.
From an enterprise perspective, Tal, I think over the last couple of years, we've just seen a classic
architectural stall in the marketplace as we talked about historically when there's a big
architectural transition. And you said that we believe Viptela was going according to plan. I think,
well, the way I would characterize it is we've begun to see customers actually move forward with
deployments, but it's early but we like where we are and we like what we see. So I think we'll see
the enterprise continue to improve relative to this architectural clarity and I'll let Kelly answer sort
of how you think about the overall routing or the ASC 606 question.A - `Kelly A. Kramer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yeah. So, on ASC 606, Tal, so just to kind of again ground everybody on how we're impacted on
ASC 606. The one thing I will say is operationally nothing has changed. We've made no changes
to our offers. We've made no changes to our contracts or any changes to our cash conversion
cycle. So it is literally just an accounting change.
Now, what the implications are to us is like we said is it's going to accelerate some of our term-
based licenses, so we will have to write-off some of our deferred revenue. We won't see that
revenue, but we will offset that with acceleration of those offers when we book new orders and
bill new orders. Net-net, we think it'll be a net positive for us of approximately 1%, and so that's
the impact on the revenue. It will fall through down through margins, so it's on operating margin,
0.5 point to 70 basis points roughly of goodness falling through there.
And as we go into the new rev standard as part of our disclosures, we'll be laying out very clearly
for everybody, since we're adopting the modified retrospective approach, we'll layout very clearly
the implications of the new accounting versus what it would have been under the old accounting.
So, hopefully, that answers your question.
Q - `Tal Liani, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. Great. Thank you.
A - `Kelly A. Kramer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yeah.
A - `Marilyn Mora, Director, Head of Global Investor Relations `
Thank you. We'll take our next question our last question.
Operator
Thank you. George Notter, you may go ahead, from Jefferies LLC.
Q - `George C. Notter, Analyst, Jefferies LLC `
Hi, guys. Thanks a lot for squeezing me in here. I guess, Kelly, I was curious about the revenue
headwind that you're seeing from the subscription transition. You've talked about that in the past.
I'm just curious about what that might have looked like in the July quarter and then what do you
think that would look like for the October quarter?
A - `Kelly A. Kramer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yeah. No, that's a great question, George. So there's good news. There's good news there, I
would say. So like we anticipated, as we are so rapidly ramping the Cat 9000 and as we are
blowing out DNA across not only that but also our Viptela offerings and across wireless, the
revenue headwind was getting more closer to 2.5 points to 3 points.
Now, the good news on this is with the new revenue standard going forward, because it's
accelerating some of these offers that we did have previously defer, that headwind will become
less of a headwind, okay? So as opposed to the 2.5 points to 3 points under current accounting
standards, that'll be much less closer to like 1.5 points or so if I had to guess roughly. And thenagain, this will all flush out as we go through it but it'll become less of a headwind because we
have such a big portion of things that we will now be recognizing upfront.
A - `Charles H. Robbins, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
You said that there's a 1% increase on the other side.
A - `Kelly A. Kramer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
On the revenue, exactly.
A - `Charles H. Robbins, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
So it kind of makes sense mathematically.
A - `Kelly A. Kramer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Exactly.
A - `Charles H. Robbins, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
It would be coming down 1 point.
A - `Kelly A. Kramer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
I mean, the good thing about this accounting standard is it does normalize some of the natural
headwinds we've had on revenue and margin because of it is now going to kind of come back
and benefit us.
Q - `George C. Notter, Analyst, Jefferies LLC `
Thanks.
A - `Kelly A. Kramer, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yes.
A - `Charles H. Robbins, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
All right. I want to -- I think that was the last question, Marilyn, so if I could just thank everybody for
spending time with us today. Thanks for the questions and the dialogue, and, Marilyn, I'll turn it
back over to you.
A - `Marilyn Mora, Director, Head of Global Investor Relations `
Thanks, Chuck, and thanks, everyone. Cisco's next quarterly earnings conference call, which will
reflect our fiscal 2019 first quarter earnings results will be on Wednesday, November 14, 2018, at
1:30 PM Pacific Time, 4:30 PM Eastern Time.
Again, I'd like to remind the audience that in light of Regulation FD, Cisco's policy is not to
comment on its financial guidance during the quarter unless it is done through an explicit public
disclosure. We now plan to close the call. If you have any further questions, please feel free to
contact Cisco's Investor Relations department and we thank you very much for joining the call
today.Thank you for participating on today's conference call. If you would like to listen to the call in its
entirety, you may call 866-417-5767. For participants dialing from outside the U.S., please dial 203-
369-0735. This concludes today's call. You may disconnect at this time.