Q4 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Welcome to Cisco's Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2020 Financial Results Conference Call. At the
request of Cisco Systems, today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you
may disconnect.
Now I would like to introduce `Marilyn Mora, Director of Global Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations. Thank you. You may begin.
`Marilyn Mora, Director of Global Investor Relations `
Thanks, Sue. Welcome everyone to Cisco's fourth quarter fiscal '20 quarterly earnings conference
call. This is `Marilyn Mora, Director of Global Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations, and I'm joined by `Chuck Robbins, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, our
Chairman and CEO; and `Kelly Kramer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, our CFO.
By now, you should have seen our earnings press release. A corresponding webcast with slides,
including supplemental information, will be made available on our website in the Investor
Relations section following the call. Income statements, full GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation
information, balance sheet, cash flow statements and other financial information can also be
found in the Financial Information section of our Investor Relations website.
Throughout this conference call, we will be referencing both GAAP and non-GAAP financial
results, and we'll discuss product results in terms of revenue and geographic and customer
results in terms of product orders unless stated otherwise. All comparisons made throughout this
call will be made on a year-over-year basis.
The matters we will be discussing today include forward-looking statements, including the
guidance we will be providing for the first quarter of fiscal 2021. They are subject to the risks and
uncertainties, including COVID-19, that we discuss in detail in our documents filed with the SEC,
specifically the most recent reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q, which identify important risk factorsthat could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking
statements.
With respect to guidance, please also see the slides and press release that accompany this call
for further details. Cisco will not comment on its financial guidance during this quarter unless it is
done through an explicit public disclosure. In Q2 fiscal 2019, we completed the sale of our SPVSS
business, as such all of the financial information we will be discussing is normalized to exclude the
SPVSS business from our historical results.
I will now turn it over to Chuck.
`Chuck Robbins, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Marilyn. We hope all of you and your families are staying safe and healthy. Our
thoughts remain with everyone who has been affected by the pandemic and we are grateful to
those who remain on the front lines working to help those impacted during these challenging
times.
As we've been preparing for this call, it's offered me some time to reflect on what we've
achieved, since I stepped into this role five years ago. Through the hard work of everyone at
Cisco, we have undergone a significant transformation in the midst of some of the most complex
times in our history. I am so proud of what our teams have accomplished. They have
demonstrated resiliency, determination and compassion, as we delivered on our financial
commitments, brought market-leading innovation to our customers, transition our business
model, and driven a culture that is truly shined over the past six months.
The Cisco today is more agile, innovative and focused. Through both organic and inorganic
innovation, we delivered incredible new technology with new, more flexible consumption offers
for our customers with more software and subscriptions. At our Financial Analyst Conference in
2017, we laid out key metrics for our transformation. We set a goal of 30% of our revenue to
come from software and while we achieved 29% in fiscal year '20, we did achieved 31% in Q4.
We also delivered 51% of our revenue from software and services in FY'20, exceeding our target
of 50%. Lastly, we now have 78% of our software revenue sold as subscription, beating our target
of 66%.
With our customers as our guide, we have successfully executed against our strategy to help
them transform and modernize their organizations. We launched our intent-based networking
architecture using automation of machine learning to help our customers drive simplicity and cost-
effective management of their networks. As customers move more workloads to the cloud, we're
offering fast, highly secure access to applications hosted anywhere in the private data center,
public cloud or a SaaS platform with our cloud security integrated with our SD-WAN solution.
We introduced new capabilities across software, silicon and optics to help bring to life the
Internet for the future. The innovation we've driven in our security portfolio has helped us
become the top enterprise security company in the world. With Webex, we have the most
trusted secure platform for remote collaboration for the enterprise. And we're also delivering
real-time insights for customers and their multi-cloud environments to optimize user experience
with our insights and observe ability assets like app dynamics.
Over the past few years, this transition has resulted in improvements in our financial
performance, including expanding margins and demonstrating continued financial discipline. Once
again, I want to thank our teams for what we've achieved. If the past year has taught us anything
is the need to always being nimble. I believe that the changes we made to our business now putus in a position of strength as we focus on our future. We're a company that embraces change
and we've shown our ability to thrive in any environment.
The past six months have unquestionably reshaped our world. Industries, governments and work
have changed dramatically, and many of these changes will become permanent. At Cisco, we are
committed to helping our customers truly digitizer organizations for the future, regardless of the
challenges or fundamental shifts that we may face. Like many other organizations, we've also had
the opportunity to re-examine our business and our portfolio for this new world. As I said last
quarter, we were going to take time to better understand the short-term and long-term
implications of COVID-19, and we now believe we have a better view.
Based on the many conversations we've had with our customers around the world, we believe
we have perspective and how they will adapt their technology strategies for the future to ensure
greater resiliency, agility and innovation. We don't have to adapt our business and strategy to
align with where our customers are headed. The changes we are making to our business reflect
how we are leveraging our existing strengths, investing for growth and unlocking new
opportunities. We will also be very disciplined on our cost structure as we always have been.
Over the next few quarters, we will be taking out over $1 billion on an annualized basis to reduce
our cost structure. At the same time we're going to re-balance our R&D investments to focus on
key areas that will position us well for the future. More specifically, we will accelerate the transition
of the majority of our portfolio to be delivered as a service. We will also accelerate our
investments in the following areas: cloud security, cloud collaboration, key enhancements for
education, health care and other industries, increased automation in the enterprise, the future of
work and application insights and analytics.
At the same time, we will continue our focus in the following areas many of which have been
accelerated by the pandemic; multi-cloud investment, 5G and WiFi 6, 400-gig, optical
networking, next generation silicon, AI and more. These investments will help define the next
phase of our transformation and allow us to bring the best most relevant innovation to our
customers in simpler more easily consumable ways. I am confident that, once again, we have the
right strategy that will deliver what our customers need from us and we will emerge from this
challenging time as a stronger company than before.
Now let me discuss our performance in the quarter. While our results reflect the ongoing
challenges in the current environment, we executed well. As you would expect, the pandemic has
had the most impact on our enterprise and commercial orders driven by an overall slowdown in
spending. We are seeing customers continue to delay their purchasing decisions in certain areas,
while increasing spend in others until they have greater visibility and clarity on the timing and
shape of the global economic recovery.
Despite this challenging economic environment, the pandemic has also triggered a massive and
rapid shift to remote operations and automation to maximize personal safety. With this, many
customers are increasingly reliant on our broad portfolio of technologies resulting in another
quarter of strong demand for our Catalyst 9000, security, WebEx and other SaaS-based
solutions. Throughout fiscal year 2020, we demonstrated operational resilience based on our
strong customer relationships, a solid financial foundation, differentiated innovation and a
compelling strategic transformation built on the strength of our key technology platforms.
Now I'll cover a few highlights from the quarter. In June, we introduced an expanded Business
Resiliency portfolio offering health care and education solutions with simpler consumption models
and services to accelerate adoption. We will continue to expand this portfolio to cover areas suchas social distancing in the workplace, effective virtual employee engagement at scale and pop-up
connected clinics. Within our infrastructure Platforms business, we continue to see a strong ramp
of our Catalyst 9000 portfolio as many customers take advantage of their employees working
from home to refresh their aging infrastructure enabling them to simplify, secure and automate
the management of their networks.
Our acquisition of ThousandEyes will complement these capabilities by adding deeper and
broader visibility and analytics across networks and applications enabling us to deliver the best
possible experiences for our customers. By integrating their SaaS-based offering with our
AppDynamics application intelligence portfolio and SD-WAN technology, we can provide
unparalleled intelligence and insights at cloud scale driving improved customer experience as well
as reliability of their applications.
Security continues to be a top priority for our customers, particularly in this distributed digital
world. Our ability to connect and protect our customers working from anywhere on any device is
accelerating the adoption of our comprehensive security portfolio resulting in double-digit
revenue growth this quarter. As more data goes to the cloud and users become more
distributed, we had good momentum in our cloud security solutions protecting workloads,
applications and data.
We also continue to expand our capabilities to enable simplification and automation of our
customer security infrastructure, a good example of this is our SecureX platform, which is
designed to unify visibility, enable automation and deliver a consistent experience. Since our
launch six weeks ago, we have over 2,100 active daily customers, two-thirds of which have two or
more products active. We also delivering secure remote work or solutions, that's been our
endpoint security portfolio combined with the power of our Zero Trust architecture with Duo,
AnyConnect, Umbrella and AMP for Endpoints.
Applications have become a lifeline for so many organizations and this is only increased over the
past few months. As organizations define what their future looks like, our collaboration
technology will play a key role in evolving how they work, transact and connect. Webex had strong
performance this quarter with double-digit growth as businesses, governments, educators and
frontline workers everywhere have embraced remote work. We expect this momentum to
continue as we have begun to see the conversion of free trials in the paid subscriptions.
AppDynamics also achieved another solid quarter. These monitoring tools offer our customers
great value by providing real-time insights from a single pane of glass to optimize user
experience in their multi-cloud environments.
As we think about all that we've achieved over the past five years, I want to take a moment to
acknowledge `Kelly Kramer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Financial Officer, who has been an incredible partner to me.
She has played a key role in reshaping Cisco into the company we are today. I want to let you all
know that Kelly has made the decision to retire from Cisco. Over her eight-plus years here, Kelly
has led the effort to improve our financial performance, focused on investor confidence and help
position Cisco for success. Kelly and I have been focused on simple clear communication,
absolute transparency, delivering on our commitments and always aligning Cisco for future
growth. Kelly has graciously agreed to stay on as CFO, until we have her successor on board and
will advise us with the succession process. I can assure you that with Kelly stand on during the
search and with our world-class finance team, we will have a seamless transition. Kelly, thank you
so much for your partnership and your friendship. You will truly be missed.
Now before I turn it over to Kelly, I want to reiterate my confidence for what the future holds.
Over the past five years, we have not shied away from making bold moves to position us forlong-term growth, and now is no different. We are committed to running a strong business as well
as leveraging technology for good to solve the world's biggest challenges and create new
opportunities for the future. As we've demonstrated, we have helped our customers build
resiliency in difficult environments, through industry disruptions, and in times of rapid growth. We
will also continue to use our position to make our communities and world a better place, whether
it's tackling the global health pandemic or social injustice and intolerance, we are committed to
our purpose of powering an inclusive future for all.
As we start the new fiscal year, I believe we have incredible opportunities in front of us. We will
navigate the pandemic in the most effective way possible, while not damaging the long-term
prospects for Cisco. We remain strongly aligned to our customers' priorities and deeply
committed to delivering long-term growth.
Now I'll turn it over to Kelly.
`Kelly Kramer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Chuck. It really has been great, and I want to thank you, the leadership team and really all
of Cisco. I also want to thank my Finance team, who does an amazing job. I'll certainly miss Cisco,
but I'm looking forward to what's next.
I'll start with a summary of our financial results for the quarter then cover the full year followed by
guidance for Q1. Our overall Q4 results reflect good execution with strong margins in a very
challenging environment. Total revenue was $12.2 billion, down 9%. Our non-GAAP operating
margin rate was 33%, up 0.4 points; non-GAAP net income was $3.4 billion, down 5% year-over-
year; and non-GAAP EPS was $0.80, down 4%.
Let me provide some more detail on our Q4 revenue. Total product revenue was down 13% to
$8.8 billion. Infrastructure Platforms was down 16%. This is a product area most impacted by the
COVID environment. We saw declines across switching, routing, data center and wireless driven
primarily by the weakness we saw in the commercial and enterprise markets. We did see pockets
of strength with the continued growth of Cat 9K, which was up double digits and the ramp of our
WiFi 6 products. Data center was particularly weak with a decline of the market and DRAM price
declines.
Applications was down 9%. On the positive side, we saw a strong double-digit growth in WebEx
with the importance of remote working. We also saw solid growth in AppDynamics and IoT
software. This was offset by declines in Unified Communication and TP endpoints. Security was up
10% with strong performance in network security, identity and access, advanced threat and
unified threat management. Our cloud security portfolio performed well with strong double-digit
growth and continued momentum with our Duo and Umbrella offerings.
Service revenue was flat for the quarter, but we had growth in our maintenance business, as well
as software and support services. This was offset by our advisory services, which was impacted
by the COVID environment. We continue to transform our business delivering more software
offerings and driving more subscriptions. Software subscriptions were 78% of total software
revenue, up 8 points year-over-year. Remaining performance obligations or RPO at the end of
Q4 were $28.4 billion, up 12%. RPO for product is up 17%, and service was up 9%. The continued
growth in RPO demonstrates the strength of our portfolio of software and services.
In terms of orders in Q4, total product orders were down 10%. Looking at our geographies, the
Americas was down 11%, EMEA was down 6%, and APJC was down 13%. Total emerging markets
were down 19% with the BRICS plus Mexico down 26%. In our customer segments, public sectorwas down 1%, while enterprise was down 7%, commercial was down 23% and service provider
was down 5%.
From a non-GAAP profitability perspective, total Q4 gross margin was 65%, down 0.5 points.
Product gross margin was 63.2%, down 1.5 points and service gross margin was 69.8%, up 1.9
points year-over-year. Our Q4 GAAP tax rate was 16.7%, which reflects the true-ups to the annual
tax rate.
In terms of the bottom line from a GAAP perspective, Q4 net income was $2.6 billion and EPS was
$0.62. We ended Q4 with total cash, cash equivalents and investments of $29.4 billion. Operating
cash flow was $3.8 billion, down 4% year-over-year. From a capital allocation perspective, we
returned $1.5 billion to shareholders for our quarterly dividend. We continue to invest organically
and inorganically in our innovation pipeline. Just last week, we closed our acquisition of
ThousandEyes. This move is consistent with our strategy of increasing investment in innovation
and R&D for our growth areas.
I'll now cover the full fiscal year results. We delivered strong margins and grew EPS in a very
challenging environment. Revenue was $49.3 billion, down 5%. Total non-GAAP gross margin was
66%, up 1.4 points and our non-GAAP operating margin rate was 33.8%, up 1.5 points. From a
bottom line perspective, non-GAAP net income was $13.7 billion, down 1% and non-GAAP EPS was
$3.21, up 4%. GAAP net income was $11.2 billion and GAAP EPS was $2.64.
We delivered operating cash flow of $15.4 billion, down 3% normalized for the cash received in Q1
fiscal '19 related to the legal settlement with Arista operating cash flow was flat for fiscal '20.
From a capital allocation perspective, we returned $8.6 billion to shareholders over the fiscal year,
which represents 59% of our free cash flow, that was comprised of $2.6 billion of share
repurchases and $6 billion for our quarterly dividend.
To summarize, we executed well in Q4 in the fiscal year with strong margins in a very challenging
environment. We're seeing the returns on the investments we are making in innovation and
driving the shift to more software and subscriptions delivering long-term growth and shareholder
value. Let me reiterate our guidance for the first quarter of fiscal '21. This guidance is subject to
the disclaimer regarding forward-looking information that Marilyn referred to earlier.
We expect revenue to decline in the range of minus 9% to minus 11% year-over-year. We
anticipate the non-GAAP gross margin rate to be in the range of 64% to 65%. The non-GAAP
operating margin rate is expected to be in the range of 30% to 31%, and the non-GAAP tax
provision rate is expected to be 19%. Non-GAAP earnings per share is expected to range from
$0.69 to $0.71.
I'll now turn it back to Marilyn. So we can move into the Q&A.
`Marilyn Mora, Director of Global Investor Relations `
Thanks, Kelly. Sue, we'll now open up the queue for questions. And as a reminder, we ask the
audience to address one question only. So we have time to get through as many as possible.
Sue, I'll turn it over to you.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. The first question is from `Sami Badri, Analyst, Credit Suisse with Credit Suisse. You may go ahead.Q - `Sami Badri, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Thank you very much. My first question is for the team here. I just wanted to know. Now that
you've achieved the 50% of revenue coming from software and services, and that was the
guidepost given at the 2017 Analyst Day, do you guys have a new target in mind and new range? I
know you guys introduced some new products and new services and some new investment
areas. I'm just hoping to understand to see if you get maybe a new roadmap or a new target that
we should hold you guys or measure you against?
A - `Chuck Robbins, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Sami, thanks for the question. And it's been a pretty successful three years as we've been
making this transition. And we obviously still have a ways to go to your question relative to a new
target. We were talking about this in the last week or so, and we feel like we just need to get
through this pandemic cycle that we have and then we'll set some new targets and we'll
communicate them to you at that time. So we don't have one yet.
Q - `Sami Badri, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Got it. Thank you.
A - `Marilyn Mora, Director of Global Investor Relations `
Thanks, Sami. Next question, please.
Operator
The next question is from `Meta Marshall, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley Investment Research. You may go
ahead.
Q - `Meta Marshall, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thanks.. Chuck, you referred to kind of changes you were going to make to the portfolio
based on conversations you were having with customers. Where do you feel like they are in
terms of knowing what their kind of network architectures are looking like when they come back,
or just how their budgets are looking for the remainder of the year? Thanks.
A - `Chuck Robbins, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Meta. I think that, when we think about the network architectures, I think one thing we
know is that the -- our customers are living in this multi-cloud environment. And as they went into
this work from home environment as I said on our last call, those who had technical debt and
those who had not really invested in modernizing their infrastructure, they know they will need to
do that. And they'll do it at different pieces based on their financial abilities.
I'd say that, it's clear that many of our customers do want to consume the technology as a
service. So we're currently looking at the entire portfolio to see what -- how deeply we can get
into the portfolio relative to delivering as a service. And I think we'll have a lot of that in the
marketplace by the end of the calendar year. We will also be working with our customers on their
network architectures, which are certainly going to be prevalent on, or dependent upon cloud
security, on the SD-WAN and the integration of those. So we're going to accelerate that as well
as helping them navigate this multi-cloud world, because I do think that we have seen some
customers accelerate that shift as well.So the network architectures that we built 15 years ago, as I've talked about just aren't relevant
today because of traffic flows are completely different. And so we'll continue to work with
customers and I think it'll be at a different pace just based on how they all come out and how they
manage the pandemic.
Q - `Meta Marshall, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thanks.
A - `Marilyn Mora, Director of Global Investor Relations `
Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. The next question is from `Ittai Kidron, Analyst, Oppenheimer & Company with Oppenheimer & Company. You may go
ahead.
Q - `Ittai Kidron, Analyst, Oppenheimer & Company `
Thanks. Chuck, when you talk about the portfolio and these changes you need to make over
there and the acceleration of R&D in some areas, can you talk about more specifically what areas
you feel you need the most adjustment in? And also, it feels like the pace of technology evolution
clearly is just -- it keeps accelerating. And there's so much of it you can do internally and you've
been very acquisitive in the past, but I can't help but feel like you need to move much faster and
much more aggressive on M&A. I know you've been very disciplined from a price standpoint, and
clearly a market like we have today is not necessarily conducive to that. But just given the fact that
we're moving much, much faster, are you more open to get a bit more aggressive here on the
M&A front to fill in gaps, because it sounds like it feels like the longer you wait on this, the gaps
will keep getting bigger, not smaller?
A - `Chuck Robbins, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Ittai, it's a great question. Your first question around the areas that we feel like we need to
invest, I think this pandemic is basically just -- it's just giving us the air cover to accelerate the
transition of R&D expense into cloud security, cloud collab, away from the on-prem aspects of the
portfolio. Clearly, we've got a lot of technology that we're working on today to help our
customers over the next three years, four years, five years in this multi-cloud world that they're
going to live in. And you'll see more of that come out over the next couple of years.
But on the M&A question, I think that, there is clearly a recognition that the valuations of the
assets that are attractive have achieved different levels. And so I think that we'll continue to be
disciplined. But I would say that we're open to looking at the current world in the reality that we
live in. So I think we're open to any and all ideas. And we continue to work through different
options and we have a list of potential targets that we maintain on a pretty regular basis. And so, I
think the real difference is, there has to be a recognition that the valuations have changed, but
we'll try to be disciplined and do the right thing at the right time.
A - `Marilyn Mora, Director of Global Investor Relations `
Thank you, Ittai. Sue, let's get the next question.
OperatorThank you. The next question is from Jim Suva with Citigroup Investment Research. You may go
ahead.
Q - `James Suva, Analyst, Citigroup
Thank you very much, Chuck and Kelly. And, Kelly, you'll be significantly missed, so thank you for
the duration. But looking forward, if my model is right, and maybe it's wrong, it seems like year-
over-year revenue comparisons get materially easier, maybe to the tune of 400 basis points year
over year for the quarter outlook. And like with Huawei being pushed out and Cisco being
preferred in many countries even beyond the United States as well as an incumbency factor
coming out of coronavirus, help me bridge your kind of year-over-year revenue growth. And
maybe it's still yet to come about why things aren't more positive because the comps are easier,
Huawei is less preferred and Cisco has an incumbency factor, and we're coming out of
coronavirus. Thank you.
A - `Chuck Robbins, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I'll comment subjectively and then I'll let Kelly talk a little bit about the numbers. I wouldn't
say that we know we're coming out of the coronavirus right now. I think that it feels to me very
much like it felt 90 days ago. And clearly the -- in the US, we have not seen. We've seen some
areas that have gotten better, and obviously, some that have not. But I'd say in general, it feels
pretty much the same as it did 90 days ago to us relative to that. I think that some of the things
you're talking about around service providers around the world and the possibility where we
would beginning opportunities that we wouldn't have had before. I think some of those are still to
be seen, but we would share that optimism and we'll have to wait and see how that plays out.
Kelly, do you want to talk about the --
A - `Kelly Kramer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. And then from a compares, I mean, Q1 of '20, so my guide for this next quarter in Q1 of 21,
that's our toughest compare to the -- obviously we had Q3 and Q4 were very, very tough for us
in '20 because of COVID. So comparing to Q1 of '20 right now, we still have some tougher
comparison. But they do get easier as the year goes on assuming that the pandemic ends. But as
you know, Jim, we forecast based on what we see, based on the order rates and we feel this is a
pretty accurate guide.
Q - `James Suva, Analyst, Citigroup
Thank you so much, Chuck and Kelly for the details. And Kelly, thank you so much for your service.
A - `Kelly Kramer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Jim. I appreciate it.
A - `Marilyn Mora, Director of Global Investor Relations `
Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. The next question is from Paul Silverstein with Cowen. You may go ahead.
Q - `Paul J Silverstein, Analyst, Cowen & Co `Thanks for taking the questions. I just have a question and two clarifications. Chuck, to your
response to Jim's question, when you talked about it feeling pretty much the same as 90 days
ago in the US, were you referring to both enterprise and commercial, your small and medium
customers as well as your large customers across the board? And then with respect to the $1
billion that you referenced in terms of coming out of costs, will that all be out of OpEx? And I
appreciate there's probably some sensitivity if it involves head count reduction, as I suspect it
does. But, Kelly, I'm hoping you could give us a sense for the timing in that reduction and the
nature of the reductions. Is that all in OpEx, or is some of it out of cost of goods sold? Thanks.
A - `Chuck Robbins, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Paul, let me just tell you a little bit, I'll give you a little sort of a customer segment and
around the world view what is felt like in the last 90 days or so. So maybe that will help add a little
color. In the US, in particular, I'd say the -- we saw some strength in the very high end of
enterprise and then sort of as you go down in the marketplace, the weakness get a little bit
worse as you just sort of went straight down, as you would expect with small business, medium
business and even smaller sized enterprises that didn't perform as well as the very largest of
enterprises. But we did see strength in the very large enterprise in the US.
We also saw some strength in federal, in the US clearly, and that was actually really promising
because they had a very strong quarter a year ago. So they executed really well. Service provider
around the world. If you look at Asia and Europe, our service provider business was positive in
both of those regions. And it was just slightly negative in the US. It was primarily Canada and
Mexico in the Americas, it drove the negative here. So overall, that was a bright spot, particularly
outside the United States.
We did see countries -- a few countries that actually began to show some positives. And I'm
trying to think through like -- can we build a model that says Asia win in first. And so they're going
to come out, first, and we did see Japan had a good quarter for us on the demand side. Korea
had a good quarter for us on the demand side and we're seeing some positives. Germany had a
good quarter for us. And I'd say, if we think about how our European team feels right now, they
actually feel reasonably okay, not great, great, but better than they did 90 days ago. The
Americas is still sort of the wildcard, I'd say that we see right now. So hopefully that gives you a
little more color around what we're seeing up and down a stack. And then Kelly, do you want to -
-?
A - `Kelly Kramer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, sure. We will see the cost coming out. I'd say the majority of an OpEx. I'd say maybe an 80-
20 split will certainly have some in COGS to -- on that side, on the services side, but mostly in
OpEx. And in terms of timing, we should see a lot of this -- most of this, a bulk of this coming out
at the end of Q1, and a little bleeding over into Q2 depending on the country it's in.
Q - `Paul J Silverstein, Analyst, Cowen & Co `
Kelly, thank you. You'll be missed. Thanks, Chuck.
A - `Kelly Kramer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Paul. Appreciate it.
A - `Chuck Robbins, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `A - `Marilyn Mora, Director of Global Investor Relations `
Thanks, Paul. Next question.
Operator
Thank you. The next question is from `Rod Hall, Analyst, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs. You may go ahead.
Q - `Rod Hall, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Yeah. Thanks for the question. I guess I wanted to go back to the linearity of this order trajectory,
Chuck and Kelly, on particularly enterprise. I guess if we go back to 2009, we're starting to see
commercial order volumes deteriorating into the range we saw back then in that recession. We
haven't really seen enterprise do that, and I wonder whether you think that that is where we're
kind of headed here. It just feels like this is not turning out to be a V-shaped recovery. It's more
like we're headed into a real recession, a prolonged recession. So I'm just curious kind of what
you think about the trajectory of those volumes and what they look like at the end of the quarter
versus the beginning of the quarter.
A - `Chuck Robbins, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I would say that, I'll make couple of comments and I'll take it to Kelly to give you a little bit
more color. I think that, as Kelly and I looked at where we expected demand to be from the
beginning of the quarter to the end of the quarter, we were pretty much in line. In fact, it was a
slight, slight, slight bit better than we had anticipated at the beginning of the quarter. But I would
not get too excited about it being slightly better as you can tell from the guide. But -- and then I
think linearity was generally in line, but it was probably a little more back-end loaded than we've
seen and we had a lot of big enterprise activity towards the end of the quarter. So Kelly anything
to add?
A - `Kelly Kramer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. The only thing I will add, and Chuck kind of touched on this, again, it is the biggest, biggest
premier enterprise accounts, they are still investing significantly and they had very good order
rates. But it does -- as you go down the tiers in enterprise, it did slow down, and commercial is
not surprising. You saw what the commercial numbers are. So I do think it is related to they're
waiting to see what comes out of the pandemic and they're pausing their spends. But I think this
is why seeing the big, big accounts still investing in their digital transformation I think gives us
confidence that once we do get through this, we feel good about how we'll come out of it.
A - `Marilyn Mora, Director of Global Investor Relations `
Hey, next question, please.
Q - `Rod Hall, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Okay. I kind of have a follow-up.
A - `Chuck Robbins, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure.
A - `Marilyn Mora, Director of Global Investor Relations `Go ahead, Rod.
Q - `Rod Hall, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Yeah. I just wondered if you guys could talk a little bit about what sort of color you're hearing from
these enterprise customers. Do you think that they've --because they're investing so aggressively
in work-from-home, are they pulling demand forward out of the back end of the year? Are their
budgets changing, or are they just kind of robbing from the back end of the year budgets and
moving it toward the front end of the year to compensate for work-from-home and all this stuff
that's going on?
A - `Chuck Robbins, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
I don't think that -- I hadn't heard anything about anybody pulling anything forward. I think that the
larger the companies are, the more confident they have in their ability to come out at some
point, and they're going to continue to invest to position themselves when they come out. And
clearly, there are some large enterprises that are not investing, depending on which industries
they're in. But I think it's just normal investment cycles that certain large companies have just
decided they're going to continue to pursue.
And I do think, Kelly made a good point. As we've given like the number of software license
agreements that we did, I mean, it says that the portfolio that we have and the strategy we have,
I think, whether it's helping them with application visibility as they move more to the cloud is going
to be more -- it's going to resonate even more. When you think about the security strategy we
have go into the cloud, it's going to be more required in the future. We look at this infrastructure
transformation as they deal with this multi-cloud world in these new traffic flows, I think that's
going to be super relevant. Then obviously the employee and customer experience that they
have, which are all areas that we're investing in. I think when we come out of this, those will be
even more in demand and they were when we went into it. We just got to get to the other side
of it and then I feel pretty good.
A - `Marilyn Mora, Director of Global Investor Relations `
Okay. Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. Next question is from `Simon Leopold, Analyst, Raymond James with Raymond James. You may go ahead.
Q - `Simon Leopold, Analyst, Raymond James `
Great, thanks for taking the question, Kelly, we will miss you, and you're too young to retire.
A - `Kelly Kramer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Simon.
Q - `Simon Leopold, Analyst, Raymond James `
I wanted to follow up, Chuck, on the Cat 9K, because you did mention the strength there. And I
guess I'm trying to discern sort of the macro versus the product cycle issues, and my
understanding is that the portfolio has been releasing platforms that are more suited for small
enterprises just at the time when those are the weakest customers. So if you could, help us
maybe understand the overall contributions of this product and where you are in the productcycle, and maybe even explain what's macro-related versus normal cycle-related. Thank you very
much.
A - `Chuck Robbins, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Simon, I'll let Kelly talk about the numbers in a minute, but I'm going to share with you my
instinct on this, because I thought about the same thing. Because the one thing that we know is
that the campus business that we have, their -- people aren't in their campus offices. So the
whole notion of refresh and upgrades clearly are not top of mind for every customer the way
they might have been nine months ago.
However what I think is that the 9K is for those customers who are either in the process, a real
commitment to modernizing their infrastructure and they're continuing to do that, or they've
made a decision and they have the financial wherewithal right now to actually embark on that, and
the 9K is what they are using to do that in their campus environments. And some of them are
using this opportunity with no one in their campus environments to upgrade. Clearly, that's not
every customer. But I think what it says is those customers who are still on our older platforms,
which we didn't see their growth on, it's sort of the story we talked about. They haven't
committed to refresh. They haven't committed to that modernization piece. And so they're not --
that part is not accelerating, but the 9K has continued to accelerate. So it's been a positive story
for us. Kelly, do you want to answer the --
A - `Kelly Kramer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. No, I think you said it well. And I think, Simon your point is, well. I mean, so the products you
referenced, the Cat 9200, which was launched for the lower end -- mid to lower end, is in that
Commercial segment to your point, but when I look at it individually, that product is still, revenue
is growing like amazing double digits. And so that just shows that we're still very early in the
transition. What -- when the customers are buying, they are buying the new portfolio handover
fist. And it's just the COVID impact of the overall, and again, the legacy product falling off is really
what's driving, but that's why we have face and feel good about the portfolio when we come out
of the environment.
A - `Chuck Robbins, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Simon, I think, two just comments on top of that. Number one is, we're still very early in this
whole process. And then the 9200, I think it's important to note. It is a small business product, but
it's also an access layer product in enterprises. It goes into branches, it goes into some cases,
wiring closets, et cetera. So we will still see some continued demand for that.
Q - `Simon Leopold, Analyst, Raymond James `
Thank you very much.
A - `Marilyn Mora, Director of Global Investor Relations `
Sue, let's go ahead and move to the next question.
Operator
Thank you. The next question is from `James Fish, Analyst, Piper Sandler with Piper Sandler. You may go ahead.
Q - `James Fish, Analyst, Piper Sandler `Hey, thanks for the question, guys. And congrats on the retirement there, Kelly.
A - `Kelly Kramer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, James.
Q - `James Fish, Analyst, Piper Sandler `
For me, I want to bridge a few of the questions that have been asked together. But, Chuck, you
talked about accelerating the transition towards SaaS. Can you guys give us an update as to
where that SaaS revenue is, not the term license contribution, and where you guys think it could
accelerate given the investments? And then utilizing Ittai's question from before, do you need to
acquire to help accelerate it?
A - `Chuck Robbins, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I'll let Kelly answer the numbers question. We gave you the total software number, we gave
you the percent that's coming from subscriptions and SaaS. But I think you're asking specifically
about SaaS. So and look I think that we've made a lot of progress. If you do the math on where
the software in our portfolio was five years ago and what percentage of it was coming from
subscription and SaaS, we've certainly increased it significantly over the last four years or five
years without any major, major revenue driving acquisitions. So that would certainly help and we
continue -- as I said earlier, continue to look at alternatives in that space. And you should assume
that we will continue to look at them, but we'll also be disciplined. So we'll -- Kelly, you want to
touch on the SaaS numbers or --?
A - `Kelly Kramer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I mean, we don't disclose the total SaaS number. Again, it's made up of our Webex
business, a lot of our portfolio, Duo and Umbrella and security. And again, acquisition, Meraki is a
hybrid where we ship an appliance but then it has the SaaS management, and things like
ThousandEyes that we're adding to our networking portfolio and AppDynamics, and that's just
going to continue to accelerate. So I think you're going to see it twofold. You're going to continue
to see us to be those are the type of assets that we have been acquiring and will continue to
acquire, and you're seeing internally this is also how we are developing product to try to
accelerate that. But the growth in the SaaS portfolio has been really good for us.
Q - `James Fish, Analyst, Piper Sandler `
Understood. I appreciate the color, and congrats again, Kelly.
A - `Kelly Kramer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, James.
A - `Marilyn Mora, Director of Global Investor Relations `
Next question, please.
Operator
Thank you. The next question is from `Jeff Kvaal, Analyst, Wolfe Research with Wolfe Research. You may go ahead.
Q - `Jeff Kvaal, Analyst, Wolfe Research `Thank you very much. And my congratulations, again, Kelly, we look forward to seeing you in the
new role at some point down the road. I have a question and a clarification. I think the question,
Chuck, last quarter you spend a little bit of time talking with us about traction in the web-scale
side of things. I'm wondering if that traction has seen some follow-through, if you could update us
on that?
And then secondly for Kelly, you just said the OpEx will come lower by $800 million, is that a
gross number, or is that a net number i.e. you'll take it up by $800, but bring some back in some
of the growth areas of the business? Thank you.
A - `Chuck Robbins, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Jeff, thanks for asking the question. I would have been in trouble, if I've gotten off this call
and not talked about the web scale. So we saw another positive quarters. That's one of the areas
that was really positive for us. It was a third quarter row where we've had double-digit growth
with the web scale players. And again as I said last quarter, it's -- we have had some traction with
the 8-K, some traction with our silicon, but nothing that's meaningfully moving the numbers yet.
So it really is just the rest of the portfolio, but as I said, I think it speaks to the long-term effort that
we've put in over the last few years of rebuilding these relationships. And I think it speaks to their
belief in our strategy going forward. And we feel good about where we are. And we believe over
the next one-year to two years that they'll begin to be meaningful contributors. And we're
excited about what the teams have done.
A - `Kelly Kramer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
And on the cost-out, so again, we are taking out gross over $1 billion, so that is gross. But like
anything, Jeff, there are puts and takes as we go forward, so whether it's things like the dollar is
weaker, FX is going to be a bit of a headwind this year, we reset the bonus, all that kind of stuff,
that will be puts and takes. But that's a real cost-out that we're taking out as we go through and
do our planning.
Q - `Jeff Kvaal, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Okay, yeah. Thank you both very much.
A - `Kelly Kramer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah.
A - `Marilyn Mora, Director of Global Investor Relations `
Thanks, Jeff. Sue, I think we have time for one more question.
Operator
Thank you. Our last question is from `George Notter, Analyst, Jefferies with Jefferies. You may go ahead.
Q - `George Notter, Analyst, Jefferies `
Hi, guys. Thanks very much. I guess I wanted to kind of go back to the discussion of moving more
of the business to an as-a-service model. And could you just put a little bit more meat on the
bone in terms of what areas are you specifically thinking about as new candidates to kind of
move that direction? And how do you incentivize customers in those areas also? I'm just trying to
think about the mechanics of how this works. And then congrats to Kelly also. Thanks.A - `Chuck Robbins, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Literally, we're looking at everything. I mean, we're trying to -- we're looking at everything from
our compute portfolio to clearly our software assets are already in the midst of that transition,
and many of them are already being sold that way. And we're even looking at how we deliver our
traditional networking hardware as a service over time. So it is literally across the portfolio. And
we see an acceleration of some of the work that's already been underway. Obviously, the
Collaboration portfolio has been transitioning to as a service for quite a while. We even launched
last, I don't know, two quarters, three quarters ago, we launched our hardware as a service and
the Collaboration portfolio as a pilot. And we've been working hard on all the operational
capabilities and the systems work that needs to be done to do that. So it literally is across the
entire portfolio. And we'll give you an update on the next call for sure.
A - `Marilyn Mora, Director of Global Investor Relations `
All right, I believe that was our last question. Thanks, George. I'll turn it back to you, Chuck.
A - `Chuck Robbins, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
All right, I just want to recap and just thank first of all Kelly for everything and the friendship and all
the great work that you've done and reiterate that she's going to stay with us until we actually
identify her successor, and she'll help advise us through that process. So we're excited about her
sticking around and helping us do that. I want to thank the team for executing through a really
challenging time. And I really want to reiterate that I think that the strategy that we had going in, I
believe when we come out of the pandemic, will be more relevant to our customers than it was
six, nine months ago. So I'm optimistic about the future, and we're going to continue to execute
through this. And thank you all for joining us today.
A - `Marilyn Mora, Director of Global Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you, Chuck. Cisco's next quarterly earnings conference call, which will reflect our
fiscal 2021 first quarter results, will be on Thursday, November 12, 2020 at 1:30 PM Pacific Time,
4:30 PM Eastern Time. Again, I'd like to remind the audience that in light of Regulation FD, Cisco's
policy is not to comment on its financial guidance during the quarter unless it's done through an
explicit public disclosure. We now plan to close the call, but if you have any further questions, feel
free to contact the Cisco Investor Relations group, and we thank you very much for joining
today's call.
Operator
Thank you for participating on today's conference call. If you would like to listen to the call in its
entirety, you may call 866-429-0574. For participants dialing from outside of the US, please dial
203-369-0916. This concludes today's call. You may disconnect at this time.