Q4 2014 Earnings Call

Operator
Good day and welcome to the Lam Research Corporation June 2014 Quarterly Results
Conference Call. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Ms. Carol Raeburn.
Please go ahead, ma'am.
Carol Raeburn
Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the Lam Research Quarterly Conference Call. With
me today are Martin Anstice, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Doug Bettinger,
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During today's call, we'll share our outlook on the business environment and review our financial
results for the June 2014 quarter and our outlook for the September 2014 quarter. The press
release detailing our financial results was distributed a little after 1:00 p.m. this afternoon. It can
also be found on the Investor Relations section of the company's website along with the
presentation slides that accompany today's call.
Today's presentation and Q&A will include statements about our expectations and beliefs
regarding certain future outcomes, including our guidance. A more comprehensive list of forward-
looking topics that we expect to cover is shown on the slide deck accompanying my remarks.
All statements made that are not historical in fact are forward-looking statements based on
current information and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to
differ materially. We encourage you to review the risk factor disclosure in our public filings,
including our 10-K and 10-Q. The company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking
statements.Today's discussion of our financial results will be presented in a non-GAAP financial basis, unless
otherwise specified. A detailed reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results can be found
in today's earnings press release.
This call is scheduled to last until 3:00 p.m. Pacific Time, and as always, we ask that you limit
questions to one per firm with a very brief follow-up, so that we can accommodate as many
questions as possible. As a reminder, a webcast replay of this call will be available later this
afternoon on our website.
With that, I'll now hand the call over to Martin.
Martin Brian Anstice `
Thank you, Carol, and good afternoon, everyone. I'll start today by commenting on our
performance in the June quarter and 2014 fiscal year, then provide a little more color on our view
for the outlook of wafer fab equipment spending in the second half of calendar 2014 and the full
year 2015. Before transitioning to Doug, I will conclude with thoughts on Lam's growth and
describe areas of focus for the company that should provide you with helpful context.
In the June quarter, Lam continued a trend of outperformance and we delivered another quarter
of strong execution across the business. Results topped the midpoints of our guided ranges
across all metrics, reinforcing our confidence in our recently updated long-term financial models.
The June quarter marks the end of our fiscal year, a truly remarkable year for Lam. In a period of
transformation within our company and the industry generally, we reported record revenues in
each successive quarter and operating income that more than doubled year-over-year.
We believe that a major theme for Lam in our recent year and more importantly, in our future, is
the opportunity for sustainable outperformance. This is made possible through our position and
focus on market leadership in the segments of WFE that we serve, our critical applications growth
strategy targeted to deliver leading-edge solutions through significant technology inflections and
our demonstrated ability to execute predictably, meeting commitments to the full community of
stakeholders.
These strengths all combine to provide a path for Lam to create value of substance for
shareholders over the next several years. Value creation that should accelerate with continued
execution in our markets, as they represent an expanding proportion of WFE due to the primary
technology inflections, most notably in areas related to patterning, 3D devices and advanced
packaging. Overall, we estimate that approximately 25% of total WFE investments this year will
be directly associated with the inflection technologies, and based on the importance of these
enabling transitions to our customers and the current pace of pilots and production ramps, we
maintain our view of WFE spending within a $32 billion range.
For our company, due to the complement of our strengths with the spending bias of our
customers, we continue to remain optimistic that the second half of calendar 2014 can achieve a
revenue level reasonably similar to the first half of the year. Although much can change, at this
time it would be fair to characterize that we expect December to be stronger than September.
Now to the segment details. Starting with NAND Flash Memory, we continue to see balance
between supply and demand of bits as sustainable profitability continues to be a strong
customer focus. We believe the customers are supplementing and converting capacity in a very
rational manner with WFE spending relatively consistent with earlier expectations. Investment is
focused on 16-nanometer and below planar conversions, as well as initial 3D NAND capacity. As
noted at our investor and Analyst Event recently, we continue to expect planar investments torepresent the majority of NAND's WFE spending this year, representing approximately two-thirds
of the total. Our outlook for 2014 NAND supply bit growth remains in the lower 40% range.
In DRAM we saw continued strength in investments in the June quarter. Strong DRAM ASPs with a
supply-constrained market are underpinning an industry focus on realizing healthy returns on
investments made. Accordingly, investments are primarily being made to enable the transition to
mid-2x and below technology nodes, transitions which we believe offer meaningful value to
customers from a very efficient upgrade oriented spending. Projections for DRAM bit growth are
approximately 30% this year. Overall, in Memory, we maintain our projection for 2014 WFE at $12
billion to $13 billion.
Lastly, in both the Foundry and broader Logic segments, our outlook remains more or less
consistent with the prior view. The ramp plans for 20-nanometer Foundry and 14-nanometer Logic
appear from our perspective to be progressing largely as expected with the Foundry focus on
20-nanometer investments in the first half of the year and the second half of the year weighted
to early FinFET purchases and a broadening of participants. Restating my earlier message, we
expect WFE at the $32 billion level in calendar year 2014 and revenues at Lam that materially
outperform to that baseline year-over-year comparison.
For 2015, we continue to believe that WFE spending levels are biased to be stronger than 2014
with key opportunity and risk being defined by success of latest generation devices utilizing new
enabling technology; measured by performance and cost benefits in their markets, and the
conviction of participants to grow profitably in an increasingly consolidated and competitive
semiconductor industry. For Lam, we believe that the share of WFE that will be attributed to
markets that we serve will increase, as technology inflections become more mainstream and
represent perhaps approximately one-third of total spending next year by our customers.
Combined with this SAM growth outperformance, we believe that our technology inflections
applications market share is in excess of 50% across the portfolio of deposition etch and clean
products. We remain excited by this unique opportunity and work hard each day to meet our
commitments and continuously strengthen the trust that our customers place in our company and
the individuals who work here.
This commitment to outperformance and execution is evident in our reported 90% success rate
in targeted penetration and defense activities in the first half of calendar 2014. This is one of the
most fundamental measures of the trust in Lam and the quality of our people, our products and
technology roadmap and our ability to execute. Our momentum, particularly in the most
challenging critical applications, is enabled by our commitment to invest in the inflections for the
long term and emphasis on customer collaboration and pursuit of solutions to their most critical
challenges. Execution in these areas is underpinned by the fact that we have shipped 17 new
product configurations in the last 12 months, marking perhaps the most active period of
innovation in a company that has long prided itself on its innovation at the leading edge.
Our focus areas are on the critical path for our customers, and this shared value proposition is
providing significant growth opportunities for Lam. Illustratively, our leadership in the patterning
area is aligned with customers' needs for scaling solutions in advance of next-generation litho.
Our leadership in back end of line clean is aligned with customers' critical yield initiatives.
As we discussed in some detail recently, we're also focused on expanding our engagement with
customers related to their installed base, partnering to achieve the level of performance they
need to be successful over the long term. An opportunity exists for Lam to differentiate itself
through comprehensive and configurable lifecycle solutions, partnering with our customers toinnovate through the economic challenges of scaling. That is a key focus for our Customer
Service business group.
The capability to rapidly address customers' challenges with innovative and cost effective
solutions combined with the increasing level of support we are receiving from customers globally
is fundamental to executing our vision. Neither the outperformance we have delivered to date,
nor the opportunities presented here, would be possible without successful collaborations with
our customers and partners more broadly through the industry. We thank them all sincerely and
are delighted by the recognition that we have received for our efforts.
As we shared a couple of weeks ago, the next six months are a very busy period for us at the
customer interface, supporting their most critical ramps and focusing on the significant number of
equipment selection decisions outstanding for this year; staying aligned with our customer on
their needs, planning and executing accordingly. As you might expect for a company that is
targeted to grow between 20% and 25% year-over-year in calendar 2014, in turn creating
approximately $1 billion of cash from operations; for a company with a vision to grow meaningfully
throughout a multi-year technology inflection period, Lam leadership is committed to successful
scaling of our company in a manner that is transparent and value-creating for our customers and
shareholders.
In conclusion and notwithstanding the formidable strength of our competitors, we continue to
believe we are well-positioned to outperform in the coming years. We plan to execute to win key
applications and with a $2 billion SAM expansion opportunity through calendar 2017, we are very
excited about a future of growth.
Last but not least, I would like to recognize the Lam team; the full complement of 6,700
employees globally who worked tirelessly through a complex and transformative period for the
company, who believed in the opportunity and prioritized their role modeling our values of
customer first, company and then individual; and achieving our vision objective of being number
one in customer trust above all else. Many thanks to everybody.
With that, I'll hand the call over to Doug.
Douglas R. Bettinger `
Okay. Thanks, Martin. Good afternoon, everyone, and I want to thank you today for joining us
during what I know is a busy earnings season for you guys.
Let me just begin by saying we're very pleased with the results from our June quarter, which
topped off very strong performance for fiscal year 2014. Operating income continued to outpace
revenue growth, growing at roughly twice the rate, both in the quarter as well as in the year.
Gross margin and earnings per share both came in above the midpoint of our guidance,
demonstrating the strength of our business model. We continue to execute on our plans to
outperform the industry around the key technology inflections, as well as to deliver on our
financial commitments.
Shipments in the June quarter were above the midpoint of our guidance range at $1.160 billion,
which was down about $100 million sequentially, but up slightly when you compare it to the
December quarter. The Memory segment represented 59% of total system shipments, and that
was down from 66% in the March quarter. Within that, NAND shipments contributed
approximately 20% of total system shipments. And I'd just point out, we still anticipate that planar
NAND node conversions will represent the majority of NAND investments for the full year, and we
do expect to see an increase in planar investments in the back half of the calendar year.DRAM shipments were strong at 39% of system shipments, and that was up from 30% in the
March quarter. With healthy pricing in the DRAM market and supply remaining tight relative to
demand, we've seen an increase in spending to support both 25-nanometer and 20-nanometer
node conversions. Our successful product positions for multi-patterning applications continue to
be a tailwind with respect to the DRAM segment.
Foundry shipments were 30% of total system shipments, and this was up from 28% in the prior
quarter. We expect to see a strengthening in Foundry investment in the second half of the
calendar year with a broadening of the customer base, investing in FinFET pilot production as well
as additional investment in the 28-nanometer and 20-nanometer nodes. And finally, Logic &
Other shipments comprised 11% of total system shipments, and this was up from 6% in the March
quarter.
Revenue for the June quarter came in at $1.249 billion, setting a new high for the fifth consecutive
quarter. June gross margin percentage came in at 46.4%, an increase of about 90 basis points
compared to the March quarter. And as we've shared with you in the past, business volumes and
overall business mix contribute to the variability in our gross margin performance, and we expect
to see fluctuations in gross margins on a quarterly basis.
Our operating expenses were within our expectations for the June quarter at $322 million,
holding steady at about 26% of revenue. We continue to prudently manage SG&A costs to allow
us to appropriately fund strategic development programs that are expected to generate growth
in future revenues. Our R&D spending is focused at the leading-edge technology nodes, as well
as the technology inflections that you heard us talk about during our investor meeting earlier this
month. We are spending on products in etch and deposition that will move us father into atomic
scale processing. We are spending on products in clean to deliver next-generation yield solutions
for our customers.
Operating income delivered in the June quarter was $258 million, and this was up about $10
million from the March quarter. Our operating margin came in at 20.6%, above the midpoint of
our guidance range, reflecting the leverage in our model. The tax rate for the June quarter was
approximately 15%. I do expect this rate to rise somewhat as we move into our 2015 fiscal year. I
would be modeling a rate in the high teens for the near future.
This increase is driven by a more significant amount of our revenue being generated domestically
where tax rates are a little bit higher. I should point out to you that this tax rate estimate does not
include any benefit from the potential extension of the R&D tax credit in the United States. If that
tax credit is extended, it would lower our rate by two percentage points to three percentage
points.
The resulting earnings per share for the quarter came in at $1.25, and that was above the
midpoint of our guidance range. The majority of the upside is attributable to our improved gross
margin for the quarter. The earnings per share were based on a share count of roughly 173 million
shares. The share count includes the dilutive effect of 8.2 million shares from the 2041 convertible
note. And I'll just remind you that the dilution schedules for this note as well as now, the 2016 and
2018 notes, are posted on our Investor Relations website to help you with your modeling. As our
share price has ticked up in the last quarter, modeling the dilutive impact from our converts now
requires looking at all three of the notes.
Cash from operations was robust at $246 million generated in the June quarter, and this was
about 20% of revenue. Cash from operations benefited from continued focus on working capital
metrics. Days sales outstanding improved in June to 58 days and that compared to 61 days in theMarch quarter. Inventory turns did decline slightly as we added a little bit of inventory for future
business growth.
Now let me turn to the balance sheet. We ended the quarter with gross cash and short-term
investments, which includes our restricted cash, of $3.2 billion. This was up 11% from $2.9 billion in
the March quarter. Cash in the quarter was bolstered by $135 million from the sale of some
nonessential real estate assets. We had deferred revenue of $362 million, which does not include
$34 million in shipments to Japanese customers which will convert to revenue in future quarters.
And I'll just remind you, on April 29 we announced that the Board of Directors approved a $1
billion capital return program, which consists of an $850 million share repurchase authorization,
along with the first quarterly dividend in the 34-year history of the company. During the June
quarter we spent $36 million on the repurchase of approximately 624,000 shares at an average
price of $56.89. We expect to complete the balance of the share repurchases over the next two
years. The quarterly dividend was initiated at $0.18 per share, which was paid out on July 2. The
scope of the capital return program demonstrates the confidence we and the Board of Directors
have in the cash generation capability of this company.
Let me now turn to our non-GAAP guidance for the September quarter. We expect shipments to
come in at $1.110 billion, plus or minus a range of $50 million. We expect revenue of $1.150 billion,
again plus or minus $50 million. Shipments and revenue reflect a sequential decline in total
Memory spending, offset by a growth in Foundry spending. We expect gross margin to come in at
45.5%, plus or minus one percentage point. We are forecasting operating margins of 17.5%, plus
or minus one percentage point. And finally, we forecast earnings per share of $0.92, plus or minus
$0.07, based on a share count of approximately 177 million shares.
And I'd just like to pause for a moment and point out to you that within the midpoint of this EPS
guidance is the impact of roughly $0.05 from the incremental dilution from the converts as well as
the increase in tax rates.
Operator, that concludes my prepared remarks. Martin and I would now like to open up the call
for questions.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. We'll go first to `C.J. Muse, International Strategy & Investment Group LLC with ISI Group. Please go ahead.
Q - `C.J. Muse, International Strategy & Investment Group LLC
Yeah. Good afternoon. Thank you for taking my question. I guess first question, in terms of the
implied guide for second half revenues consistent with the first half, it looks like you're looking at
revenues growing roughly 15% sequentially into the December quarter. And I guess the question
there is, one, can you talk about visibility? And then two, how much of that will be an increase in
shipments versus a draw-down of deferred revenues?
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Well I think the first thing to say is the visibility for something six months away isn't as good as the
visibility three months away. But we certainly, we do our best, C.J., to kind of give you an
appropriate linkage between commentary from the customers and the opportunity for the
company. I will remind you that I said approximately similar, not precisely the same. So firstintents and purposes, we believe we've got a revenue expansion – a revenue opportunity and
expansion between September and December that will be approximately equal first half and
second half.
We don't typically disclose our backlog and orders in a conversation like this. Obviously, we're
about to file a 10-K and there will be a backlog number in there, but I will comment that the
backlog for the company, the difference between the orders received from customers and
shipments made to customers has built by more than $200 million in the last two quarters. So
we're kind of building backlog. And frankly speaking, the relationship between shipments and
revenues is reasonably consistent from one period to another. So in answer to the second part of
your question, is it a drawdown, it would only ever be a drawdown if the circumstances of the
customer were causing us to respond to their request that way. But there isn't a fundamental
message on ship and revenue turns that would kind of undermine the outlook that we've shared
with you.
Q - `C.J. Muse, International Strategy & Investment Group LLC
That's very helpful. And then, Doug, if I could ask you a quick question here. In terms of greater
cash generated here in the U.S., how does that change your thinking in terms of perhaps being
more aggressive on buybacks and/or upside to that $850 million?
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
It doesn't really. The two are not related in my mind, C.J. I mean we announced the capital return
program before I'd really modeled what I expected the tax rate for the next fiscal year to be, so
in my mind it's not interrelated. And again the uptick, just to clarify, in the tax rate has a lot to do
with the fact that we are just shipping more systems into the U.S. which has a higher tax rate than
when we ship them elsewhere. But the two things are independent in my mind, C.J.
Q - `C.J. Muse, International Strategy & Investment Group LLC
Okay. Thank you.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Thanks, C.J.
Operator
We'll take the next question from `Timothy Arcuri, Cowen & Co. LLC with Cowen & Co.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Thanks a lot. Just, Doug, a question on calendar Q4; I know that you don't want to talk too much
about it. But if you just look at your guidance to grow the revenue between 20% and 25% for the
year and you take the midpoint, certainly it suggests that the revenue in December is going to be
a little bit better than what it was in June. And I'm wondering, from a gross margin perspective, is
there anything abnormal in the shipment concentration in what's likely to ship in December that
would make gross margin or the profile any different? Because then that would argue that your
gross margin should be better in December than it was in June. Thanks.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `Yeah, I don't know. Tim, you know I'm not going to answer that question. We're not going to get
into giving hard guidance more than one quarter out. I think your thinking on the top line is
probably directionally right. I haven't quite gone through where all of the mix would fall out. I
would kind of take you back through to the financial models that we put out as the best
guidepost for how I would be thinking about the profitability and the gross margin of the
company, Tim.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Okay great, Doug. Thanks. And then Martin can you talk a little bit about are there concrete
examples – I know you probably don't want to get too much into the specifics – but are there
examples when you talk to your customers that you have gained share or you've gained a slot as
a result of the ongoing proposed merger that's happening out there with your larger peers? Are
there any examples of you absolutely gaining share as a result of that merger? Thanks.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Well there's absolutely – there's a lot of evidence that we're gaining share. Whether it's precisely
a byproduct of the customers' reaction to a planned merger or not is a conversation I don't waste
my time having with the customer, honestly.
So I am sure that the value proposition, to the extent that customers are not positive and you will
need to talk to customers directly to figure out whether they are or are not. But to the extent that
they are not positive about that planned merger, my personal opinion is that the benefit is a
more kind of medium and long-term benefit to the company, not short-term – for the simple
reason that it takes a long time to make changes to market share at this company. And when you
get selected or you're working on a selection, they tend to stick pretty well. So, I'm sure there's
an example or two along the way where we might be able to claim it was because of reaction,
but frankly speaking I think it's not a conversation we tend to have.
We just focus on delivering the best solution that we can and focusing on established
differentiation in the critical applications space. And we try to articulate that in our forward-looking
targets and we try to articulate it at the most recent analyst call by reminding everybody that in
the patterning space we are addressing two-thirds of all the multi-patterning critical steps. And in
the 3D NAND conversion, we have 90% position on the critical applications across all Memory
customers, and more than 60% on all applications.
So, gaining share and growing our company is all about critical applications focus and inflections.
And if along the way, whether it's associated with a reaction to a competitors' merger plan or not,
if we gain other business by building customer trust, then we're excited about that opportunity as
well.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Awesome, Martin. Thanks so much.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Thanks.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Thanks, Tim.Operator
Our next question will come from John Pitzer with Credit Suisse.
Q - `John W. Pitzer, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Yeah, good afternoon, guys. Thanks for letting me ask the question. I've guess Martin, my first
question just relates to some incremental news on EUV that was out in the market today that
clearly impacted I think your stock and some of your peers' stock.
I'm kind of curious from your perspective, if the timing of EUV in your mind has changed all that
much. And I know you addressed this at Analyst Day, but I'd be curious again to get a better
understanding from your perspective is if EUV gets inserted quicker than we think; what that
might do to that $2 billion SAM opportunity that you've talked about.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Yeah. I – very, very simply, my view of the intercept points on the EUV is no different today than it
was the last time we were in the public domain. And relative to the impact of EUV insertions to
the 2017 $2 billion SAM expansion, little or nothing of impact, and that's just the commentary that I
would extract from the statements of our customers. Our customers have almost without
exception stated no intercept at 10-nanometer in Logic. And maybe there's a back qual
opportunity, but it's one or two levels, one or two passes, so I think fundamentally no change in
view of intercept and no impact of substance to the $2 billion SAM expansion we articulated.
Q - `John W. Pitzer, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Martin, that's helpful. And then maybe as my follow-up, I know you talked about directionally, WFE
being up in calendar year 2015. I'm wondering if you could attempt to quantify that, or at least if
not quantify it, kind of qualify the puts and takes within the broader buckets of NAND, DRAM and
FinFET? And I guess I'm particularly interested in FinFET because the sense I get is that this time
last year looking a year out, the visibility on 20-nanometer seemed to be a lot more tangible than
the visibility on 16-nanometer, 14-nanometer is for the next 12 months. Maybe you can address
that. That'd be helpful.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Yeah, I'm going to resist the temptation to respond quantitatively, because it just feels too early
to do that. But as I said in the Analyst meeting, I think there's kind of two or three levels to the
conclusion on bias to growth next year, and one of them is a statement of capital intensity. I think
in each of these transitions, whether it's kind of the patterning, the incremental patterning steps
that we articulated or – in Logic and DRAM, whether it's the incremental SAM expansion that
exists in NAND Flash, and even in litho I believe, there's an opinion that there's capital intensity
increase in a planar to 3D NAND transition. So capital intensity I think is part of the story.
I think the general commentary on demand for electronics, consumer and enterprise and IC units,
if you kind of begin with the GDP commentary is a little bit more positive in 2015 than it is 2014. I
think the competitive dynamic that exists in a consolidated semiconductor world tends to deliver
two things to us. It tends to deliver discipline in spending and it creates very high risk/reward
opportunities for growth for our customers.
And so I think there's a tremendous amount of conviction associated with establishing market
share leadership positions through these technology inflections, and clearly, calendar 2015 is thefirst year of substance when we're going from pilot line investments into an HVM regime. So I
look at the sum of all of the data points that are available to us and none of them seem
particularly negative, if negative at all. And we'll kind of hold our breath and maybe by the time
we get to the October earnings call, put a number out for you. But I would say at this point we
expect WFE to be stronger and we expect our share of that expansion to be a positive story as
well. Remember our view on the proportion of WFE that's inflection related goes from about 25%
in calendar 2014 to approximately one-third in calendar 2015.
Q - `John W. Pitzer, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Thanks, guys.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Thanks, John.
Operator
And our next question will come from Harlan Sur with JPMorgan.
Q - `Harlan L. Sur, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Hey. Good afternoon. Nice job on the quarterly execution. At your Analyst Day you mentioned
inflection technology spend at about a third of WFE spend next year versus 25% this year.
Looking at it at a more granular level, it seems like you still expect 3D NAND to kind of exit this
year at about kind of 6% to 7% of total installed NAND capacity. Can you just give us some
numbers on where you expect 20-nanometer DRAM mix to be in terms of the installed capacity
exiting this year? And what I'm trying to get at is or get a sense for is what is the upgrade tailwind
as we look into 2015?
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
When you say 20-nanometer, did you say 20-nanometer DRAM or 20-nanometer...
Q - `Harlan L. Sur, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Yes, 20-nanometer DRAM.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Well I think the opportunity for kind of sustainable upgrade is pretty significant. I mean our
estimate for the end of calendar 2014 is that there is probably 450,000 wafer starts per month
of capacity at 3x or above, which is a pretty significant number.
Q - `Harlan L. Sur, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Yeah.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
And our estimates on the 2x proportion by the end of the calendar year is still a pretty low
number. So I think conversion opportunity down to 20-nanometer is going to be a significant part
of the story for calendar 2015 and even more so for the company because of the transitions in
terms of double patterning.I'll remind you that there are three to four steps of multi-patterning in a mid 2x technology node.
There are 15 steps to 20 steps of multi-patterning at 20-nanometer, and 30 steps to 40 steps at
1x. And as Dave Hemker, our CTO explained in the Analyst meeting, there are multiple passes for
each one of those steps. So I think the story in terms of sustainable investment through upgrades
is going to have a very prominent theme for WFE next year and I think it will be even stronger for
the company for the reasons I just stated.
Q - `Harlan L. Sur, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Yeah, it makes a lot of sense. And then, Martin, within your balance first half, second half shipping
outlook, last quarter you had anticipated a bottoming out of the spenders in the second half.
Looking at your shipment guide for September and kind of the pipeline for the second half of the
year, is it unfolding this way? I know you mentioned the broader base of spenders in Logic and
Foundry. Are you also seeing a broader set of customers spending in Memory as well here in the
second half?
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Yeah, Harlan, this is Doug. I'll take that one. The Memory spending, it's the same guys. In Memory
when we look first half to second half, there's maybe a little bit first half weighted. Foundry,
conversely, is, actually Foundry and Logic is a little bit second half weighted.
Q - `Harlan L. Sur, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Yeah.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
And the broadening out that we described to you a quarter ago we're absolutely still expecting
to see. You're seeing a broadening out of people spending on FinFET. We're seeing some
investment at 28-nanometer and 20-nanometer as well, and it's more substantial in terms of the
number of people spending in the second half than the first.
Q - `Harlan L. Sur, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Got it. Okay. Thank you very much.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Yep. You're welcome, Harlan. Thanks.
Operator
Our next question will come from Jim Covello with Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Jim V. Covello, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Great. Thanks so much for taking the question. I appreciate it. Martin, I hate to go back to kind of
the noise of the day but I think it was important as John Pitzer suggested relative to some of the
stocks, could you offer us your perspective just from a technical standpoint on if indeed the
wafers that IBM was talking about processing were processed without any photo-resist on them,
what exactly that would mean in terms of what kind of tests that would be from an industry
perspective and a technical perspective?A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Yeah I don't think – well I mean I can kind of give you some fairly superficial commentary. We're
not the experts here, we're not qualified and we don't know enough about what they've stated. I
mean I've read a bunch of reports.
Q - `Jim V. Covello, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
I promise you, you know more than I do.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
And that may be true but the basic headline for the company is the multiple patterning
opportunities of growth for us are fundamental, they're real and they're not likely impacted in the
2017 timeframe by any EUV conversation.
There is a tremendous amount of learning still ahead of the industry relative to EUV, very clear.
And every year that passes that builds an installed base of alternatives in terms of etch and
deposition systems for spacer-based DRAM multiple patterning or immersion litho and etch
systems in Logic, every year that passes, the bigger the installed base is. The motivation for
reuse is very significant. So the economic tradeoff on the intercept actually is even more
challenging, not less challenging, as every year passes.
So I don't know that people are really processing that. But clearly, the long-term benefit for the
customer if the productivity performance that is being described by ASML is achieved in a
production environment is a good thing for the industry in sustaining Moore's Law. But in the
meantime we've got a lot of things to focus on, and certainly in the 2017 timeline I don't think
there's much of anything to talk about today.
Q - `Jim V. Covello, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
That's helpful. Thank you. As a follow-up, you and a lot of folks have talked about the broadening
out of the Foundry spend and the second tier Foundry customers starting to spend a little bit
more money. Can you walk us all through a little bit of the differences in timing on when you may
see orders and deliver shipments of some of the second tier foundries versus some of the other
peers in the industry? And how that could impact half on half growth and even how that might
affect your visibility into the early part of 2015 shipments to the extent that maybe some of those
orders are coming for you in the back half of 2014, whereas some of those orders from the
second tier foundries might have come to some of your peers in the earlier part of 2014?
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Yeah. Not to be semantic, but I mean to the best of my knowledge there aren't too many
equipment companies with a big backlog today. So it's much less about an orders conversation,
and it's much more about the quality of the conversation and the demonstrated performance of
the customer in that conversation to plans and commitments that are communicated to us. And
there is an expectation in our first half and second half that, as Doug said, the Foundry business
and the proportion of shipments in Foundry have a meaningful increase.
And relative to concentration, just taking a kind of quick look at numbers, there's not a customer
in that population that's outside of – the biggest guy in that list is 30% to 40% of our shipments.
So it's a fairly diverse participation level, and it's happening at a time when there's a very unique
and very critical opportunity to establish market share leadership in a FinFET device marketplace.And so when I think through risk, as I've said multiple times this year, I think the risk profile for
calendar 2014 is actually pretty low. I mean there's always an adjustment a little bit here or there,
but that in the scheme of things is noise.
Where things get a little bit more unpredictable is being able to articulate a view on transitions
out of pilot line for HVM. I mean, the headline is there are only so many customers today for the
equipment industry. There are only so many semiconductor companies spending money adding
leading-edge capacity. And it is critically important that they validate their capability to do that. So
that when someone's in a marketplace, whether they're going to be a follower or a leader with a
competitive device in terms of performance or cost, they can move quickly. And so I actually don't
feel like there's a tremendous amount of exposure to the commentary of the company in the
second half of the year. I might be wrong, but that's how I feel. I feel like calendar 2015 is much
more challenging to predict.
Q - `Jim V. Covello, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Very helpful. Thank you.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Thanks, Jim.
Operator
And our next question will come from `Krish Sankar, Bank of America Corp. with Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Bank of America Corp. `
Yeah. Hi. Thanks for taking my question. First one, Martin, I just wanted to see if you could take –
you know, you highlighted how a third of WFE next year would go to the inflections. If you were to
take a SWAG, what would be the biggest bucket of spending among that one-third? Would it be
the FinFET, 3D NAND or multi-patterning DRAM?
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Wow. That's a – I thought you were going to ask me a slightly different question. So I – next year. I
mean, I've got an answer to that question for the three years. Yeah, I don't know. I'm going to
have – rather than take a kind of flyer at it, I'm going to kind of hold off. I mean, clearly, in the $2
billion context, we have said that the Foundry, Logic transitions, which is a mixture of patterning
and the FinFET device are the single largest proportion for us. Next is NAND Flash, 3D NAND and
the third in this is multi-patterning DRAM and the fourth is advanced packaging. I guess it's a
reasonable commentary from what I've just said to conclude that the Foundry implications from
3D NAND are greater than DRAM next year, but for our company, we have clearly have very
strong participation in DRAM as well.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Bank of America Corp. `
Got it. Got it. That's helpful. And then a question for Doug. If I look at the margin structure, are
there any other levers for improving the margin? Or are we going to be floating around the mid-
40%s gross margin and maybe make like low 20%s op margin? Is it purely a function of revenue
from here or do you have other levers to improve the margins?
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `I mean, the thing to understand, Krish, when you're running a company the scale and scope of
Lam Research, you've got to be driving cost reduction every day, every year. You have to be
making sure your efficiencies and things like that in the manufacturing and supply chain are being
pushed as hard as they can be pushed. You've got to do it every year. And we are absolutely
doing that this year as hard as we did last year and we'll do it just as hard next year. Because we
have expectations from our customers that they're going to get some pricing reduction, you've
got to at least drive costs as fast as that just to stay in place.
I think the thing I would then take you to, Krish, is go back to the financial models that we just put
out at the beginning of this month. That's the way you should be thinking about the profitability
levels of the company. We put in the 2014, 2015 model of gross margin at 45% going over the
next three years to four years to 46% and approaching 47%. That's the way you should be
thinking about things. And there will be puts and takes quarter by quarter around those numbers,
but we constructed those models and tried to be very thoughtful about how the portfolio of
business was going to look.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
And just to add to that, if you don't do what Doug says, you don't just float, you drown. So it is
critically important to focus on the totality of the things that influence the gross margin and the
operating expenses of the company. We have two levers, simply stated, in gross margin. One of
them is costs and one of them is revenue, and the pricing consequence is all a byproduct of a
competitive environment and differentiation, which is why we make such an investment to
position the product and technology portfolio to be as strong as it can be. And it can always be
stronger, but as strong as it can be in terms of differentiation.
And the last thing that we think about when we position profitability in our long-term model is
what do we think is a fair distribution of profits over the supply chain and what do we think is a
defendable, sustainable position to take with customers? Because as best I can tell, economics
still represents a significant component of risk relative to Moore's Law. It isn't just physics and if
you get that long-term positioning wrong, you create a customer trust exposure which in my
opinion is really high. So we try to position profitability levels in ways that we feel comfortable
justifying at the customer interface. And in that context, we believe we position for best customer
trust and ultimately best partnership, best collaboration and if we execute in the way that we
intend to, ultimately outperformance of revenues and profits as well.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Bank of America Corp. `
Got it. Thank you. That's very helpful. Thanks, Martin and Doug.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Thanks, Krish.
Operator
Our next question comes from Romit Shah with Nomura. Please go ahead.
Q - `Romit J. Shah, Nomura Securities International, Inc. `
Thanks. Great job on gross margin. Doug, I noticed the incremental gross margin in the quarter
was extremely high. It was roughly 100%. Was there anything one-time worth highlighting here in
the June period?A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
No. There was nothing one-time. I mean as I tried to describe you get the impact of different
kinds of mix characterizations, different customer mixes, different tools mixes. Not everything
here has the same profitability. We've benefited from pretty favorable mix last quarter and it's
kind of coming back to where it was in the previous quarter in our current guidance.
Q - `Romit J. Shah, Nomura Securities International, Inc. `
Okay. And then how are you thinking about the share count going forward with the authorization
you have in place?
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Well there's an $850 million buyback authorization. We're only just starting on it. We're going to
execute that buyback over approximately the next two years, and you should assume we'll
consistently be in the market buying that back. What's moving against us a little bit right now is
the dilution from those convertible notes. And even though we were in the market last quarter,
share count's ticking up, and it's really all about what's happening from an increasing share price
and the impact on those converts. So we'll continue to be aggressive with the buyback. What I
can't control is kind of the note dilution right now.
Q - `Romit J. Shah, Nomura Securities International, Inc. `
All right. Thanks, Doug.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Yep. Thanks, Romit.
Operator
We'll take the next question from `Mahesh Sanganeria, RBC Capital Markets LLC with RBC Capital Markets.
Q - `Mahesh Sanganeria, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Thank you very much. Just to follow up on the Foundry spending in the second half. If you can
make an attempt at quantifying the broadness of the Foundry, putting it in two buckets, 28-
nanometer and higher and 20-nanometer lower, can you break down our expectation for the
second half in those two buckets?
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Yeah, more of it is at the leading edge, Mahesh. The 20-nanometer and the FinFET investment is
more substantial than 28-nanometer by a decent amount.
Q - `Mahesh Sanganeria, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Okay. That's very helpful. And the second one, I think on the Memory. Memory has been very
strong this year and your first half is about 55% on average. We had seen a wild fluctuation in
Memory investment in the last three years. Now with the increased capital intensity, will you be
able to make a guess at how do you see a normalized percent spending of Memory going
forward? Like is it 40% you expect, or 50%, or 30%, in that range? Just a very high ballpark
number, that will be helpful.A - Martin Brian Anstice `
I wish I could help, but we're not going to. Frankly, it is getting – for those folks that want to have
conversations about Memory or cycles, it's getting really hard to do that because I don't know
how to do that anymore. Right? What I can see is a community of 10 customers or 15 customers
that each have their own cycles that are spending consistent with their windows of opportunity.
They're being very disciplined and very effective in terms of upgrading and the pace at which
they add capacity, keeping supply and demand in balance.
When I think about extendibility and sustainability of spending, I focus on profitability levels of
customers, and as best I can tell in Memory today that's pretty good. And I focus on the
proportion of capacity that's still available for upgrade to known, near-term technology roadmap
transitions. And as I already said, in the DRAM world, we exit this year, even with a significant level
of spending, with probably 450,000 wafer starts per month of capacity at 3x or above. And in
the NAND Flash world, we probably exit this year with maybe 500,000 wafer starts per month of
capacity at 20-nanometer or above.
So there are known upgrade paths of near-term significance and those are both opportunities
that on their own represent the same type of spending level that exists in calendar 2014. So
that's how I think through sustainability. I don't spend much time trying to correlate the spending
of customers this year, which is intended to support revenues next year and beyond with the
revenues of this year. I've never understood that.
Q - `Mahesh Sanganeria, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Okay. That's very helpful. Thank you very much.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Thank you.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Thanks, Mahesh.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Edwin Mok, Needham & Co. LLC with Needham & Co.
Q - `Edwin Mok, Needham & Co. LLC `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. So I have a question regarding your comment. I heard, Doug,
you talk about Logic being maybe more back half weighted this year. I was wondering is that to
do with more to do with your share gain in the Logic space or is it the customer stopped ramping
the investment? I'm just trying to get some color on that.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Yeah. I mean my comment was around our shipments being a little more back end, back half-
loaded. I think WFE, I'm just kind of eyeballing it here right now, is maybe a little bit back half-
loaded as well. It's not significant, Edwin, but it is a little second half weighted. And Memory
conversely, is a little bit front half weighted.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `So we've got an assumption in about a $13 billion Foundry WFE that the first half is $6 billion and
the second half is $7 billion.
Q - `Edwin Mok, Needham & Co. LLC `
Wait, just to clarify; are you talking about Logic or Foundry or both? Because I thought you
mentioned Logic specifically...
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
That was Foundry and in the world of microprocessor and other Logic, we're, to Doug's points,
reasonably balanced.
Q - `Edwin Mok, Needham & Co. LLC `
I see. Okay. Great. Thanks for clarifying that. And then any kind of update you can provide on the
clean product? I understand you guys have it in the marketplace now and you'll probably start to
get some customer data on that. Any update on that, when you expect you to actually officially
announce the product? And how do we kind of think about that as potentially a growth driver for
you guys?
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
The first update is we still have one. The second update is we've got really nice engagement with
the three customers that we've talked about. I think we've been very pleased with the kind of
mechanical validation and the productivity, the reliability of those systems. So a really good
performance. In fact, I would say we've started up and the performance we have in startup has
surpassed expectations, frankly, for a product of this maturity. So that's really good.
The process learning is kind of the focus of the company in the second half of the year and that's
where everything comes together. Because now you're delivering results from the wafer and
you're creating yields, validated yield improvements for a customer. So that's kind of critical
phase. And we have kind of pull from two further customers, and I believe we are scheduled for
shipments in the September quarter for the second two who will receive the early next-
generation clean system.
So I feel as good as we could at this point, but I would kind of register that obviously there's a
significant amount of process learning ahead of us. And as far as modeling is concerned, I'll
remind you that although in percentage terms the clean market share growth plans are the
largest in the company, they're the 5% to 10% clean market share over the timeline of through
2016 and 2017. They are also the market share growth plans which are most hockey stick. So in
your modeling, please don't linearize the growth to the company in clean.
Q - `Edwin Mok, Needham & Co. LLC `
Great. That's all I have. Thank you.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Thank you.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Thanks, Edwin.Operator
And our next question comes from Patrick Ho with Stifel, Nicolaus.
Q - `Patrick J. Ho, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Thank you very much. Martin, in one of your comments and I think to one of the questions you
talked about how unpredictable it is to get the timing of pilot to high-volume manufacturing.
Maybe as it relates to 3D NAND, as you mentioned that you're seeing more planar conversions in
the second half of the year, how fungible, how balanced can you be if the customers decide to
accelerate 3D NAND versus doing planar conversions? How do you react to any of those type of
changes?
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Well as we articulated, we have great participation in both of them. But we have higher share in
3D NAND than we do planar, and we have a significantly greater SAM in 3D than we do in planar
as well. So I mean the consequence of an acceleration of 3D NAND is we've got a lot more
output leaving factories, which means we need to be proactive insuring we've got capacity in
factories to build things, we've got capacity in the supply chain to buy things, and we've got
capacity in our field service organization to install systems.
So you know because of the uncertainty we end up kind of running a level of risk management
that has some level of cost in the company. We try to keep it manageable, but there is a cost to
uncertainty. And what we've clearly got to do is be able to execute, because we've put a lot of
time and effort and money into creating the opportunity to outperform. So we've got to be
resourced sufficiently to execute it.
As best I can tell, every one of the four NAND Flash guys today is invested in some level of planar
scaling and also 3D NAND expansion, and every one of them has some fairly specific plans of
substance emerging in the back half of this year and obviously calendar 2015. And I do expect
that calendar 2015 is obviously a big year for demonstrated performance and cost benefits of the
3D device.
Q - `Patrick J. Ho, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Great. That's helpful. Maybe a question for Doug. In terms of the Services opportunity that you
had talked about at the Analyst Day, what are some of the levers for both the cost of goods line
as well as on the OpEx line as it relates to the Services business that'll help you keep the
corporate margins at where they are or at least at your targeted model?
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Patrick, we had – you'll remember the slide that we had, I'm sure, that showed outperformance in
terms of top-line growth from that Services business. I mean, that success there is
comprehended in that model. And I think you know, typically the gross margin is a little bit lower in
that business, but the operating income is actually quite good. So the success of that part of the
business is comprehended in those financial models that we provided.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
So I'll add one thing and that is a commentary on mix. And this is kind of where the rubber meets
the road in terms of the economics of the company. If our focus is on percentages of profitability,the company is a very highly profitable business for the company in relative terms. But the
downside of that is it's a much lower dollar than an original equipment sale.
So we try to focus on the long-term financial performance, which means doing what is right for
the customer in the long term is the guiding principle. So we're not going to kind of ebb and flow
between new system sales and upgrades on a whim trying to manage percentages versus
dollars. We're going to do the right thing for the customer relative to this trade-off. So that's an
important lever but one that responds to the needs of the customers more than it does a
particular orientation of the company.
A - Carol Raeburn
Operator, we have time for one more call.
Operator
Thank you. And our last question will come from `Sundeep Bajikar, Jefferies LLC with Jefferies.
Q - `Sundeep Bajikar, Jefferies LLC `
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking the call. As we think about a potentially large migration of end-
customer business from one big foundry to another next year, what level of capacity build do you
expect to see over the next 12 months to 18 months? And what portion of it would be new
Greenfield capacity versus upgrades to existing capacity, particularly in 14-nanometer FinFET? And
as a follow-up to that, given the competition in foundry has increased dramatically, do you think
there's a chance of an over-build of foundry capacity near-term?
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
I'm going to start with the back end of your question first. I think there's tremendous discipline
and I don't think there's a material risk of overcapacity. And my frame of reference for that is that
the 28-nanometer technology nodes there's probably 350,000 wafer starts of installed capacity
and even with the competitive environment that you just described, I believe that by the end of
this year the sum of the 20-nanometer planar and first-generation FinFET 16-nanometer, 14-
nanometer is going to be in the range 120,000 wafer starts to 140,000 wafer starts of capacity.
So it doesn't feel like it's anywhere close to a high kind of risk profile. In answer to your question
of how much capacity gets added, that's a little to tell. But frankly speaking, most of the last three
years have seen capacity additions in one node or another at foundries of around about the
100,000 wafer starts per month level. And certainly, I would expect that to be directionally
relevant for calendar 2015, maybe even a little stronger. And as we've mentioned many times,
because of the multi-patterning effects for the company and the positioning in terms of share,
we should have some outperformance potential in that context.
Q - `Sundeep Bajikar, Jefferies LLC `
Thank you very much.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Thanks, Sundeep.
A - Carol RaeburnThat concludes our call for today. Thank you for joining us. A webcast of this call will be available
on our Investor Relations website this afternoon. That concludes our comments. Good-bye.
Operator
Thank you. As a reminder, that does conclude today's call, and we thank you for your
participation.