Q4 2015 Earnings Call

Operator
Good day, and welcome to the Lam Research Corporation June 2015 Conference Call. At this
time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Audrey Charles. Please go ahead.
Audrey Charles `
Okay. Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the Lam Research
quarterly conference call. With me today are Martin Anstice, President and Chief Executive
Officer; and Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During today's call, we'll share our outlook on the business environment and review our financial
results for the June 2015 quarter, and our outlook for the September 2015 quarter. The press
release detailing our financial results was distributed a little after 1:00 P.M. this afternoon. It can
also be found on the Investor Relations section of the company's website, along with the
presentation slides that accompany today's call.
Today's presentation and Q&A will include statements about our expectations and beliefs
regarding certain future outcomes, including our outlook. A more comprehensive list of forward-
looking topics that we expect to cover is shown on the slide deck, accompanying my remarks. All
statements made that are not historical in fact are forward-looking statements based on current
information and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ
materially. We encourage you to review the risk factors disclosures in our public filings, including
our 10-K and 10-Q. The company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements.
Today's discussion of our financial results will be presented on a non-GAAP financial basis unless
otherwise specified. A detailed reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results can be foundalways we ask that you limit questions to one per firm, with a very brief follow-up, so we can
accommodate as many questions as possible.
As a reminder, a webcast replay of this call will be available later this afternoon on our website.
With that, I'll hand the call over to Martin.
Martin Brian Anstice `
Thank you, Audrey, and good afternoon, everyone.
We would like to thank those of you who attended or listens to our recent investor and analyst
event on July 14th in San Francisco. During that meeting, we described the drivers of our
sustainable outperformance, reviewed our perspective on the industry and updated our long-
term financial model. As that update was just two weeks ago, we will keep our prepared
comments today brief.
Starting first with a review of our June quarter and fiscal 2015 results followed by a brief recap of
key messages we shared with you during our analyst events then providing an updates on our
near-term industry outlook, including with a reinforcement of the unique SAM expansion story for
Lam.
The June quarter reported results were in line with our expectations at or above midpoint for all
guided metrics. And for the second straight quarter, we set records for revenue, shipments and
operating income. The June quarter marks the end of our 2015 fiscal year, a year where we
surpassed the $5 billion level for shipments and revenues and generated more than $1 billion in
operating income. We demonstrated our commitment to long-term profitable growth and
returned value to shareholders with a 16% growth in net income fiscal year-over-year and $630
million or three times increase year-over-year of returned value to shareholders through
buybacks and dividends.
It's important to note that the substance of the outperformance trends that we're demonstrating
is based on technology and productivity leadership, strength in execution across the entire
organization, the values and culture of our company and the support we have earned from our
customers through our focus on customer trust and collaborations aimed at helping them solve
their most difficult challenges. As stated before, our opportunity to continue the outperformance
trend is driven by a broad-based market participation in the now well-understood deposition and
etch-intensive inflections of multi-patterning, 3D device architecture, and advanced packaging.
Focusing on one element of that headline today, at our recent investor event, we discussed how
the patterning market for Lam likely grows through the 5 nanometer technology node, with or
without EUV. An important dynamic within this segment is the increasing relevance of spacer-
based patterning. Spacer-based quadruple patterning, as we illustrated in our Analyst Meeting,
can increase the number of deposition etch and clean passes up to five times, driving the need
for process variability control and cost reductions. To address these challenges in logic and
memory segments both, we have focused on delivering technically enabling capabilities at high
levels of productivity, such as the VECTOR ALD Oxide and Kiyo with Hydra technology products.
With these offerings, we have been able to establish a very strong and, we believe, sustainable
number one position in etch for multi-patterning and grow our ALD share dramatically in just a
couple of years. With our assumption that approximately 60% of all foundry logic patterning steps
are spacer-based at 7-nanometer, our leadership in this segment is illustrative of the value we
have already been able to deliver to the customer and more importantly, the opportunity that lies
ahead.Now turning to the near-term industry update. With the second quarter of calendar 2015
concluded in line with our expectations, we continue to see discipline in the industry, with recent
puts and takes being directionally consistent with movements last quarter, i.e., strengthening in
3D NAND investments; foundry and logic both slightly down. Investments by our customers is
supporting a very strong September for the company, as evidenced by our guidance today.
Although it is way too early to guide 2015 December quarter shipments, a September outlook
that is materially higher than most expectations, ours and yours, our comments at the recent
analyst event, combined with the last couple weeks of general industry tone, suggest we will
likely see a December quarter with shipment levels lower than our 2015 March quarter. In many
respects, this is illustrative of the variability of business we described as the new challenge of the
consolidated industry, as the plans and investment decisions of any one customer or segment
present a more immediate to more significant short-term effect than ever before. With strong
mid- and long-term fundamentals for the company, and building deferred revenue balances in
the first half of this year, we now expect slightly stronger revenues for the company in the second
half of 2015 compared with the first half 2015.
Overall, we maintain our view for calendar 2015 WFE investment of $34 billion, plus or minus $2
billion. And as is customary, we would add that our view is predicated on a healthy macro
environment. We are encouraged by the opportunity we see for Lam in the industry. Investments
appear rational across segments and are largely consistent with our understanding of capacity
needs and reasonable assumptions on rising capital intensity. From our perspective, there are
positive and broad-based emerging indicators for demand at the leading edge, with increased
device designs, tape-outs, and new product penetrations, plans to take advantage of targeted
performance and cost benefits available from latest device architecture and process flows.
In the DRAM segments, market's demand continues to be driven by mobile and enterprise DRAM
growth. DRAM investments, which as we have said are biased for the first half of calendar 2015,
are very efficient and focus primarily on technology conversions to 20-nanometer. Investments
appear to essentially keep the install base, wafer starts level flat over – year-over-year, with
strong segment participation for Lam Research. For NAND, 3D NAND momentum has continued
to increase through the June quarter. As we recently stated, we now expect the chip capacity for
3D NAND will be approximately 150,000 wafer starts by the end of calendar 2015, with perhaps
slightly more than half this amount being qualified for HVM device output. Overall, we anticipate
2015 memory WFE spending at approximately the $16 billion level.
For the foundry segment, we continue to see that investments are focused on FinFET
enablement at a number of customers. The previously noted 28 nanometer capacity additions
this year continue to be a meaningful part of the foundry segment's investments, with healthy
end demand. We reiterate our view that foundry investment will be slightly lower than the
spending levels we saw in 2014.
We expect logic spending of between $6 billion and $7 billion, slightly down from 2014, reflecting
a sustained commitment to technology conversions with optimized reuse of the installed base.
As noted last quarter, strength in demand for image sensors, driven by mobile communications
and share gains for Lam, has provided some upside in the logic segment for us. Today, significant
device technology migrations are fundamentally enabled by the most advanced deposition and
etch-intensive inflections of multi-patterning and 3D architecture which we aim to extend and
make more productive for our customers each and every day. As we outlined at our recent
investor and analyst event, these inflections, together with advanced packaging, are driving what
we now see as a $3 billion plus multiyear market expansion for Lam, with multi-patterning and 3D
NAND being the biggest opportunities, each representing approximately 40% of that total.We believe the continued execution of Lam, combined with our market-leading deposition and
etch positions in these segments, is an undeniable, relative and accelerating growth opportunity
for the company through 2018. As we enter the second half of 2015, we are excited about the
long-term opportunities ahead and sufficiently confident in our ability to execute to recently
update our growth targets, and long-term Lam financial model, indicating the potential for $8 plus
annual earnings per share within the next three years.
It is an exciting time in the industry, and from the perspective that we have, Lam is better
positioned than most for growth through multiple segment inflections over a multiyear period. Of
course, being in a good position is not enough. Our focus on contributing to the long-term
success of our customers must continue to be paramount. Our ability to execute our opportunity
only possible with the commitment and hard work of more than 7,000 Lam employees worldwide
who make this a special and rewarding place to work. I would like to take this opportunity to thank
them all for their commitments and continued focus on industry excellence.
With that, I'll now hand the call to Doug.
Douglas R. Bettinger `
Okay. Thank you, Martin. And thank you to everyone for joining us on the call today.
We have what I think are some strong results to share with you today for both the June quarter,
as well as for our just concluded 2015 fiscal year. So I'll go ahead and just get started going
through the numbers. It's an exciting time for Lam Research. We delivered record levels of
shipments, revenues and operating income for the quarter and for the fiscal year. Each of these
metrics achieved double-digit growth in the June quarter compared with the June quarter of last
year.
In the quarter, we performed at or above the midpoint of guidance for all of the metrics. And for
the fiscal year, we hit some impressive milestones, crossing $5 billion in both revenue and
shipments for the first time in our history and generating more than $1 billion in operating income
again for the first time. We believe these strong results and milestones clearly demonstrate solid
execution against our opportunities.
Our upward trajectory of shipments continued in the June quarter, with shipments coming in at
$1.616 billion, which was up 8% sequentially and above the midpoint of the guided range. And as I
just mentioned, shipments for the fiscal year topped the $5 billion mark. As we expected coming
into the quarter, memory shipments were flattish in dollar terms and declined slightly in
percentage terms during the quarter. The combined memory segment made up 60% of total
system shipments and that compares with 67% in the prior quarter. DRAM shipments
represented 37% of system shipments which was down from 45% in the prior quarter. DRAM
shipments were largely being driven by 20 nanometer conversion spending. NAND and other
nonvolatile memory accounted for 23% of shipments which was flat with 22% in the March
quarter.
NAND investment in the quarter was primarily directed towards investments in 3D NAND.
Shipments to our foundry customers were at 26% of system shipments in the June quarter, which
was up a little bit from 24% in the prior quarter. Foundry spending in June was a mix of FinFET
investment as well as 28 nanometer capacity spending.
The logic and other segment had a nice uptick accounting for 14% of system shipments
compared with 9% last quarter. Strength here came from continuing investments in CMOS image
sensors. Record revenues for the quarter were at a level of $1.481 billion, which was an increaseof 6% compared with the March quarter. For fiscal year 2015, the revenues of the company also
exceeded the $5 billion mark for the first time.
You've consistently been hearing us talk about our strong position around the technology
inflections and our differentiation in the marketplace. I think you can absolutely see that position
reflected in our shipment and revenue outperformance.
Gross margin came in right at the midpoint of guidance at 45.5%. And as we shared with you in
the past, we expect to see variability in gross margins on a quarterly basis as a function of a
number of factors, such as business volumes, product mix, particularly our newer products where
we're still moving down the cost curve as well as relative levels of customer concentration.
Operating expenses in the June quarter grew a little bit to $355 million but decreased as a
percentage of revenue to 24% which was down from 25% in the March quarter. In the quarter,
63% of the OpEx spend went to R&D which was about the same level as last quarter. A top
priority of the company is to continue to fund R&D programs and infrastructure to enable the
future growth of the company. These ongoing investments are crucial to being ready for the
current as well as next set of technology inflections. R&D is funding development of capabilities
like our Flex G Series dielectric etch, our VECTOR ALD Oxide systems as well as our Kiyo
conductor etch systems.
Operating income in the June quarter was also at a record level coming in at $319 million which
was up over 15% from the prior quarter. Another first in the history of the company, as I
mentioned, operating income generated in fiscal year topped $1 billion. Operating margin in the
quarter was 21.6% which was up from 19.9% in March and again above the midpoint of the guided
range. Operating margin improved quarter-over-quarter with the growth in revenue, along with
the improvement in gross margin. And similar to my comments about gross margin, we expect to
see variability in operating income with variability in gross margin as well as overall business
levels.
The tax rate for the quarter was approximately 16%, which was up compared to 11% in the March
quarter. A tax rate in the middle teens would be reasonable for you to continue to include in your
financial models. Basic share count of about 174 million shares, earnings per share for the June
quarter were $1.50, above the midpoint of the guidance, driven by the higher revenue and the
higher operating margin. The share count at this point includes dilution from all three of our
convertible notes, with the total dilutive impact of about 12 million shares on a non-GAAP basis.
And I'll remind you that dilution schedules for the 2016, 2018 and 2041 convertible notes are
available on our Investor Relations website for your reference.
We spent $59 million and took delivery of 754,000 shares at an average share price of $78.80
during the quarter. At the end of the quarter we had completed more than 60% of the current
$850 million share repurchase authorization. We also returned $29 million in dividend distributions
to our shareholders and during the quarter announced a 67% increase in the dividend level,
raising the dividend to $0.30 per share each quarter, starting with the payment made earlier in
the September quarter.
Let me now move to the balance sheet. Cash from operations was strong at $292 million which
was up from $191 million in the March quarter. During the quarter, cash and short-term
investments including our restricted cash increased to $4.2 billion up from $4.1 billion in March. The
increase in the cash balance was primarily a result of the cash from operations, offset by those
share repurchases and dividends as well as capital expenditures. Days sales outstanding
decreased a little bit to 67 days versus 68 days in March. And as we mentioned in the investorevent, we recorded in the June quarter an impairment of goodwill and intangibles on the balance
sheet primarily related to our clean business. The total impairment of $89 million are treated as
one-time expenses and included in our non-GAAP adjustments for the June quarter.
At the end of the quarter, deferred revenues were $518 million which was up from $485 million in
March. This number excludes $164 million in shipments to customers in Japan which we'll revenue
in future quarters. And I'll just remind you that these Japan shipments remained as inventory
carried at cost on our balance sheet.
Company noncash expenses during the quarter included the following: $40 million for equity
comp; $39 million for amortization; and $31 million for depreciation. Capital expenditures was up a
little bit to $63 million, which was up from $32 million in the March quarter. Investments in the
quarter were largely attributed to lab tool investments. We exited the quarter with approximately
7,200 regular full time employees. And I'll just take a moment to mention that the growth in head
count you've been seeing from us over the last few quarters will level out as we go forward.
So now looking ahead, I'd like to provide our non-GAAP guidance for the September quarter. We
are expecting shipments of $1.580 billion plus or minus $75 million. Shipments will continue to be
strong, driven by 3D NAND. We're forecasting revenue of $1.600 billion plus or minus $75 million.
We expect gross margin of 45.5%, plus or minus 1 percentage point. We're forecasting operating
margins of 22.5%, plus or minus 1 percentage point. And I just point out this operating margin
includes some growth in spending, that is of a discrete nature. I'd expect spending in the
December quarter to come down somewhat from this level.
And then finally, we're forecasting earnings per share of $1.70, plus or minus $0.10 based on a
share count of approximately 174 million shares.
Operator, that concludes my prepared remarks. Martin and I would be pleased to open up the
call for questions.
Q&A
Operator
And we'll take our first question from Jim Covello with Goldman Sachs.
Q - `James V. Covello, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Great. Guys, good afternoon, congratulations on the very strong results and guidance. Martin, if I
could just ask a question – since Intel cut the CapEx again on the last call, and kind of made the
comments about slowing down Moore's law or slowing down some technology transitions, which
a lot of people think TSMC is kind of suggesting they will do as well. Obviously that's not affecting
you in the short term, given the terrific results and guidance, but what do you think the long-term
impact is on your business, of that?
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Well, I think, when we look at the totality of our industry, and while it is true we have a
consolidated industry and (23:12) five to 10 companies, everybody does have a slightly different
story. And as an equipments company, our profile of business with any one customer is slightly
different than others. And as many people have written, in fact the negative commentary from
Intel, from a cadence perspective, obviously doesn't impact us as much as it does possibly for
others.But we look kind of holistically here at the full spectrum of technology inflections and still feel very
positive around medium term and long-term business opportunities. And logic is in the mix and
traditional shrink is in the mix, but there are many other market inflection opportunities for the
company. And that's kind of what we're investing for, and that's what we're trying to describe in
terms of outperformance opportunity for the company. So it takes all customers, all segments, all
inflections. And it's a lot of opportunity, from my perspective, to be innovative and creative,
solving and contributing to the success of our customers long term.
Q - `James V. Covello, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
That's very helpful. Thank you. And if I could just ask for a follow-up. Similar kind of situation to last
quarter, where the market was very concerned about what your results and guidance would look
like on the heels of an Intel cut and maybe some more cautious commentary from TSM, and just
like last quarter, you guys delivered a terrific quarter and gave guidance well above the Street; do
you think this is just a function of that much less exposure to those customers? Or do you think
there's some dynamic here of your gaining share, even if some of the customers that might be
slowing down a little bit, such that your commentary is much more constructive, and your
numbers are much better than your peers, even in the context of those customers slowing
down?
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Yeah. Let's not be confused. The outperformance commentary of the company is not a
commentary on being weak in places where they're cutting investment. It is a fundamental
commentary on deposition and etch and, to some extent, clean intensive technology inflections,
which is creating a rather unique opportunity for our company, in our industry, to grow and
outperform. And the commentary that we've articulated today is a little stronger than we did a
couple of weeks ago relative to revenues because as you, I hope all noticed, we said we're now
expecting revenues in the second half slightly stronger than the first half, as opposed to kind of
roughly balanced. And if we execute to that plan, we will be delivering our third straight year of
20% revenue growth in the company, which is a tremendous commentary on fundamental growth
opportunities that we think have traction for several years yet.
Q - `James V. Covello, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Terrific. Thanks a lot for the color, and congratulations again.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Thanks, Jim.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Thanks, Jim.
Operator
We'll take our next question from `Krish Sankar, Bank of America Merrill Lynch with Bank of America.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Yeah. Hi, thanks for taking my question. I had two of them. First one, Martin, even though if
December shipments are going to be down, it looks like year-over-year shipments are still very
impressive comparing where the WFE is going to be. So based on that, my question is that, is thegrowth, can you parse it out between how much of your growth is coming from SAM expansion
and how much is it market share, is it 50%-50%; two-third, one-third; and then I had a follow-up.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Yeah. I don't know that I can answer that specifically for the year, Krish, but we have kind of
characterized, from the beginning of this inflection story, roughly a two-third, one-third profile in
favor of SAM expansion. So the market share story is indeed a meaningful component, but it is
the smaller of the two. And as a side note, we did recently increase our expectations of share
growth in etch from the original 3% to 5% target to the 4% to 8% level.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Got it. Got it. And then as a follow-up, if I look at your September guidance and try to analyze it,
you're kind of at the run rate that you gave in your target model on revenue side at a $36 billion
WFE run rate, which obviously is not the case in September, but it looks like you guys are running
pretty well ahead of target, thanks to your model. The question here is that, is most of the
earnings power going forward going to be driven by the top line? Are there any specific levels to
pull on the OpEx side or customer mix that's going to drive the incremental EPS upside?
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Yeah, Krish. This is Doug. A lot of it is going to come from revenue growth. Having said that,
though, we're not going to grow spending as quickly as we believe revenue growth will grow,
which is how you get from kind of where we are today at, call it 22%, up to the 24% or so percent
over the next several years. So there's leverage in the model, little bit in gross margin probably,
and in the spending line.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
And just a supplement, we talked a lot about the focus on long-term growth, today's inflections,
tomorrow's inflections. And the team's done a really nice job getting the proportion of operating
expenses that's focused on R&D above the 60% level, and we've kind of repeated that again this
quarter. And again, to supplement Doug's point, the guidance today kind of really answers your
question, because today's guidance, September over June, is a 13% expansion of EPS on an 8%
expansion of revenues midpoint. So we are really focused on leverage and profitable growth, not
just market share and revenue growth. So, we know the game.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Yeah. We've been doing it for three years running now.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Got it. Thanks, Martin. Thanks, Doug.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Thank you.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Thanks, Krish.Operator
We'll take our next question from Patrick Ho with Stifel, Nicolaus.
Q - `Patrick J. Ho, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Thank you very much. And congrats on a really nice quarter and fiscal year. Martin, you talked
about some of the spending trends that you saw in the first half of the year, where DRAM was
highly biased. You're seeing the emergence of 3D NAND spending as we head into the second
half of the year. Are there any other segments that you're seeing in the second half of the year
[indiscernible[ (29:09) are picking up that's helping you deliver some of the outlooks, both for
September as well as the December quarter?
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Yeah. I think we have a pretty good presence through each of the inflections in the segments, as
you know, and with the recent disclosure – despite comments on this call – with the recent
disclosure in press release about our progress with the North America logic company, we feel
pretty good about participating broadly in the spending patterns of our customers. To your point,
the view of the world today is not so very different, in many respects, to the view we had at the
beginning of the year. We expected DRAM to be first-half biased, and it still looks that way, and
we expected NANDs to be second-half biased, and it's kind of picked up, and we expected kind
of foundry logic to be neutral to maybe slightly stronger in the first half as well.
So running this company in this industry, all of that is relevant and certainly notable. But we're
much more invested in investing with a medium term kind of longer-term horizon for obvious
reasons, a $3 billion SAM expansion opportunity is very important for us to stay focused on
executing.
Q - `Patrick J. Ho, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Okay, great. And Doug, maybe a question for you. It's something you've talked about in the
Analyst Day and over the last few calls of the services business and some of the revenue
opportunities there, that's always a business where you can always have margin improvements.
What are some of the actions you're taking there to, I guess, further streamline that opportunity
to help drive better leverage to the bottom line?
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Patrick, what we're really trying to do more than anything is to have that part of the business grow
faster than just the growth rate of the installed base. As you know, the profitability of this part of
the business is pretty good. It requires some direct investment, not a lot. But really what we're
doing is innovating the business model, innovating on how we're delivering value to customers,
so that we can grow the top line and the bottom line falls just as the top line grows.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
And being very direct, Patrick, it's all about value you can provide to the customer. If you can't
provide much value to the customer, then you're not going to make much money selling it. So it's
all about finding ways to understand their challenges and issues, and support them as well as we
can. And we got a lot of people invested in that agenda.
Q - `Patrick J. Ho, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `Great. Thank you very much.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Thanks, Patrick.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Thanks, Patrick.
Operator
We'll next go to Timothy Arcuri with Cowen & Company.
Q - `Timothy M. Arcuri, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Thanks a lot. A couple things. I guess, Doug, I'm just looking at gross margin. And if I compare
gross margin and I look at the guidance, and I compare that to the end of calendar 2013,
revenues are up about $500 million a quarter or roughly $2 billion annualized. And the model's
definitely played out. There's no question about that. I guess, the one thing would be that
margins haven't really gone up despite all that additional revenue. And I guess are there any
things you can do from a high level to sort of address that? I know you've talked about doing
similar one-off projects for some products for some customers, which used to be a sign that you
would bring a lot more value to them. So I wonder if maybe there's some way you can –
something you can do to capture that value to cause margins to have some upside from here.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Yeah. Tim, when I look at operating margin at least, we've delivered nice upside. We've gone
from high-teens a year ago and to low 20s%, right. So that's there – even though gross margin is
kind of been level (32:51) a little bit. The reason gross margin level is (32:50), as we've talked
about in the past, we got more new tools coming out in the last 12 months, than we've ever had
in the history of the company. And in the first couple of quarters that new equipment is shipping.
You don't have your cost as low as it's going to get. And as you mature those tools and get them
released into the high volume environment, costs come down and margin gets better. That's
really what is going on the gross margin line.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
And to add, and this is maybe an important point relative to the philosophy of the company. Our
most important vision objective is to focus on customer trust, which means in all respects. And we
have to be cognizant of the distribution of profit through the supply chain. We have to target a
profitability level that we think is going to support the sustainable growth ambition of the
company. And so the model that we've articulated historically has been a baseline, and I think
although we didn't report a gross margin percentage in our long-term model the other day. Doug
described the fact that more or less, the headline for gross margins was the same today as it
was a year or so ago.
Q - `Timothy M. Arcuri, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Thanks a lot for that, Martin. And then I guess my second question is on shipments. And you're
not guiding December shipments, Martin. But it sounds like shipments are going to come down
maybe 200 million to 300 million versus what they were in September. And I'm wondering, givenall the issues in China and you look at semis, many of the semis are guiding way below seasonal
for Q3. And there are some obvious signs that foundry is getting a bit softer.
So I'm just trying to assess how much in the foundry segment in particular how much is risk-
adjusted in that down 200 million to 300 million shipment number from September to
December. Is that primarily, 3D NAND coming down? Or is there some risk-adjustment also for
the foundry segment too? Thanks.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
So you kind of gave me the answer in your question when you said, you're probably not going to
give guidance. And I definitely not. But to help you kind of triangulate, some part of what will be
our profile, and I've no idea if our profile is going to be the same or different than other
equipment companies. It's all the byproducts of how you're participating and what your
September is going to look like in terms of sequentials. Some part of the December message
we've communicated is a byproduct of what I think will prove to be relative strength of our
company in the September quarter.
I think some part of the commentary is simply a statement of this new variability challenge we
described in our Analyst Meeting in a consolidated semiconductor industry. Just in context, the
top five spenders are going to represent let's say 70% of wafer fabrication equipment spending.
If you're a $6 billion company, which is kind of what we're run-rating to right now, that means in
any one quarter, the average spending from one of those top five customers is a quarter of
$0.25 billion. And all it takes is an adjustment from one guy and you spring into the types of
numbers that you talked about.
Our focus is kind of obviously flexibility of business models to deal with those stock variability as
well as we can but not to compromise the focus on long-term growth in the company. So we've
done our best to absorb the rumor and the substance of kind of industry tone in the last couple
of weeks. And obviously we spent a lot of time directly with customers trying to learn as much as
we can, and that's reflected in the guidance we have given you.
Q - `Timothy M. Arcuri, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Awesome, Martin. Thank you so much.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Thank you.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Thanks, Tim.
Operator
Next we'll go to `Farhan Ahmad, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) with Credit Suisse.
Q - `Farhan Ahmad, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Thanks for taking my question and congrats on another set of solid results here. Martin, I wanted
to probe you on the fourth quarter expectations just a little bit, you kind of quantified the upside
on the shipments or like the maximum ceiling for shipments in the fourth quarter. I was hoping
you can provide some color on what level of downside could there be?And secondly, like you have (36:59) deferred revenues of about $200 million over the last three
quarters, how should we think about the revenues in the fourth quarter. Could we still get like
flattish revenues from September to December?
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Well, I'm going to respectfully contain my comments on December quarter shipments which
seem a long way away from our seats at this point in time to the answer I just gave to Tim's
question. But certainly relative to revenues, the message in the company is very clear. I hope we
expect slightly stronger revenues in the second half of this year than the first half of this year. And
if we execute to that plan, this will be our third successive year of 20% growth, which I think is a
remarkable commentary on the substance of the technology inflection growth opportunities we
have described to you now.
Q - `Farhan Ahmad, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Thank you. And just a quick question related to your comments on NAND shipment. You
mentioned that NAND and other nonvolatile memory, and considering that there was a new
memory architecture that was announced yesterday, I just wanted to hear if you have started to
see other orders or shipments in next-generation memory?
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
So Farhan, it's Doug. We spend a lot of time working with customers on all of their next
generation technologies and aspirations. I'm not going to answer your question about any
specific customer, except to say we're very well integrated with everybody in the industry.
Q - `Farhan Ahmad, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker) `
Thank you. That's all I have.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Thanks, Farhan.
Operator
We'll next go to `Weston Twigg, Pacific Crest Securities, Pacific Crest Securities.
Q - `Weston Twigg, Pacific Crest Securities `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. First just I know it's really early, but wondering if you could just
give us, a little bit of your view on which segments might be up or down in your opinion in 2016
foundry, NAND, logic, DRAM, up or down, some early color?
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Wes Twigg, my, you are very optimistic today with your question.
Q - `Weston Twigg, Pacific Crest Securities `
Yeah.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `So I'll do my best here and I think it's more qualitative than quantitative. As we said in the analyst
event, we are still biased to an expansion of wafer fabrication equipment spending in calendar
2016 over 2015. And frankly, a big part of that is influenced by the SAM expansion conversation
that we have most knowledge of. So asking any equipment company to really opine with
substance on WFE is a bit of a stretch because none of us sell product into every single segment
of the industry. So we're always kind of imputing a WFE headline. But I would say the demand
message holistically looks pretty decent. I would expect and I see unit number next year that's
probably a little higher than this year.
I think to the extent there are kind of inventory, I don't know if I would describe them as issues
right now because I think it's pretty modest but there are certainly some evidence of minor
industry corrections kind of playing out in the second half of the year. I think we go into next year
with really good supply-demand balance in all segments of the industry.
Next year is a very important year relative to transitioning from first phase investments and for
some maybe second but primarily first phase investments in next generation technology. And so
the technology inflections of 3D NAND and FinFET transistor, for example, are really just
beginning to get traction as device-relevant.
So I look at the demand statement and I feel reasonably good about all of it. And then obviously I
think there's maybe four fabs coming online in the first half of next year – three of them I think are
foundry, logic and one is memory. So it's very clear that the customer is committed to the
medium- and long-term inflections. And they're very disciplined around their execution. So even in
a world like DRAM for example where perhaps it's a byproduct of ASPs in the last three months
there's some level of anxiety. It's a super efficient conversion. And it is a conversion that has
business substance. It's a better performing DRAM at lower cost. And so at the end of the day it's
all about the customers' ability to pay for that and if they can afford to do the upgrades then I
think you see it executed.
So I don't know if I would call out any one segment right now. I feel like there's legs in all three of
them as we describe them. And we will see how the next kind of six month plays out before we
get quantitative.
Q - `Weston Twigg, Pacific Crest Securities `
That was a very good answer, very helpful, especially on a – what is a difficult question. Just as a
follow-up. Can you help me understand the nature of the big increase in the future Japanese
revenue? Was that more CMOS image sensor, or was that perhaps some memory shipment?
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
It was perhaps a little bit of both of those things, Wes.
Q - `Weston Twigg, Pacific Crest Securities `
Perfect. Thanks again.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Thank you.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Thanks, Wes.Operator
We'll next to go `C.J. Muse, Evercore ISI with Evercore ISI.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Evercore ISI
Yeah. Good afternoon. Thank you for taking my question. I guess first question. I was hoping to
get, I guess, discuss or your thoughts on 10 nanometer ramp on the foundry, logic side. And how
you would compare and contrast it to what you saw at the 20 nanometer, 16 nanometer, 14
nanometer, both in terms of timing, magnitude of both – equipment, first pilot and then high
volume? Thank you.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Yeah, I think, in terms of timing, I'd refer you back to the slide that I presented in the Analyst
Meeting, kind of not so much more to add there. But the substance of 10 nanometer, we think,
emerges next year and continues through 2017, with 7 nanometer investments playing out in the
2018 timeframe. So there's more details in the analyst slide deck for you to take a look at. In
terms of how we would expect the 10 nanometer investment to compare and contrast, I don't
know that anybody can really answer that question today, and I'm repetitively exposed to a
broad, diverse set of opinions.
My personal opinion is that 16 nanometer and 14 nanometer is obviously an important node as a
first FinFET, but I have the impression that the fabless community has expectations of
performance and cost benefits, in relative terms, at 10 nanometer that will be greater than they
realized in the 20 and 16 nanometer, 14 nanometer space. And when I read what I read from the
foundries, that seems to be consistent with what they're describing as a business objective as
well.
So I would expect 10 nanometer to be a very robust technology node for the industry. In our
models, as a point of reference, if you're trying to assess risk in our long-term models, or
opportunity in our long-term models. I think, by the time we get to calendar 2018 in logic and
foundry combined, we have assumed about 150,000 wafer starts of 10 nanometer capacity.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Evercore ISI
That's by calendar start 2018?
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
That's by the time we get to the end of 2018. And I should have said foundry only. Sorry, foundry
only, about 150,000 wafer starts by the end of 2018. That's our assumption in our financial
models.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Evercore ISI
Great. And I guess my follow up for Doug, two parts. One, can you share what ending backlog
was? And then two, for OpEx trajectory and the discrete items here in the September quarter.
Should we be getting back to the low, mid-$350s million in December?
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Yeah. C.J., I'm not going to give you bookings. I did that a quarter or so ago, just kind of as a one-
off thing. We historically...Q - `C.J. Muse, Evercore ISI
No, no. You do report ending backlog, but curious if you could share that.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
We don't report that.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Evercore ISI
Okay.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
You're going to see that in the 10-K.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
We report it one time a year, and it's – I actually haven't even looked at it, C.J.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Evercore ISI
Okay.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Then your second question on spending. It will come down, probably a little bit above the quarter
that we just announced, but pretty close, I think.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Just to put the backlog statement in context. The reason Doug said what he said is the same
reason that, about seven or eight years ago, Lam Research says (46:03) we're not reporting
bookings anymore. It gives a very misleading commentary on the ebbs and flows of the industry.
And so, when you take that input and then you take the very short term nature and the cycle time
compression that exists in the industry, the backlog for any of our companies today is much less a
commentary on the future of the industry than ever before. So that's why it is only an annual
disclosure that shows up in the 10-K filing.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
It's not that meaningful for kind of upcoming shipments.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Evercore ISI
Thank you.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Thanks, C.J.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Harlan Sur with JPMorgan.
Q - `Harlan L. Sur, JPMorgan Securities LLC `Good afternoon. And congratulations on the solid quarterly execution. On the roughly flattish
shipment outlook for September, you pointed out strong 3D NAND. Can you guys just give us the
rough sense, directionally, for your DRAM foundry and logic shipments in September?
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Well, I'll give you a little color. It's going to be strong 3D NAND. DRAM is probably down a little bit.
Everything else, I think, is pretty steady, plus or minus.
Q - `Harlan L. Sur, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Okay, great. Thanks for that. And I'm not complaining about the gross margin performance here,
but given your commentary around sort of record loadings in your manufacturing facilities back at
SEMICON a couple of weeks ago, I'm also kind of somewhat surprised that the team is not
driving some gross margin benefits from better overhead absorptions on higher revenues in the
September quarter. Is this mix-related, as you mentioned, or are there some other cost-related
issues that are masking the potential absorption benefits?
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Well, as you might expect, we're driving this conversation really hard, but as you might also
expect, our customers drive the very same conversation really hard relative to us contributing to
their long-term success. So, frankly speaking, the gross margin conversation does not exist in
isolation, at least as we run our company. We're very focused on trying to get the balance right.
We feel like we got a tremendous growth opportunity that can be executed in the context of the
models that we presented. And for us to execute that and have sustainability means we have to
respond in respect to the long-term interests of our customers. And other equipment companies
may choose different strategies, and they may have different growth and profitable growth
profiles as a result of that. Ours, I hope, is very clear.
Q - `Harlan L. Sur, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Thank you.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Thanks, Harlan.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Thanks, Harlan.
Operator
And we'll next go to Romit Shah with Nomura.
Q - `Romit J. Shah, Nomura Securities International, Inc. `
Yes, thank you. Martin, as you mentioned, 20% growth the last couple of years, as well as this
year. When you think about sustainable growth, is 20% sort of the number that you have in your
head, looking forward?
A - Martin Brian Anstice `That's a good try Romit. I would say, our objective is to grow faster than the industry. We have an
outperformance objective. We've talked about trying to grow twice as fast as the industry, and
we've been able to demonstrate an ability to do that. I think, that's the more definitive objective
for the company. And if WFE kind of goes up and it coincides with 20%, that's great.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Yeah, we should grow faster than the market, than the industry, Romit, is the important point.
Q - `Romit J. Shah, Nomura Securities International, Inc. `
Understood, thanks. And then the other point you guys have mentioned at least as far as 2016
goes, there's one reason why you're optimistic on DRAM is that 20 nanometer conversions are
still low as a percentage of the installed base. Do you have an updated number for what you think
that is or what it might be towards the end of the year?
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Yeah. More or less the same number today, Romit, as before. Our expectation is by the end of
this year, we've got about a third of the conversion to 20 nanometer done. So if the industry
continues at the pace of calendar 2015 from a conversion point of view, it's another 18 months to
two years, before you're done, and that's without a 1X, and a 1Y and maybe even a 1Z in the
roadmap of our customers.
So as I said in the Analyst Meeting, we've got kind of two to three nodes after the 20 nanometer
technology node in the roadmaps of customers as we understand them today. So I think there is
decent sustainability here. At the end of the day as we demonstrated many times in this industry,
it's all about ability to pay. And if the ASP environments puts too much pressure on profitability,
then obviously it's tough for folks to spend money converting even if there is business substance
to that investment.
Q - `Romit J. Shah, Nomura Securities International, Inc. `
Okay. Thank you, and congratulations.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Thank you.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Thanks, Romit.
Operator
We'll take our next question from `Edwin Mok, Needham & Co. LLC with Needham and Company
Q - `Edwin Mok, Needham & Co. LLC `
Hey, great. Thanks for taking my question. Congrats. So a great quarter. So first question on the
etch market share number. I understand obviously you guys gave that target on the analyst event.
But just kind of think about how you can achieve those numbers. How much of that is already
designed that you believe you have already won in existing 3D NAND or FinFET or kind of new-
gen inflection (51:34) opportunity versus – is any of that or what portion of that is relying onmoving to 10 nanometer process, and you won that business. Is that a way we can start (51:55) to
think about that?
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Well, in the timeframe of right now, the selection decisions that are being made by the industry in
logic for example are 10-nanometer selection decisions. Now there's some a little bit left of that
and then may be even some a little bit right of that from a kind of early phase selection
perspective. But it would be irresponsible for me to say it's all in the bank because in this industry
we should constantly have respect for the competency and capability of our competition there.
Everybody that survived this long is good. And we should recognize that we have to work hard
every single day to continue to realize the opportunity that we've described.
But I do feel like, if we continue to execute in this company and meet the commitments that we
made to customers then in large parts, the inflection story absolutely is much in our control if not
more in our control than anybody else. So in the bank too strong a word but I think we got good
track records. We've employed the right strategy and you've heard me talk a lot in this call about
supporting the needs of customers. I think the instinct and the philosophy that we employ in the
business on a day-to-day basis makes this story sustainable.
Q - `Edwin Mok, Needham & Co. LLC `
Okay, perfect. Great. That's fair. And then Doug, can I ask you about capital structure. Any
thoughts, I know you guys have a buyback and you guys have put up dividend and raised (53:38)
Any thoughts about putting more leverage on the balance sheet or maybe putting – adding more
debts on the balance sheet. And can you remind us how much of your cash is onshore versus
offshore?
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Yeah, Edwin. Right now, I'm pretty comfortable with the balance sheet as it sit, right. We just a
quarter ago raised $1 billion in debt. I feel very good about the cash we have in terms of funding
what we need. So I don't see doing anything in the near term beyond what's there, because
we've got what we need. In terms of onshore, offshore cash, a little less half of the cash today on
the balance sheet is onshore and obviously a little more than half is offshore.
Q - `Edwin Mok, Needham & Co. LLC `
Okay, great. That's all I have. Thank you.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Thanks, Edwin.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Mahesh Sanganeria, RBC Capital Markets LLC with RBC Capital Markets.
Q - `Mahesh Sanganeria, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Yes. Thank you very much. I'll just combine both of my question in one. Martin, just a question on
the memory DRAM versus NAND industry trend and specific to your company. You talked about
logic and foundry being down slightly, of course memory is up. Can you talk a little bit about
relative growth in DRAM and NAND, for industry-specific, and also to for your shipments, becauseif I look at your shipment last year, your DRAM shipment were probably 40%, 50% more than
NAND. And this year I get to almost even NAND and DRAM. So NAND has to be a huge growth.
So if you can describe that a little bit qualitatively that will be helpful.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Yeah. From an industry perspective, the way for fabrication equipment spending, calendar 2014
compared to 2015, under the assumptions we described in this meeting, DRAM and NAND both
increase year-over-year. And the increase is slightly greater, I would say, in DRAM than the NAND
flash, actually. I'm sorry I said that back to front (55:58), other way around.
So for the company, we obviously have communicated to you a really important message in
terms of some expansion for 3D NANDs and that means, in relative terms, the story for the
company is going to be positive around the 3D NAND transition which is heavily deposition and,
to some extent, also etch intensive. So you're going to see a stronger story for the company in
NANDs because of that. But our outlook is both segments spent more money this year than last
year and we see obviously a very meaningful inflection expansion for NAND next year. And we
believe consistent with the answer to the last question that there's sustainability to the DRAM
investments as well.
Q - `Mahesh Sanganeria, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Okay, thank you very much.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Thank you.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Thanks, Mahesh
Operator
And that does conclude our question-and-answer session for today. At this time, we will go
ahead. We do have one more question.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Yeah. We'll take one more.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
We will take one more, operator.
Operator
We'll take that question from `Jagadish Iyer, Redstone Technology Research with Redstone Technology Research.
Q - `Jagadish Iyer, Redstone Technology Research `
Thanks so much for squeezing me in. And just one quick question, Martin. One of your
competitors have highlighted that next year potentially there could be a slight slowdown in DRAM
spending. And one of your customers has also indicated that the bit growth for next year forDRAM could be lower. In such a scenario, how should we be thinking about the patterning
opportunity for you – for next year vis-à-vis this year? Thank you.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Well, it's appropriate that you should make a connection between the multi-patterning growth
opportunities for the company and DRAM because multi-patterning shows up in DRAM, as well as
logic. I think the relationship in our assumptions next year is probably two-thirds logic, one-third
DRAM in terms of multi-patterning SAM. So there is definitely a consequence if there was a
scenario where DRAM spending do not play out. There is some level of consequence in terms of
multi-patterning opportunity but the majority in two-thirds I think if my memory serves me correct
is logic based anyway.
Q - `Jagadish Iyer, Redstone Technology Research `
Okay. That's all. Thanks so much.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
All right.
A - Douglas R. Bettinger `
Thanks, Jagadish.
A - Audrey Charles `
Thank you. Thank you operator. That's all we have time for today. Thank you for your participation.
And we look forward to updating you again next quarter.
A - Martin Brian Anstice `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you for your participation. That does conclude today's call.