Q4 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, and welcome to the Lam Research's June Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this
time, I would like to turn the conference over to `Tina Correia, Corporate Vice President, Investor Relations, Corporate Communications. Please go ahead, Ma'am.
`Tina Correia, Corporate Vice President, Investor Relations, Corporate Communications `
Thank you, operator. Thank you, and good afternoon everyone. Welcome to the Lam Research
quarterly earnings conference call. With me today are Tim Archer, President and Chief Executive
Officer, and Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During today's call, we will share our overview on the business environment and review our
financial results for the June 2020 quarter and our outlook for the September 2020 quarter. The
press release detailing our financial results was distributed a little after 1:00 p.m. Pacific Time this
afternoon. The release can also be found on the Investor Relations section of the company's
website along with the presentation slides that accompany today's call.
Today's presentation and Q&A includes forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and
uncertainties reflected in the risk factors disclosed in our SEC public filings. Please see
accompanying slides in the presentation for additional information.
Today's discussion of our financial results will be presented on a non-GAAP financial basis unless
otherwise specified. A detailed reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results can be found
in today's earnings press release.
This call is scheduled to last until 3:00 p.m. Pacific Time. A replay of this call will be available later
this afternoon on our website.With that, I will hand the call over to Tim.
`Timothy Archer, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Tina, and welcome everyone. The global pandemic, volatility in the macroeconomy,
ongoing US-China tensions we are operating this year amid tremendous uncertainty, and
unprecedented challenges impacting people all over the world. We see technology playing a
critical role, keeping people connected, enabling businesses to remain productive and
accelerating solutions to the myriad of problems of the world is confronting.
I am very pleased with how Lam's employees have demonstrated care for each other, and our
communities and have responded with great effort to support our customers' success. As a result
of their outstanding execution, today we are reporting strong performance for the June period
and guiding to another quarter of solid growth. Specific to the COVID-19 pandemic, our teams
have demonstrated agility and resolve and establishing safe and effective protocols to perform
essential work in our facilities, while also enabling the majority of our employees to remain
productive, while they continue working remotely.
We have ramped and stabilized our supply and production capability after an initial period of
disruption to support revenues greater than $3 billion per quarter. As you have seen from our
guidance, we will be nearing record output levels for the company in the September quarter,
highlighting the effectiveness of our business continuity plans, our global manufacturing network
and our trusted supply chain partners. We will continue to capture learnings to further improve
business resilience and better serve our customers in the future, but overall, I am proud of what
our employees and partners have accomplished during this challenging period.
Before discussing our results for the quarter, I wanted to comment briefly on our review of the
new rules regarding sales of semiconductor equipment into China. China remains an important
part of the global semiconductor ecosystem, and Lam has a solid track record of business in this
market. We are closely monitoring and complying with all regulatory directives and based on our
assessment, we currently see no material, financial or business impact from the new rules.
Turning now to the June quarter. Revenue and EPS came in above our expectations. Our
operating margins improved sequentially and we generated over $800 million in cash from
operations. As the September quarter guidance indicates, we see continued positive momentum
as we move into the second half of the year. The results also represent sustained progress
towards our long-term objectives.
As mentioned earlier our guidance indicates we are nearing prior record levels of revenue, but
we believe that our opportunity for growth remains robust. Key points supporting our view
include, one memory investments must continue to grow to meet-secular demand drivers. Lam's
memory mix year-to-date as slightly below 60% of system revenues is well below historic highs.
We expect our strong memory position to drive outperformance in share of WFE spend as NAND
and DRAM investment levels increase.
Two, our actions to improve our Foundry/ Logic SAM and share are yielding results. With our
revenue growth in this segment outpacing Foundry and Logic, WFE growth cycle-to-cycle.
And three, our customer support business group at 34% of total revenues year-to-date is an
increasingly greater contributor to our top line within the past. Looking at the broader WFE
environment, our outlook remains strong, while COVID-19 is created volatility for the
semiconductor industry in a larger sense it is underscored the rapidly growing reliance of
individuals, and businesses on semiconductors in the products and technologies they enable.For example, we are seeing accelerated growth in internet video traffic, as video becomes
embedded in a broad range of business and consumer activities. This is manifesting currently in
work from home, e-learning, telehealth, online gaming and of course, video streaming. Nearly
two-thirds of global consumers sight video as their preferred medium for obtaining information.
The demand at this places on data transport, analysis and storage will continue to rise.
Mobile networks are migrating to 5G, video quality is doubling from 4K to 8K, and cloud and
enterprise data centers are expanding support the enhanced data traffic. A 2x resolution
improvement in mobile video drives roughly a 70% increase in NAND storage content and newer
server architectures are expected to have over 30% more memory channels versus prior
generations. Despite the recent downtick in smartphone units, our own assessment of NAND
content in smartphones in calendar year 2020 has trended higher versus our prior baseline due
to a greater mix shift towards 5G devices.
We are also seeing increased NAND demand related to new product cycles in the game console
segment, with some of the new platforms, adding up to a terabyte of SSD based storage.
Launches of the new game consoles are expected to add low to mid single-digit percent growth
to overall NAND bit demand in 2020. These demand drivers in combination with increasing
semiconductor manufacturing complexity create a compelling set up for sustained strength in
WFE spending. In 2020, we estimate WFE to be in the mid to high $50 billions, driven by growth
in both memory and Foundry/Logic investment. Although we have seen underlying demand
drivers fluctuate due to the challenges presented by the COVID-19 pandemic, our current WFE
forecast in total is very close to what we expected at the beginning of the year.
From a mix perspective, we see memory share of WFE growing in 2020 off a low 2019 level. This
trend should continue into 2021, particularly in DRAM, where we believe inventory levels would be
lower as we get to the end of 2020. In both NAND and DRAM, we see a bit supply growth lower
than long-term demand this year and NAND recovery progressing ahead of DRAM.
By geography, domestic China customers continue to be a strong source of WFE demand with
expected calendar year 2020 WFE spend in the $10 billion range. Year-on-year growth in China
investment is predominantly driven by NAND, and Foundry segments.
Looking more broadly at longer-term global WFE spend, we are increasingly confident that the
accelerating digitization of the economy along with the rising complexity of semiconductor
manufacturing at each technology migration is establishing a higher base of WFE spending at the
$60 billion level.
With this outlook, we are focused on delivering on our objectives to drive greater than 50%
growth in revenue and more than a doubling of EPS by 2023-2024 compared to our 2019 results.
Key to achieving these goals is to execute on the SAM expansion, market share growth and
installed base revenue opportunities we laid out at our Investor Day in March.
On the system side, we continued to see positive momentum across our businesses. The June
quarter marked a record for net penetration and defense wins in our Etch business as measured
by three-year forward revenue, which is a metric we began tracking internally a few years ago.
We achieved key wins in High Aspect Ratio Mask Open and Contact Etch applications in both
DRAM and NAND, and leveraging unique hardware capabilities for RF Control, and edge yield
enhancement that we introduced last year. We have further extended our technical leadership in
High Aspect Ratio processes across both conductor and dielectric etch.We also combine these technologies with our hydro Patterning system which is enabled by Lam's
equipment intelligence and uses fab data inputs to improve customer yield. With this system, we
were able to secure new positions in Quad and EUV patterning for DRAM.
In the June quarter, we also made good progress in our effort to disrupt older equipment
segments with more innovative extendable Lam solutions. With our enhanced ALD family of
products, we achieved two new wins for 3D NAND gapfill applications, and a multi-layer
application win in Foundry/Logic. Superior film quality, integration and architecturally enabled
productivity were instrumental to our success.
In DRAM and Foundry, we've also seen accelerated adoption of our ALD solutions for critical
spacer applications which has traditionally been done using furnaces. Overall, we believe our
enhanced ALD solutions are helping to enable the performance and cost roadmaps our
customers need. At the same time, we continued to help customers extract more value from
their installed base of Lam equipment.
In the June quarter, our customer support revenues grew approximately 8% from the March
period, and our revenue growth has exceeded installed base unit growth year-to-date.
Our Reliant systems business posted its eight straight quarter of record revenues driven primarily
by shipments to analog, mixed-signal, CIS and microcontroller segments. The challenges of the
COVID-19 pandemic have also accelerated the deployment of important new technologies for
remote equipment support.
By enabling real-time in fab access to Lam service experts located worldwide, we have reduced
installation and troubleshooting time without the need for extensive travel. In addition, increasing
adoption of our machine learning-based analytics, leveraging big data at customer sites is
enabling faster detection and resolution of issues.
These advances are the result of investments as we shared at our Investor Day, our target -- at
delivering services innovation to create value for our customers and also increases our revenue
opportunity per chamber.
So to wrap up, Lam delivered a very strong June quarter, and we see continued strength ahead.
We are seeing positive momentum in our efforts to grow our installed base revenue, expands
our served markets and increase our market share. And as a result, we believe we are
increasingly well-positioned to benefit from the long-term secular growth drivers in the
semiconductor industry.
Thank you all for joining, and for your support. And I'll now turn it over to Doug.
`Douglas Bettinger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer `
Awesome. Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon, everyone and thank you for joining us today. I hope
all of you and your families have been safe and healthy. Our operations steadily improved
throughout the June quarter as we executed well in this COVID-19 environment. We've become
increasingly more efficient and effective in our operations which I think are well reflected in the
results from the June quarter.
Our revenues came in at $2.8 billion driven by broad-based demand. Our customers are investing
in leading-edge technologies to service the growth they're seeing in 5G, data centers and
product cycle driven demand in the gaming console market. Lam's solid execution is reflected in
our revenue results, our gross margin performance as well as our earnings per share that came inI'd also just point out that our deferred revenue balance is back to a more normal range as
compared to the end of the March quarter. From a system segment perspective, the total
memory segment in the June quarter increased to 61% of system revenues from the March
quarter level, which was at 56%.
We saw increases in NAND spending, which contributed 45% of our system revenue which was
up from 40% in the March quarter. NAND investments are broad-based focused on 64-layer, 96-
layer and initial 128-layer devices. DRAM spending was consistent across the June and March
quarters at 16%, and continues to be focused on node transition, primarily conversions to 1y and
1z. The combined memory market remains in a healthy place due to proactive inventory
management as well as a prudent investment cadence.
In Foundry, demand across diverse end market applications continues to drive the investment
profile. Well, Foundry as a percentage of our system revenue slightly declined from the March
quarter percentage of 31%, for the June quarter at 29%, revenue actually increased in dollar
terms, coming in at the second highest system revenue level for Foundry in Lam's 40-year history.
We continue to be pleased with our trajectory here.
And finally, the Logic and other segment contributed the remaining 10% of systems revenue in
the June quarter as compared to 13% in March.
China investments continue to be strong in the June quarter with 34% of our total revenue
coming from that region. We're seeing investments from customers in all market segments within
China. The majority of the revenue again came from domestic Chinese customers. We continue
to expect solid investment levels in this region throughout the calendar year. China is obviously an
important market for Lam, and we remain confident in the strength of our business there.
The June quarter revenue for our customer support business group was a record at $927 million
representing an increase of 8% from the March quarter level, and an increase of over 17% from
the same quarter a year ago. For delivering sustainable growth across the components of our
customer support group in spare parts, service, upgrades and our refurbished Reliant tool
business.
Within the June quarter, we executed two significant longer-term spares contracts further
improving the recurring nature of the revenue streams in this business and demonstrating further
evidence of the trust our customers have in us to continuously deliver value.
Gross margin for the June quarter was 46.1%. At the start of the June quarter driven by
uncertainties related to the COVID-19 situation, we saw a potential capacity limitations both from
our supply chain partners as well as our own internal production capability.
However, as the June quarter progressed, we were able to increase our production efficiency,
resulting expansion in production volumes yielded better factory performance that enhances
gross margin from our original expectations.
In addition, gross margins fluctuate as you know based on customer and product mix and in the
June quarter, we ended up with a slightly more favorable mix than we anticipated at the start of
the quarter.
We are seeing higher costs due to COVID in several areas, most notably freight and logistics. We
are doing our best to mitigate that headwind by managing it other expenses in the factories and
in the field.June quarter operating expense came in at $493 million, slightly higher than the March quarter.
We focused our spending in the research and development area as we address our customers'
most critical needs.
Roughly two-thirds of our spending remains focused towards R&D. Our incentive compensation
expense increase from the prior quarter which is tied to our improved profitability levels. At the
same time, we've managed expenses elsewhere, most notably travel and they came down
throughout the June quarter.
Operating income in the June quarter was $795 million, and operating margin was 28.5%, which
was an increase of 160 basis points from the prior quarter. Our tax rate in this quarter was 7.6%.
Our rate was low in the June quarter primarily due to a more favorable mix of geographic income
and maybe more importantly a one-time year-end adjustment recorded as we closed our fiscal
year.
We will have fluctuations in the rate from quarter to quarter. You should continue to expect the
ongoing tax rate to be in the low teens level for your models. Other income and expense
increased slightly in the June quarter, coming in at approximately $33 million of expense.
Within the June quarter, we were opportunistic with our capital structure. At the end of April, we
completed an offering of $2 billion of investment grade bonds with maturities of 10, 30 and 40
years. I was pleased with the demand for our paper, as well as the pricing which came in with
coupons of 1.9%, 2.875% and 3.125% respectively.
We used $1.25 billion of the debt proceeds to pay down the revolving credit facility that was been
outstanding, that facility is now completely paid down. As we discussed in last quarter's call, the
cost of our employee deferred compensation plan and the offsetting hedging balances remain
mismatched in the GAAP P&L.
You can see these results in the GAAP reconciliation table of our earnings release. Given the
volatility in the market in the June quarter, there were large fluctuations between our GAAP
expenses and the OI&E lines that the hedge essentially offsets at the net income level.
And you should note the other income and expense balance includes the interest expense of our
outstanding debt amounts obviously, offset by the interest income from our cash and investment
balances.
You should expect that other income and expense will vary quarter to quarter based on several
market-related items. You should think about things like foreign exchange. On the capital return
side, we noted in our March quarter earnings call that we will be pausing our buyback activity
during the June quarter until we had a better line of sight in the business environment.
As a result, we had only a small amount of share repurchases in the latter part of the June
quarter, and that together with dividends ended up having us deploy approximately $200 million
towards capital return. Long-term capital return of 75% to 100% of free cash flow remains our
plan.
Diluted earnings per share as I said, was $4.78. I mentioned that the one-time benefit from the
tax items I referenced was roughly $0.14. Our diluted share balance for the June quarter rounded
down to 147 million shares only a very slight decrease due to the minimal share repurchase
activity.The share count includes a dilutive impact of approximately 1 million shares from the 2041
convertible notes. The dilution is scheduled for the remaining 2041 convertible note is available
on our Investor Relations website for your reference.
Let me now move on to the balance sheet. Our cash and short-term investments, including
restricted cash increased in the June quarter to $7 billion from $5.6 billion in the March quarter.
Cash flow from operations in the quarter were strong at $813 million due to healthy profitability,
and solid collections during the quarter.
The remainder of the increase quarter-over-quarter was related to the debt issuance, offset by
the paydown of the revolving credit facility.
DSO decreased in the June quarter to 68 days from 80 days in the March quarter demonstrating
strong collection performance, and the resulting timing of customer payments. Inventory returns
to flat with the prior quarter at 3.2 times.
We have consciously increased our inventory balance to support the higher revenue level that we
see in the September quarter. Noncash expenses included approximately $50 million for equity
compensation, $54 million for depreciation and $17 million for amortization.
June quarter capital expenditures were consistent with the prior quarter amount coming in at $51
million. Ending headcount as of the June quarter was approximately 11,300 regular full-time
employees. This headcount reflects added resources in our factory and field operations
supporting increased volume, as well as additions in research and development to support
ongoing critical deliverables, like the new Sense.i etch platform and the dry resist program that
we announced at our Investor Day in March.
So now looking ahead, I'd like to provide our non-GAAP guidance for the September 2020
quarter. We're expecting revenue of $3,100 million plus or minus $200 million. Gross margin
increasing to 46.5% plus or minus one percentage point. Operating margins of 29.5% plus or
minus one percentage point.
And finally, earnings per share of $5.15 plus or minus $0.40 based on a share count of
approximately 147 million shares. These ranges remain wider than normal, due to the continuing
uncertainty from COVID-19. We are well-positioned for the second half of calendar 2020 as we
expect continued healthy WFE investments.
We see continued strength from memory and Foundry, for that matter, driven by demand and
more strategic technology-oriented investments. The customer support business group is also
expected to provide continued momentum for the company.
Operator, that concludes my prepared remarks. Tim and I would now like to open up the call for
questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) The first question will come from `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS with UBS.
Please go ahead with your question.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS `Thanks a lot. Doug, I guess the first question, you're talking about now WFE being mid to high
'50s this year. If I look at Q3, and I look at your guidance and you're sort of probably going to gain
WFE share this year. It would sort of assume that we're running maybe in the low '60s in Q3. So I
guess if I assume your full year forecast and I assume, maybe you've gained 100 basis points of
WFE share this year, something like that, it would sort of imply that December revenue is -- sort
of flattish and I'm not asking you to guide December, but I'm just kind of wondering whether you
think that math holds together where you should gains like a little bit of WFE share this year?
Thanks.
A - `Douglas Bettinger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer `
Yeah, Tim, you're absolutely right. We're only guiding one quarter at time, but I'm not going to
give you a specific answer on December, but I will qualitatively say, I think December will continue
to be a strong quarter for us. Your math, -- I don't look at WFE on a quarterly basis. I'm sure
you're doing the math right, but you're also right about the observation on the shares spend and
were memory is trending and all of those things. We're setting up, I think for pretty good second
half, Tim.
Operator
Thank you for the question. The next question will come from `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore with Evercore. Please go
ahead.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore
Yeah, thanks for taking the question. I guess the question on the memory side of things, and
where are we in the cycle. I know, 30% above the recent trough, but still 40% below the prior
peak, and investors clearly been focused on this aspect would love to hear your view, particularly
as it relates to the positive trends you highlighted into calendar '21?
A - `Timothy Archer, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. I'll start C.J, and then let Doug add something if he wants to. Obviously, what we have been
saying for quite some time, is that memory is a story of one kind of coming off what was a very
strong 2018, and a couple of years of -- then digesting that, but at the same time, there are
underlying growth drivers that I think you're seeing everywhere for both NAND and DRAM that
give us greater confidence in what we've stated as a long term bit demand growth in the high
'30s for NAND and in the high teens for DRAM.
If those are correct, and like I said, I gave you a few examples of where their big consumers of
NAND and DRAM from an application perspective on the horizon. We think that memory
investment has to continue to grow for years to come. You know obviously at our Investor Day,
we laid out a model of a more normalized memory spending level in the context of total $60
billion WFE, in that environment we grow the company quite significantly.
A - `Douglas Bettinger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer `
Yeah. And C.J., maybe I'll just add. I mean more near term tactically relative to what's going on
this year, I think NAND is a little bit ahead of DRAM relative to face a recovery. When I look at the
market both are kind of managing inventory, investing what I described as -- tried to with a
prudent cadence. That's gotten NAND up this year, and DRAM maybe up a little bit, but not too
much. I really do think DRAM will be more 2021 story.So think about that near term. And then on top of that as it relates to Lam, I mean we're doing
extremely well in Foundry as well. So factor that in, when you think about what's going on with our
company.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore
Very helpful. If I could follow up on the service side, you grew that business stellar 17% year-on-
year. Was there any catch up there on the deferred side, and I guess, thinking through that, how
should we think about the potential for sequential growth into September-December? How did
you choose coming off warranty and upgrades look at least based on your build plan today?
Whatever you can share. Thanks.
A - `Douglas Bettinger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer `
Yeah, C.J., in this part of the business, the deferred stuff we had at the end of March, really
wasn't impacting things. The deferred if you remember what we described at the end of March,
had to do the back order shipment that was really all about new equipment.
So, I don't think there's anything terribly unique going on in CSBG, Tim term unless there's
something.
A - `Timothy Archer, President, Chief Executive Officer `
No, I think it's, again, it's just the efforts as we've said to continue to provide services to grow our
revenue opportunity per chamber. And also just our business as you pointed out, as our company
continues to grow faster the installed base grows faster and generates more opportunity.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore
Thank you. (Multiple Speakers)
A - `Douglas Bettinger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, C.J.
A - `Tina Correia, Corporate Vice President, Investor Relations, Corporate Communications `
Operator, can we go back to Tim Arcuri for an additional question, please.
A - `Douglas Bettinger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer `
Yeah, I thought that -- Tim only had one question.
Operator
Yes, mam one moment. Your line is open, Tim.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you. Thanks for that Doug.
A - `Douglas Bettinger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer `
Sorry, Tim. I'm sorry.Yeah, sure, sure, no worry. So second question, I guess, can you go through a little bit about --
how the whole military end use thing is transpired. It seems like China WFE is a little higher. The
domestic stuff is maybe $1 billion to a $1 billion higher than you thought it would be. And it seems
like now all these customers know that there is restrictions looming at some point. So they're
going to keep on pulling stock in.
So can you just talk about how the export controls have transpired? Is commerce happy just as
long as you do the due diligence with the customer on military and you -- can you just kind of talk
about all that? Thank you.
A - `Timothy Archer, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. I think, Tim in my comments I talked about our assessment. It was quite an extensive
diligence process that we went through which consisted both of our own conversations and
questioning of the customers, and their certification as well as the use of third party research, and
also validation by outside counsel, and we arrived at our conclusions as I stated, no material,
financial or business impact as a result of all of that work.
Now, that is an ongoing activity for us, I mean continually assessing and doing that kind of
research, and so that's something that we have committed to. But at this point, that is our
conclusion. If -- by your question about and connection to domestic China WFE, I don't think that's
a connection that we're making. And basically we are saying that China has plans to invest, and I
indicated that a lot of the investment is coming from NAND as well as Foundry and at least in our
view right now, we have not made that connection but somehow domestic China WFE is in any
way really affected by these rules one way or the other.
A - `Douglas Bettinger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer `
Tim, just maybe a quick comment from me. My sense is, it's not -- there's nothing pulled in,
honestly. Now, we maybe would know if it was or wasn't a little bit, but given we've concluded,
the rules are not impacting our ability to ship. I don't know why anybody would think they should
be pulling things in, right.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS `
Awesome. Okay. Thank you much.
A - `Timothy Archer, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Tim.
Operator
Thank you. The next question will come from `Harlan Sur, Analyst, JPMorgan with JPMorgan. Please go ahead with
your question.
Q - `Harlan Sur, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Good afternoon. Good job on the business execution, and strong results. And one of the large
Logic manufacturer recently talked about the potential of moving to a more outsourced business
model. Maybe just a continuation of the industry trend towards a fabulous business model at a
highly level it would appear to be a zero-sum game, but wanted to get your views on the
potential ramifications of your business in a structural move in the industry towards a more fab-
light or fabulous business model?A - `Timothy Archer, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, okay. Let me try to take that, Harlan, to on start. Obviously, we don't want to comment
about the specific plans of any one customer, but to your point of the industry moving to
outsource model, I mean obviously that's a more than 20-year story, and I think that anything that
allows wafers ultimately to be produced with better technology at lower costs, however, that's
done in-house or outsourced is what's good for the industry and that's good for Lam.
I'm quite certain there's a result of the advances that have happened on the Foundry side, Lam's
business has benefited tremendously in the last 20 years, and that just comes back to a
statement that I've made a number of times, which is the best thing for Lam is the technology
nodes continue to migrate. We have greater SAM at every technology node migration across
NAND, DRAM and Foundry/Logic.
And so every company has to decide for themselves, what's sort of the best answer to
advancing technology at the best cost that can be in-house, can be outsourced. What we care
about is whether that technology advances and more wafers get produced. And so I think we
obviously watch it, and we look at the impact on our business. But ultimately Foundry hasn't been
bad for the industry or for Lam.
A - `Douglas Bettinger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer `
Yeah. And Harlan, maybe I just want to just comment (Technical Difficulty). The way I think about it
is what matters to Lam is the number of leading edge wafers in the entire industry that are put in
place, whether it's in-source, outsource largely doesn't matter too much things. Either way it
needs equipment right independent of where it goes. We're selling largely the same things to
the industry.
Q - `Harlan Sur, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Yeah. That's great insights there. Good to see the recovery of the business, and improvement in
the supply chain, and logistical bottlenecks. Just wondering, Doug, if the team is still, even with
the strong September quarter guide playing catch up on the delinquent backlog as a result of the
earlier bottlenecks, and if so, how much of that has yet to be work down?
A - `Douglas Bettinger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer `
Yeah, Harlan, I think we've got nicely caught up. I don't think we're completely caught up as we sit
here today, but we made very nice progress during the quarter.
Q - `Harlan Sur, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Timothy Archer, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Harlan.
Operator
Thank you. And the next question will come from `John Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse with Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.
Q - `John Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse `Yeah. Hi, good afternoon guys. Congratulations on the results. Thanks for letting me ask the
question. Doug, just maybe a follow on to Harlan's question. It sounds like COVID was still a cost
headwind in the June quarter. I'm wondering if you can help us quantify that? And as you look out
into September with the guide, how much sort of COVlD logistical expense is still in there? And
when do you think you might be able to take that out of the model?
A - `Douglas Bettinger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer `
Yeah, John, the biggest individual item, when I look at it is freight logistics. I mean freight lanes
are more restricted than they were obviously pre-COVID. Things are more expensive. Really
tough to mitigate that. I mean, to a certain extent you take the price, you do your best and
negotiated but you're somewhat of a price-taker there.
That doesn't mean we're not as I tried to describe working to drive efficiency, effectiveness
elsewhere in the operation, that's what Lam is extremely good at doing, and we're doing that,
but that is where the challenges are right now. I'm not going to quantify it, John, but it is impacting
gross margin to a certain extent.
I don't know, Timothy, if you wanted to add anything?
A - `Timothy Archer, President, Chief Executive Officer `
No, the only thing I'd add is obviously, Doug pointed out some near term headwinds on the cost
side, thoroughly, we would expect those to eventually roll back as things normalize post-COVID,
but I mentioned this point of the acceleration of remote support technologies. And I think that's
while we haven't fully quantified kind of what the benefit could be, clearly some of the benefits of
less travel, and more productivity of kind of worldwide engineers who can now connect into fabs,
and provide expertise via some new technologies that actually will be likely a cost, and kind of a
personnel benefit for us so down in the future.
And so we're investing in that, and I think it's a positive headwind just further -- positive tailwind
just further down the road.
Q - `John Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
That's helpful. And then, Tim you guys covered a lot of ground at the Analyst Day earlier this year,
but you couldn't had cover everything. I'm kind of curious if you can kind of spend a few minutes
talking about your positioning in advanced packaging, because clearly, there's not a lot of volume
in sort of chiplets today, but as you look at Intel moving to their second-generation 10 nanometer
part sometime in the second half of next year, it seems like the tile for our chiplets strategy is
really poised to accelerate starting in the back half of next year and going forward.
And I know you guys have some good leverage there. But I'm just trying to get a sense of
quantifying, and how big do you think that market opportunity is?
A - `Timothy Archer, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. I don't know if I'm -- I don't know we're prepared to wait to quantify it for you on this call,
but what I can tell you is, it kind of follows on from my earlier comment about customers and just
the industry in general looks for the best way to achieve the performance as required at the
lowest cost, and sometimes that's by looking at total system performance, and see if advanced
packaging, 3D chiplets these sorts of technologies actually are one way to deliver system
performance without having to necessarily utilize the most advanced node chips for everyAnd our position has been very strong, we've been -- we were an early investor there. We have
leading positions on both the etch and depth side in the TSV applications, and we think that we're
extremely well-positioned when in that comes. And so, every time we hear about acceleration,
we're actually quite encouraged, but it's something that our High Aspect Ratio etching processes,
and our ability, I think most people recognize our leadership for 20 plus years in Copper
Electroplating Fill. Those are critical technologies for these 3D packaging heterogeneous
integration applications.
Q - `John Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Helpful. Thank you, guys.
A - `Timothy Archer, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, John.
Operator
Thank you. The next question will come from `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Cowen and Company with Cowen & Company. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Cowen and Company `
Yeah. Hi, thanks for taking my question. Tim, I had a question on memory. Clearly memory WFE --
they're understanding right now, and your revenue has a lot of potential upside. If I look at the last
cyclical peak which was in March, 2018. If you able to get back to those kind of WFE levels for
memory, how will Lam's revenue profile look like in memory given that the gain from share? Is
there a way to quantify to say how much higher, you could be versus the last cyclical peak? And
then I had a follow-up.
A - `Timothy Archer, President, Chief Executive Officer `
I think, Doug signaling, I can't quantify that. (Multiple Speakers) Of course we're quantified it and
that's why my comment was, we believe our opportunity. We knew there be this peak question,
but my comment was regardless of the fact that our revenues are approaching the last time, and
therefore the peak question starts to come up.
The setup is quite different, and in fact, that's why we pointed out, our memory mix today is a
much lower, WFE is not back there. And, so I guess probably you can do it just as easily as we can,
but there is still significant upside as memory growth continues not only to return to prior levels,
but also to continue to grow to meet all of these new application drivers that we've talked about.
A - `Douglas Bettinger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer `
Yeah. Krish, obviously when we put a financial model, not all that long ago in March, we
comprehended some aspect of memory being at a higher investment level. CSBG growing, our
strength in Foundry continuing to grow. So you have the data points.
A - `Timothy Archer, President, Chief Executive Officer `
It's kind of --(Multiple Speakers)
A - `Douglas Bettinger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer `Q - `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Cowen and Company `
Got it, got it. No worries. And then, I have another question on your ALD traction. I'm just curious
like -- when you look at the ALD like clearly that market is going to continue growing. You guys are
like a number two player in that, I would probably say. How much of the growth in ALD is actually
driven by technology versus the fact that productivity for ALD tools are still pretty low, which is
driving the bigger upside in ALD?
A - `Timothy Archer, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, all of these new adoptions that I keep talking about, these are Lam's efforts to expand the
application base for ALD and which means it's a technology-driven, decision, but usually what -- in
the past what is held back ALD from adoption in many of these cases was -- is great technology,
but the productivity wasn't -- it affordable to put in at a certain node. So people pushed it out.
What we've done is we've married both an expanding film set, more applications with, as I said
architecturally enabled productivity, and we're getting a lot of traction across a number of
different applications. I talked about 3D NAND gapfill, talked about a multi-layer application in
Foundry/Logic that's a different material, talked about critical spacers.
And so it's just we've broadened, I think the target market for ALD, and we're seeing good
traction.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Analyst, Cowen and Company `
Thanks, Tim.
A - `Douglas Bettinger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer `
Thanks, Krish.
A - `Timothy Archer, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Krish.
Operator
Thank you. The next question will come from `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead
with your question.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Hi, guys. Thanks very much for taking the question, and congrats on the strong results. Doug, you
mentioned that for 2020 domestic China, you guys are expecting about $10 billion in spend.
Curious what's the rough split between memory versus Logic and Foundry?
And on the memory side, I feel like both you and the broader industry is currently in a sweet spot
where your customers are spending, but they're not really contributing to supply. At what point
would you expect them to start to really move the needle on supply, and as a result of capital
intensity to come down in local China? And then I have a follow-up. Thank you.
A - `Douglas Bettinger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer `
Yeah. (inaudible) Toshiya. We haven't quantified what is in which segment in China, but I forget ifbased in China in all segments. So it isn't just one, it's a broad set of customers that are investing.
So think of it that way, it's not one or the other.
And you're right. And I wouldn't characterize China's inefficient in the investment, it's just when
customers are investing for the first time or are relatively new to investing in capacity, you got to
buy it then you have to ramp it, and it takes time for that to happen. It's not unique to any one
geography or any one customer. That is really what's going on and over time customers get
more efficient as they ramp things. That's how I think about it, Tim, I don't know.
A - `Timothy Archer, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. No, I mean, as you suggested in the earlier question, I have been thinking about the model
we've put out just back at Investor Day, I think by the time you get to the 2023-2024 timeframe,
we've comprehended that those additions in China are effectively the same as additions
elsewhere in the world.
So we don't think there is some extra inefficient spending in that case that, that's driving number
is higher for Lam. So I think if you just look back at that model that's a relatively efficient spend
across all segments in 2023-2024.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Got it. Thank you for that. And then a quick follow up. Doug in your prepared remarks you talked
about winning two services contracts in the quarter, I believe. I wasn't sure if you meant to
highlight it as a meaningful dynamic here, but do those contracted at all drive incremental growth
going forward or does it change? How we should be thinking about quarter-over-quarter, year-to-
year volatility? And your installed base business are profitability going forward? Thank you.
A - `Timothy Archer, President, Chief Executive Officer `
No, not really Toshiya. I mean, I just mentioned it because one they were a little bit longer term,
and two they were bigger than perhaps typical. And to me it's very much part of how we run this
business. It's you know the customer has faith and confidence in your ability to deliver and
provide value. It is consistent with what we expect that business to do and it has done in the past.
I just mentioned it because it was notable when we are looking at the results this quarter.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you. Thanks, Toshiya.
Operator
Thank you. The next question will come from `Blayne Curtis, Analyst, Barclays with Barclays. Please go ahead with
your question.
Q - `Blayne Curtis, Analyst, Barclays `
Hey, guys thanks for taking my question, and a great result. Just kind of curious from a high level,
Web Front End, you're keeping the same amount and you're catching up. So just kind of curious
as you look at the way that you're shaking out, I think there are lot of doubts whether you'd hit. Is
it the same contribution? And then just any comments on the strength in second half by
geography would be helpful?
A - `Douglas Bettinger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer `Blayne, are you asking about WFE? It was that your question? Just to understand.
Q - `Blayne Curtis, Analyst, Barclays `
I'm curious as you -- you're still seeing the same WFE forecast for the year. I'm kind of curious was
there contribution as we thought -- starting the year? And any comments on geography,
particularly into the back of the calendar year? Thanks.
A - `Douglas Bettinger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer `
Yeah. I think, Tim, specifically mentioned in his script, there is puts and takes in here, right? It's
ended up at the same level. I would suggest to you that more consumer-oriented stuff is a little
bit weaker. Smartphones, as an example. Smartphone units aren't the same as we thought at the
beginning of the year. That is creating a little bit of a downtick, but that's offset by other things
going on in hyperscale cloud, consumption of silicon, work from home type things, and net-net,
one is up a little bit, one is down a little bit. We're in the same place that we began the year-end.
Q - `Blayne Curtis, Analyst, Barclays `
Okay. And then just, I was just curious spot from a geographic perspective. If you had any color
into the growth into September?
A - `Douglas Bettinger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer `
No, we never forecast the GOP's. I wouldn't expect it to be wildly different than what you've seen
over the last couple of quarters though from a directional standpoint.
Q - `Blayne Curtis, Analyst, Barclays `
Thanks, Doug.
A - `Douglas Bettinger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Blayne.
Operator
Thank you. The next question will come from `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Securities with Bank of America Securities. Please
go ahead.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Securities `
Thanks for taking my question. I'm curious about WFE growth outside of China, because when I
look at your first half ex-China sales are down in the last fiscal year. So when do we see -- why are
we seeing these trends? I understand this is probably a very short frame -- timeframe for looking
at these trends, but I'm just curious, qualitatively, why are we not seeing the same kind of WFE
growth outside of China, because I imagine everyone is exposed to the same growth drivers.
A - `Douglas Bettinger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer `
Vivek, I mean obviously the majority of WFE spending is outside of China. Two-thirds of it is
outside of China, Right? And so, you're seeing the contribution of WFE across every geography.
Right? It's more about what's going on in the end-markets. That's how you should be thinking
about it. Right? Foundry is strong this year, NAND up from last year, DRAM maybe up a little bit,
but to a large extent that's geographically independent.Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Securities `
No, I guess my question is that, when I look at last year WFE was I think 50, 51 this year you're
guiding it up $5 billion to $7 billion, but a big part of that growth is coming from China. Right? The
incremental growth is coming from China. So I'm just curious why we are not seeing WFE
spending outside of China at that same pace? Or is that just something we will see next year
perhaps?
A - `Douglas Bettinger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer `
Yeah. No, you are. I mean there is three to four probably incremental in China and the rest of it is
outside of China, Vivek.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Securities `
Okay. As a follow-up CSBG, thanks for providing that info, it grew I think about 7%, or so last fiscal
year. I'm curious what -- how much it grew the prior fiscal year? And what part of that, should we
think of that as kind of recurring? And this is such an important part of your business, that I'm
always very curious about how to correlate this to your growth in chambers that is -- is this
correlated to your chamber growth from two years ago or three years ago? Just how should we
take the 7% number, and I don't know how to forecast your CSBG business. I guess that's really
what I'm trying to ask.
A - `Douglas Bettinger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer `
If thinking about forecasting, we gave you data points at the Investor Day, which was, Pat Lord,
who manages this business for us suggested that by 2023, 2024, it will have grown 40%. So
there is your data point for how to forecast it. Chamber count is critically important, but Pat and
Tim talked about it's not just chambers, it's dollar per chamber growing from. I think we -- I forget
what year we indexed it to back to 2013, maybe it was 1.0 -- yeah, it was 1.0 till then it had gone
to 1.5 and we had objectives to continue growing at the 1.7, which was what was baked in the
model.
So that's how you should think about it. Chamber counts important. We're also driving some of
the innovative service offerings like Tim talked with remote diagnostic kind of equipment and
things to try to add more value for the customers, and get paid for it.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Securities `
Thank you.
A - `Douglas Bettinger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Vivek.
Operator
The next question will come from `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group with SIG. Please go ahead.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
Yes, sir. Thank you for taking my question. Just as a follow-up to the prior question. How should
we model the customer support over the next few quarters? Should we just track the memoryinvestment that you highlighted as doing better than Foundry? Or would it be more in line with it
overall revenue trend line that you described earlier?
A - `Timothy Archer, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, I think that again it's, the beauty of the CSBG business is, it probably doesn't change on the
time scale that you're talking about here relative to any particular quarter's change in shipments. I
don't think you're going to see it. Remember we have a installed base in excess of 60,000
chambers, and for driving revenue in our CSBG business half of tools that we shipped 20 plus
years ago, and there is upgrade cycles and there service contracts that Doug talked about,
there's consumable parts. And so I don't think you're going to see that. But as I said, that's the
beauty of this -- let's say, it's a stabilizing function for the company's revenue, and that's why
we're investing heavily in this, and it delivers value for the customers in reuse of and an extension
of installed tools.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
Yeah. I believe this is the first quarter that you actually breaking this out, and I was just trying to
better understand whether the customer support business group -- would grow faster with
memory, or with Foundry, or would it be the same for different end markets?
A - `Timothy Archer, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I can. Okay. Okay. Well, I think it's the second quarter that we've actually put up the data,
but I think the couple of pieces of information to think about, one is we've said that the business
will grow every year. And that's simply because again the installed base is growing every year,
and again we're investing to try to create more services, value-added services and products for
that installed base.
We haven't really made a comment about, does it grow every quarter, I mean, because it's, again
it's you can be influenced by certain service contract, certain upgrade decisions that customers
make in any given quarter, but year-to-year you can think about it growing every year.
It's maybe a little bit less about segments. I've talked in the past about critical applications, and
Lam's focus on critical applications, and the importance of that. I mean one, they are sticky, but
two they actually tend to drive more parts and service requirements because the customers have
to keep those systems at absolute top performance because they're performing the most
difficult applications in the customers' fab.
And so you tend to see a little bit more pull-through on the CSBG business for the critical
applications, where Lam is extremely strong, and so maybe that's -- maybe it's a little less by
device type or more by the application requirements. And also critical applications tend to drive a
more frequent upgrade cycle as the customers need to keep the installed base kind of
performing for that latest technology node.
Q - `Mehdi Hosseini, Analyst, Susquehanna International Group `
Thanks, Timothy.
A - `Timothy Archer, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
OperatorThank you. The next question will come from `Joe Moore, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead
with your question.
Q - `Joe Moore, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Great, thank you. I know you guys said you had, you were working your way through the supply
challenges, but I wonder if you could help us kind of with what the quarterly revenue progression
might have looked like if you hadn't had those. You had said in March get about $300 million of
revenue deferred by the supply challenges. Review June is kind of having caught up to that, and
there's the surge in September is more shipping direct to demand, or just what would that have
looked like if you hadn't had the supply challenges that you had?
A - `Douglas Bettinger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer `
Yeah, Joe, I didn't quantify it. I'd say we got nicely caught up. I also said we're not completely
caught up at the end of the June quarter, and that's as much as I think we're going to give you
right now. We're driving efficiencies, we're getting much better. I think, Tim and I are pretty happy
with how the supply chain is performing.
Q - `Joe Moore, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Fine. Great. Thank you very much.
A - `Douglas Bettinger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer `
Thanks, Joe.
Operator
Thank you. The next question will come from Joe Quatrochi with Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.
Q - `Joseph Quatrochi, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities `
Yeah, thanks for taking the question, and congrats on the results from me as well. I think you
mentioned that your capacity from a manufacturing perspective is over $3 billion per quarter now
with all the issues with the supply chain, is there a scenario over the next few quarters where you
see potentially demand outstripping what you can deliver?
A - `Timothy Archer, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, we have a global manufacturing factory network that we're highly confident in. I think it's
unlikely that that's the scenario. I didn't want -- I did not give you a maximum output for our
factory network. I was only wanting to indicate that clearly we were supply constrained in the last
quarter, it's one of the reasons why we were unable to provide our normal guidance. Now with
capability beyond $3 billion we're confident in our September quarter, and we're confident that
over time we'll continue to ramp that higher and higher.
So it was -- we're not going to divulge our exact manufacturing capacity, but I'm quite certain we
can continue to meet higher demand.
Q - `Joseph Quatrochi, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities `
That's helpful. And then just a --
A - `Timothy Archer, President, Chief Executive Officer `Go ahead, Joe.
Q - `Joseph Quatrochi, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities `
Just a quick one on capital return. Shall we think about your comment as reiterating your long-
term target model for 75% to 100% of free cash flow is kind of indicative that we should start to
see maybe some more maybe a reacceleration on some of the share repo in the current quarter,
and into the end of the year?
A - `Timothy Archer, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, probably, Joe. I mean we said last quarter we were pausing, and we actually came back
into the market a little bit before the end of the quarter. So we're back looking at things, and I've
always said it's opportunistic in terms of how we do, what we do and we'll continue to be
opportunistic.
Q - `Joseph Quatrochi, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities `
Thank you.
A - `Timothy Archer, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Joe.
A - `Tina Correia, Corporate Vice President, Investor Relations, Corporate Communications `
Operator, we have time for one more question, please.
Operator
Okay. The next question will come from `Weston Twigg, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets with KeyBanc Capital Markets. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Weston Twigg, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. I just wanted to dig into the operating cost a little bit. Just
understanding that people aren't really traveling right now, they're probably saving some money,
you mentioned some tailwinds around remote servicing. But, should we expect operating cost to
ramp up meaningfully in 2021assuming there is some sort of post-pandemic return to a kind of a
normal level of business and travel and marketing? And I kind of noticed that you added some
headcount as well. So would assume that that would roll in, and I don't know if that continues
through next year, but just kind of wondering how next year works from an operating cost
standpoint?
A - `Douglas Bettinger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer `
Yeah, Wes, I don't know, I'm not going to give you a forecast for next year yet. I think there will be
plus or minuses, assuming we get back to normal, we get a vaccine, the therapeutic regimen
what have you. I think we're going to learn from how we're operating right now and be better
over time. I mean that's what Lam is really very good at looking at an opportunity, getting better
and systematically doing it that way. I think we will do that.
And yeah, if we get back to normal travel we'll come back a little bit. I don't think it'd come back --
comes back to where it was but again, we'll keep managing the P&L in the right way.A - `Timothy Archer, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I think the only thing I'd add is at the same time, we've obviously, I think we have a great
track record of managing OpEx, and you can kind of look at the results to support that, but we
are investing in our 2023, 2024 plans. I mean, you've seen some of our announcements recently,
the construction of a technology center in Korea, obviously there is expenses associated with
that. That's a strategic investment to expand our R&D capabilities put closer to some of our
largest customers. We are building a new manufacturing facility in Malaysia, which again is going
to expand our global manufacturing network, provide additional business resilience, help take
some cost out of manufacturing structure.
So there are some near-term investments that, we're confident in our long-term plan. And so we
are pushing those through even right now, obviously some of that reflected in our expenses as
well. So, maybe that's offsetting a little bit some of the savings that Doug has talked about, but I
want to get into that. The product and R&D we continue to push more into R&D because we think
it's the long-term growth engine of the company, and we really confident in our product pipeline,
and new products coming out.
Q - `Weston Twigg, Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets `
Okay. That's very helpful context. Thanks.
A - `Douglas Bettinger, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Wes. Operator --
A - `Tina Correia, Corporate Vice President, Investor Relations, Corporate Communications `
Thank you all for joining today. We appreciate it, and stay safe and healthy. Thank you.
Operator
This concludes today's call. Thank you for your participation, you may now disconnect