Q4 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good evening, and welcome to the Lam Research June Quarterly Earnings Call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode. (Operator Instructions) After today's presentation,
there will be an opportunity to ask questions. (Operator Instructions) Please note, this call is being
recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.`Ram Ganesh, Head of Investor Relations, VP, Investor Relations. Please go
ahead.
`Ram Ganesh, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to the Lam Research quarterly earnings
conference call.
With me today are `Tim Archer, President and Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Executive Officer; and `Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer,
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During today's call, we will share our overview on the business environment, and we will review
our financial results for the June 2024 quarter and our outlook for the September 2024 quarter.
The press release detailing our financial results was distributed a little after 1:00 p.m. Pacific Time.
The release can also be found on the Investor Relations section of the company's website, along
with the presentation slides that accompany today's call.
Today's presentation and Q&A include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and
uncertainties reflected in the risk factors disclosed in our SEC public filings. Please see
accompanying slides in the presentation for additional information.Today's discussion of our financial results will be presented on a non-GAAP financial basis unless
otherwise specified. A detailed reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results can be found
in the accompanying slides in the presentation. This call is scheduled to last until 3:00 p.m. Pacific
Time. A replay of this call will be made available later this afternoon on our website.
And, with that, I'll hand the call over to Tim.
`Tim Archer, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Ram, and good afternoon, everyone. In the June quarter, Lam delivered another set of
solid results, with revenues, profitability, and earnings per share all coming in above the midpoint
of our guidance. Our CSBG business posted strong growth, with revenues up 22% sequentially,
led by Reliant and spares.
On the manufacturing side, we achieved a key milestone in the quarter, with our Malaysia factory
shipping its 5,000th chamber. This is the fastest ramp of a new manufacturing facility in Lam's
history, and we remain on track to achieve our long-term cost-reduction goals through an
expanded global manufacturing and supply chain footprint.
As previously communicated, 2024 is a year of strategic investment for Lam, where we are
prioritizing product development for key technology inflections, global R&D infrastructure close to
our customers, and digital transformation for operational efficiency at scale. We believe these
investments will put Lam in a position to outperform as the industry moves into a period of multi-
year WFE spending expansion.
Now, turning to WFE. We expect this year's spending to be in the mid-$90 billion range. Our
customer investment profile is generally unchanged from our prior view, apart from slightly
stronger domestic China spending and additional demand related to the ramp of high-bandwidth
memory, or HBM, capacity. We see foundry/logic, DRAM, and NAND investments all up on a year-
on-year basis. Global spending on mature node technologies is expected to be roughly flat year-
on-year. Looking ahead to 2025, we see a positive environment for continued growth in WFE
spending.
The power of AI as a transformative business tool is still yet to be fully realized. Today, the focus
on AI model training is driving strong demand for GPUs and HBM. However, as AI use cases
expand, we believe Inferencing at the etch will spur content growth of low-power DRAM and
NAND storage in enterprise PCs and smartphones. Investments for AI-enabled etch devices play
particularly well to Lam's strengths. We anticipate that memory customers looking to scale
capacity and lower bit costs will bias WFE spending toward technology upgrades of the installed
base.
For NAND, the etch and deposition intensity of upgrades is significantly higher than in a greenfield
investment. When you consider Lam's sizable installed base in memory, including roughly 7,500
high aspect ratio dielectric etch chambers for NAND alone, we are positioned to outgrow overall
WFE when customers upgrade existing memory production lines to next-generation nodes.
Longer-term, etch and deposition are set to play an increasingly vital role in the industry's efforts
to develop faster, more power-efficient and lower-cost semiconductors to serve AI-related
applications. By delivering critical solutions for atomic-level device scaling, new materials
innovation, and advanced packaging integration, we see tremendous opportunity for Lam to
expand our served market and increase our share at each successive process technology node.To this end, our R&D focus is yielding exciting new products, including, this year, our first direct
power coupled conductor etch tool with matchless power source and bias. Known as
DIRECTDRIVE, this new power source uses solid-state drivers to stabilize the plasma in the etch
chamber 500x faster than current industry standards. By combining direct power coupling with
Lam's unique plasma pulsing capabilities, our latest conductor-etched systems are delivering
best-in-class performance for newly emerging 4F-squared DRAM applications.
In 4F-squared devices, the nature of the bit line placement requires precise etching of ultra-small,
high-aspect ratio silicon structures to avoid device shorts or leakage. With direct power coupling
and plasma pulsing, Lam can etch the vertically oriented 4F-squared transistor architectures with
unprecedented depth uniformity and profile control.
Similarly, conductor etch is becoming a critical enabler for EUV patterning for gate-all-around and
DRAM, due to the need to reduce etch placement error. For nodes below 2 nanometers, the
requirement is for roughly 40% tighter control than at 5 nanometers.
Our new conductor-etch tool delivers a 30% reduction in feature roughness, which is one of the
main contributors to etch placement error. In addition, we can achieve one to two orders of
magnitude improvement in defectivity for a given EUV dose, further helping customers reduce
the overall cost and improve the capability of the EUV patterning process.
Turning to NAND. AI applications are driving demand for faster, higher-capacity enterprise SSDs.
NAND makers are pursuing both vertical and lateral scaling of NAND arrays, as well as increasing
bits stored per cell through implementation of QLC and TLC technologies. In support of these
efforts, Lam is developing new dielectric etch and deposition capabilities.
Earlier today, we announced Lam Cryo 3.0, Lam's third generation of cryogenic-etch technology.
Building on our learning from nearly 1,000 cryogenic-etch chambers running in NAND fabs
worldwide, this new patented cryogenic-etch process delivers industry-leading control of the
NAND memory channel hole profile.
When Lam -- Cryo 3.0 is deployed on our Vantex system, the etch are delivering the industry's
highest available ion energy, we can create a 10-micron-deep channel hole that has a top-to-
bottom profile deviation of less than 10 nanometers, or less than 0.1% relative to its depth. Such
tight profile control allows customers to increase bit density by packing more cells per layer, while
also having the flexibility to add more layers per tier.
Lam Cryo 3.0 also addresses our industry's need for more sustainable solutions, delivering a
40% reduction in energy consumption per wafer, and a 90% reduction in greenhouse gas
emissions per wafer compared to non-cryogenic etchers.
Deposition technology is also advancing quickly to support increased bit density and lower cost
through multi-tier stacking. Polysilicon and tungsten gapfill materials have typically been used to
enable tier stacking in high-layer count NAND. Integration of these materials, however, has
resulted in poor control of critical dimensions and overlay, negatively impacting yield and
performance.
Lam's innovative PECVD-based pure carbon gapfill process provides an attractive alternative
material. With a unique combination of high etch selectivity, superior mechanical properties, and
simplified dry post process removability, it also reduces the number of process steps required in
some cases by approximately 50% compared to traditional approaches.Overall, etch and deposition are becoming increasingly critical to addressing the complex
semiconductor requirements of a growing AI environment. We are excited by the breadth of
opportunities we see ahead for the company, especially those created by technology inflections
to gate-all-around, backside power delivery, advanced packaging, and dry EUV resist processing.
All of these are etch- and deposition-intensive, and each represents a $1 billion or higher growth
opportunity for Lam.
We look forward to sharing our progress on these fronts as well as our long-term financial model
at our next Investor Day, which we are planning to uphold in February 2025.
With that, I'll turn it over to Doug.
`Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Great. Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining our call today.
We executed well on the June 2024 quarter. Our June quarter results came in above the
midpoint or exceeded our guidance ranges for all financial metrics. We were pleased with the
company's strong execution. For fiscal year 2024, we achieved the highest gross margin
percentage since the merging of Lam with Novellus in 2013, coming in at 48.2%, and we
generated quite strong free cash flow of approximately $4.3 billion for 29% of revenue.
Let's look at the details of our June quarter results. Revenue came in at $3.87 billion, which was an
increase from the prior quarter and over the midpoint of guidance. Our deferred revenue
balance at the end of the quarter five -- excuse me -- was $1.55 billion, which is a decrease of
$194 million from the March quarter, related to revenue recognized that was tied to customer
advanced payments. As we sit here today, I believe deferred revenue will remain stable at these
levels for the foreseeable future.
Let's turn to the revenue segment details. June quarter systems revenue in memory was 36%,
which was a decrease from the prior-quarter level of 44%. The decline in the memory segment
was mainly attributable to DRAM. DRAM came in at 19% of systems revenue compared with 23%
in the March quarter, as investments in mature nodes declined in the June quarter. DRAM
revenue reached a new record in fiscal year 2024, with spending focused on DDR5 and HBM
enablement, as well as on the 1Y node.
Nonvolatile memory came in at 17% of our systems revenue, which was down from the March
quarter level of 21%. And just a reminder, we are characterizing one customer's investment in
specialty DRAM as a nonvolatile investment, since it has a nonvolatile component in the device.
NAND revenue was at a low point for this year, and I expect NAND investment to gradually
improve as utilization rates return to more normal levels and our customers slowly increased
spending in conversions to 2xx and 3xx layer devices into the next year.
The foundry segment represented 43% of our systems revenue, which was roughly flat, with the
percentage concentration in the March quarter of 44%. Growth in shipments for gate-all-around
nodes was offset by a decline in mature node spending. The logic and other segment were 21%
of systems revenue in the June quarter, up from the prior level of 12%. The increase was driven
by strength in mature node spending in China.
With respect to the regional composition of our total revenue, the China region came in at 39%,
down slightly from the prior-quarter level of 42%, and a little bit higher than our expectation from
the previous earnings call. This was driven by domestic China spending. The next largestMarch quarter. Taiwan was 15% of revenue in the June quarter, which was an increase from 9% in
the March quarter.
The customer support business group revenue in the June quarter totaled approximately $1.7
billion, an increase of 22% from the prior-quarter level and 14% higher than the June quarter in
calendar 2023. CSBG revenue represented 44% of our June quarter revenues and reached the
highest point since the end of calendar 2022, driven primarily by an increase in Reliant systems,
followed by growth in spares.
Our Reliant systems revenue benefited from strength in domestic China spending for specialty
and mature nodes. Spares revenue increased largely due to continued improvement in utilization
at our memory customers as well as a little bit of inventory stocking. I do not think CSBG will grow
modestly in calendar year 2024.
Let's look at profitability. Our June quarter gross margin came in at 48.5% at the top end of our
guided range, and slightly down from 48.7% in the March quarter. June quarter gross margin
benefited from continued improvement in factory efficiencies, which largely offset the headwind
we saw in customer mix that we talked about on the last earnings call.
Operating expenses for the June quarter were $689 million, down marginally from the prior-
quarter amount of $698 million. As Tim mentioned, we continued to prioritize spending in
research and development to extend our technology differentiation as well as expand our
product portfolio. I'd just point out that more than 70% of our total operating expenses were
concentrated in research and development.
The June quarter operating margin was 30.7% above the guidance range, mainly because of that
strong gross margin performance. Our non-GAAP tax rate for the quarter was 11.5%. We estimate
the tax rate for the remainder of the calendar year 2024 to be in the low to mid-teens level, and
this rate will fluctuate from quarter to quarter.
Other income and expense for the June quarter was approximately $19 million in income,
compared with $10 million in income in the March quarter. The increase in OI&E was primarily the
result of fluctuations in the fair value of our venture investments. And as we've talked about in the
past, you will see variability in OI&E quarter-to-quarter.
Let's turn to the capital return. We allocated approximately $382 million to share repurchases, and
we paid $261 million in dividends in the June quarter. During the quarter, we announced that our
Board of Directors approved a $10 billion share repurchase authorization. We have $10.8 billion
remaining in the plan at the end of the June quarter. For fiscal year 2024, we returned $3.7 billion,
or 88% of free cash flow, which was in line with our long-term capital plans of returning 75% to
100% of free cash flow.
June quarter diluted earnings per share were $8.14, close to the high end of our guidance range.
The diluted share count was 131 million shares, on track with our expectations and down from the
March quarter.
Let's turn to the balance sheet. Cash and cash equivalents totaled $5.9 billion at the end of the
June quarter, up a little bit from $5.7 billion at the end of the March quarter. Days sales
outstanding were 59 days in the June quarter, a slight increase from 57 days in the March quarter.
June quarter inventory turns of 1.9x compared with 1.8x in the prior quarter. We are making
progress in bringing inventory levels down, and we'll continue to work on this throughout the rest
of calendar year 2024.Our non-cash expenses for the June quarter included approximately $79 million for equity
compensation, $74 million in depreciation, and $14 million in amortization. Capital expenditures
were $101 million flat with the March quarter level, with spending mainly centered on lab
investments in the United States and Asia, as well as manufacturing facilities in Asia, supporting
our global strategy to be close to our customers' development and manufacturing locations.
We ended the June quarter with approximately 17,200 regular full-time employees, which was flat
with the prior quarter.
Let's turn to our non-GAAP guidance for the September 2024 quarter. We're expecting revenue
of $4.05 billion, plus or minus $300 million. Gross margin of 47%, plus or minus 1 percentage
point. This gross margin decline is reflective primarily of an unfavorable quarter-to-quarter change
in customer mix. I expect this change to continue to be a slight incremental headwind in the
December quarter.
Operating margins of 29.5%, plus or minus 1 percentage point. Gross margin and operating
margin including impact from ongoing transformation costs related to projects to improve our
systems and operations. As we communicated at the beginning of the year, we're focused on re-
engineering our business processes and systems to drive operational efficiencies and to
implement AI at greater scale. And, finally, we're forecasting earnings per share of $8, plus or
minus $0.75, based on a share count of approximately 131 million shares.
Let me wrap up. As we finished the first half of calendar year 2024, I was pleased that we were
able to execute to the objectives we shared at the beginning of the year. We prioritized
investment to extend our technology differentiation while driving operational improvements.
We're encouraged that the spares business recovery is beginning and upgrade activity should
improve as we exit the calendar year.
Longer-term, Lam is well positioned to capitalize the increase in etch and deposition intensity by
delivering new capabilities of multiple new manufacturing inflections that we see ahead. We look
forward to talking to you in February at our planned Investor Day about the long-term
opportunities for Lam to continue our outperformance in the semiconductor industry.
Operator, that concludes our prepared remarks. Tim and I would now like to open up the call for
questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) Your first
question comes from Tim Arcuri with UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, UBS `
Thanks a lot. Doug, I wanted to ask about the service system mix in the guidance. So you said that
the service -- I thought you said that you now think it's going to grow modestly this year, but if I
flatline service in September and December, it's up 8% year-over-year. So can you just clarify
what you're thinking for service in the guidance mix?
A - `Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `Yeah, Tim, we don't decompose the individual components of the guide. I was clarifying, we now
expect CSBG to be up a little bit for the year. It was particularly strong in the June quarter.
Whether it is up, down, or sideways from that as we go forward, I'm not going to give you
individual components of the forecast, but I do think for the year, it's going to grow a little bit.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, UBS `
Okay, great, Doug. Thanks. And then can you talk a little bit about just in DRAM, I think there's
generally more excitement, Tim, about DRAM WFE than NAND, WFE among most investors out
there about where it could go during this next peak. Obviously, you do very well in NAND, but in
DRAM, you did talk about a lot of the investments which you're making.
Can you just talk about -- I know you're levered to the advanced packaging part of the HBM
dollars being spent, but that's still a pretty small piece of it. So can you just maybe give a chance
to kind of distill some of the view that you're not very levered to DRAM and give us a sense of
maybe where you're investing and where you think you can gain share in DRAM? Thanks.
A - `Tim Archer, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure, thanks, Tim. And, as you said, we do very well in NAND, and we still think NAND's day is
coming, as I said. We've seen some of those commentaries around enterprise SSDs, et cetera.
But on the DRAM side, the reason we highlighted the progress we're making, especially in this
conductor etch, I mean, one, it's a new tool we've introduced. Its new capabilities that are very
exciting for the industry and really targeted towards the types of ultra-small structures that are
going to exist in future DRAM nodes going forward.
Lam is the global leader in conductor etch. And so we're applying all of that expertise and
learning we have towards future DRAM challenges. And I think there's tremendous opportunity
for us on those applications, as I pointed out.
The other side of it, a lot of the excitement around DRAM is related to HBM. And there, as you
commented, we play extremely well with our strong position in both TSV etching, as well as the
TSV electroplating. And I think that we don't see any change in that strong position going forward.
So we get the benefit both from the scaling and architectural changes that are occurring in DRAM
going forward, and from the advanced packaging and HBM-related expansion. And all of these,
on both of those sides, are multiplied by the fact that you get fewer bits per wafer, and so
everybody recognizes you're going to need a lot more DRAM wafers processed going forward.
And, ultimately, that translates into more equipment from Lam.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, UBS `
Thank you, Tim.
A - `Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Tim.
A - `Tim Archer, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks.
OperatorThe next question comes from `Krish Sankar, TD Cowen with Cowen & Company. Please go ahead.
Q - `Krish Sankar, TD Cowen `
Yes. Hi. Thanks for taking my question. My first one is for Doug. I think, Doug, you gave some
color on China. Kind of curious how to think about China into the back half of this calendar year
and into calendar '25. And along the same path, you kind of mentioned that December quarter,
there could be a slight more gross margin headwind. Is there a way to quantify how much that --
how many basis points that headwind would be in December compared to the 47% in
September? And then I had a follow-up with Tim.
A - `Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Sure. Krish, I'll just remind you what we said last quarter. It hasn't really changed from this
quarter. And what that statement was that, for the year '23, '24 China's up. However, it is a
somewhat first-half-weighted year this year, as opposed to last year, it was somewhat second-
half-weighted. I'm not communicating, hey, it's going away. It's not going away.
It's just the spending, because sometimes these customers are a little bit bigger than a
breadbox. It can be a little bit lumpy. And that's very much what we're seeing in China. I'm not
ready to tell you exactly what next year looks like from the China region, but I do think it's going
to be a pretty solid year. Again, it's not going away, and it's too soon for us to quantify things for
next year, but '25 should be a pretty decent year in China, Krish.
Q - `Krish Sankar, TD Cowen `
And then, Doug, any color on the December quarter gross margin?
A - `Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
I'm not going to give you a number, Krish. But I've been signaling for a while that because of
customer mix, margin will have a little bit of some headwind going into the second half of the
year. I just guided you to 47% in September and suggested that there might be a little bit of
incremental headwind into December because of customer mix, is what I said in the script.
Q - `Krish Sankar, TD Cowen `
Got it. Got it. Thank you for that, Doug. And then, Tim, just a quick follow-up. When I look at all the
upcoming tech inflections, like gate-all-around, backside power delivery, maybe down the road
3D DRAM. You spoke within that the transition to 4F-squared DRAM from 6F-squared, I'm kind of
curious, is that really that material? And if so, is there a way to seize the opportunity for Lam at
4F-squared? You spoke a little bit about conductor etch. I was just kind of wondering if you could
give some more color around how to quantify that number for the 4F-squared architecture
transition. Thank you.
A - `Tim Archer, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure, well, I don't think we're prepared to quantify it for you today, but I think that, what, my
comment was, though, we see each of these inflections, and 6F-squared to 4F-squared is a
technology inflection that brings with it some important changes. I mean, one, the architectural
layout of the device itself puts additional requirements on etch, which I think we're very well
suited to serve, and that's why we've been developing new conductor etch capabilities to target
those new requirements. So there is some incremental opportunity there.Clearly, the jump to 3D NAND is a much bigger step-up in etch and dep intensity, but our goal is
to increase our SAM and grow our share at every technology node, so we look at whatever is the
new requirement and how we can best address that. You also look, as you look at DRAM going
forward, another thing that's happening, whether it's 6F-squared as you move to 4F-squared, is
the implementation of more EUV layers and how Lam plays in EUV.
Again, anything where effectively pattern transfer etches, the feature sizes are getting smaller,
precision is required, these are the kinds of high-tech etches that Lam excels at, and so we look
at participating in those.
And then on the deposition side, of course, we've talked about things like our dry EUV resist
process and how that plays into EUV as DRAM and foundry/logic transition from EUV to high-end
EUV. And so we're just looking at every technology node as an opportunity for us to gain.
Q - `Krish Sankar, TD Cowen `
Thank you.
A - `Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Krish.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Srini Pajjuri, Raymond James with Raymond James. Please go ahead.
Q - `Srini Pajjuri, Raymond James `
Thank you. Tim, I have a question on DRAM. Obviously the recovery has been ongoing, and HBM
is a secular driver that you talked about, and you do have a very strong position in that market as
well. Then I look at your revenue. I think it peaked around December of '23, and it's been kind of
declining on a sequential basis. I'm guessing some of that is maybe mature node DRAM.
Just wondering if you're kind of at the bottom, and then given all the talk about HBM spending, I
would think that it's going to kind of, it should at some point come back strongly. So I just want to
hear your thoughts on why it's been declining and how should you think about in particular in
DRAM revenue.
A - `Tim Archer, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I think you generally have it pretty correct. We had talked about the fact that some mature
node DRAM spending was a little bit heavily concentrated in the second half of last year through
early part of this year even. And as that came off, there was some of a reset in what we would
call kind of traditional or the conventional DRAM. That is being picked up at some rate by the
growth in HBM. But HBM itself is still in its ramping phase.
And I think that as we look into 2025, it becomes an even bigger driver of wafers in DRAM. And
so I think that explains probably the profile. And I think that as we look forward, the secular driver
of HBM, the impact on wafer, effectively how many wafers it requires to produce that number of
bits due to the dye size and due to the complexity of stacking these DRAMs means that we see
DRAM demand for DRAM equipment continuing to grow through 2025 and probably well beyond
that.
Q - `Srini Pajjuri, Raymond James `Okay. Got it. Thank you. And then on the CSBG business being up 20% sequentially, 22%. I know
you don't want to give us guidance going forward, at least for next quarter. I'm just curious about
the sustainability of some of the trends that you're seeing, Tim. And then what does that mean
for the overall WFE? Is this a prelude to something? And is this just the utilization improving? And
then, does this usually follow in terms of WFE increasing and in terms of new tech migrations or
capacity additions? So any color on that would be helpful.
A - `Tim Archer, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. It's a good question. And I guess, again, reminding people that the CSBG business includes
our Reliant business, which sells into mature nodes, it includes spares, it includes upgrades and
services. And so each of those components move somewhat differently. And we talked about this
quarter particularly being strong as a result of Reliant and spares.
We are starting to see a pickup in utilization in the memory fabs, as we've talked about. And I've
talked a little bit about the fact that, as we look forward, we think that upgrades will begin to
become a much more prominent part of our customers' WFE spending if they look to upgrade
memory fabs that really haven't been upgraded in quite some time because of the severe
downturn that we've seen in those markets over the last few years.
And so I do think, going forward, you see a little bit more of a balance between those different
segments, upgrades coming up stronger, and spares continuing to grow simply because our
installed base itself continues to get bigger. Traditionally, we would have always said that we
would expect the CSBG business to grow every single year, and that's simply effective every year
we ship more tools, and those tools then require services and spares and basically present new
opportunities for Lam to capture revenue from those systems.
So I think long-term, CSBG will returning back to that growth. And next year probably much more
biased towards the upgrades business as customers start to do brand new fab upgrades.
Q - `Srini Pajjuri, Raymond James `
Got it.
A - `Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Srini.
Q - `Srini Pajjuri, Raymond James `
Thanks, Tim.
Operator
Your next question comes from `C.J. Muse, Cantor Fitzgerald with Cantor Fitzgerald. Please go ahead.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Yeah, good afternoon. Thank you for taking the question. I guess first question was hoping to
focus on gross margins. A couple quarters ago, Doug, you talked about kind of looking back to
the June kind of '23 quarter as normalized, but given the guide today, it sounds like that was
conservative and it's a higher number.
So just as you think about calendar '25, as you get to kind of a normalized China mix and youmargins? And then can you talk to what kind of accretion we should be thinking about related to
Malaysia and/or some of these higher-margin upgrade drivers?
A - `Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, C.J., I mean, you've alluded to some of the things that move gross margin, obviously. Yeah,
I had previously anchored you and others with respect to that June quarter before the China mix
improved or strengthened, I guess, maybe not improved.
As the baseline in I guided it down a little bit in September, described customer mix softening a
little bit relative to moving that, and I'm not suggesting, hey, a little bit more in December,
potentially. It's all about customer mix. Too soon for me to guide you for next year, but the things
you should be thinking about is what does that customer mix look like next year?
I'm not sure yet, and I'm not ready to point you to numbers, but what will begin to show up in a
more significant fashion is the accretion from those Asia factories as we ramp output. That will be
a benefit to gross margins. So those are the moving pieces to be thinking about. The customer
mix, I'm not entirely sure, but as we see a likely WFE environment next year that's somewhat
stronger, increasingly the incremental volume will be supported from those Asia factories, which
should be beneficial to gross margins, C.J.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Very helpful, and I guess as my follow-up in your prepared remarks, you spoke to the 7,500 high
aspect ratio etch chambers installed in the NAND industry, and just curious, as you see upgrades
there, what kind of growth could that add to overall NAND WFE, specifically to you guys? Is there
kind of a percentage we should think about? Any help there would be great.
A - `Tim Archer, President and Chief Executive Officer `
We haven't quantified that, but the reason I included it was simply to point out the installed base
itself becomes a powerful driver of revenue during those upgrade cycles.
And we do think that the next phase, we've seen higher memory fab utilization, particularly we
talked about NAND beginning to improve last quarter, and that's seems to be continuing as we
move through the remainder of this year, get to next year and the upgrades start in earnest,
those tools are -- those tools represent opportunities for Lam to help our customers achieve it's
both a technology upgrade and a bit cost reduction as they move forward and accrues quite a lot
of revenue for Lam relative to the amount of WFE spend.
I'll remind people the WFE Lam's capture rate of spending in an upgrade is significantly higher
because etch and deposition represents so much of the upgrade. So that was the reason we
pointed out the size of our installed base.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Thanks so much.
A - `Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, C.J.
OperatorQ - `Stacy Rasgon, Bernstein Research `
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my question First, I wanted to ask, like, if the NAND business next year
is primarily driven by upgrades, what does that imply for growth? Like, would it be conceivable
that NAND WFE could double year-over-year in calendar '25? It was purely upgrade-driven, or
would you need capacity additions to get there, and are you seeing any signs at all of capacity
additions right now? Doesn't sound like it.
A - `Tim Archer, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, Stacy, what I would say is that obviously we're not going to guide what NAND WFE is next
year. Frankly, I think it's still a developing story, but what we're trying to say is that, as customers
move to upgrades, whatever WFE is spent, Lam will be the primary beneficiary of that WFE
spend.
And so that's a year in which my comment was we would be confident that we would outgrow
WFE in the NAND space if it was primarily upgrade spend and upgrades represent a tremendous
efficient way for customers to essentially advance their technology and lower their costs.
And so we do think that will be the next phase of NAND investment based on our thoughts.
Q - `Stacy Rasgon, Bernstein Research `
Got it. Got it. I mean maybe to follow up on that just a little bit. I mean if I -- if you look at your
current like NAND outlook for this year, would you say that that outlook has gotten better or
worse or stayed the same versus, like, 90 days ago?
A - `Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Probably hasn't changed much, Stacy. This is Doug. Maybe a little bit better. We're trying to see a
little bit of an uptick in utilization, but I don't think it's meaningfully different, Stacy.
Q - `Stacy Rasgon, Bernstein Research `
So I got it's a kind of in the noise?
A - `Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, kind of in the noise.
Q - `Stacy Rasgon, Bernstein Research `
Okay. That's helpful. Thank you, guys. Appreciate it.
A - `Tim Archer, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Stacy.
A - `Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Stacy.
Operator
The next question comes from `Harlan Sur, J.P. Morgan with J.P. Morgan. Please go ahead.Q - `Harlan Sur, J.P. Morgan `
Yeah, good afternoon, thanks for taking my questions. Given the strength in CSBG, it looks like
utilization by your customer base continues to rise. Did that also broaden out to start to include
not just leading-edge logic/foundry, DRAM, and NAND, but maybe also start to include mature
and specialty fabs as well? Or are at a minimum mature and specialty utilizations at least
stabilizing in line with some of the cyclical improvements that we're seeing in the semi industry?
A - `Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Harlan, the mature node stuff is still pretty soft, frankly. And I think you understand what's going
on. If you just listen to everybody else's earnings calls in the analog, industrial, automotive space,
there's still a lot of inventory out there. It's still relatively soft. The statements we're making
around utilization have more to do with what we're seeing in the memory fabs, quite frankly.
Q - `Harlan Sur, J.P. Morgan `
I appreciate that. And then on HBM and advanced packaging, I mean, last night, we heard AMD
talk about supply dynamics being tight on their AI GPU supply next year, CoWoS, and HBM. On
the custom ASIC front, we hear companies like Broadcom keep getting upside orders from their
AI customers like Google.
Last quarter, you talked about doing a $1 billion in advanced packaging and HBM revenues this
year. Has that number moved higher, and is the team capacity-constrained on advanced
packaging systems? And are your lead times here for those tools starting to stretch out?
A - `Tim Archer, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, it has moved higher, and we're not going to re-quantify it just yet. But it is -- we're seeing
very strong demand in those areas. I talked about the expansion of our global manufacturing
supply chain footprint, and obviously that's giving us more flexibility than we had during the last
ramp.
Our goal through all those investments was to be able to respond in this next few years of
expansion better than we did in the expansion that we saw right around the time of COVID. And
so I think that that will position us.
Sure, you're always a little bit short, and customers always drop in tools within your lead time,
which keeps you busy. But I think that we're doing quite a nice job responding to the urgent
requests from our customers. We actually like this. I would say, generally from running the
business, we like this environment where all parts of our business are a little bit supply-
constrained.
I mean, you hear a lot of our customers talking about being cautious about adding capacity, all our
customers talking about having a little trouble getting tools. I think that's a good place for us to
be because it means that I think we're setting up for a more manageable long-term ramp of
demand than sort of a short spike followed by, again, periods of digestion that always create a
little bit of chaos in the industry.
Q - `Harlan Sur, J.P. Morgan `
Yes. Thank you, Tim. Thanks, Doug.Thanks, Harlan.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Atif Malik, Citi with Citi. Please go ahead.
Q - `Atif Malik, Citi `
Hi. Thank you for taking my question. Doug, if I look at the 2023 year-over-year China sales
growth among the big five equipment makers, all of them are up quite well. Many of them are up
like 250%, and the U.S. peers are up in teens or 20%. But you guys were down 11% total China
sales in 2023, and this year you're expecting China sales to be up.
So I'm just trying to understand the dynamics last year. Were this just a function of maybe NAND
spending and the NAND project not being active, or are there competitive elements in China that
are working against you?
A - `Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Atif, I'll remind you that perhaps our largest customer got restricted when the regulations came
out, our NAND customer in China. That customer was pretty strong in 2022, went away in 2023.
So the year-over-year comparisons you're making, you've got to factor that in. And then the
strength we're seeing in 2023-2024 is a different mix entirely. Really not any NAND in China to
speak of, at least not domestic China. I don't know if that helps you, but make sure you're
thinking about that.
Q - `Atif Malik, Citi `
Yeah, it all makes sense. That's helpful. And then on the cryo improvement, Tim, that you
mentioned, are those improvements or process tool of record is going to solidify your market
share next year or the year after?
A - `Tim Archer, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I think that all of these things, I mean, when you introduce something new, I mean, I think
what people kind of lose sight of is, generally we're working several years ahead with our
customers on R&D. I talked about the investments we're making where we're building labs close
to our customers in different geographies, that's because in many cases we're engaging those
customers a good five years ahead of production implementation. That's not to say Lam Cryo 3.0
is going to take five years to get into production, but it's not a technology that's ramping, say, this
year, but it really is looking out at the needs of our customers one to two generations out and
really solving their difficult etch challenges.
So, sometimes when the benefits are so good, and I talked about the fact that we get about 2.5x
the etch rate, tremendous profile control, customers will often pull that in sooner, but really this is
designed for kind of the 400-plus layer, may ultimately end up being pulled in earlier than that,
but that's where you really start to see the needs for this kind of capability.
Q - `Atif Malik, Citi `
Thanks. That's exactly what I was asking about. If it's 400 layers or 200 layers, but sounds like
400 layers.
A - `Tim Archer, President and Chief Executive Officer `Yes, and I think that what we, you'll see in our press release today, we talked a little bit about
we're trying to chart the path across not only etch but also our deposition films towards where
the industry needs to go to get to 1,000 layers, because we truly see over the next decade that
that's where you want to get in terms of satisfying bit density and cost as NAND demand
continues to expand with AI.
Q - `Atif Malik, Citi `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Next question comes from `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs `
Hi, guys. Thank you so much for taking the question. I joined late, so I do apologize if these
questions have been addressed. Just on the third generation Cryo tool, Tim, that you spoke
about, how is this technology or tool fundamentally different or better than your nearest
competitor? I know you just spoke to some of the characteristics, but if you can clarify that for us
to the extent you're comfortable, that would be really, really helpful.
And then my second question, again, on the CSBG side, probably one for Doug, and again, you
may have addressed this. For the full year, calendar year, I think you previously said flattish plus or
minus. Is that still the view, or given the strength you saw in June, is that -- should we be thinking
about a higher growth rate for the full year? Thank you.,
A - `Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Toshiya. Maybe I'll take that one first. And then I'll let Tim comment on the 3.0 those stuff.
Yes, you might have missed my scripted statements. As we sit here today, we now expect that
for 2024 CSBG, the word I used was modestly grow, this year versus last year.
And part of that is, we saw particular strength in the June quarter in Reliant. A little bit of
improvement in spares, and as we think about the utilization trends that are likely occurring with
our memory customers, I think spares continues to be decent, and we're optimistic that we'll start
to see some of the upgrades, Tim, that we've been talking about for a while.
I'll hand it over to Tim on the 3.0 stuff.
A - `Tim Archer, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Thank you. I think, obviously, what I would just start with is the biggest difference between
what we're delivering with Lam Cryo 3.0 and what our competitors do is in the results on the
wafer, which we talked about pretty amazing 10-micron-deep holes with less than a 10-
nanometer taper from the top to bottom at etch rates that are 2.5x conventional etching.
So it's the results that are pretty amazing. We talked about the fact that this is based on some
new surface chemistries that are enabled in our tool, and there's a whole combination of
hardware issues -- hardware configurations and capabilities in our tool that I think allow us toAnd I can't go into all of those details today, but it is -- I did allude to one of them, which is on our
Vantex system, the chamber design allows us to deliver a significantly higher ion energy than
what is available from any other system available in the semiconductor industry. And that does
play some role in etching these very, very deep holes with near-perfect verticality. So that's about
all I can say today.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you. Appreciate that.
A - `Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Toshiya.
Operator
Thank you. The next question comes from Joe Moore with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thank you. I wanted to ask you, I mean, there's been a number of press concerns about
export controls, was talking about the foreign direct product rule, which doesn't seem like it
would affect you, but also talking about entity list. And I'm just wondering -- obviously we don't
know what would happen with any of that, but are you seeing any different behavior from your
China customers? Are you seeing them push things in or pull things or pull things -- push things
out because of any of those anxieties?
A - `Tim Archer, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, Joe, I think that obviously we don't know exactly what's going to happen either, just as you
said, and so we can't really speculate on that. I have mentioned in the last couple of calls that
there are ongoing discussions all the time with the U.S. government and regulatory agencies.
We're part of those discussions and will continue to be.
I think in terms of change in behavior by any of our customers, I don't think it's something that's
noticeable, nor would it be something that we would be able to easily react to.
We've talked about how we deal with some of these new customers that emerge with
downpayments and other things to make sure that we understand the -- those customers as
viable customers, but beyond that, we service them like others at this point as long as we can
ship to them. And I would say lead times and responsiveness from our perspective is the same as
we treat any customers at those sites.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Morgan Stanley `
Very helpful. Thank you.
A - `Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Joe.
Operator
Next question comes from `Blayne Curtis, Jefferies with Jefferies. Please go ahead.Q - `Blayne Curtis, Jefferies `
Hey, thanks. Let me ask a question. I know you had a couple on this, Doug, on the China business.
I'm just kind of curious. I think you qualified as a solid year next year, and I just didn't know what
that meant. So I know you've been hesitant to kind of call China. I think you called it like flat, plus
or minus, maybe up or down last time.
Do you feel better about it, I guess, outside of this June? That's the other kind of part of the
question. Just you can qualify a little bit. I mean, you should have some idea of what you're going
to ship to pay ahead. So is June kind of a cleanup, and it might be a little bit lumpy? And -- Or is
China actually trending a bit better for you?
A - `Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
I don't know, Blayne, that I'm trying to communicate anything any different than we said on the
last call, to be honest with you. We described this year as somewhat first-half-weighted. Really no
change to that.
The June quarter was maybe a little tiny bit stronger in China, but only a little tiny bit. It's too soon
for me to -- for us to quantify 2025. But what I would tell you is I expect next year to be a solid
year in terms of spending in China. I'm not going to give you a number yet, because I'm not
completely sure. But what I wouldn't want anybody to think is it's going away, because it's not.
Q - `Blayne Curtis, Jefferies `
Got you. And then, I'm just kind of curious, the broad strokes was growth for next year. I know you
don't want to give a forecast. But in terms of the moving pieces there, I mean, it's pretty clear,
leading-edge is strong, DRAM spend is strong. I'm just kind of curious, as you look into that
forecast, if you're willing to venture kind of a view on the NAND business.
A - `Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, I think NAND spending next year has to be greater than it is this year, right? We're off two
years of quite low spending in NAND. I don't know what magnitude. I expect next year -- We
expect next year you're going to see a lot of upgrades in NAND, but too soon for me -- for us to
give you a number, but I would be shocked if it's not stronger than it is this year. It has to be.
Q - `Blayne Curtis, Jefferies `
Thanks, Doug.
A - `Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Blayne.
Operator
The next question comes from Joe Quatrochi with Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.
Q - `Joseph Quatrochi, Wells Fargo `
Yeah. Thanks for taking the question. I wanted to try it on the NAND side again. If we just think
about your prior peak NAND revenue ex your customers that are obviously now restricted, cancapacity upgrade to just higher layer counts support your return to those levels, just given your
higher share of etch and the -- the higher etch and dep intensity for the transitions?
A - `Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Joe, if it's just an upgrade, your spending will be lower than when capacity gets added. Obviously,
our share of wallet will be greater. The fact that we lost a pretty large NAND customer in the
China region, hard to replace that. I'm not ready to tell you what kind of next year is relative to
previous peaks, but I know next year is going to be a stronger year in NAND than it is this year, for
sure.
A - `Tim Archer, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. And, Joe, I think that, obviously, if we're talking next year, it's very specific to the demand
environment and the upgrade business in 2025. Longer-term, I mean, we've laid out in our view is
that NAND spending rises. And so, it's just a matter of the time frame you're looking at.
And, from the standpoint of Lam's business, the etch and dep components and the complexity of
tier stacking, the precision that's required for implementation of QLC and TLC technologies, all of
these skew towards Lam's technical strengths and also SAM expansion opportunities. And I talked
about the PECVD pure carbon gapfill process, which is a new addition to the portfolio for NAND
scaling technology going forward.
And so, if I go back and I look at where we were in the portfolio we had to sell, when people
used to think of NAND as a very, very strong business for Lam, we've expanded that portfolio
quite substantially with the gapfill, the backside stress management, the ALD oxide gapfill
process, plus the etch and stack dep that we've always had, as well as nanolization.
So, it's one of growth in NAND demand, but also growth in Lam's portfolio and served market as
well, opportunities ahead. So, I think that that bodes well for us once the NAND business itself
starts to recover.
Q - `Joseph Quatrochi, Wells Fargo `
Thanks for that. That's a helpful color. And just as a quick follow-up, you talked about global
mature node spending being roughly flat this year. Can you just help us understand just kind of
how does that break down? I mean, I think clearly the non-China piece is pretty weak, but just any
kind of color that you can help us parse that out.
A - `Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, you kind of answered your own question, Joe. China's decent right now. Outside of China,
it's pretty soft. And I think you understand what's going on. There's inventory that's built up, four
days inventories still need to come down, and then mature node, analog, industrial, automotive
space, and investment won't meaningfully occur until that gets adjusted. So, that's kind of what's
going on. You sort of answered your own question.
Q - `Joseph Quatrochi, Wells Fargo `
Fair enough. Thanks.
A - `Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Joe.Operator
The next question is a follow-up question from `Krish Sankar, TD Cowen. Please go ahead.
Q - `Krish Sankar, TD Cowen `
Yeah, hi. Thanks for taking my follow-up. Doug, I just have a quick follow-up. It's a question on
inventory. You spoke about bringing on inventory turns down. I'm kind of curious, like how to think
about inventory next year, especially if you're planning for a strong WFE year in 2025, or do you
think most of this inventory would be in a bin? How to think about inventory next year? Thank you.
A - `Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, listen, if you think back to when business declined for us last year, a big part of what fell off
pretty rapidly was our NAND business.
And so, a lot of the inventory that we still have sitting on the balance sheet will support NAND. So,
assuming NAND is stronger next year, and it will be, we will consume that NAND inventory that's
been sitting on the balance sheet for a while. What will offset that to a certain extent is growth
elsewhere, where we'll need to procure new inventory.
So, I'm not ready to give you an inventory forecast quite yet, but we're continuing to work as we
go through the remainder of this year to kind of bring it down. And then, what we do with next
year will depend largely on the timing of business, the mix of business, the geographic
distribution of business. But we'd like to get turns back to where they historically have been, and
they're not there yet. So, that's how you should be thinking about it, Krish.
Q - `Krish Sankar, TD Cowen `
Thank you very much. Very helpful. Thanks, Doug.
A - `Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks.
Operator
The next question is from `Melissa Weathers, Deutsche Bank with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
Q - `Melissa Weathers, Deutsche Bank `
Hi there. Thank you for taking my question. I wanted to ask on the leading-edge, and specifically
gate-all-around nodes. I don't think I heard an update to your $1 billion gate-all-around revenues in
2024 target. So, is that still the case? And then, as we think about those nodes ramping through
next year, like, what's the trajectory of that ramp that we should be thinking about as you move
from pilot lines into high-volume manufacturing?
A - `Tim Archer, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Melissa. I mean, we always make choices about what we do and don't include in the
prepared remarks, and the gate-all-around fell out this time, just no intended message.
In fact, if I look at what happened in the quarter Lam, again, as we've talked on previous calls, is
really positioned quite nicely with our forward-looking etch and dep portfolios. We really targetedbefore. And in fact, in the quarter, we had additional Selective etch wins for gate-all-around at
multiple customers.
We targeted investment in ALD films that are specifically needed for things like spacers and gate-
all-around, and we had additional wins in the quarter for those films. Often with gate-all-around,
we think of those technologies -- they're obviously different technologies, but kind of occurring at
the same node. The backside power delivery, that's an area that is really right in our sweet spot in
terms of deposition and etch. And in the quarter, we had wins in backside power in ALD oxide.
And so I would say, net-net, I mean, given those wins and what you're hearing from the end
markets about the need for high-power computing demand for AI, I think the $1 billion forecast
we gave you, certainly as we move through next year, would be going higher.
And so, again, that's a combination of rising demand, but also a product portfolio that's both
expanding and one in which we're winning share. And so, there was no message about leaving it
off, but thank you for asking the question so we could get that in right at the end.
Q - `Melissa Weathers, Deutsche Bank `
Perfect. Yeah, thank you. I'll stop my questions there.
A - `Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Okay.
A - `Tim Archer, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Doug Bettinger, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Awesome. Operator, I think that concludes our call. I want to thank everybody for joining us today.
We'll look forward to seeing you at a variety of conferences and interactions as we go through
the remainder of the quarter. Appreciate it.
A - `Tim Archer, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
The conference is now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now
disconnect.