Q4 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Welcome to the Applied Materials Earnings Conference Call. During the presentation, all
participants will be in a listen-only mode. Afterwards, you will be invited to participate in a
question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference over to `Michael Sullivan, Corporate Vice President, Corporate Vice President. Please
go ahead, sir.
`Michael Sullivan, Corporate Vice President `
Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining Applied's fourth quarter of fiscal 2022
earnings call. Joining me are Gary Dickerson, our President and CEO; and `Brice Hill, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, our Chief
Financial Officer.
Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that today's call contains forward-looking statements,
which are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ.
Information concerning the risks and uncertainties is contained in Applied's most recent Form 10-
Q and 8-K filings with the SEC.
Today's call also includes non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations to GAAP measures are
found in today's earnings press release and in our quarterly earnings materials which are available
on the IR page of our website and appliedmaterials.com.Before we begin, I have a calendar announcement. Applied plans to hold an eBeam Technology
and New Product Webcast on Wednesday, December 14th, at 9 a.m. Pacific Time. Please stay
tuned for an invitation to join our presenter, Keith Wells, who is Group Vice President and General
Manager of our Imaging and Process Control Group.
And with that introduction, I'd like to turn the call over to Gary Dickerson.
`Gary E. Dickerson, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mike. Applied Materials delivered a strong finish to our fiscal year with record quarterly
performance. Throughout 2022, the company has demonstrated solid execution while navigating
COVID-related restrictions, supply chain shortages, and a challenging geopolitical and
macroeconomic environment. I would like to recognize the hard work and commitment of our
global team and our suppliers who are doing everything possible to meet our customers' needs.
As this is our year-end call, I'll begin my prepared remarks with a quick review of our performance
and progress over the past 12 months. I'll then give our latest outlook for 2023 before describing
our longer-term growth thesis for the industry in Applied. After that, Bryce will provide more color
on our financial performance and key areas of operational focus.
Like many others in the technology sector, our performance and priorities in 2022 have been
shaped by an unprecedented set of challenges. Our top priority has been mitigating supply chain
constraints that prevented us from fully meeting customer demand.
In Q4, we made incremental progress and we expect to continue closing supply gaps over the
next few quarters. As well as finding creative short-term solutions, our team has been addressing
root causes and building a more resilient, scalable supply chain, and stronger strategic
relationships with our suppliers. In addition, we're strengthening our own manufacturing, logistics,
and supply chain management.
While I'm pleased with the recent improvements in supply chain performance, we are still supply
chain limited across a number of key product lines and our backlog grew in Q4. The biggest
supply constraints are in our metal deposition business, where customer demand is very strong.
This is our largest business unit and where we have highly differentiated solutions for advanced
foundry logic and DRAM. The market for these products, which enable next-generation wiring is
expanding considerably.
In addition to supply shortages, we're also navigating a difficult geopolitical environment as
reflected in the new export control regulations enacted by the US government on October 7th.
These new rules are complex and cover a broad range of semiconductor technology that
includes wafer fabrication equipment and related parts and services. We have taken all the
necessary actions to comply with these new rules including suspending shipments and support
where required.
We estimate that the unmitigated impact to our fiscal 2023 revenues could be up to $2.5 billion.
We believe the actual impact can be reduced to $1.5 billion to $2 billion. This will depend in part on
how quickly the government provides licenses and approvals, as well as how impacted
companies refocus their investments.
We are also mindful of the full of the macroeconomic headwinds including inflation and softening
consumer demand. To offset the inflationary cost increases we are facing, we are driving multiple
initiatives that include re-engineering our products and implementing price adjustments.While it's too early to forecast 2023 with any precision, I can describe what we're currently seeing
in the market and hearing from our customers. Starting with memory. Spending is expected to be
down year-on-year as weakness and consumer electronics and PCs prompt some customers to
defer capacity additions. In leading-edge foundry-logic, demand look strong with customers
racing for leadership and driving major technology inflections that determine their relative
competitive positions.
In ICAPS, chips for the IoT, Communications, Auto, Power, and Sensor markets demand is mixed.
Consumer-driven markets are clearly softer while the automotive, industrial, and power markets
remain robust. Those investments are underpinned by large inflections, including the transition to
electric vehicles, accelerated adoption of industrial automation, and growing demand for
renewable energy solutions, especially in Europe.
While all this adds up to an expected pullback in overall wafer fab equipment spending next year,
we believe that Applied's business will be more resilient than the underlying market for three key
reasons. First, we have a significant backlog, the highest in our history measured on both an
absolute and percentage of revenue basis.
Second, demand for some of our most differentiated product lines where we have uniquely
enabling technology remains much higher than our capacity to fulfill that demand. And third, our
service business is positioned for steady growth with an increasingly large portion of this business
being converted to subscriptions.
Over the past 12 months, our installed basis systems grew 8% and the number of tools under
comprehensive long-term service contracts grew 16%. The renewal rate for these agreements is
well over 90% which demonstrates the value customers see in our subscription services.
Looking further ahead, our long-term growth thesis for the industry and Applied Materials has not
changed. Semiconductors are the foundation of digital transformation that will touch almost every
sector of the economy over the coming years. This puts the semiconductor industry on a path to
a $1 trillion market by the end of the decade. And while every year will not be an up year, the
overall trajectory is clear.
We also like where Applied Materials plays within the ecosystem. As technology complexity is
increasing, we expect equipment intensity to remain at today's levels or rights further. This means
wafer fab equipment is likely to grow faster than the overall semiconductor market. Within
equipment spending, major technology and selections are enabled by materials engineering,
shifting more dollars to Applied's available markets over time. We think about the industry's
future roadmap in terms of power, performance, area cost, and time to market.
The PPACt playbook has five pillars: new architectures; new 3D structures; new materials; new
ways to shrink; and advanced packaging, with each pillar made up of multiple technology
inflections. For example, new 3D structures like Gate-All-Around transistors and Backside Power
Distribution Networks are materials engineering-enabled inflections that grow Applied's total
available market.
As I referenced earlier, wiring is a key bottleneck for chip performance and power at advanced
nodes. And this is driving significant innovation in new materials. Between the 7 and 3 nanometer
node, contact metallization steps are growing more than 50% and our total available market is
expanding almost 80%. For interconnect layers, process steps are being added even faster and
we expect our revenue opportunity to approximately triple through these node transitions.Advanced packaging represents a new era for integrated circuit design that opens major new
vectors of innovation for chip designers. Advanced packaging is also enabled by new materials
engineering solutions. Although the industry is still in the early stages of adoption, we have
already grown our packaging equipment business to nearly $1 billion.
Our Process Diagnostics and Controls business also has broad exposure to these inflections and
delivered significant growth in 2022. Our progress and opportunities in eBeam will be the focus
of our December technology briefing.
Given our positive long-term view of the semiconductor market, the outsized opportunities for
Applied Materials within market, and favorable global government incentives, we are making
investments in R&D and infrastructure to support industry growth and position the company for
future success. We will provide more details about our specific plans in the coming months.
At the same time, with the current macroeconomic conditions, we are carefully managing
discretionary spending and limiting hiring to only strategic positions.
Before I hand the call over to Brice, I'll quickly summarize. Applied Materials ended the year
strong with record performance. In the past quarter, we made incremental progress overcoming
the supply challenges that have constrained our performance in fiscal 2022. However, there is still
work to do, and our backlog continues to grow.
We expect 2023 to be a down year for wafer fab equipment spending, but we believe that
Applied's business will be more resilient, thanks to our large backlog, growing service business,
and strong customer demand for our leadership products that enable key technology inflections.
Longer-term secular trends create opportunities for Applied to outgrow the semiconductor
market by enabling the PPACt roadmap with our differentiated portfolio of materials engineering
solutions. We are making strategic investments for the future while slowing spending growth in
the near term.
Now, I'll hand over to Brice.
`Brice Hill, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Gary. I'd like to start by thanking our team and our supply chain partners for helping to
further increase our output for our customers. On today's call, I'll summarize our results for the
fiscal year and Q4, as well as provide our guidance for Q1. I'll also discuss the impact of recent US
export regulations on our revenue in gross margin.
Before going into the results, I'd like to make three points. First, despite a weaker customer
demand outlook, we generated strong orders in Q4 and ended the year with record backlog,
particularly in some of our leadership product areas. Combined with the resiliency of our AGS
business, the strong backlog puts us in a good position to offset some of the market weakness
expected next year.
Second, we have not changed our view of a $1 trillion semiconductor market by 2030 with a high
single-digit CAGR for semiconductors and similar or faster growth for equipment to the added
process complexity. We grew our headcount in R&D spending significantly in 2022 to develop
new leadership products and further expand our broad portfolio. While we are slowing our
spending growth in the current environment, we remain committed to research and development
and enabling critical inflections that support our customers' roadmaps.And third, we returned nearly $7 billion to shareholders this past year including buybacks
equivalent to 6% of shares outstanding at the beginning of the period. With record demand and
financial results in 2022, a strong growth opportunity through 2030, and our broad and unique
portfolio of systems and services, we're confident in our financial position and our future.
Next, I'll summarize our fiscal year results. Although supply-chain constraints impacted our output
all year, we delivered record annual revenue and EPS. On a year-over-year basis, revenue
increased nearly 12% to $25.8 billion. Non-GAAP gross margin decreased by around 90 basis
points to 46.6%. Non-GAAP operating profit grew by over 7% to $7.86 billion. Non-GAAP
operating margin decreased by 120 basis points to 30.5%. And non-GAAP EPS increased nearly
13% to $7.70.
We generated about $5.4 billion in operating cash flow this past year and over $4.6 billion in free
cash flow. We returned 151% of free cash flow to shareholders, including $873 million in dividends
and $6.1 billion in share repurchases. Our cash returns for the past three years were equivalent to
over 100% of free cash flow.
In the year, demand for our products and services was very strong with record annual bookings in
semi systems and AGS. On a year-over-year basis, our total ending backlog increased 62% to $19
billion. Our semi-systems backlog increased 90% to nearly $12.7 billion. We expect to reduce our
semi-systems backlog as supply chain performance improves. Our AGS backlog increased 30%
over $5.6 billion. The strong AGS backlog reflects a large increase in long-term service
agreements, which gives us confidence in the continued growth of this business.
Moving to our Q4 results, we delivered record quarterly net sales of nearly $6.75 billion and
record non-GAAP EPS of $2.03. Non-GAAP gross margin declined 20 basis points sequentially to
46%, and non-GAAP OpEx grew 3.5% sequentially to nearly $1.1 billion with most of the increase in
R&D.
Turning to the segments, semi-systems revenue grew more than 6% sequentially to $5.04 billion.
Segment non-GAAP operating margin increased 80 basis points sequentially to 36.9%. AGS
revenue was flat quarter-over-quarter at $1.42 billion. Segment non-GAAP operating margin
declined to 28.3%. AGS key performance indicators continue to be positive with strong year-over-
year growth in installed base systems, service intensity, and subscription agreements. As a result,
AGS continues to grow faster than the pace needed to achieve our long-term revenue targets.
Moving on to display, revenue declined as expected to $251 million. Segment non-GAAP
operating margin also declined to 13.5%.
Turning to our cash flows. We've generated $857 million in operating cash flow during the quarter
which was 13% of revenue. We returned over $1.72 billion to shareholders including $223 million in
dividends and $1.5 billion in buybacks. We repurchase 17 million shares at an average price of
$88.5.
Next, I'll discuss the impact of the new US export regulations to Applied Materials. We currently
expect that the unmitigated revenue impact of the new rules could be up to $2.5 billion in fiscal
2023. We continue to work through the regulatory requirements including seeking licenses and
approvals where appropriate. We hope to reduce the revenue impact by between $500 million
and $1 billion to a net impact of $1.5 billion to $2 billion. We also expect to reduce our non-GAAP
gross margin by up to 1 percentage point.
While this creates a headwind to meeting our gross margin targets for 2024, we remain
committed to our goals and believe we can achieve and exceed them over time.In Q4, the new rules reduced our semi-systems and AGS revenue by approximately $280 million,
which is in the range of our expectation on October 12th. Inventory charges in Q4 were lower than
our preliminary assessment. In Q1, we expect the new rules to reduce semi-systems and AGS
revenue by approximately $490 million combined and reduce our gross margin by around 1
percentage point, both on an unmitigated basis.
Now, I'll share our guidance for Q1. We expect revenue to be $6.7 billion, plus or minus $400
million. And we expect non-GAAP EPS of $1.93, plus or minus $0.18. Within this outlook, we expect
semi-systems revenue to be about $5.15 billion, which is up nearly 13% year-over-year. We expect
AGS revenue to be about $1.33 billion, which is slightly up year-over-year. Display revenue should
be around $170 million.
We expect non-GAAP gross margin to be approximately 46.1% and we expect non-GAAP
operating expenses to be $1.16 billion. We are modeling a tax rate of 13%, which is up from 11.8%
last year primarily due to mandatory capitalization of R&D expenses effective in our new fiscal
year.
Before we begin the Q&A, I'd like to summarize our company's position in the current
environment. We have a record backlog, notably in the highly enabling technologies for next-
generation nodes. Our supply chain and manufacturing output are incrementally improving. We
expect our services business will continue to grow and generate strong recurring revenue and
free cash flow. And the longer-term growth outlook for the semiconductor industry remains
strong. Applied is in a great position to invest in future growth and deliver strong profitability, free
cash flow, and shareholder returns.
Now, Mike, please begin the Q&A.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
A - `Michael Sullivan, Corporate Vice President `
Thanks, Brice. To help us reach as many people as we can, please ask just one question on
today's call. If you have another question, please re-queue and we'll do our best to come back to
you later in the session. Operator, let's please begin.
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of `C.J. Muse, Evercore ISI with
Evercore ISI.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Evercore ISI
Yeah. Good afternoon. Thank you for taking the question. I was hoping to clarify one thing first on
China, and really the question is, what change between October 12 with your press release and
then October 30, where it looks like there really wasn't much of an impact at all. And then my, I
guess, real question is, as you think about calendar '23 WFE, it sounds like companies are
providing kind of a top-down view that things for WFE look weak and declining. However, every
company bottoms up based on deferred revenues and backlogs are much more optimistic on
the outlook. So, can you kind of talk through the moving parts there? And what kind of range or
outcome you see today for year-over-year silicon declines in calendar '23? Thanks so much.A - `Brice Hill, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. Hi, C.J. It's Brice. I'll start on this one. So, relative to the pre-announcement that we did, we
talked about our $400 million impact plus or minus $150 million for the China trade change. And
then as we work through it, that impact ended up being less around $280 million, and it's just
estimating the transactional elements at the end of the quarter. It was an initial estimate, so we
did a little bit better from that perspective.
The other thing that really happened was execution in the end of the quarter was almost flawless
from a logistics perspective. We got more supply chain parts in at the end of the quarter. And so,
over $200 million of good news from an execution and delivery perspective, finishing product
and completions in the field. So, it was really those two things. It was a little bit better than our
initial estimate and execution was excellent in the last couple weeks of the quarter.
And then on '23, the WFE question for '23. We think that it's preliminary, it's too early to give an
estimate of '23. So what we're trying to share is what we're seeing in our order patterns and in
our business for Q1 and Q2. We talked about in the script, how -- in Q1 or in our bookings for Q4,
they were really solid. We did see push outs, we did see weakness in the memory business, but
our backlog has grown to record level of backlog.
So, when we think about our Q1 and Q2, we're still supply constrained, we still have a number of
different equipment lines that we have significant backlog or trying to catch up the customer
orders. And so, the signals to us really are that we have to work on supply chain, work on
improving our output, and work on catching up with our customers. So beyond that, we're just not
able to make a call yet on WFE for '23.
A - `Gary E. Dickerson, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. C.J., this is Gary. As Brice said, we can certainly give a perspective on our business. We're
not going to guide on overall WFE for '23. But we're in a very strong position. If you look at the
profile of the business, it's more weighted towards foundry logic versus memory. And we have
some very strong products where we have significant backlog, and we're still working to close the
supply-demand gaps in those areas. So from Applied standpoint, as you know it's all about the
race for power and performance for all of our customers, and we're really well positioned with
leading products in those big inflections. And again, our number one focus is on closing the
supply-chain gaps.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Evercore ISI
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of `Stacy Rasgon, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. with Bernstein.
Q - `Stacy Rasgon, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. `
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my question. I wanted to ask you about the mitigated versus
unmitigated impact from China. So, you give the numbers $2.5 billion and hoping to bring that
down to like $1.5 billion. But I gathered a big element of that was getting licenses. Where do you
expect those licenses to be gotten? Is that only to the multinational? Do you guys expect licenses
to be given to some of the Chinese folks? I mean, how could that happen? What is themechanism by which you come in at the unmitigated number versus the -- come in at the
mitigated number versus the unmitigated number?
A - `Brice Hill, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Hi, Stacy. It's Brice. Yeah, and it's important probably to say that this unmitigated versus mitigated,
it has everything to do with the impact to the China shipments and Chinese customers. In other
words, it's not referring to whether we can ship product we are making for those customers to
non-China customers. So the unmitigated, the way we calculated this is we looked at the orders
that we have for the affected customers. And that's what you see is the total, $2.5 billion. In order
to mitigate that -- say again.
Q - `Stacy Rasgon, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. `
I'm sorry. Does that include multinationals to or is that just the local Chinese guys?
A - `Brice Hill, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
It does not. Yeah. And so, the way we looked at that, there are some customers that were trying
to clarify that we can apply for licenses for or we can get authorizations for once they established
that their technology is within the guidelines. So, we have a process to do that.
And on the other side, we expect some customers may decide to change their plan or change
their technology. So, it does not go above the threshold that's affected by the rules at this point.
So, it's really those two elements that will be able to clarify that some customers were able to
ship with or ship to or some customers changing their plans on the technology side that would
allow them to qualify for shipments.
Q - `Stacy Rasgon, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. `
What would that mean? Would that suck up like supply that would have ordinarily gotten built by
somebody else though, because otherwise you're just adding like lagging edge supply into a
vacuum essentially. How do we think about like the second order effects here?
A - `Brice Hill, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. We don't think so. We expect all that equipment to be utilized. And so, if that equipment is
moved to a different use, then we expect it will be backfilled somewhere else for its original
demand purpose, if that makes sense.
Q - `Stacy Rasgon, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. `
Got it. And I guess just one last one. Right now, I guess you're running at the unmitigated level.
When do you think you'll be at the mitigated level? How likely do you think it will be that you end
up at the mitigated level at some point?
A - `Brice Hill, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
It's hard to say, it's a process. You can imagine there's a large number of people working on this.
In fact, the whole industry is working on this. So, it's job too at this point behind increasing output.
So, I would say, it's still a good estimate today, and we'll be working throughout the year on
improving the number of customers and plants that we can ship to.
Q - `Stacy Rasgon, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. `Got it. Okay. Thank you, guys.
A - `Brice Hill, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Merrill Lynch with Bank of America.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thanks for taking my question. I just wanted to clarify. I thought Brice, you said somewhere that
you provided some look for Q2. I don't think I caught that? And then several of your memory
customers that said that their spending could be down over 50% next year. Recently Micron said
it could be down even more than that. Have you noticed almost a 50% cancellation of orders
from them? Because I'm just trying to reconcile your commentary that sounds outside of China,
of course, more benign and more supportive versus just a very horrific guidance that your
memory customers are providing. I understand you're less exposed to memory versus foundry
logic, but still it's a reasonable size exposure. So, I'm curious has that 50% cut in CapEx translated
to any reduction in your backlog or any change in your thinking about memory for next year?
A - `Brice Hill, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Okay. Thanks for that. So we're not giving a guide for Q2. We are highlighting the record backlog,
and the fact that we're constrained, and the fact that in several equipment lines we're behind on
customer orders. So, we're going to try to increase output, and I'd say that comment is true for
both Q1 and Q2. So, that's as much shaping as we're providing for Q2.
On the memory side, just to kind of click back and think about the overall demand environment.
We positioned last quarter that we had a significant amount more demand than we have the
ability to supply for '23. What did happen during the course of this quarter is there is a significant
amount of pushouts and reductions in that demand. Now, you can see the end result. We still had
solid bookings in Q4, we still have -- we created a record backlog, that's now disclosed. So, I
would say that some of those pushouts and some of those reductions were definitely in the
memory space. And I wouldn't -- I'm not going to characterize what percentage it was, but I
would say that that's the most affected area in the business in terms of pushouts and reductions
for '23.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
So, you are seeing a 50% type reduction? I'm just trying to align what we are hearing from those
customers versus what you're seeing on the ground in your business?
A - `Brice Hill, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Sorry, I can't quantify exactly what it is. I'll just say that, that is what -- it's biased. The
reductions were biased in that area.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Brice Hill, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `Yeah.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of `Krish Sankar, Cowen and Company with Cowen.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Cowen and Company `
Yeah. Hi, thanks for taking my question. Brice or Gary, just wanted to find out, you mentioned how
[ph]lagging-edge is still pretty strong, especially auto, analog and China. And I wonder like, do
you ever seen that auto analog could be the next (inaudible) drop. But in other words, if
memories is down -- going to be down next year, but lagging-edge holds up. What is the risk that
lagging-edge rolls over in 2024? And you have two years of lackluster WFE. Thank you.
A - `Brice Hill, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Okay. I'll start. Maybe Gary wants to say something. We don't have a specific guide for what we
call ICAPS, our mature node businesses. What we would say is there was significant growth in
2022. And when we think about all the end-markets, we think the end-markets are mixed. We
know some of the consumer markets and even industrial have seen some weakening. But on the
positive side, automotive and the power market that feeds EV and solar and other areas has
been really strong. So for us, this is a critical market. We're continuing to invest and continuing to
focus in this area. And we would just highlight to investors that the growth has been very strong.
A - `Gary E. Dickerson, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Krish, the other thing I would add is that, we made a change in our organization more than
three years ago, forming our ICAPS group. And we have just very, very deep engagements with
our customers, both on the technical and the support side of our business, and we have the
broadest set of innovative product for ICAPS. If I look at where we're at today, those are some of
the areas that where we have a significant backlog MDP and implant in FY '23 are very, very
strong for us. Those are areas where we have significant demand from customers, and ICAPS is
similar in that to the -- all of the -- the rest of our business.
This is always a race for all of these customers relative to power performance and cost. And
ICAPS is really materials enabled. We have a really strong team there, we have a great pipeline of
products. I will guarantee you every year will not be up, that's for sure. We're not going to guide
'24, but we are in a very good position in ICAPS relative to enabling technology for future
inflections.
Q - `Krish Sankar, Cowen and Company `
Thank a lot, Gary. Thanks, Brice.
A - `Brice Hill, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of `Mark Lipacis, Jefferies with Jefferies.
Q - `Mark Lipacis, Jefferies `Hi. Thanks for taking my question. Gary, maybe for you. It seems like the consensus for WFE this
year is somewhere in the $65 billion to $75 billion range. And I'm not asking you to give a
guidance or an outlook for next year. But I'm wondering, in the scenario where that is proven to
be too cautious of an outlook for next year, based on the conversations that you have with your
customers, would you say that would be because lead times are long and customers just -- they
don't want to cancel orders or there's new secular drivers, like bigger chips or advanced
packaging or trailing nodes like some of the things you've talked about or just competition at the
leading-edge is driving people to invest more, been enabled by subsidies? What are your
customers suggesting to you or what -- I mean your backlog grew even as memory came down.
Like what is -- what do you think are the biggest drivers in the next year regardless of whatever
the end number is, and what could surprise on the upside? Thank you.
A - `Gary E. Dickerson, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, Mark. Thanks for the question. So, all of our customers in any of these different markets,
technology is moving very, very quickly. So they're all racing against each other for power,
performance cost, their relative competitive position. So, certainly as you mentioned in the
leading edge, foundry logic, there's a tremendous amount of focus there, high performance
computing and a number of those different markets. And again for Applied, what we've talked
about is real strength in enabling new structures that are critical to competitive positions for our
customers. Gate All Around is an incremental billion dollars for Applied for 100,000 wafer starts
more than what we're currently capturing with FinFET. We're on path to gain 5 points of share in
the transition from FinFET to Gate All Around.
Wiring is probably the number one focus, and I don't know that everyone really understands how
important that inflection is for our customers. That's an area where we have tremendous
strength. We're enabling 50% reduction in wiring resistance with integrated platforms that
combine many technologies together. So that's another one, where Applied is really well
positioned.
Packaging has grown for Applied to nearly a $1 billion, and we have over 50% share in the broad -
- in our served market. And we have, by far, the broadest position in advanced packaging, and
we're still in the early innings of that inflection. But again, that's all part of this technology race for
all of our customers.
ICAPS, I mentioned that earlier on the call. Those are also markets where I think it's surprising to
people including -- you've seen some of our peers talking about ICAPS growth over a longer
period of time. There are technology inflections there, and that's -- as I mentioned earlier, metal
deposition implant, those are areas where we're very, very -- in very strong enabling positions
with our customers.
I think the other thing for Applied beyond all of these different areas, high-speed DRAM with logic
like structures, all of those big inflecions. Our PDC business grew -- I think it was 67% in FY '21.
We're up around 35% in FY '22. That business is also outperforming, and we think that will
continue to outperform as we go forward. So, at least from an Applied standpoint. It's really all
around those big inflections and how we're positioned for those major inflections.
So, I don't know Brice, if you want to add anything.
A - `Brice Hill, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
No. I would just comment that the -- we highlighted that we still have to catch up to customer
demand in several areas. So, that adds some momentum into '23. And then the other piece isjust -- it seems clear that productivity to drive productivity in the world, a lot of these things like in
the energy market, data center market, et cetera, still have resilient demand.
Q - `Mark Lipacis, Jefferies `
Thank you. Very helpful.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of `Atif Malik, Citigroup Inc. with Citi.
Q - `Atif Malik, Citigroup Inc. `
Hi. Thank you for taking my question. Gary, I have a question on long-term impact of China
restrictions to both domestic and multinational spend. If I look at China spending, over the last
five years, it has outgrown WFE by 3x to 4x. What replaces this in terms of spending, capital
intensity and above-average profitability for you?
A - `Brice Hill, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Hi, Atif. I'll start. This is Brice. I think on the China side, when we look at that impact, the
larger part of the business has been on the trailing nodes for us, and we expect that to still be a
very strong business for Applied. And we see that in both the factory projects that we monitor
and also in the different end-markets where there's investments. And then on the leading edge,
if it's a question of, do we expect that demand to be taken away from WFE demand globally and
permanently, we don't. It'll either be satisfied in some way in China, either by multinationals or in
some other way or it'll move to another geography. So, we don't believe that, that will be an
impact. And just circling back around, I would just focus on. Over time, we expect the China
market to be a strong grower, especially in the ICAPS mature node space.
Q - `Atif Malik, Citigroup Inc. `
Thank you.
A - `Brice Hill, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs & Co. with Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Hi. Thank you so much for taking the question. I wanted to ask about the AGS business going into
next fiscal year and calendar year. Obviously it's been a very steady grower for you guys and for
the overall industry. Many of your leading edge memory customers and logic and foundry
customers, I believe, are in the process of providing wafer starts potentially over the next couple
of quarters. So I guess the question is, when you site services as one of the reasons why you'll
outperform into next year, is the baseline assumption that business continues to grow, given the
installed base growth and given how you transform the mix of that business or could it be down
but [ph]stunt less? Thank you.
A - `Brice Hill, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `Okay. Thanks, Toshiya. Thank you. Yeah. Couple of drivers here. You'll see in our outlook for Q1
that we have a down quarter for AGS, which is unusual. And the reason is we've got a full quarter
impact approximately $100 million for the reduction of the China customers that we won't be
able to serve for the rest of the year. So, that's definitely a headwind in Q1. But you hit the nail on
the head with respect to the dynamics thereafter.
Every time we ship a tool that grows our installed base of equipment, we grew the installed base
8% last year. Beyond or after that our ability to provide services and put those services on
subscription agreements. We typically outgrow the installed base than we did last year. So that is
the driver for the reason the services business is sticky. We have more equipment to serve. The
equipment becomes more intensive in terms of service needs, and over time that grows the
business.
Now to your point, a portion of the business is transactional. We do see lower utilization this
quarter and next quarter. And what we would point to -- what we have pointed to is, even in '19
where there was lower utilization, we still grew the services business. And besides the headwind
of China that I pointed out, we expect that to be the dynamic this year and going forward.
A - `Gary E. Dickerson, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Toshiya, this is Gary. I'll have a little bit more color. So, we do expect services to be up in '23. As
Brice mentioned, transactional will be down based on capacity utilization, but our profile with a
significant amount of our service and spares business being agreements, gives us stickiness
going forward, and that is continuing to increase the comprehensive agreements up 16%. Last
year, the tenure of our agreements, the length of the agreements are up to 2.6 years. Renewal
rates at 93%. So we're in -- it was an interesting thing through the -- all of the chip shortage
period of time. We were able to demonstrate value for customers with ramp services to
accelerate chip output, managed part services so that people could increase tool availability and
output, managed services for yield and optimizing productivity. So all of that helped us position
our service business in a higher value for our customers.
And again, that's what gives us the ability to continue to grow into '23. And then the longer term
model we've communicated as double-digit growth, and when we still have high confidence, we'll
achieve that.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Thank you so much.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of `Harlan Sur, JPMorgan Chase & Co with JP Morgan.
Q - `Harlan Sur, JPMorgan Chase & Co `
Hi, good afternoon. Thanks for taking my question. Yeah, another follow-up on the AGS. So,
looking back on fiscal '22, your semi systems operating margin declined about 200 basis points
on strong revenue growth obviously due to the inflationary cost pressures. But your AGS business
is staying near record operating margins at 30%. So, I guess how has the team been able to
sustain the record or near record AGS operating profitability in this inflationary environment? And
more importantly in the down year or potential down year -- next year, you guys talked last call,
this call and sustainability of AGS from a revenue perspective. How should we think about the
sustainability of operating margins for AGS?A - `Brice Hill, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Harlan, thank you. So one thing I would call out call out is, we did have lower gross margins
and operating margins in Q4, and that's largely due to looking at the specific inventory we had for
China customers that we'll have to either reposition or move somewhere else or scrap. But to
your point on operating profit, one of the plans the business has there is to improve the amount
of repair that we do for products that we bring back to customers. And so, that helps us lower
the cost and cost of goods sold with customers, and that's one of the ways that we improve our
gross margins and the ultimate profit of that business. The other is just increased efficiency. As
we demonstrate more and more capability with the customers, and we provide more services
with the same spending profile, then that helps us maintain the profitability. Those are the two
key drivers.
Q - `Harlan Sur, JPMorgan Chase & Co `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Joe Quatrochi with Wells Fargo.
Q - `Joseph Quatrochi, Wells Fargo Securities `
Yeah. Thanks for taking the question. I wanted to ask about the gross margin impact in the China
restriction. Can you talk about what's driving that 1 percentage point impact? And then how do we
think about what you could potentially recapture in the mitigated scenario that you outlined?
A - `Brice Hill, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Thank you. So two things. It depends on which time period you look at, but if we look
forward, the gross margin impact is really that they're generally smaller customers. So the
profitability of those customers for Applied is higher. And when we talk about mitigation as we go
forward, it's going to be TBD as to who we sell that product to and what the profitability is. So at
this point, we're expecting a -- the impact that we described.
And if you look at the current quarter, we did have specific inventory for customers that's unique.
We are working to qualify some of that inventory, and we were successful to a degree, but we
did have specific inventory that we had to take a demand reserve on.
Q - `Joseph Quatrochi, Wells Fargo Securities `
Got it. Thank you.
A - `Brice Hill, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Timothy Arcuri with UBS Securities.
Q - `Tim Arcuri, UBS Securities `
Thanks a lot. Gary, I had a question about WFE intensity. So we're exiting this year at 15.5%, andYou certainly been beating that drum now for a while that WFE intensity is going to keep going
up. And obviously there are some underlying upward pressures. But China has obviously been
ordering tools and building capacity well ahead of demand now in part due to the fear of these
bands. So, if China becomes a little more of a lagging tier region, wouldn't that lower WFE
intensity a bit? And maybe argue that maybe it has to reset a bit? Thanks, Gary.
A - `Brice Hill, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Tim, I'll jump in for a second here just because I have the picture of the graph in my mind
that we use. So, we do think intensity is gradually increasing and it's because of the reasons Gary
described. A lot of steps in the process are becoming more complex and require more
equipment and we see that. And then we think about China and ICAPS, specifically. In the past,
there's been a lot of reuse of existing fabs and existing process tools, and that allowed for a low
intensity. And that's not been what's happening in the past few years and with recent additions,
and we've talked about the number of factory projects that we see. So as capacity gets added,
even in the ICAPS space, what you see is an intensity level that's more like what we were
experiencing on the leading edge just a few years ago. And that's also serving to raise the overall
average of intensity. So we're pretty confident that intensity will continue to rise.
A - `Gary E. Dickerson, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Tim, on the relative to ICAPS, just reminding people that there was a time period where you had
a lot of movement of business to foundries. And during that time period, there were many
factories and tools that came on the market, all of that stuff is gone. So that's what Brice was
referring to relative to ICAPS capital intensities.
And if you look at all of the -- I went through a list of key inflections, technology inflections for
customers and I gave some color around wiring and the number of steps that are increasing. And
that's what we're seeing really in all of the different segments of the business. So, I think that
capital intensity is probably the right zip code, if we look through 2030.
Q - `Tim Arcuri, UBS Securities `
Thanks, Gary and Brice.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of `Joseph Moore, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thank you. I wonder if you could talk about the environment in China with the
multinationals. Obviously they need to get a license, they did immediately get a license, but it's a
12-month license. So, would you say that you generally see the footprint moving away from China
with those multinational customers? Do you see any potential for that to become an issue down
the road? Can you just talk generally to the fact that the multinationals were included in this?
A - `Gary E. Dickerson, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Joe, this is Gary. Thanks for the question. The multinationals are not impacted today.
Relative to their strategies, we'd really rather have them comment on that. So again, just today,
they're not impacted how they position their businesses geographically, that's really up to them.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Morgan Stanley `Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of `Sidney Ho, Deutsche Bank with Deutsche Bank.
Q - `Sidney Ho, Deutsche Bank `
Thanks for taking my question. I want to follow up on the earlier question on the longer term WFE.
As you think about the growth of WFE in the next, call it, three to five years, how do you think
about the mix between different type of tools, how that could change? Meaning deposition and
edge versus litho versus process control as you talk to your customers about their roadmap and
technology inflections. And also want to ask you about, I assume your served addressable market
will continue to expand, but maybe help us understand how much would that grow. Thanks.
A - `Gary E. Dickerson, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Sidney, thanks for the question. So if you look at what our customers are talking about
relative to their roadmaps, really there are five big drivers of the technologies going forward.
Workload specific architectures, there are new structures, new materials, new ways to shrink, new
advanced packaging inflections for our customers. And so, what we see, if you look at the
advanced foundry logic roadmap, you see a tremendous focus on new structures and new
materials. The transistor innovations around Gate All Around are essential relative to power and
performance. Wiring, I talked a lot about wiring. Our largest business is metal deposition. And the
wires are getting thinner and resistance goes up. So you're seeing more dollars moving in that
direction. Advanced packaging is an area where we see.
For sure, that's another big -- one of the big five drivers for the roadmaps for our customers, and
that's still in the early innings around a $1 billion business for us today. Over 50% served market
for the areas we participate. And so, we see that one -- that's one area that will attract a
tremendous amount of investment and relative to the competition between customers is very,
very important. In memory, you certainly see material scaling in 3D NAND as customers are
moving to more layers or other ways to include logic and memory together through different
technology inflections. DRAM is moving to high speed. And so, you have high-K metal gate and
logic like structures there. So a lot of that investment is moving more towards materials enabled,
technologies and that's where Applied has really a tremendous strength.
I don't know Brice, if you want to add anything there?
A - `Brice Hill, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
No, good. Thanks.
Q - `Sidney Ho, Deutsche Bank `
All right. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of `Quinn Bolton, Needham & Co. with Needham &
Company.
Q - `Quinn Bolton, Needham & Co. `Thanks for taking my question. Just had a question. With the CHIPS Act, applications expected to
be received or submitted at beginning sort of the February timeframe. Wondering, as you look at
your '23 WFE, do you expect to you see any benefits from the CHIPS Act spending in '23 or do
you think it's really more of a '24 and beyond before it hits WFE spending? Thanks.
A - `Brice Hill, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
We do except, Quinn, a small -- really small amount in '23. On the equipment side, it'll likely really
start in '24 as a number of those projects are start with construction. There are few that will start
with equipment, but it'll really for us be more of the '24 time frame.
A - `Gary E. Dickerson, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Quinn, one thing I'd add is that, those investments are time-bound. And so as Brice had not
so much in '23 starting in '24, but they there are -- there is timing associated with those
incentives.
Q - `Quinn Bolton, Needham & Co. `
Got it. Thank you.
A - `Brice Hill, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Quinn. And operator, we have time for two more questions today.
Operator
Certainly. And our next question comes from the line of `Pierre Ferragu, New Street Research with New Street.
Q - `Pierre Ferragu, New Street Research `
Thank you for taking my question. Gary, I'd like to come back to the comments you made about
capital intensity and the specifics of the trailing edge part of your portfolio. And so you described
there, I think, like three reasons why capital intensity -- I mean, two reasons why capital intensity is
very high there -- I mean, higher than in the past. The first one is that there is no innovation going
on, so like that large capital intensity. And then you mentioned the fact there used to be like a
secondhand market that was feeding the trailing edge that is kind of going away.
And my question is there must be also a third element that justifies a high capital intensity today,
which is that we've been growing capacity very, very fast this year and last year. And there is a
significant churn that the capacity growth is at some point going to slow down or even to pause.
And so, I'd like to hear your thoughts about that, and maybe a sense of how much it could impact
in the shorter term capital intensity?
A - `Gary E. Dickerson, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Hi, Pierre. This is Gary. Thanks for the question. So, I will say that -- 100% certain that all of these
markets will not be up every year. But what we do see, if you think about -- pick a number in
terms of edge computing devices by 2030, these technologies are becoming much, much more
pervasive. They're really -- if you think about industrial automation or gas to smart electric
vehicles, number of different inflections, a lot of these ICAPS technologies are going to grow at a
fair compound annual growth rate, and I think that's what other people are seeing also.
So, how that -- what the shape of that looks like? Every single year, we're not going to forecastthe ICAPS organization three years ago. We saw that market was going to be significant from a
growth perspective and pulled together all of our different technologies. So again, if I look across
all of those segments within ICAPS, we think over the longer-term, there will be significant
compound annual growth rates. We have very, very strong positions in enabling some of those
technology inflections in ICAPS, but we're not going to give a specific profile on a year-by-year
basis.
Q - `Pierre Ferragu, New Street Research `
Thanks, Gary.
Operator
Thank you. And our final question comes from the line of `David O'Connor, Exane BNP with Exane BNP.
Q - `David O'Connor, Exane BNP
Great. Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my question. Follow-up on the backlog to a previous
question. Gary or Bryce, how should we think about the timeframe of getting the backlog back to
a kind of more normalized level? When do you expect to get caught up on demand for those
products that are running pretty harsh on the PPACt side. Thank you.
A - `Gary E. Dickerson, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Thanks, David. We're expecting it's going to take us more than two quarters. So depending
on the line of equipment, I would say between two and four quarters is our internal estimate. And
so, that's where we're focused on. We are behind with the customers, and we're working on
increasing output every week. Thanks for the question.
Q - `David O'Connor, Exane BNP
Thank you.
A - `Michael Sullivan, Corporate Vice President `
Yeah. Thanks, David for your question. And Brice, would you like to give us your closing thoughts
today?
A - `Brice Hill, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Absolutely. Clearly there are questions about the market in the near-term, but for our part,
we had healthy Q4 orders, and we have record backlog that we described, that's mostly in our
leadership product areas that drive the big technology inflections. Job one for us is increasing our
output to meet customer demand. We're in a strong financial position to continue to develop our
broad portfolio of technology and to drive the critical inflections and to support eventually a $1
trillion semiconductor market. I hope we get to see many of you at the upcoming Credit Suisse
and Wells Fargo conferences. In the meantime, we hope you enjoy a safe and Happy
Thanksgiving. Thank you. Mike, let's close it up.
A - `Michael Sullivan, Corporate Vice President `
Okay. Great, Brice. So we'd like to thank everybody for joining us today. A replay of the call is
going to be available on our website by 5:00 Pacific Time. And we would like to thank you for
your continued interest in Applied Materials.