Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) in our 2013 Financial Report. Our businesses are heavily regulated in most of the countries in which we operate. In the U.S., the principal authority regulating our operations is the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA regulates the safety and efficacy of the products we offer and our research, quality, manufacturing processes, product promotion, advertising and product labeling. Similar regulations exist in most other countries, and in many countries the government also regulates our prices. See Government Regulation and Price Constraints below. 1 Commercial Operations Following the full disposition of our Animal Health business on June 24, 2013, we managed our commercial operations through four operating segments — Primary Care; Specialty Care and Oncology; Established Products and Emerging Markets; and Consumer Healthcare. Prior to June 24, 2013, we managed our operations through these four operating segments, as well as our Animal Health operating segment. For additional information about this operating structure, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 18A. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information: Segment Information in our 2013 Financial Report and Operating Segments below. At the beginning of our fiscal year 2014, we began to manage our commercial operations through a new global commercial structure consisting of three businesses, each of which is led by a single manager — the Global Innovative Pharmaceutical business (GIP); the Global Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare business (VOC); and the Global Established Pharmaceutical business (GEP). Beginning with our first-quarter 2014 financial results, we will report under our new structure and will provide financial transparency into each of these businesses. Results for 2013 and prior periods in this 2013 Form 10-K and in our 2013 Financial Report are reported on the basis under which we managed our businesses in 2013 and do not reflect the 2014 reorganization. A significant change effected by our new structure is the full integration of emerging markets into each business. Emerging markets are an important component of our strategy for global leadership, and our new structure recognizes that the demographics and rising economic power of the fastest-growing emerging markets are becoming more closely aligned with the profile found within developed markets. Some additional information about each product grouping follows: • Global Innovative Pharmaceutical business — GIP comprises medicines within several therapeutic areas that are generally expected to have market exclusivity beyond 2015. These therapeutic areas include immunology and inflammation, cardiovascular/metabolic, neuroscience and pain, rare diseases and women’s/men’s health. • Global Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare business — VOC focuses on the development and commercialization of vaccines and products for oncology and consumer healthcare. Each of the three businesses that comprise this group operates as a separate, global business, with distinct specialization in terms of the science, talent and market approach necessary to deliver value to consumers and patients. • Global Established Pharmaceutical business —GEP includes the brands that have lost market exclusivity and, generally, the mature, patent-protected products that are expected to lose exclusivity through 2015 in most major markets and, to a much smaller extent, generic pharmaceuticals. Additionally, GEP includes our sterile injectable products and biosimilar development portfolio, as well as current established product collaborations, such as our existing agreements with Mylan Inc. in Japan, Zhejiang Hisun Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. in China and Laboratório Teuto Brasileiro S.A. in Brazil. We expect that the GIP and VOC biopharmaceutical portfolios of innovative, largely patent-protected, in-line products will be sustained by ongoing internal investments and targeted business development designed to maximize the value of our in-line products and ensure a robust pipeline of highly-differentiated product candidates in areas of unmet medical need. In addition, VOC includes our Consumer Healthcare business, which manufactures and markets several well-known over-the-counter (OTC) brands. The assets managed by these groups are science-driven, highly differentiated and generally require a high-level of engagement with healthcare providers and consumers. GEP is expected to generate strong consistent cash flow by providing patients around the world with access to effective, lower-cost, high-value treatments. GEP leverages our biologic development, regulatory and manufacturing expertise to advance its biosimilar development portfolio. GEP may also engage in targeted business development to further enable its commercial strategies. In addition, one of our goals in implementing the new commercial structure is to streamline the critical capabilities needed to effectively demonstrate the value of our medicines to payers, institutions and policy makers. We expect to do this through the Global Health and Value function that is intended to align market access, pricing, health economics, real world data and outcomes research. 2 Pfizer Website This 2013 Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), are available (free of charge) on our website (www.pfizer.com) , in text format and, where applicable, in interactive data file format , as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Throughout this 2013 Form 10-K, we “incorporate by reference” certain information from other documents filed or to be filed with the SEC, including our Proxy Statement for the 2014 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (2014 Proxy Statement) and the 2013 Financial Report, portions of which are filed as Exhibit 13 to this 2013 Form 10-K, and which also will be contained in Appendix A to our 2014 Proxy Statement (2013 Financial Report). The SEC allows us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our 2013 Annual Report to Shareholders consists of the 2013 Financial Report and the Corporate and Shareholder Information attached to the 2014 Proxy Statement. Our 2013 Financial Report will be available on our website (www.pfizer.com) on or about February 28, 2014. Our 2014 Proxy Statement will be available on our website (www.pfizer.com) on or about March 13, 2014. Information relating to corporate governance at Pfizer, including our Corporate Governance Principles; Director Qualification Standards; Pfizer Policies on Business Conduct (for all of our employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors; information concerning our Directors; ways to communicate by e-mail with our Directors; Board Committees; Committee Charters; the Lead Independent Director Charter; and transactions in Pfizer securities by Directors and Officers; as well as Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer certifications, are available on our website (www.pfizer.com) . We will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to our Corporate Secretary, Pfizer Inc., 235 East 42nd Street, New York, NY 10017-5755. Information relating to shareholder services, including the Computershare Investment Program, book-entry share ownership and direct deposit of dividends, is also available on our website (www.pfizer.com) . The information contained on our website does not constitute a part of this 2013 Form 10-K. Operating Segments As discussed above under General — Commercial Operations , following the full disposition of our Animal Health business on June 24, 2013, we managed our operations through four operating segments — Primary Care; Specialty Care and Oncology; Established Products and Emerging Markets; and Consumer Healthcare. Prior to June 24, 2013, we managed our operations through these four operating segments, as well as our Animal Health operating segment. Each operating segment had responsibility for its commercial activities and for certain research and development (R&D) activities related to in-line products and in-process research and development (IPR&D) projects that generally had achieved proof-of-concept. A description of each of these four operating segments follows: • Primary Care operating segment — included revenues from prescription pharmaceutical products primarily prescribed by primary-care physicians, and included products in the following therapeutic and disease areas: Alzheimer’s disease, cardiovascular (excluding pulmonary arterial hypertension), erectile dysfunction, genitourinary, major depressive disorder, pain, respiratory and smoking cessation. Examples of products in this segment in 2013 included Celebrex , Chantix/Champix , Eliquis , Lyrica , Premarin , Pristiq and Viagra (outside Canada and South Korea). All revenues for such products were allocated to the Primary Care business unit, except those that were generated in emerging markets and those that were managed by the Established Products business unit. • Specialty Care and Oncology operating segment — was comprised of the Specialty Care business unit and the Oncology business unit. • Specialty Care — included revenues from prescription pharmaceutical products primarily prescribed by physicians who are specialists, and included products in the following therapeutic and disease areas: anti-infectives, endocrine disorders, hemophilia, inflammation, ophthalmology, pulmonary arterial hypertension, specialty neuroscience and vaccines. Examples of products in this business unit in 2013 included BeneFIX , Enbrel , Genotropin , Geodon (outside the U.S.), the Prevnar family of products, 3 ReFacto AF , Revatio (outside the U.S.), Tygacil , Vfend (outside the U.S. and South Korea), Vyndaqel , Xalatan (outside the U.S., Canada, South Korea, developed Europe, Australia and New Zealand), Xeljanz , Xyntha and Zyvox . All revenues for such products were allocated to the Specialty Care business unit, except those that were generated in emerging markets and those that were managed by the Established Products business unit. • Oncology — included revenues from prescription pharmaceutical products addressing oncology and oncology-related illnesses. The products in this business unit in 2013 included Inlyta , Sutent , Torisel , Xalkori , Mylotarg (in Japan), Bosulif (in the U.S. and European Union (EU)) and Aromasin (in Japan and South Korea). All revenues for such products were allocated to the Oncology business unit, except those that were generated in emerging markets and those that were managed by the Established Products business unit. • Established Products and Emerging Markets operating segment — was comprised of the Established Products business unit and the Emerging Markets business unit. • Established Products — included revenues from prescription pharmaceutical products that had lost patent protection or marketing exclusivity in certain countries and/or regions. Typically, products were transferred to this business unit in the beginning of the fiscal year following loss of patent protection or marketing exclusivity. However, in certain situations, products were transferred to this business unit at a different point than the beginning of the fiscal year following loss of patent protection or marketing exclusivity in order to maximize their value. This business unit also excluded revenues generated in emerging markets. Examples of products in this business unit in 2013 included Arthrotec , Effexor , Geodon (in the U.S.), Lipitor , Medrol , Norvasc , Protonix , Relpax , Vfend (in the U.S. and South Korea), Xalatan (in the U.S., Canada, South Korea, developed Europe, Australia and New Zealand), Zosyn/Tazocin and Viagra (in Canada and South Korea). Beginning in 2012, sales of Lipitor in the U.S., Canada, South Korea and Japan were reported in our Established Products business unit and, beginning in 2013, sales of Lipitor in Australia and most of developed Europe were reported in our Established Products business unit. • Emerging Markets — included revenues from all prescription pharmaceutical products sold in emerging markets, including Asia (excluding Japan and South Korea), Latin America, the Middle East, Eastern Europe, Africa, Turkey and Central Europe. • Consumer Healthcare operating segment — includes worldwide revenues from non-prescription products in the following therapeutic categories: dietary supplements, pain management, respiratory and personal care. In 2013, products marketed by Consumer Healthcare included Advil , Caltrate , Centrum , ChapStick , Emergen-C , Preparation H and Robitussin . For a further discussion of these operating segments, including certain costs that were not allocated to our operating segment results, as well as comparative segment information for 2013, 2012 and 2011, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 18. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information, including the tables therein captioned Selected income statement information, Geographic Information and Significant Product Revenues in our 2013 Financial Report and the table captioned Revenues by Segment and Geographic Area in the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report, which are incorporated by reference. As discussed above under General — Commercial Operations , at the beginning of our fiscal year 2014, we began to manage our commercial operations through three businesses, each of which is led by a single manager — the Global Innovative Pharmaceutical business ; the Global Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare business ; and the Global Established Pharmaceutical business . For additional information regarding our new global commercial structure see the Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook — Our Strategy section of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report and General — Commercial Operations above. 4 Biopharmaceutical Products In 2013, our biopharmaceutical business was composed of the following five business units: Primary Care, Specialty Care, Oncology, Established Products and Emerging Markets, which are discussed under Operating Segments above. For additional information regarding how our new global commercial structure affects our biopharmaceutical business structure, see the Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook — Our Strategy section of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report and General — Commercial Operations above. For a discussion of certain of our key biopharmaceutical products, including Lyrica , the Prevnar family of products, Enbrel , Celebrex , Lipitor , Viagra , Zyvox , Norvasc , Sutent , and the Premarin family of products, see the Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income — Biopharmaceutical — Selected Product Descriptions section of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report. We have entered into collaboration and/or co-promotion agreements relating to certain biopharmaceutical products, including Aricept , Enbrel (in the U.S. and Canada), Spiriva and Rebif , each of which has expired or will expire in various markets over the next several years. For additional information, including a description of these collaboration and co-promotion agreements and their expiration dates, see the Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income — Biopharmaceutical — Selected Product Descriptions and the Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Operating Environment — Intellectual Property Rights and Collaboration/Licensing Rights sections of the MD&A in our 2013 Financial Report and