Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Medivation Medivation LLC (formerly Medivation Inc.) Meridian Meridian Medical Technologies, Inc. Moody’s Moody’s Investors Service Mylan Mylan N.V. Mylan-Japan collaboration a pre-existing strategic collaboration between Pfizer and Mylan for generic drugs in Japan that terminated on December 21, 2020 Myovant Myovant Sciences Ltd. NAV net asset value NDA new drug application nmCRPC non-metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer NMPA National Medical Product Administration in China NYSE New York Stock Exchange OTC over-the-counter PBM pharmacy benefit manager PBO Projected benefit obligation; represents the present value of the benefit obligation earned through the end of the year and factors in future compensation increases PCPP Pfizer Consolidated Pension Plan PGS Pfizer Global Supply Pharmacia Pharmacia Corporation PMDA Pharmaceuticals and Medical Device Agency in Japan PsA psoriatic arthritis QCE quality consistency evaluation RA rheumatoid arthritis RCC renal cell carcinoma R&D research and development ROU right of use Sandoz Sandoz, Inc., a division of Novartis AG S&P Standard & Poor’s SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Servier Les Laboratoires Servier SAS Shire Shire International GmbH Tax Cuts and Jobs Act or TCJA Legislation commonly referred to as the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 Teva Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. Therachon Therachon Holding AG Pfizer Inc. 2020 Form 10-K ii Upjohn Business Pfizer’s global, primarily off-patent branded and generics business, which includes a portfolio of 20 globally recognized solid oral dose brands, including Lipitor, Lyrica, Norvasc, Celebrex and Viagra, as well as a U.S.-based generics platform, Greenstone, that was spun-off on November 16, 2020 and combined with Mylan to create Viatris UC ulcerative colitis U.K. United Kingdom U.S. United States VAI Voluntary Action Indicated Valneva Valneva SE VBP volume-based procurement Viatris Viatris Inc. ViiV ViiV Healthcare Limited WRDM Worldwide Research, Development and Medical This Form 10-K includes discussion of certain clinical studies relating to various in-line products and/or product candidates. These studies typically are part of a larger body of clinical data relating to such products or product candidates, and the discussion herein should be considered in the context of the larger body of data. In addition, clinical trial data are subject to differing interpretations, and, even when we view data as sufficient to support the safety and/or effectiveness of a product candidate or a new indication for an in-line product, regulatory authorities may not share our views and may require additional data or may deny approval altogether. Some amounts in this Form 10-K may not add due to rounding. All percentages have been calculated using unrounded amounts. All trademarks mentioned are the property of their owners. FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION AND FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. We also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public, as well as public oral statements. Given their forward-looking nature, these statements involve substantial risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. We have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as “will,” “may,” “could,” “likely,” “ongoing,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “assume,” “target,” “forecast,” “guidance,” “goal,” “objective,” “aim,” “seek” and other words and terms of similar meaning or by using future dates. We include forward-looking information in our discussion of the following, among other topics: • our anticipated operating and financial performance, reorganizations, business plans and prospects; • expectations for our product pipeline, in-line products and product candidates, including anticipated regulatory submissions, data read-outs, study starts, approvals, post-approval clinical trial results and other developing data that become available, revenue contribution, growth, performance, timing of exclusivity and potential benefits; • strategic reviews, capital allocation objectives, dividends and share repurchases; • plans for and prospects of our acquisitions, dispositions and other business development activities, and our ability to successfully capitalize on these opportunities; • sales, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings; • expectations for impact of or changes to existing or new government regulations or laws; • our ability to anticipate and respond to macroeconomic, geopolitical, health and industry trends, pandemics, acts of war and other large-scale crises; and • manufacturing and product supply. In particular, forward-looking information in this Form 10-K includes statements relating to specific future actions and effects, including, among others, our efforts to respond to COVID-19, including our development of a vaccine to help prevent COVID-19, the forecasted revenue contribution of BNT162b2 and the potential number of doses that we and BioNTech believe can be delivered; our expectations regarding the impact of COVID-19 on our business; the expected impact of patent expiries and competition from generic manufacturers; the expected pricing pressures on our products and the anticipated impact to our business; the availability of raw materials for 2021; the expected charges and/or costs in connection with the spin-off of the Upjohn Business and its combination with Mylan; the benefits expected from our business development transactions; our anticipated liquidity position; the anticipated costs and savings from certain of our initiatives, including our Transforming to a More Focused Company program; our planned capital spending; the expectations for our quarterly dividend payments; and the expected benefit payments and employer contributions for our benefit plans. Given their nature, we cannot assure that any outcome expressed in these forward-looking statements will be realized in whole or in part. Actual outcomes may vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated, implied or projected. These forward-looking statements may be affected by underlying assumptions that may prove inaccurate or incomplete, or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including those described in this section and in the