ITEM 2. PROPERTIES In 2017 , we continued to consolidate operations to achieve efficiencies and dispose of excess space. As of December 31, 2017 , we had 501 owned and leased properties, amounting to approximately 53 million square feet. In 2017 , we reduced the number of properties in our portfolio by 66 sites and 4.2 million square feet, which includes the divestment of properties in connection with the sale of the HIS net assets to ICU Medical, the disposal of surplus real property assets and the reduction of operating space in all regions. Pfizer continues to own and lease space around the world for sales and marketing, customer service, regulatory compliance, R&D, manufacturing and distribution, and administrative support functions. In many locations, business lines and operations are co-located to achieve synergy and operational efficiencies. Pfizer’s corporate headquarters are in New York City and Pfizer’s properties extend internationally to over 90 countries. In 2018 , we intend to progress our plans to relocate from our current New York City corporate headquarters to a more modern facility in Manhattan. We continue to advance our global workplace strategy to provide workplaces that enable collaboration and foster innovation. We have numerous facilities across the world to support our R&D organizations, with a heavy concentration in North America. In 2018 , we continue to advance construction of new R&D facilities in St. Louis, Missouri and Andover, Massachusetts. Our PGS division is headquartered in various locations, with leadership teams primarily in New York City, New York and in Peapack, New Jersey. As of December 31, 2017 , PGS had responsibility for 58 plants around the world, which manufacture products for our commercial divisions. Locations with major manufacturing facilities include Belgium, China, Germany, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Puerto Rico, Singapore and the U.S. Our PGS division’s plant network strategy is expected to result in the exit of three of these sites over the next several years. PGS also operates multiple distribution facilities around the world. In general, we believe that our properties are well-maintained, adequate and suitable for their current requirements and for our operations in the foreseeable future. See the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 9. Property, Plant and Equipment in our 2017 Financial Report, which provides amounts invested in land, buildings and equipment and which is incorporated by reference. See also the discussion in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 15. Lease Commitments in our 2017 Financial Report, which is also incorporated by reference.