Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Medivation Medivation LLC (formerly Medivation, Inc.) Meridian Meridian Medical Technologies, Inc. Moody’s Moody’s Investors Service MTM mark-to-market Mylan Mylan N.V. Mylan-Japan collaboration a pre-existing strategic collaboration between Pfizer and Mylan for generic drugs in Japan that terminated on December 21, 2020 Myovant Myovant Sciences Ltd. NAV net asset value NDA new drug application nmCRPC non-metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer NMPA National Medical Product Administration in China NSCLC non-small cell lung cancer NYSE New York Stock Exchange OPKO OPKO Health, Inc. OTC over-the-counter Paxlovid* an oral COVID-19 treatment (nirmatrelvir [PF-07321332] tablets and ritonavir tablets) PBM pharmacy benefit manager PBO Projected benefit obligation; represents the present value of the benefit obligation earned through the end of the year and factors in future compensation increases PC1 Pfizer CentreOne PGS Pfizer Global Supply Pharmacia Pharmacia Corporation PMDA Pharmaceuticals and Medical Device Agency in Japan PRAC Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee PsA psoriatic arthritis QCE quality consistency evaluation RA rheumatoid arthritis RCC renal cell carcinoma R&D research and development ROU right of use Sandoz Sandoz, Inc., a division of Novartis AG S&P Standard & Poor’s SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Tax Cuts and Jobs Act or TCJA Legislation commonly referred to as the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 Therachon Therachon Holding AG Trillium Trillium Therapeutics Inc. TSAs transition service arrangements UC ulcerative colitis Pfizer Inc. 2021 Form 10-K ii U.K. United Kingdom Upjohn Business Pfizer’s former global, primarily off-patent branded and generics business, which included a portfolio of 20 globally recognized solid oral dose brands, including Lipitor, Lyrica, Norvasc, Celebrex and Viagra, as well as a U.S.-based generics platform, Greenstone, that was spun-off on November 16, 2020 and combined with Mylan to create Viatris U.S. United States Valneva Valneva SE VBP volume-based procurement Viatris Viatris Inc. ViiV ViiV Healthcare Limited WHO World Health Organization WRDM Worldwide Research, Development and Medical WTO World Trade Organization * This Form 10-K includes discussion of the COVID-19 vaccine that Pfizer has co-developed with BioNTech (BNT162b2) and our oral COVID-19 treatment (Paxlovid). This Form 10-K may refer to the vaccine by its brand name, Comirnaty (approved under a BLA), or as BNT162b2 (authorized under EUA). The vaccine is FDA-approved to prevent COVID-19 in individuals 16 years of age and older. The vaccine is authorized by the FDA to prevent COVID-19 in individuals 5 years of age and older. In addition, Comirnaty/BNT162b2 is authorized by the FDA for a third dose in certain immunocompromised individuals 5 years of age and older and as a booster dose in individuals 12 years of age and older. Paxlovid has been authorized for emergency use by the FDA under an EUA, for the treatment of mild-to-moderate COVID-19 in adults and pediatric patients (12 years of age and older weighing at least 40 kg [88 lbs]) with positive results of direct SARS CoV-2 viral testing, and who are at high-risk for progression to severe COVID-19, including hospitalization or death. The emergency uses are only authorized for the duration of the declaration that circumstances exist justifying the authorization of emergency use of the medical product under Section 564(b)(1) of the FFDCA unless the declaration is terminated or authorization revoked sooner. The FDA has issued EUAs to certain other companies for products intended for the prevention or treatment of COVID-19 and may continue to do so during the duration of the Declaration. Please see the EUA Fact Sheets at www.cvdvaccine-us.com and www.covid19oralrx.com . This Form 10-K includes discussion of certain clinical studies relating to various in-line products and/or product candidates. These studies typically are part of a larger body of clinical data relating to such products or product candidates, and the discussion herein should be considered in the context of the larger body of data. In addition, clinical trial data are subject to differing interpretations, and, even when we view data as sufficient to support the safety and/or effectiveness of a product candidate or a new indication for an in-line product, regulatory authorities may not share our views and may require additional data or may deny approval altogether. Some amounts in this Form 10-K may not add due to rounding. All percentages have been calculated using unrounded amounts. All trademarks mentioned are the property of their owners. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our website is located at www.pfizer.com . This Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and our proxy statements, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are, or will be, available (free of charge) on our website, in text format and, where applicable, in interactive data file format , as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file this material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Throughout this Form 10-K, we “incorporate by reference” certain information from other documents filed or to be filed with the SEC, including our Proxy Statement. Please refer to this information. This Form 10-K will be available on our website on or about February 24, 2022. Our Proxy Statement will be available on our website on or about March 17, 2022. Our 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) report, which provides enhanced ESG disclosures, will be available on our website on or about March 17, 2022. We also have a Pfizer Investor Insights website, which includes articles on the company, its products and its pipeline, located at insights.pfizer.com . Information in our ESG Report and on the Pfizer Investor Insights website are not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. We may use our website as a means of disclosing material information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation Fair Disclosure promulgated by the SEC. These disclosures are included on our website in the “About — Investors” or “News” sections. Accordingly, investors should monitor these portions of our website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings, public conference calls and webcasts, as well as our social media channels (our Facebook, YouTube and LinkedIn pages and Twitter accounts ( @Pfizer and @Pfizer_News )). The information contained on our website, our Facebook, YouTube and LinkedIn pages or our Twitter accounts, or any third-party website, is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. Information relating to corporate governance at Pfizer, including our Corporate Governance Principles; Director Qualification Standards; Pfizer Policies on Business Conduct (for all of our employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors; information concerning our Directors; ways to communicate by e-mail with our Directors; information concerning our Board Committees; Committee Charters; Charter of the Lead Independent Director; and transactions in Pfizer securities by Directors and Officers are available on our website. We will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to our Corporate Secretary, Pfizer Inc., 235 East 42nd Street, New York, NY 10017. We will disclose any future amendments to, or waivers from, provisions of the Pfizer Policies on Business Conduct affecting our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer on our website as promptly as practicable, as may be required under applicable SEC and NYSE rules. Information relating to shareholder services, including the Computershare Investment Program, book-entry share ownership and direct deposit of dividends, is also available on our website. Pfizer Inc. 2021 Form 10-K iii FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION AND FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. We also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public, as well as public oral statements. Given their forward-looking nature, these statements involve substantial risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. We have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as “will,” “may,” “could,” “likely,” “ongoing,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “assume,” “target,” “forecast,” “guidance,” “goal,” “objective,” “aim,” “seek,” “potential” and other words and terms of similar meaning or by using future dates. We include forward-looking information in our discussion of the following, among other topics: • our anticipated operating and financial performance, reorganizations, business plans, strategy and prospects; • expectations for our product pipeline, in-line products and product candidates, including anticipated regulatory submissions, data read-outs, study starts, approvals, clinical trial results and other developing data, revenue contribution, growth, performance, timing of exclusivity and potential benefits; • strategic reviews, capital allocation objectives, dividends and share repurchases; • plans for and prospects of our acquisitions, dispositions and other business development activities, and our ability to successfully capitalize on these opportunities; • sales, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings; • expectations for impact of or changes to existing or new government regulations or laws; • our ability to anticipate and respond to macroeconomic, geopolitical, health and industry trends, pandemics, acts of war and other large-scale crises; and • manufacturing and product supply. In particular, forward-looking information in this Form 10-K includes statements relating to specific future actions and effects, including, among others, our efforts to respond to COVID-19, including our development of a vaccine to help prevent COVID-19 and an oral COVID-19 treatment, the forecasted revenue contribution of Comirnaty and the potential number of doses that we and BioNTech believe can be manufactured and/or delivered; the forecasted revenue contribution of Paxlovid and the potential number of treatment courses that we believe can be manufactured; our expectations regarding the impact of COVID-19 on our business; the expected patent term for Comirnaty and Paxlovid; the expectations for ongoing revenue streams from Comirnaty and Paxlovid; the expected impact of patent expiries and competition from generic manufacturers; the expected pricing pressures on our products and the anticipated impact to our business; the availability of raw materials for 2022; the expected charges and/or costs in connection with the spin-off of the Upjohn Business and its combination with Mylan; the benefits expected from our business development transactions; our anticipated liquidity position; the anticipated costs and savings from certain of our initiatives, including our Transforming to a More Focused Company program; our planned capital spending; and the expected benefit payments and employer contributions for our benefit plans. Given their nature, we cannot assure that any outcome expressed in these forward-looking statements will be realized in whole or in part. Actual outcomes may vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated, implied or projected. These forward-looking statements may be affected by underlying assumptions that may prove inaccurate or incomplete, or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including those described in this section and in the