Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations MDL Multi-District Litigation MDPNP Medicare Drug Price Negotiation Program MDRP Medicaid Drug Rebate Program Medicare Part B a medical insurance plan that helps cover medically necessary services, outpatient care, and preventative services for people with Medicare Medicare Part D a prescription drug coverage program for people with Medicare Meridian Meridian Medical Technologies, Inc. Moody’s Moody’s Ratings (formerly Moody’s Investors Service) mRNA messenger ribonucleic acid MSA Manufacturing Supply Agreement Mylan Mylan N.V. NAV net asset value NDA New Drug Application Nimbus Nimbus Therapeutics, LLC nmCRPC non-metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer nmCSPC non-metastatic castration-sensitive prostate cancer NSCLC non-small cell lung cancer NYSE New York Stock Exchange ODT oral disintegrating tablet Ono Ono Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. ORD Oncology Research and Development OTC over-the-counter Paxlovid (a) an oral COVID-19 treatment (nirmatrelvir tablets and ritonavir tablets) PBM pharmacy benefit manager PBO Projected benefit obligation; represents the present value of the benefit obligation earned through the end of the year and factors in future compensation increases PC1 Pfizer CentreOne PGS Pfizer Global Supply Pharmacia Pharmacia LLC (formerly Pharmacia Corporation) PIE Pfizer Investment Enterprises Pte. Ltd. (a wholly-owned finance subsidiary of Pfizer) PP&E Property, plant and equipment Pierre Fabre Pierre Fabre Medicament SAS PRAC Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee PRD Pfizer Research and Development Prevnar family Includes Prevnar 20/Apexxnar (pediatric and adult) and Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 (pediatric and adult) PsA psoriatic arthritis Pfizer Inc. 2024 Form 10-K ii QCE quality consistency evaluation RA rheumatoid arthritis RCC renal cell carcinoma R&D research and development ReViral ReViral Ltd. ROU right of use RSV respiratory syncytial virus S&P S&P Global (formerly Standard & Poor’s) Seagen Seagen Inc. and its subsidiaries SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission SNS Strategic National Stockpile SMPS Sumitomo Pharma Switzerland GMBH Takeda Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited Tax Cuts and Jobs Act or TCJA Legislation commonly referred to as the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 TSAs transition service arrangements UC ulcerative colitis U.K. United Kingdom Upjohn Business Pfizer’s former global, primarily off-patent branded and generics business, which included a portfolio of 20 globally recognized solid oral dose brands, including Lipitor, Lyrica, Norvasc, Celebrex and Viagra, as well as a U.S.-based generics platform, Greenstone, that was spun-off on November 16, 2020 and combined with Mylan to create Viatris U.S. United States VBP volume-based procurement Viatris Viatris Inc. ViiV ViiV Healthcare Limited Vyndaqel family Includes Vyndaqel, Vyndamax and Vynmac WHO World Health Organization WTO World Trade Organization Wyeth Wyeth LLC (formerly Wyeth) (a) Certain uses of Paxlovid and COVID-19 vaccines from BioNTech and Pfizer have not been approved or licensed by the FDA. Paxlovid has been authorized for emergency use by the FDA under an EUA for the treatment of mild-to-moderate COVID-19 in pediatric patients (12 years of age and older weighing at least 40 kg) who are at high risk for progression to severe COVID-19, including hospitalization or death. Emergency uses of COVID-19 vaccines from Pfizer and BioNTech, including Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine (2024-2025 Formula), have been authorized for emergency use by the FDA under an EUA to prevent COVID-19 in individuals aged 6 months of age and older. The emergency uses are only authorized for the duration of the declaration that circumstances exist justifying the authorization of emergency use of the medical product during the COVID-19 pandemic under Section 564(b)(1) of the U.S. Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act, unless the declaration is terminated or authorization revoked sooner. Please see the EUA Fact Sheets at www.covid19oralrx.com and www.cvdvaccine-us.com . This Form 10-K includes discussion of certain clinical studies relating to various in-line products and/or product candidates. These studies typically are part of a larger body of clinical data relating to such products or product candidates, and the discussion herein should be considered in the context of the larger body of data. In addition, clinical trial data are subject to differing interpretations, and, even when we view data as sufficient to support the safety and/or efficacy of a product candidate or a new indication for an in-line product, regulatory authorities may not share our views and may require additional data or may deny approval altogether. Some amounts in this Form 10-K may not add due to rounding. All percentages have been calculated using unrounded amounts. All trademarks mentioned are the property of their owners. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our website is www.pfizer.com . This Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and our proxy statements, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are, or will be, available (free of charge) on our website, in text format and, where applicable, in interactive data file format , as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file this material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Throughout this Form 10-K, we “incorporate by reference” certain information from other documents filed or to be filed with the SEC, including our Proxy Statement. Please refer to this information. This Form 10-K will be available on our website on or about February 27, 2025. Our Proxy Statement will be available on our website on or about March 13, 2025. Our annual Impact Report, which provides disclosures regarding our responsible business practices, is made available on our website. We also have a Pfizer Investor Insights website, which includes articles on the company, its products and its pipeline, located at insights.pfizer.com . Information in our Impact Report and on the Pfizer Investor Insights website are not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. We may use our website as a means of disclosing material information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation Fair Disclosure promulgated by the SEC. These disclosures are included on our website in the “About—Investors” or “Newsroom” sections. Accordingly, investors should monitor these portions of our website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings, public conference calls and webcasts, as well as our social media channels (our Facebook page, Instagram account (@Pfizerinc), YouTube page, LinkedIn page, and X (formerly known as Twitter) accounts (@Pfizer and @Pfizer_News)). The information contained on our website, our Facebook, Instagram, YouTube and LinkedIn pages or our X (formerly known as Twitter) accounts, or any third-party website, is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. Pfizer Inc. 2024 Form 10-K iii Information relating to corporate governance at Pfizer, including our Corporate Governance Principles; Director Qualification Standards; Pfizer Policies on Business Conduct (for all of our employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer); Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors; information concerning our Directors; ways to communicate by e-mail with our Directors; information concerning our Board Committees; Committee Charters; Charter of the Lead Independent Director; and transactions in Pfizer securities by Directors and Officers are available on our website. We will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to our Corporate Secretary, Pfizer Inc., 66 Hudson Boulevard East, New York, NY 10001-2192. We will disclose any future amendments to, or waivers from, provisions of the Pfizer Policies on Business Conduct affecting our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer and executive officers on our website as promptly as practicable, as may be required under applicable SEC and NYSE rules. Information relating to shareholder services, including the Computershare Investment Program, book-entry share ownership and direct deposit of dividends, is also available on our website. Pfizer Inc. 2024 Form 10-K iv FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION AND FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. We also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public, as well as public oral statements. Given their forward-looking nature, these statements involve substantial risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. These statements may be identified by using words such as “will,” “may,” “could,” “likely,” “ongoing,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “assume,” “target,” “forecast,” “guidance,” “goal,” “objective,” “aim,” “seek,” “potential,” “hope” and other words and terms of similar meaning or by using future dates. We include forward-looking information in our discussion of the following, among other topics: • our anticipated operating and financial performance, including financial guidance and projections; • reorganizations, business plans, strategy, goals and prospects; • expectations for our product pipeline, in-line products and product candidates, including anticipated regulatory submissions, data read-outs, study starts, approvals, launches, clinical trial results and other developing data; revenue contribution and projections; potential pricing and reimbursement; potential market dynamics, including demand, market size and utilization rates; and growth, performance, timing of exclusivity and potential benefits; • strategic reviews, capital allocation objectives, dividends and share repurchases; • plans for and prospects of our acquisitions, dispositions and other business development activities, and our ability to successfully capitalize on growth opportunities and prospects; • sales, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings; • expectations regarding the impact of or changes to existing or new government regulations or laws; • our ability to anticipate and respond to and our expectations regarding the impact of macroeconomic, geopolitical, health and industry trends, pandemics, acts of war and other large-scale crises; and • manufacturing and product supply. In particular, forward-looking information in this Form 10-K includes statements relating to specific future actions, performance and effects, including, among others, the expected benefits of the organizational changes to our operations; our anticipated operating and financial performance; our ongoing efforts to respond to COVID-19; our expectations regarding the impact of COVID-19 on our business; the expected revenue, seasonality of demand and phasing for certain of our products ; expected patent terms; the expected impact of patent expiries and generic and biosimilar competition; the expected pricing pressures on our products and the anticipated impact to our business; the benefits expected from our business development transactions, including our December 2023 acquisition of Seagen; the availability of raw materials; our efforts to develop plans to help mitigate the potential impact of tariffs on our business and operations; our anticipated cash flows and liquidity position; the anticipated costs, savings and potential benefits from certain of our initiatives, including our enterprise-wide Realigning our Cost Base Program, which we launched in October 2023, and our Manufacturing Optimization Program to reduce our cost of goods sold, which we announced in May 2024; our greenhouse gas emission reduction goals; our planned capital spending; and our capital allocation framework. Given their nature, we cannot assure that any outcome expressed in these forward-looking statements will be realized in whole or in part. Actual outcomes may vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated, implied or projected. These forward-looking statements may be affected by underlying assumptions that may prove inaccurate or incomplete, or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including those described in this section, in the