ITEM 2. PROPERTIES As of December 31, 2018 , we had 498 owned and leased properties, amounting to approximately 53 million square feet. Pfizer continues to own and lease space around the world for sales and marketing, customer service, regulatory compliance, R&D, manufacturing and distribution, and administrative support functions. In many locations, business lines and operations are co-located to achieve synergy and operational efficiencies. Pfizer’s corporate headquarters are in New York City and Pfizer’s properties extend internationally to over 90 countries. In April 2018, we entered an agreement to lease space at the Spiral, an office building in the Hudson Yards neighborhood of New York City. We will relocate our global headquarters to this property with occupancy expected beginning in 2022. In July 2018, we completed the sale of our current headquarters in New York City. We are in a lease-back arrangement with the buyer while we complete our relocation. We continue to advance our global workplace strategy to provide workplaces that enable collaboration and foster innovation. We have numerous facilities across the world to support our R&D organizations, with a heavy concentration in North America. In 2019 , we will operationalize the new R&D facilities in St. Louis, Missouri and Andover, Massachusetts. Our PGS division is headquartered in various locations, with leadership teams primarily in New York City, New York and in Peapack, New Jersey. As of December 31, 2018 , PGS had responsibility for 58 plants around the world, which manufacture products for our commercial divisions. Locations with major manufacturing facilities include Belgium, China, Germany, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Puerto Rico, Singapore and the U.S. Our PGS division’s plant network strategy is expected to result in the exit of four of these sites over the next several years. PGS also operates multiple distribution facilities around the world. In general, we believe that our properties are well-maintained, adequate and suitable for their current requirements and for our operations in the foreseeable future. See the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 9 . Property, Plant and Equipment in our 2018 Financial Report, which provides amounts invested in land, buildings and equipment and which is incorporated by reference. See also the discussion in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 15 . Lease Commitments in our 2018 Financial Report, which is also incorporated by reference.