Q4 2017 Earnings Call

Operator
Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's fourth quarter 2017 earnings conference call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor
Relations. Please go ahead, sir.
`Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Good morning and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's fourth quarter 2017
performance and 2018 financial guidance. I'm joined today by: our Chairman and CEO, Ian Read;
`Albert Bourla, Chief Operating Officer, our Chief Operating Officer; Frank D'Amelio, our CFO; `Mikael Dolsten, President-Worldwide Research and Development & Executive Vice President, President of
Worldwide Research and Development; John Young, Group President of Pfizer Innovative Health;
and Doug Lankler, our General Counsel.
The slides that will be presented on this call can be viewed on our website, pfizer.com/investors.
Before we start, I'd like to remind you that our discussions during this conference call will includeresults to differ materially. Additional information regarding these factors is discussed under the
Disclosure Notice section in the earnings release we issued this morning as well as in Pfizer's
2016 annual report on Form 10-K, including in Part 1 Item 1A that is filed with the SEC and available
at their website, sec.gov, and on our website at pfizer.com. The forward-looking statements
during this conference call speak only as of the original date of this call, and we undertake no
obligation to update or revise any of these statements.
Discussions during the call will also include certain financial measures that were not prepared in
accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Reconciliation of those non-GAAP
financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in
Pfizer's current report on Form 8-K dated today, January 30, 2018. You may obtain a copy of the
Form 8-K on our website at pfizer.com/investors. Any non-GAAP measures presented are not and
should not be viewed as substitutes for financial measures required by U.S. GAAP, have no
standardized meaning prescribed by U.S. GAAP, and may not be comparable to the calculations
of similar measures at other companies.
We will now make prepared remarks, and then we'll move to a question-and-answer session.
With that, I'll now turn the call over to Ian Read. Ian?
`Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Chuck, and good morning, everyone.
During my remarks, I will speak about: our performance for the year; the continued advancement
of our pipeline, which we believe is more robust and productive than it has been in more than a
decade; and the expected impact of U.S. tax reform on Pfizer. Frank will provide details regarding
the quarter and our 2018 financial guidance.
Pfizer had another solid year in 2017. Despite having just over a $3 billion negative revenue impact
due to LOEs and the divestment of Hospira Infusion Systems, we were able to offset this impact
and report flat operational revenue, as we saw growth in many of our anchor brands. We also saw
continued growth in emerging markets, which was up 11% operationally compared with the
previous year.
I'll begin with a few words regarding the performance of each of our businesses, starting with
Pfizer Innovative Health. This business had another strong year, growing its top line 8%
operationally thanks to the continued strength of several of our best-selling medicines. Ibrance
revenues grew 47% operationally to $3.1 billion for the year. To date, Ibrance has been prescribed
to more than 100,000 patients around the world and received regulatory approval in more than
80 countries. However, revenues in certain developed European markets were negatively
impacted by a one-time price adjustment of full-year 2017 revenues. This adjustment was the
result of agreements to establish pricing levels comparable to historical European pricing analogs
for oncology products, ensure patient access, and drive expected future growth in these
markets. We see this as a positive for the future of the brand.
We remain confident in the profile of Ibrance based on a number of factors, including safety and
efficacy. We are working to build on Ibrance's initial success with trials in the early breast cancer
setting and in the HER2 positive metastatic setting and move our novel next-generation
investigational CDK inhibitor, which may be effective for patients as they become resistant to
Ibrance. We expect to have this asset in the clinic this year.
Eliquis alliance and direct sales revenue grew 47% operationally to $2.5 billion, and it is the
number one new-to-brand oral anticoagulant prescribed by cardiologists in 21 markets.Xeljanz experienced 45% year-over-year operational growth and achieved its first year of
blockbuster status. We expect our inflammation and immunology franchises to continue to
strengthen with the recent U.S. approval of Xeljanz for psoriatic arthritis, and we are hopeful that
we will receive U.S. approval for a third indication, ulcerative colitis, this year.
Chantix revenue grew 18% operationally to nearly $1 billion for the year.
Lyrica revenues within Pfizer's Innovative Health grew 9% operationally to $4.5 billion for the year.
Lyrica continued to be a strong contributor to Innovative Health, and we anticipate that Lyrica will
maintain its market exclusivity in the United States until the end of 2018 or through June 2019 if
the FDA grants approval for the pediatric extension exclusivity.
Pfizer's share of Xtandi's U.S. net sales was $590 million for the year. In the fourth quarter 2017,
Pfizer's share of net sales was $168 million, up 12% from the third quarter 2017 and 22% from the
fourth quarter of 2016. The number of urologists actively prescribing Xtandi continues to grow
and reached an all-time high of more than 1,700 in the fourth quarter of 2017 compared with
approximately 500 for Zytiga.
In terms of potentially expanding Xtandi's benefit to men with non-metastatic prostate cancer, in
September we announced that the Phase 3 PROSPER trial in non-metastatic castration-resistant
prostate cancer met its primary endpoint. And we look forward to presenting detailed results at
the ASCO GU [American Society of Clinical Oncology Genitourinary] Congress on February 8. We
are also pleased that in partnership with Astellas, we have submitted the PROSPER data to the
FDA, seeking to expand the label to the non-metastatic CRPC setting. We are awaiting the FDA's
acceptance of the application for review.
Finally, we continue to review strategic options for our Consumer Healthcare business. This could
include anything from a full or partial separation of the business to ultimately deciding to retain
the business, and we continue to expect to make a decision during 2018.
Turning now to Pfizer Essential Health, while revenues for the year declined, due in large part to
expected product LOEs, we once again saw strong operational growth both in emerging markets
and our biosimilars portfolio. Emerging markets revenue grew 7% operationally for the year to $7
billion. China led the way, growing 16% operationally. Our biosimilars business grew 66%
operationally in 2017 to $531 million, and we remain the number one biosimilars company globally.
We also advanced six biosimilar pipeline products during the year through various regulatory and
data milestones.
PEH's growth in emerging markets and biosimilars were offset by product supply shortages in the
sterile injectables business. Our sterile injectables shortages are primarily for products from the
legacy Hospira portfolio and are largely driven by capacity constraints and technical issues. As we
stated previously, we have a robust action plan in place and we believe will make substantial
progress in 2018 towards reducing these shortages.
Turning to Inflectra, at the end of December its share had increased to 5.6% of overall U.S.
infliximab volume, up from 4.9% at the end of September. This increase was primarily due to the
product's continued strong performance in closed systems such as the VA, where the insurer and
provider are the same entity. Despite J&J's exclusionary contracting with regard to Remicade, we
continue to see increased coverage from Inflectra amongst commercial payers. And just last
week, the appellate court ruled that a key patent that J&J has asserted to block access to
Inflectra is invalid.Last quarter I talked about the expected decline in the number and revenue impact of LOEs
facing our business and the further strengthening of our R&D pipeline. We expect these trends to
continue. In terms of LOEs, we expect the full-year year-over-year impact to be about $2 billion in
2018, which remains significantly lower than our recent past. We expect the impact of LOEs will
remain in the $2 billion range through 2020 before improving to $1 billion in 2021 and then $500
million or less from 2022 to 2025.
At the same time, our pipeline continues to generate exciting new opportunities for our company
and for the patients who benefit from our innovative therapies. In 2017 we received 10 approvals
from the FDA. This is significantly more than we achieved in any year in the past decade.
Let me touch on some of our most recent advances. In oncology, we recently presented positive
results from the Phase 3 EMBRACA trial, which showed that our PARP inhibitor, talazoparib,
significantly extended progression-free survival versus standard-of-care chemotherapy in patients
with BRCA-positive metastatic breast cancer.
In partnership with Merck KGaA, we look forward to continued progress with Bavencio, our PD-L1
inhibitor. We have upcoming data readouts in second-line non-small-cell lung cancer and first-line
renal cell carcinoma in combination with Inlyta. In addition, the triplet study exploring the
combination of Bavencio, our 4-1BB agent, and our OX40 monoclonal antibody in solid tumors
entered the clinic in the first half of 2017. We will continue to evaluate this combination throughout
2018.
In 2018, we expect to advance multiple oncology filings in the registration process, including:
talazoparib in BRCA-positive metastatic breast cancer; Xtandi for non-metastatic castration-
resistant prostate cancer, for which we have submitted an sNDA based on the Phase 3 PROSPER
data; lorlatinib, which has shown activity in almost all known clinically acquired ALK mutations in
ALK-positive non-small-cell lung cancer; dacomitinib in EGFR-mutated non-small-cell lung cancer
based on the positive ARCHER-1050 findings published in September; and our SMO inhibitor,
glasdegib, for acute myeloid leukemia based on Phase 2 results.
In Inflammation and Immunology, we have seven ongoing JAK clinical programs providing us with
the strongest immuno-kinase franchise in the industry. The Phase 2 data for our oral once-daily
JAK-1 in atopic dermatitis was presented in September, and this asset is the first and only JAK-1
to enter Phase 3 in 2017.
In vaccines, we began Phase 3 trials with our C. difficile vaccine. The studies have been enrolling
well, and our recent competitive decision has positioned us as a potential first-in-class vaccine.
Leveraging the success of Prevnar, we also moved into Phase 2 of our next-generation
pneumococcal vaccine candidate with the potential to cover 20 stereotypes. In addition, we're
advancing a Phase 2 tetravalent staphylococcus aureus vaccine with Fast Track designation.
In 2017, we also continued to take important steps towards becoming an industry leader in gene
therapy. We see gene therapy as a field that holds tremendous promise for patients in areas of
devastating need, particularly in rare monogenic diseases with loss of function. We finished the
year with two assets in the clinic that are potential therapies for hemophilia B and hemophilia A.
In 2018, we expect readouts from multiple pivotal studies in rare diseases, including rivipansel for
sickle cell disease and Vyndaqel in cardiomyopathy. We also have begun screening patients for
our potential gene therapy for Duchenne muscular dystrophy. We also broke ground on a $100
million commercial gene therapy manufacturing facility in Sanford, North Carolina, and when
complete, will have end-to-end capabilities from manufacturing to commercialization.Before closing my remarks today, I would like to spend a few moments discussing the new U.S.
tax code and its expected impact on our business. As you know, Pfizer has been advocating for
many years for comprehensive tax reform. That's because the system that had been in place put
U.S.-based multinational companies at a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis foreign competitors
with regard to the tax rate and international access to capital. The new tax code addresses these
issues and helps level the playing field to make U.S. companies more competitive.
After evaluating the expected positive net impact the new tax code will have on Pfizer, we have
decided to take several actions. Over the next five years, we plan to invest approximately $5
billion in capital projects in the U.S., including the strengthening of our manufacturing presence in
the U.S. We also expect these reforms to favorably influence future investments.
We plan to make a $500 million contribution to our U.S. pension plan in 2018. In the fourth quarter
2017, we made a $200 million charitable contribution to the Pfizer Foundation. This organization
provides grants and investment funding to support organizations and social entrepreneurs in an
effort to improve healthcare delivery. We have also earmarked approximately $100 million for a
special one-time bonus to be paid to all non-executive Pfizer colleagues.
Given the more favorable repatriation provision, we are currently reviewing our capital allocation
opportunities under the new tax code. We will remain disciplined in our approach, with value
creation for shareholders remaining our compass.
In summary, we continued to deliver our strategy in 2017. As a result, we saw: continued growth of
newer brands; achieved a record number of product approvals; further advanced our pipeline,
which we believe will be a significant competitive advantage and growth driver going forward;
and we entered 2018 even better positioned to deliver new medicines for patients and increase
value for our investors going forward.
All of these achievements have been made possible by the strength of our leadership team,
which we further strengthened recently with `Albert Bourla, Chief Operating Officer taking on the role of Chief Operating
Officer, John Young leading Pfizer Innovative Health; and Angela Hwang becoming the head of
Pfizer Essential Health. These appointments are a testament to the depth and breadth of our
leadership talent, which has positioned us very well for continued success.
Now, I will turn it over to Frank to provide details on the quarter and our outlook for 2018.
`Frank A. D'Amelio, Executive Vice President, Business Operations and Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, Ian. Good day, everyone. As always, the charts I'm reviewing today are included in our
webcast.
Now, moving on to the financials. Fourth quarter 2017 revenues were approximately $13.7 billion,
which include the favorable impact of foreign exchange of $114 million, partially offset by a slight
operational decline of $39 million. If you exclude both the prior-year quarter revenues for Hospira
Infusion Systems, or HIS, and the positive impact of foreign exchange, fourth quarter 2017
revenues increased $240 million, or 2%.
Our Innovative Health business recorded 5% operational revenue growth in the fourth quarter of
2017, driven primarily by: Eliquis globally; Xeljanz in the U.S.; Prevnar 13 in emerging markets; and
Lyrica, Ibrance, and Chantix in the U.S.; all of which were partially offset by lower revenues for
Viagra in the U.S. because of generic competition beginning in December of 2017 and Enbrel in
most developed Europe markets due to continued biosimilar competition.Revenues for our Essential Health business in the fourth quarter decreased 8% operationally, of
which 5% was attributable to the divestiture of the HIS business in February of 2017. The
remainder of the decrease was due to an 18% operational decrease from Peri-LOE products,
including expected declines of Pristiq in the U.S. and Lyrica in developed Europe markets, as well
as a 10% operational decline in the sterile injectables portfolio, primarily due to continued legacy
Hospira product shortages in the U.S., all of which were partially offset by operational growth of
72% from biosimilars, mainly driven by Inflectra in the U.S. and developed Europe.
In emerging markets, Pfizer's overall Essential Health revenues grew 10% operationally in the
fourth quarter, primarily due to 10% growth from the Legacy Established Products portfolio and
23% growth from the sterile injectables portfolio.
Fourth quarter reported diluted EPS was $2.02 compared with $0.13 in the year ago quarter,
primarily due to a lower effective tax rate due to the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or
the TCJA, in late 2017. As a result, Pfizer's fourth quarter full year 2017 provision for taxes on
reported income was favorably impacted by approximately $10.7 billion, primarily reflecting the
remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax liabilities, which includes the repatriation tax on deemed
repatriated accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries.
Our fourth quarter reported diluted EPS was also favorably impacted by lower restructuring and
implementation cost and unfavorably impacted by higher losses on debt retirement.
Adjusted diluted EPS for the fourth quarter was $0.62 versus $0.47 in the year ago quarter. The
increase was primarily due to a lower effective tax rate, lower adjusted total cost and expenses,
and fewer shares outstanding.
I want to point out that diluted weighted average shares outstanding declined by 80 million
shares versus the year ago quarter due to our share repurchase program, reflecting the impact
of our $5 billion accelerated share repurchase agreement executed in February of 2017 and
completed in May of 2017. In addition, the full year 2017 weighted average shares used to
calculate EPS was 6.058 billion shares, a reduction of 100 million shares compared versus full year
2016.
As I previously mentioned, foreign exchange positively impacted fourth quarter 2017 revenues by
approximately $114 million and negatively impacted adjusted cost of sales, adjusted SI&A
expenses, and adjusted R&D expenses in the aggregate by $127 million. As a result, foreign
exchange favorably impacted fourth quarter 2017 adjusted diluted EPS by approximately $0.01
versus the year ago quarter. As you can see on the chart, we've met or exceeded all components
of our 2017 financial guidance.
Moving on to full year 2018 financial guidance, it's important to note that this guidance includes a
full year contribution from Consumer Healthcare and assumes no generic competition for Lyrica in
the U.S. during 2018. We currently expect generic competition in June of 2019, contingent upon a
six-month patent term extension for pediatric exclusivity, which we are currently pursuing.
We expect 2018 revenues to be in the range of $53.5 billion to $55.5 billion. This range
incorporates an anticipated $900 million favorable impact of foreign exchange. I want to point out
that beginning in the first quarter of 2018 forward, total Viagra worldwide revenues will be
reported in Essential Health due to generic competition that began in the U.S. in December of
2017. Previously, revenues for Viagra in the U.S. and Canada had been recorded in our Innovative
Health business through December of 2017.We expect the effective tax rate on adjusted income to be approximately 17% in 2018 and
sustainable for the foreseeable future, which is significantly lower than the approximately 23%
that we previously anticipated for full year 2017 and reflects the enactment of the TCJA. Because
of the significant changes and complexities to the tax law, this financial impact on 2018 guidance
is provisional only and therefore is subject to further analysis, interpretation, and clarification of
the tax reform legislation. I want to point out for modeling purposes that based on 2017 results, a
1% reduction in the effective tax rate on adjusted income results in an approximate $0.03
increase to adjusted diluted EPS.
Finally, as a result of the enactment of the recent legislation, we expect to repatriate the majority
of our cash held internationally in 2018. As a reminder, as of the third quarter of 2017, Pfizer had
approximately $24.2 billion of cash and investments.
Finally, we expect adjusted diluted EPS will be in the range of $2.90 to $3.00, which incorporates
$0.06 favorable impact from foreign exchange and $5 billion of anticipated share repurchases in
2018, the impact of which we expect to be offset by about half from dilution related to share-
based employee compensation programs.
Moving on to key takeaways, we delivered solid financial results in the fourth quarter of 2017.
Excluding HIS revenues from the prior year quarter and the impact of foreign exchange, revenues
increased 2% operationally year-over-year, driven by the strong growth from Eliquis and Xeljanz.
We issued 2018 financial guidance ranges reflecting 4% revenue growth and 11% adjusted diluted
EPS growth at their respective midpoints compared with 2017 actual results. We accomplished
several key product and pipeline milestones. And we returned $12.7 billion to shareholders in 2017
through dividends and share repurchases, including a $5 billion accelerated share repurchase
agreement. Finally, we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in 2018 and
beyond.
Now, I'll turn it back to Chuck.
`Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
(24:56) for the prepared remarks. Operator, can we please poll for Q&A now?
Q&A
Operator
Your first question comes from `Alex Arfaei, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) from BMO Capital Markets.
Q - `Alex Arfaei, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) `
Great, thank you. Good morning and thank you for taking the questions. I guess the first one for
Ian. How should we think about the European pricing adjustment longer term? Are these
established contracts or should we expect more step-downs, and could it have implications for
U.S. pricing and pricing in general?
And then a follow-up for Frank. I appreciate that you're still reviewing your capital allocation
opportunities, but your $5 billion share buyback seems conservative given all the options available
to you. If we think about the potential divestiture of the consumer business, more efficient access
to ex-U.S. cash, how should we think about potential upside there?And finally, Mikael, the tanezumab Phase 3 pivotal trials are coming up. How should we think
about some of the previous safety issues that have delayed the seemingly promising asset?
Thank you very much.
A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Alex. So I'm going to let Albert answer your European price question. But I would like
to point out ahead of time that these negotiations were not related to competitive pressure. And
I see the establishment of pricing for Ibrance in Europe as a major positive for the business going
forward, at prices that are consistent with European oncology analogs. Albert, do you want to add
any more context?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Operating Officer `
Yeah. First of all, as you said, the mBC is something positive you said it now and you said it in your
remarks and let me clarify. The demand in Europe continues to show very strong growth. We had
20% this quarter compared to previous quarter, and we had 29,000 Ibrance patients in Europe
this year. To put that in context, in the first year of the U.S. launch, we had 20,000.
Now, the negative on this quarter, as Ian said, it is due to one-time price adjustment with the full-
year revenues, and these were part of finalizing broader reimbursement negotiations that will
establish pricing levels to the historical, very comparable to historical European pricing analogs,
and at the same time, ensure broad patient access to drive potential future volume and very
important revenue growth in these places.
I'm very satisfied with these agreements. Overall, they recognize the value that Ibrance brings to
patients. And at the same time, they offer an attractive cost benefit to the payers. So in
conclusion, in 2018 we expect to see strong volume and revenues growth in Europe and other
national markets as a result of these deals.
A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Frank, do you want to talk about the capital allocation?
A - `Frank A. D'Amelio, Executive Vice President, Business Operations and Chief Financial Officer
Sure. So, Alex, you mentioned the $5 billion in buybacks. Let me just run the numbers, and then
I'm going to bump this up to a capital allocation conversation. So we've announced $5 billion in
buybacks. We also announced we were increasing our dividend to $0.34 a quarter. The
combination of dividends and buybacks for 2018 will return more than $13 billion directly to
shareholders.
Now let me bump it up to more of a capital allocation conversation. The four priority areas that
we've had in the past continue to be our four priority areas. Those are, obviously, investing in our
business, dividends, buybacks, and M&A. So those were the areas; they remain the areas. And
the nice thing about Pfizer is we have the ability to play in all four areas, as we've demonstrated
in the past. Now, given tax reform and given that we're exploring strategic options for our
Consumer business, we will continue to review what our options are. We'll continue to evaluate
our options in these areas on a going-forward basis.
A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
The answer to tanezumab please, Mikael.A - `Mikael Dolsten, President-Worldwide Research and Development & Executive Vice President `
Thank you. Alex, thank you for shedding attention on tanezumab. We are very excited about the
trial of six different studies, 7,000 patients that are starting to read out early fall this year, and
then each of the trials further on into 2019.
We have a unique position in this space as we gathered tremendous experience and insight in
how to manage our NGF antibody and deal with rare events recorded as rapidly progressing OA.
We have been able to design the trial to minimize the risk for such to occur. That includes
reducing concomitant chronic use of NSAIDs. It includes lowering the dose of tanezumab,
particularly in OA, where some of these rare cases we're seeing in our trials, while keeping higher
doses in chronic lower back pain, where this issue was not really reported. We've introduced risk
management program and stopping criteria for individual patients. So overall, we think we have
really learned uniquely and been able to design a study that should minimize the risk of such
events.
I also want to take a step back and say that the macro environment for the need of new pain
medications have really changed. The perspective a number of years ago was that unmet
medical need was rather satisfied. Unfortunately, we have learned that the current pain
medications, particularly opioids, have severe issues, not just when it comes to impact on GI,
respiratory, but also the great addiction crisis that we are battling with. In contrast of course,
monoclonal antibodies like this that can be given conveniently sub-cu every eight weeks we
believe have a very attractive profile, and we look forward very much to the readout of the trials
and report those. Thank you.
A - `Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Mikael, next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from Vamil Divan from Credit Suisse.
Q - `Vamil K. Divan, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Hi, great. Thanks so much for taking the questions. So just I wanted to know. There's been a lot of
discussion around these potential new entrants entering drug distribution. We heard the news
today around Amazon, Berkshire, and JPMorgan. The quote in the commentary around, you're
obviously talking about healthcare cost and the impact coming out of the economy. You guys
generated $26 billion of sales in the U.S. last year. Just if you can, comment on how you see this
impacting things maybe near term and also longer term. And how is it not ultimately a bad thing
for larger companies such as Pfizer that generate so much of their sales from the U.S.?
And then my second question, just quickly around guidance, a totally different topic, with Xtandi,
you mentioned some of the positive news you had there. But just if you can, talk about how
you're thinking about that product. Obviously, we may see Zytiga generics in the market later this
year. I'm wondering how you think that might impact Zytiga's business. Thanks so much.
A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Vamil, thank you for the question. You know, vis-à-vis Amazon, I think we've discussed this before.
We welcome any entrants to the distribution system that can improve efficiencies and ensure that
patients get their medication at the appropriate cost and the appropriate time. So although Iwould say that the distribution system, not necessarily the way that the rebates and price were
handled, the distribution system is already highly efficient.
Now with regard to the announcement today, I really am surprised at your comments. I don't
really know how to react to it. There's very little detail in the announcements. Nevertheless, I
would see it as totally positive for our industry. Any attempt to lower healthcare costs are going
to have to involve, my belief, in using medicines to ensure adherence, to ensure management,
the appropriate management of diseases.
We represent 2 points – or we represent 10% to 14% of healthcare costs, so I would hope that
private actors that come into this space would initially see more opportunity throughout the
whole distribution chain of costs and would look at us as a positive way of controlling costs. So I
think it's encouraging that private actors enter in this, and it's encouraging for the use of modern
pharmaceuticals.
And Xtandi, would you deal with that, please, Albert?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Operating Officer `
Of course, Ian. First, let me start by saying how pleased we are to see total demand for Xtandi
growing 26% compared to the fourth quarter of 2016. Particularly, the number of urologists
actively prescribing Xtandi continues to grow and reached an all-time high of 1,700 in this quarter,
which is more than three times the number of urologists that are prescribing Zytiga, for example.
Urologists right now represent 41% growth in 2017 compared to 2016, and of course, not to
mention that we had – not to miss mentioning that we had another quarter of sequential sales
growth. Sales this quarter were 12% higher than the sales of the previous quarter.
And as regards to Patient Assistance Program, as a percentage of total demand, it was generally
stable compared to the third quarter of this year, which is what we were expecting knowing that
the people that are enrolling ourselves in this program, they are enrolled for the full calendar
year. We believe that the demand for Patient Assistance Programs as a percentage of total
demand will decrease in 2018 as compared with what we saw in 2017.
As regards to Zytiga generics, there are differences between Xtandi and Zytiga. There are
differences in terms of dosing frequency. There are differences in terms of requirements for
steroid co-administration, and there also very different monitoring requirements. And as you
know, in the future we hope to have different indications also based on potential approval of the
PROSPER study in non-metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer and more studies that are
coming in the earlier setting. So of course, we will continue monitoring the market, but we are not
right now concerned about Zytiga generics.
A - `Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Albert. Can we move to our next question, please?
Operator
Your next question comes from David Risinger from Morgan Stanley.
Q - `David R. Risinger, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Thanks very much and congrats, Ian and Frank, on all of your efforts to educate Washington
having finally paid off.With respect to my questions, I wanted to ask for a little bit more color and perspective on
Ibrance in Europe. I think it would just be helpful if you explain which countries agreed, how it all
came together so quickly to result in a price reset in a given quarter, since obviously many
countries negotiate pricing independently. So that's my first question.
Second, with respect to Inflectra, has J&J's contract language changed such that Inflectra will
have greater commercial access and commercial uptake in 2018?
And then my third question is for Frank. How should we think about the tax rate beyond 2018?
Should we expect it to decline below 17%? Thanks very much.
A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
So, David, thank you for the congratulations. I do believe that Pfizer has played a major role in
putting a spotlight on the disadvantageous corporate tax situation for U.S. multinationals, so I
appreciate the comments.
Now on Ibrance, I would like to – number one, we're not going to get into a discussion of which
countries. This is all proprietary information that is important for us that we don't discuss in public.
Two, it was not quick. It was a result of ongoing negotiations over a substantial part of 2017.
And I think what you need to be focused on, if you don't mind me saying so, is what does this set
up for the future of Ibrance? And we have managed to establish wide reimbursement and pricing
at what we believe for the European market is comparable analogs. We don't see there's any
spillover to other markets internationally or within the European context. So we see this
agreement as setting a strong baseline for patient access in Europe and continued growth of the
franchise. So I think this is extremely positive for Ibrance. It comes in an unusual way as the
negotiations reflected the full impact in one quarter rather than spread over the whole year or
spread over a period of years. So in my point of view, it's very, very positive going forward for
Ibrance and for our patients in Europe.
Would you like to deal with Inflectra, please, John?
A - `John D. Young, Group President, Pfizer Innovative Health `
Thanks for the question, David. I'm obviously not aware of any changes that J&J have made to
their contracting status. I think we've commented on that previously, and Ian mentioned this in this
call. Let me just say that we obviously continue to work towards minimizing the impact in 2018 of
their exclusionary contracting practices by growing in closed systems and continuing to seek
increased coverage amongst commercial players.
As Ian mentioned in his prepared remarks, in quarter four approximately half of Inflectra's volume
comes from closed systems such as the VA, where the insurer and provider are the same entity.
And in those closed systems which prioritize healthcare savings over short-term rebating, as of
quarter four we've now reached a 58% share of infliximab.
But we obviously are very conscious that those closed systems represent only a small proportion
of the market, around about 5%. But we really believe that our performance in those closed
systems demonstrates that where payers, providers, and patients have access to Inflectra that it
can offer significant value to the healthcare system, and we'll continue progressing that
aggressively.
A - `Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `And then on the tax rate question?
A - `Frank A. D'Amelio, Executive Vice President, Business Operations and Chief Financial Officer
Dave, we said for this year approximately 17%. And then in terms of going forward, I would
continue to use approximately 17%. We believe that rate is sustainable. If anything were to
change, obviously I would let you and everyone else know.
A - `Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, next question please, operator?
Operator
Your next question comes from Geoff Meacham from Barclays.
Q - `Geoffrey Meacham, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Good morning, guys, and thanks for the question. Ian or Frank, just on the topic of repatriation , in
the past you guys have talked about tapping into uninvested foreign earnings, not just OUS cash.
So should we view the $24 billion you mentioned, Frank, as a ceiling for repatriation, or are you
still evaluating?
And then more on the pipeline, when you think about Pfizer's I-O strategy, you're moving beyond
avelumab and 4-1BB. What's the capacity – or should I say the priority to expand the number of I-
O combinations? I know you guys are looking at OX-40, but obviously you have room for many
more combos. And maybe what's the rate-limiting step for that to happen? Thanks.
A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Geoff, the $24 billion is the ceiling on the repatriation. Of course, it does mean that all future cash
flows can come back to the U.S. without restriction, which I think is the really important point rather
than the $24 billion we're bringing back. It's the unfreeing [sic] [freeing] (42:17) permanently of our
access to our global capital cash flows.
A - `Frank A. D'Amelio, Executive Vice President, Business Operations and Chief Financial Officer
And it's up to $24 billion.
A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
And it's up to $24 billion. I-O strategy, Mikael, please?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, President-Worldwide Research and Development & Executive Vice President `
Yes, thank you. We look at I-O field development into three buckets as part of your question:
initial monotherapy with PD-1, PD-L1s, including our Bavencio; combinations of those agents with
chemo targeted or I-O agents; and three, longer-term aiming to turn cold tumors hot.
In the first bucket, we are present mainly as a minor player with Bavencio approvals in Merkel cell,
bladder cancer, and planned readout in lung cancer. We didn't really plan to be a leader in this
space. However, we really aim to grow impactful leadership with Bavencio in segments or of
combinations, which are near and mid-term a promising opportunity.We have now five pivotal studies over the next 18 to 24 months with various Bavencio
combinations that we think will be really interesting to watch: ovarian second-line and third-line
with chemo; renal first-line with Inlyta and Bavencio; gastric first-line maintenance with Bavencio
off the chemo, bladder first-line maintenance of Bavencio off the chemo variant; Bavencio
combined with various chemo combinations.
In addition to those pivotal readouts in the more near term, we mid-term see more than 20
Bavencio combinations, whether radioimmunotherapy pivotal studies in head and neck or with our
vast number of targeted agents, which is really a unique aspect of Pfizer compared to many
other players in this space. That includes for lung lorlatinib and Xalkori, for breast with
Ibrance/fulvestrant, for leukemias or myeloid corrected (44:24) with glasdegib. And of course, we
are conducting additional I-O studies with 4-1BB combined with OX-40, where we have
encouragement that this may from an immune point of view be a really interesting combination.
And finally, I want to say that we are really one of the few that have both an I-O agent, Bavencio,
and a PARP inhibitor, talazoparib. And we do think that will be a very powerful combination, and
we're running broad basket studies over many solid tumors and expect opportunities to pick
from those data sets into pivotal studies in the near term.
The longer-term bucket was aiming to turn cold tumors hot, and we have invested in numerous
platforms there, which combine with PD-1 for avelumab such as cancer vaccines, oncolytic viruses,
antibody drug conjugates where we have Phase 1/2 studies with PCSK7, or nano-particles loaded
with various immuno-targeted agents, and finally by functional antibodies.
A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mikael. That's a comprehensive review. And of course, immuno-oncology is one stool
of our oncology platform, because we're both in – we're in breast, we're in targeted agents,
we're in prostate cancer. And so I think we have a very robust overall strategy.
I would like to point out that while we are behind in lung, our expectations are we have two
important readouts, one this year and one later on, which is in – we have a very creative design.
Let's see what the results are in lung and how positive it can be. We haven't in any way given up
in our attempt to participate in that large market. Thank you very much.
A - `Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Ian and Mikael, next question please, operator.
Operator
Your next question comes from Jeff Holford from Jefferies.
Q - `Jeffrey Holford, Analyst, Jefferies LLC `
Thanks very much. My first question is just on the second-generation Ibrance product that you
have. There are very specific resistance mechanisms that you're identifying within Ibrance
patients, and I wonder if you can just talk a little bit about those and how this circumvents them.
And then the second big-picture question, obviously you guys have looked at a potential
separation of the Essential Health business. In the past, you did talk about a number of factors
that influenced that decision, not that you didn't (46:50) before. I'm just wondering if now that we
have the tax reform in place, whether that potentially influences that decision going forward and
when you might next look at that again. Thank you very much.A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Jeff. I'll ask Albert – sorry, Mikael, to discuss the second generation, as you've named
it, for Ibrance agents.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, President-Worldwide Research and Development & Executive Vice President `
Yes, thank you. We have two current approaches to deal with resistance to CDK and breast
cancer. We are starting this quarter, as our plans are, with a second-generation CDK drug, and
that's based on unique proprietary science that we have performed to identify resistance
mechanists that can occur related to the cell cycle. And we look forward very much to start that in
breast, and it has also application outside of breast as a resistance mechanist.
And the second resistance we have noted is related to targeted polyps with PS3K (47:55). And
we have a Phase 1b study with a unique inhibitor, gedatolisib, and have seen so far encouraging
data and are expanding those studies.
A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Why don't we go to Frank for the discussion of the separation?
A - `Frank A. D'Amelio, Executive Vice President, Business Operations and Chief Financial Officer
Yeah. So, Jeff, on optionality, if you'll recall, we have laid out four questions. So was the business
performing well inside the company? Will it continue to perform well? On a standalone basis, was
there trapped value, and can we unlock that trapped value in a tax-efficient way? So let's focus on
questions three and four.
With tax reform, question four is yes. To the extent that there's trapped value, we believe we
would be able to unlock that trapped value in a tax-efficient way. But let's really zoom in on
question three, which is, is there trapped value. When we announced we're looking at optionality,
specialty pharma valuations had price/earnings multiples that were 20-ish. If you look today,
they've been cut roughly in half. So we really don't see any trapped value. So our current view is
for the foreseeable future, the key for our Essential Health business is execution, to really get
that business humming, to deal with our sterile injectables, continue to grow biosimilars, to
continue to grow in emerging markets, and continue to manage our Peri-LOE products as
effectively as possible. So that's our view for the foreseeable future.
A - `Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you, Frank. Next question please, operator.
Operator
Your next question comes from Jason Gerberry from Bank of America.
Q - `Jason M. Gerberry, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hi, good morning and thanks for taking my questions. First, just wanted to get your guys'
perspective on 2018 M&A valuations that are getting paid. I think investors and even company
management teams have been vocal that the valuations have been pretty lofty. So just curious to
get your perspective on the valuation. It certainly seems like a seller's market.And then secondly on Xtandi, can you comment a little bit year to-date 2018 the dynamic
between the PAP and the co-pay foundations? I realize you have no line of sight into the co-pay
foundation, but potentially you have a line of sight into the PAP. So just wondering if the patients
are being funneled in a way that will improve revenue recognition or revenue generation with
Xtandi patients in 2018. Thanks.
A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Well, vis-à-vis the valuations, every deal is a deal-by-deal. So it's very difficult for us to assess the
value transactions on deals because it's not clear what the opportunities with the specific assets
and researching capabilities companies have when they pay for these assets. They would appear
to be in terms of P/E and multiples lofty prices, but once again, everybody does their own deals
and every deal is specific. So we will continue to look for value in the BD space. And when we find
it, we have the capability and the capacity to operate on it.
With that, I will ask Albert to discuss the issues around the dynamics.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Operating Officer `
Dynamics, yes. Jason, look, I have no visibility on what is going on in terms of co-pay foundations. I
know because we have made it publicly available that we are contributing. But I'm not aware of
the amounts that we are giving by quarter or by month because we have established very strong,
let me call it, Chinese wall between our commercial operations and the groups that they are
contributing to these foundations.
What I know, it is only how many people are enrolled in the commercial free goods, which is the
Patient Assistance Program, and this is what I've said before. In the fourth quarter, it was the same
more or less amount percentage-wise as we had in the third quarter. And from the first
indications that I can see how many are enrolling in 2018, I expect this number to be lower in 2018
than in 2017.
A - `Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Great. Thanks, Albert. Next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from John Boris from SunTrust.
Q - `John T. Boris, Analyst, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc. `
Thanks for taking the questions and congratulations on the solid results. So, Ian, just going back to
the question on M&A going forward, I think you previously mentioned that you essentially wanted
to take a pause on large-scale type of M&A until tax reform was in the rearview mirror and how
things shook out on repatriation. I think you've also provided some commentary that there were
some significant binary events that would have to occur going forward also for consideration on
larger-scale M&A. Just wondering how the tax outlook shapes that view going forward.
The second question on tax, tax rate goes down by 500 basis points. Can you just walk us
through the pushes and pulls of what's going on with the international subsidiaries that caused
that 500 basis point contraction, and then why the tax rate wouldn't continue to go down as you
do, and certainly how does that influence your tax planning going forward?And then last question just on tafamidis, cardiomyopathy and the trial potential read-out, what do
you potentially expect out of that? Is there a potentially mortality outcome out of that? And can
you contrast the drug with Alnylam and Ionis's drugs that are being studied in that area? Thanks.
A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. So on M&A, I think we've been reasonably consistent over the years when we discuss M&A
to say that we had the capacity before tax reform to do M&A. In fact, we attempted to do two
large ones, which were thwarted by government interventions. So the tax reform was really more
important from the point of view of M&A, from the point of view of how you would finance a deal
or what the relative values of companies would be. And I expect to see some changes in that as
some premiums for previously established tax advantages for certain companies disappear. But it
doesn't really change our underlying focus of how we look at M&A and how we look at the
disposition of our capital that Frank talked about earlier.
So we'll continue to look at M&A from the point of view of value for our shareholders, and we'll
be directed by the science and the opportunities. And we'll also look at opportunities across the
other spectrums, which is the dividends and the buybacks and investment in the business. So I
think it's really the continuation of a very thoughtful, I believe from the point of view of Pfizer of
deployment of capital. Frank, do you want to answer the tax rate, please?
A - `Frank A. D'Amelio, Executive Vice President, Business Operations and Chief Financial Officer
Sure. Yeah, and John, let me run the numbers just to ground everybody. So we had guided this
year to approximately 23%. Now obviously, we're giving guidance for next year of 17%, so
approximately a 600 basis point decrease in the tax rate year over year.
Now in terms of the going-forward rate, I had answered earlier that for modeling purposes we
should assume that that 17% – approximately 17% was sustainable. And you asked me about the
international impact with our subsidiaries. At a macro level, the way to think about this is, we do
business in over 150 countries. Every country obviously has their own tax structure, their own tax
rates. A slug of our business is outside the U.S. A major part of our business is inside the U.S. The
new corporate tax rate going forward is 21%. On overseas earnings, we have now a territorial
system, but with a minimum tax of 10.5%.
When you do all the work and all the tax planning and we work through everything, the blended
rate gets us to that approximately 17% that I alluded to. So going forward, you all should expect
us to sustain give or take a 17% tax rate.
A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Mikael, do you want to take on the tafamidis question, please?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, President-Worldwide Research and Development & Executive Vice President `
Sure. We have a tafamidis study for cardiomyopathy. As you know, the drug is registered in
Europe to deal with what's called TTR Amyloid Polyneuropathy. This study in cardiac condition is
400 subjects and the first and largest study in this important segment, including both patients
with mutation and a large population with excess of amyloid but no mutation. We expect readout
first half of this year. And pending the data, we will then consider further potential regulatory
action.
It's of course the first of its kind in this rare disease, so there is high risk but also very high upsideThis is (57:06) drug and differed from injectables such as oligonucleotides that you referred to.
We look really forward to the readout and to review it.
A - `Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Mikael. Next question, please?
Operator
Your next question comes from `Gregg Gilbert, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. from Deutsche Bank.
Q - `Gregg Gilbert, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Thank you. First on the Innovative side, for your new JAK, can you talk in some more detail about
how you'll develop it and differentiate it versus Xeljanz over the longer term and versus other
JAKs in the space?
And then shifting over to the Essential side, just questioning whether your manufacturing and
supply chain network is where it needs to be there. It sounds like you've described that as more a
fixing legacy problems versus investing new capital. Can you shed some more light on the
strategy there? Is it a set of extensive band-aids, or is it a fundamentally new approach to have
success on the Essential side?
And lastly, what do you plan to do with your own biosimilar version of Remicade, which would
presumably be more profitable than the Celltrion version? Thanks.
A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Gregg, thank you for the questions. It's good to see lots of questions on our pipeline as it comes
into focus. Mikael, would you like to talk about the JAK-1 and the JAKs?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, President-Worldwide Research and Development & Executive Vice President `
Yes, thank you. So we have six next-generation immuno-kinases, including five oral. And they have
been uniquely designed to go into areas where we think the first generation of JAKs such as
Xeljanz is less optimal. And while we're very excited about Xeljanz's strong performance in RA
and its possible further expansion into ulcerative colitis, we have a JAK-1, as you noted, went into
Phase 3 for atopic dermatitis and have a unique profile for that. We have two JAK-1 that is
targeted to the mechanism of psoriasis and Crohn's, which is colitis. We're JAK-3 selective into
RA. And in derm, we look at interesting conditions such as alopecia, where two of these JAKs,
again, are uniquely targeted.
So the whole story is to go into other areas where Xeljanz may not be fully optimized, while we
think we can grow Xeljanz in rheumatology and select segments of GI, but now we target
broader diseases within derm, GI, then beyond Xeljanz. So we hope to expand the opportunity
for JAK and obviously also plan for life cycle management on Xeljanz.
A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mikael. So in reality, we believe from the science of the JAKs we've been investing in
for over 10 years, we can bring significant relief to specific patient segments with the specificity of
the JAKs that we've developed. And this will be the backbone of our strategy and our
competitive advantage, so that's very good. Now I'll go to – I'm going to ask for the biosimilars
and also...A - `John D. Young, Group President, Pfizer Innovative Health `
The manufacturing.
A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, please go ahead, John.
A - `John D. Young, Group President, Pfizer Innovative Health `
So thanks for the questions, Gregg. So look, as Ian mentioned in his comments, in the Essential
Health portfolio, we've obviously been experiencing some supply shortages with some products.
The shortages are primarily for products from the legacy Hospira portfolio. And as Ian said, they
are largely driven by capacity constraints and technical issues.
Let me just make a comment and say that obviously, as we've said before, during the Hospira
acquisition, we were aware that there are manufacturing issues that were confirmed during the
due diligence process. But we have a robust action plan in place, and we believe it will only
progress during 2018 towards reducing sterile injectable shortages, and that will include investing
capital in those specific plants.
Turning now to our own infliximab biosimilar, IXIFI, as you know, Inflectra's existing marketed
infliximab biosimilar is currently available in the U.S., and it will continue to be available to patients
and physicians. Although we're very pleased with the U.S. FDA approval of IXIFI as the first Pfizer
developed biosimilar in the U.S., Pfizer doesn't currently plan on launching IXIFI in the U.S., and
we're evaluating our strategic options for this product.
A - `Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, John, next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Jami Rubin, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC from Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Jami Rubin, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Thank you. Ian, I think in the past you, as an industry leader, have spoken about the inevitability
about industry consolidation. Today's news about the Amazon partnership, consistent pricing
pressure, the Hillary tweet, I think that's when you started talking about it, but we really haven't
seen it. And the last wave of large-scale deals was back in 2009. And today on the call, you're
saying that there's less reason to do a tax deal obviously because of tax reform, and the spin is
probably off the table now because you don't see trapped value.
I'm just wondering if you still see value and industry consolidation from synergies and scale. That
is something you really haven't touched upon. And if you do, do you see Pfizer as a consolidator
as you've been in the past, or do you think you will continue down the path of smaller-scale BD
activity? Thanks very much.
A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Jami. I do believe that given the pressures that are being applied by the consolidation in
the payer network and the pressure there that exists on governments to find ways of curtailing
overall healthcare cost, although I'm optimistic that actually drugs will play a bigger part in that asbeing very cost effective, I do believe there will be a need for further consolidation to deal with
the size of our customers and the size of the opportunities.
I think these things come in waves. I think everybody is looking at potential combinations and
consolidations. I can't tell you when it will start, but I believe there will be moments when there's a
key detonator to initiation of further consolidation. I would say we have a core competency in
consolidation of large companies into Pfizer. If there is an opportunity for shareholder additional
value consolidation, I expect that Pfizer would be at the forefront of it. At the same time, we
would also be looking at deals of different size. We never say never to big deals, but we also say
we think we have the capacity to do both the small deals and the big deal when the moment
arises.
And we also – by the way, I'm just getting some flags here from Frank. I think that we don't feel
any pressure to immediately do any type of deal in the sense that we've just had a very good
year in 2017. We're going to have a good year in 2018. We have very good franchises. We're
focused on developing our own pipeline. That being said, we are opportunistic in looking for
intellectual property that we can buy and do better than the present owners. We continue to look
at that. And so I'm very optimistic about our hand and all the arrows that we have to fire in our
arsenal. Thank you.
A - `Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Jami, next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from Andrew Baum from Citi.
Q - `Andrew S. Baum, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. `
Thank you, a couple of questions, please. First for Ian and Albert, despite the rhetoric that the
U.S. administration (1:05:10) to the industry given your last (1:05:15) on 340B hospitals, the
proposal for PBMs to part from rebates, and you made the right action on drug pricing, (1:05:24)
together with the new head of HHS administrator's comment, I'm just interested how you
quantified the risk or whether you think it's more noise. Does it impact how you look at M&A
valuations and such that you believe there is risk, are you more concerned of drugs under
pharmacy versus medical benefits? That's my first question.
The second question is whether you could comment on the market pricing dynamic for
pneumococcal oncology given the density in those areas for PARPs and PDK-4/6s, when you think
that pricing is going to come under much more pressure than maybe we should be thinking
about?
And then finally for Mikael, could you talk to Pfizer's biomarker adoption beyond PD-L1, particularly
human mutational burden and how you're implementing that within your oncology programs? And
you might like to comment on your foundation's recent relationship. Thank you.
A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Andrew, thank you for those three questions, all very powerful and all very extensive. I think on
the question of the pricing risk, this industry has for decades had a pricing risk present in its
commercial business. And in fact, we've highlighted that in our 10-Qs and things like that.So I don't see that the pricing risk has dramatically changed from where it was 10 years ago or 5
years ago. I believe that we need to be in a constant dialogue with society and with payers and
the government over the value of pharmaceuticals. I think that dialogue is ongoing with both the
administration and Congress, and I think the dialogue is being informed by facts. And we are
looking for ways, as you mentioned, to lower the cost, out-of-pocket cost for patients. The
fundamental problem is not, I believe, the pricing of products because to be able to fund and run
a modern innovative pharmaceutical company at a certain level of resources is necessary. Unless
we see a breakthrough in innovation and a breakthrough in the process, this is the cost of
bringing products to market.
The question is does society want to continue to support that innovation? I think the answer is
absolutely yes. The next question is how will society ensure access to those products, so this is
really about how you ensure people. Do rebates get to the point of sale where we think they
ought to be? How do you make drugs affordable? Right now, the system is set up perversely to
transfer the costs of lowering premiums for healthy people onto sick people. I don't think that's a
good policy, and we're in discussions with the government to change that. So I think this pricing
risk is reversed. I think it remains reversed, and it's a constant issue that the industry needs to
deal with given the nature of the marketplace.
On your question about the density of small molecules, to a certain extent I would apply that to
the density of PD-L1s. I don't think it's specific to small molecules. I think the pricing always rests
on the value the products bring to the society. And we will continue to develop innovative
products that have differences to competitors, and we will expect to earn a reasonable return on
those products.
So there was one other question on the PD-L1. Mikael, do you want to talk to that?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, President-Worldwide Research and Development & Executive Vice President `
Yes, I'll be brief. We started with PD-L1, which was the initial most frequent used and for some
tumors like lung useful biomarker. We are now assessing tumor mutational burden. Clearly, you
have good insight into this field, and our innovation that we will see in the future status to start
maybe even a combination of PD-L1 and TMB exploratory markers include immune cell subset, T-
cell repertory sequencing, and then combination drug specific choices.
A - `Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Mikael, next question, please?
Operator
Your next question comes from Tony Butler from Guggenheim Partners.
Q - `Charles Butler, Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC `
Yes, thanks very much, two questions, please. One, Mikael, first on renal cell carcinoma, you've
got a very interesting trial with Inlyta. Obviously, there will be an IO/IO combination I suspect in
the market by the time your trial reads out. But I'm most interested in whether or not you think
that Inlyta or a tyrosine kinase inhibitor actually improves the synergy with Bavencio.
And then second, still within oncology, if I might ask, clearly a little bit of euphoria around the
CAR-T space, and I recognize you all have an interest in an off-the-shelf version with Cellectis, I'm
just curious if you might comment yet again on whether you're ramping up some efforts there.And then finally, Frank, once again on taxes, if I may, LOEs are diminishing. You've clearly stated
that your U.S. business is doing extremely well, disproportionately, I might add. So the U.S.
percentage of your total business increases, and again, I have to ask. Given those, unless there's
something which we totally miss, why doesn't again tax change certainly out in the future beyond
2017? Sorry for that, but thanks.
A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, I'll ask Mikael to address your first question.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, President-Worldwide Research and Development & Executive Vice President `
Yes, we do think that combining Inlyta with Bavencio is a really unique combination for renal cell
carcinoma, and the data as reported were really impressive. And at least to me, I believe it
stands out among the absolutely best seen thus far.
Inlyta targets the micro environment as a VDF inhibitor, so I think it has unique position. And we
view it currently as really promising and a preference for us than adding more immuno-oncology
agents, as we see a very high response rate. And we look really forward to the readout that will
come within the next 12 months or so from this study.
A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. On the question of CAR-T, we have seen the explosion of interest. We do have an off-
the-shelf version, as you say it, which we're developing with Cellectis. We are currently looking at
our strategy of how to ensure that that product can get to patients in the most rapid and
effective way, and we'll be looking at our strategy around CAR-Ts. And the last question...
A - `Frank A. D'Amelio, Executive Vice President, Business Operations and Chief Financial Officer
Yes, on the tax rate. So, Tony, in terms of the overall business, if you look last year, 2016, roughly
50% of our revenues were in the U.S., 50% of our revenues were outside of the U.S. If you look at
2017, about 49% of our revenues were in the U.S., about 51% were outside the U.S., so not a lot of
change, but with a little bit more pointed towards the international part of the business.
When we put all of that together and we look at where the mix of our business is, when we look
at the countries we do business in, where we manufacture our products, where we ship from, I'm
currently comfortable with the 17% and my statement about sustaining that 17% beyond 2018.
A - `Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Frank, for covering that, next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from Chris Schott from JPMorgan.
Q - `Christopher Schott, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Great, thanks very much, just two questions here. Maybe to come back to business development,
I know the return seems to be there. You've highlighted you're agnostic to size. But given where
the business and the pipeline stand today, I guess ideally, what are you trying to achieve as you're
thinking about BD? Is it focused on enhancing near-term growth? Is it more about long-term
growth? Do you want to stay in your existing verticals? Do you want to add verticals? I'm justtrying to get a little bit more of what the strategic priorities are as you consider deals before we
think about the financial terms associated with them.
And my second question was just on the Prevnar outlook for 2018. Are we still expecting the U.S.
adult business to be under pressure? And can growth elsewhere in the franchise start to offset
that erosion as we think about the 2018 outlook? Thanks very much.
A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Chris. On BD, we look across the spectrum of BD from near-term to long-term.
Clearly, if assets were available at appropriate valuations, we would have a preference for short-
term acceleration in our revenue growth and our EPS growth. On the other hand, if there's
availability of a different deal which also produces value although it might take longer; i.e., from
consolidation and things like that, we would also be interested in that and continue to look across
that spectrum.
I think we are well positioned. We can be considerate in the options we look at, and we do have a
certain sense of urgency to find deals that would accelerate our revenue and EPS growth. With
that, we'll go to Prevnar. Albert?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Operating Officer `
Chris, you're right. We do expect that there will be pressure in the adult sales in the U.S., which
would be less as the product is coming more to a stable state. This will be offset by higher
pediatric sales globally. And we do not provide guidance for specific products because this is
already incorporated in the guidance that Frank gave. But I can tell you in general terms that
Prevnar will be roughly flat in 2018 compared to 2017.
A - `Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Albert, next question, please, operator.
Operator
Your next question comes from Tim Anderson from Bernstein.
Q - `Timothy Minton Anderson, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Thank you, a couple questions. Can you talk about how you see your international sales of Enbrel
evolving from here as we move into 2018 relative to what we saw in 2017, further levels of price
erosion, volume loss, and that sort of thing? In 2017, sales were down about 15% versus the prior
year. Is that the sort of contraction that you expect we'll see in 2018 as well as future years
beyond that, so maybe 15% per year? I'm trying to understand what your long-term modeling
shows in the setting of biosimilar.
And then second question, there's continued – or I should maybe say renewed interest recently
on the topic of whether PD-1s and PD-L1s are the same, with the argument being that PD-1s might
offer better efficacy because of mechanistic differences, I'm wondering what Pfizer's current view
of this debate is.
A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, Tim, on Enbrel, thank you for the question. As you know, we don't give product-specific
forecasts, but I think the range as you described in your opening commentary is aligned with ourinternal thinking about the way that franchise will be managed over the future. PD-1/PD-L1, Mikael?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, President-Worldwide Research and Development & Executive Vice President `
I would start to say that we have a unique situation that we actually have one PD-L1, Bavencio, and
one PD-1. And the PD-1 is right now in studies with our cancer vaccine, very well behaving that has
potential for sub-cu monthly administration.
On the other hand, we're very pleased with our PD-L1 that is more advanced. And we monitor
carefully what you said, whether there are any new data that would indicate under certain
specialized settings that one would be better than the other. But in the big picture, I think they
look pretty similar overall within these two classes.
A - `Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Mikael, next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Marc Goodman, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC from UBS.
Q - `Marc Goodman, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Yes, good morning. I have a couple questions. First, Albert, in the past, we've talked about as the
new competition have come in with CDKs, whether you had to take any price. And I was curious
whether you've had to take any price now that there are three in order to maintain the dominant
share that you have.
The second question is Consumer. If you could, just refer to the U.S. business, and it seemed a
little weak in the quarter.
And then third question, tanezumab, you talked about six Phase 3 studies. Can you tell us how
many you're expecting to actually report out this year? Thanks.
A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, Albert, if you want to take the Ibrance and the Consumer?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Operating Officer `
Yes, Marc, so far despite the pressures any incumbent product faces when multiple competitors
enter the market, we have not seen any material impact on Ibrance's performance. We believe
the positive results from the other CDK inhibitors demonstrate the significance of CDK inhibition
and will benefit the class overall. It's important to remember that almost 60% of newly diagnosed
patients are receiving a CDK, but only 50% of the total population, so that demonstrates the
potential to grow the class. Within this class, we remain very confident in Ibrance leadership
based on the strength of the data, efficacy, safety profile, and that can go on and on.
Importantly, you know that there is no clinical relevant QT prolongation with Ibrance that was
observed across the PALOMA trials. There is no requirement for ATG or hepatotoxicity
monitoring in the current prescribing information. There is no requirement for monitoring the
signs and symptoms of thrombotic events or precautions. So we feel that three years in the
market with this, as we said, very large markets there, 11,000 prescribers, more than 100,000
patients, we feel we are very strong with that.A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
And I believe on the value we're receiving, it remains consistent with our previous years'
experience and have not seen any undue pressure due to the competition on our pricing given
the profile that Albert just described for Ibrance. Consumer's performance?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Operating Officer `
Yeah. Consumer, Frank spoke about it. We had 2% growth, and this was affected mainly by the
U.S. The U.S. was declining 2%. And in the – excuse me, in the fourth quarter we were declining
2%. And in the U.S., what drove this decline was minus 8%. And the reasons are, first, the negative
impact of Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico, but also the U.S. were impacted by Nexium OTC LOE
that happened in this quarter. As Frank emphasized, this business is performing at 5% every year
in the last three years, and we are hoping to see it coming back to this level of performance this
year.
A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Mikael?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, President-Worldwide Research and Development & Executive Vice President `
Yes. So we'll have the first, the short, the 16-week efficacy trial reading out this fall, followed by
the slightly longer 24-week, 56-week, and safely trials in OA and chronic lower back pain for the
U.S. and EU markets reading out the first few months of 2019. And that will really constitute the
data package for potential filing consideration pending data for the major markets. And then we
have other smaller studies for Japan and cancer pain later on.
A - `Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Great, thank you. Next question, please?
Operator
Your next question comes from `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC from Cowen.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Thank you. I have a few questions. On Ibrance's EU price, could you give us examples of the
pricing analogs to which you're referring?
Secondly, Pfizer had been saying that Essential Health would return to growth in a couple years.
Now that Viagra U.S. is in Essential Health and presumably Lyrica U.S. will be moving over in the
future, how does this affect Essential Health's return to growth timing?
And then lastly, Inflectra U.S. increased $10 million quarter-over-quarter, or a bit less than 1% of
market share increase. Is that the trajectory we should be expecting going forward, or should we
anticipate some sort of inflection? Thank you.
A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Steve. I don't really – for proprietary reasons on pricing, I don't want to get into
analogs. I would say that we are satisfied in the European context of the reimbursement price we
got. It was very hard negotiations, but in the end, patient access was important as was thereimbursement price. We think we arrived at a fair compromise on that, and we think we have a
basis for vibrant growth at an appropriate price for Ibrance in Europe, and I think that's the most
important thing to look at there. John, would you take the other questions?
A - `John D. Young, Group President, Pfizer Innovative Health `
Yes. So thanks for the questions, Steve. So we have consistently said over the last two to three
years that we expect the Essential Health business to return to growth in the medium term. And
actually, that remains our view that actually, as the headwinds from major LOEs and the portfolio
that currently sits within PEH begin to lessen, and we're seeing, for example, in 2017 the impact of
LOEs were something like $1.4 billion in this business, expect that that will shrink to around about
$900 million in 2018 given the portfolio, combined with the continued growth of emerging
markets, combined with the continued growth of biosimilars. So when you put all those things
together, we continue to expect that actually in the near term that actually Essential Health is
poised to deliver modest single-digit growth. And we still feel that that is a sustainable pattern of
growth for this business.
In relation to Inflectra in the U.S., let me just say, first of all, Inflectra globally had revenues of $135
million in the quarter. That was a 110% increase or $70 million or $68 million growth, and actually a
$41 million increase in the U.S. So whilst we've commented in answers to some other questions
about some of the challenges in terms of access due to J&Js exclusionary contracting, we expect
to continue to make progress in the U.S. with Inflectra in the course of 2018.
A - `Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Great. Thank you, John. Next question, please?
Operator
Your next question comes from Umer Raffat from Evercore.
Q - `Jonathan Miller, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC `
Hi, guys. This is Jon Miller on for Umer. A couple of questions. At JPMorgan, you showed an
interesting slide titled the Step Change in Pfizer R&D Productivity. The number one thing on that
was IO/IO combinations. So how do you think your internal IO/IO portfolio measures up against
external? And have your thoughts changed based on the early results from JAVELIN Medley?
Secondly, Frank, the 17% tax rate going forward, is your expectation that the non-GAAP tax rate is
going to be consistent with the cash tax rate?
And last, I noticed you guys have an oral GLP-1 in Phase 1. Are you looking at that more in diabetes
or in NASH?
A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. I'll ask Mikael to answer the question on research, and then Frank will answer the tax
question.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, President-Worldwide Research and Development & Executive Vice President `
Thank you for noting our (01:26:08) subject to attrition that's typical in development, blockbuster
projections for the next five years. As you noted, it contained actually five opportunities in
oncology. And the first one included BAVENCIO mono and combos for IO/IO. And we clearlycontinue to be positive about BAVENCIO's quality PD-1, and Ian alluded to certain trials coming up
soon. And we follow with significant interest the triple combo with OX-40 and 4-1BB. We also, as I
spoke earlier to have numerous pivotal study readouts with combinations of chemo and targeted
agents and actually more than 20 of such combinations overall in the portfolio. So I think there is
ample opportunity for us to make very valuable contribution in this field through IO/IO targeted
and chemo combinations, and that's a very important part of our strategy.
A - `Frank A. D'Amelio, Executive Vice President, Business Operations and Chief Financial Officer
On the GAAP tax rate versus the 17%, the 17% obviously is an adjusted results tax rate. The GAAP
rate versus the adjusted, we'll see fluctuations quarter to quarter based on the accounting that
we're doing for various items. Every quarter we typically have significant items, some positive,
some negative. For example, this quarter we had a hugely positive significant item, which was the
reversal of $10.7 billion in primarily U.S. deferred tax liabilities, which caused an incredibly negative
tax rate. So there will be volatility, there will be fluctuations from quarter to quarter with
differences between GAAP and adjusted results, as there has been in the past.
A - `Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
And, Mikael, just on the GLP-1?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, President-Worldwide Research and Development & Executive Vice President `
Yes. Thank you for noting that. We are really excited about this (01:27:57) GLP-1 small molecule we
think may be the first, a real small molecule nature to be in human studies. And we look upon
initial opportunity in NASH and (01:28:08) risk factors such as obesity. But certainly, we look at this
profile also for treating diabetes, where this drug class has been so successful as injectable. And
of course, an (01:28:25) drug with a unique profile seems very attractive across the entire
metabolic spectrum.
A - `Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Mikael. And we'll take our last question now, please.
Operator
Your final question comes from `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Leerink Partners LLC from Leerink.
Q - `Seamus Fernandez, Analyst, Leerink Partners LLC `
Thanks very much for squeezing me in here, so just a couple quick ones. Ian, can you just give us
your big picture thoughts on Eliquis and its overall opportunity? Growth continues to be pretty
spectacular given where this product is in its life cycle. Just wondering if you think given where we
are in the developed world in terms of global markets overall, if this could possibly exceed Lipitor
sales at peak
The second question, as we think about your pricing analogs and the discussion around
international pricing of Ibrance, is it wrong to think that this may in fact anticipate success in the
adjuvant setting so that there wouldn't be another step down in pricing as that patient population
grows substantially?
And then the last question is on the PARPs. As we think about the opportunity for talazoparib,
what is Pfizer doing in prostate cancer given some early data there for a combination of with
talazoparib with Xtandi? Thanks so much for the questions.A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. I'm going to let Albert in his capacity as Chief Operating Officer answer the Eliquis
questions and the pricing on Ibrance, and then Mikael can answer tala questions. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Operating Officer `
Let's start with Eliquis. Yes, we are very optimistic for Eliquis. We expect that growth will continue.
The next leg of growth will be driven by increased NOAC penetration of the OAC market and
increase Eliquis share gain of the class, or non-class.
And this sort of gain is expected to be achieved by increasing focus on the following strategic
initiatives. We are going to accelerate markets that are gaining with the market, and those
markets will have achieved a leadership position in the risk reduction already. For stroke systemic
embolus, we are going to generate and utilize local real-world data to seek preferential access
for Eliquis, and we have a very good demonstration of this value so far with the first studies that
we have performed, that they are getting the attention of payers. And of course, we are going to
increase diagnosis of the NVAF patients in those markets who have achieved already a
leadership position in risk reduction of stroke. So the news are very, very positive.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, President-Worldwide Research and Development & Executive Vice President `
Concerning, talazoparib, we are very excited about that drug profile. You noted our report of the
EMBRACA trial in breast cancer, where we had a nice superiority to chemotherapy and a very
favorable profile. So we are looking forward to additional readouts for talazoparib and investment
in the drug. And we have two prostate cancer studies, one that was recently initiated in
combination with enzalutamide or Xtandi in a select subset of prostate cancer. And we also have
a more advanced prostate cancer, an open single-arm trial that could be of potential pivotal
character. And then we have invested significantly in combination with Bavencio for what we think
will be a number of different tumor types. So I look forward to continue the dialogue as we
advance what I think is a potential best-in-class PARP inhibitor.
A - `Frank A. D'Amelio, Executive Vice President, Business Operations and Chief Financial Officer
Thanks, Mikael. We'll just go back to Albert for another comment.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Operating Officer `
Yes, because I forgot to mention – to answer your question about Ibrance. First of all, I cannot say
it will be bigger than Eliquis, but what I want to say is that this is an extremely appealing
opportunity for us. And a big part of the opportunity, as you alluded, comes from advancement of
Ibrance into the early settings of treatments.
We have three studies that are related with or linked to our Phase 3 studies. And it is PENELOPE
that is in high-risk early breast cancer, and that will become available towards the end of 2020.
And the other one, it is the PALLAS that it is with intermediate-risk early breast cancer, and that
will come a little bit earlier, in the third quarter of 2020. Of course, also we have PALLET.
In its totality, the early breast cancer represents a very big opportunity because virtually the
number of patients is more than double. And also, the economic, the financial opportunity is
larger because we have much longer duration of treatments. I don't think that – it's early to speak
about pricing, as you alluded, because those are coming in the 2021 timeframe for negotiation
with payers.A - `Ian C. Read, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Albert. So the pricing analog of your question of whether the overall survival data that
come matures in Ibrance will influence the pricing in Europe is a good question, but one that really
is relatively remote. It's going to take three years to get that data. And assuming the data is
positive, I would expect us to relook at the value of Ibrance. And if it was negative, which is very
difficult in this type of long, long, long, long disease progression to get any really accurate
information, I would expect that the use of Ibrance will be very well entrenched in the pattern of
treatment by physicians by that time. Thank you.
A - `Charles E. Triano, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations `
All right, thanks and thanks, everybody, for your attention.
A - `Frank A. D'Amelio, Executive Vice President, Business Operations and Chief Financial Officer
Thanks everybody. Thanks for your time.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude Pfizer's fourth quarter 2017 earnings conference call.
Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.