Q4 2019 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's Fourth Quarter 2019 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. `Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations., Senior Vice President of Investor
Relations. Please go ahead, sir.
`Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. `
Good morning and thank you for joining us today to review Pfizer's fourth quarter and full-year
2019 performance and 2020 financial guidance. I'm joined today by our CEO and Chairman,
`Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; `Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Supply and, our CFO; `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and, President of Worldwide Research and
Development; Angela Wang, Group President Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group; John Young, our
Chief Business Officer; and Doug Lankler General Counsel.
The slides that will be presented on this call were posted to our website earlier this morning and
are available at pfizer.com/investors. You will see here that Slide 3 covers our legal disclosures.
Albert and Frank will now make prepared remarks, and then, we will move to a question-and-
answer session.
With that, I'll now turn the call over to `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Albert?
`Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `Thank you, Chuck, and good morning. everyone. This morning I will speak about our performance
for the year, the continued advancement of our pipeline and the steps we are taking to position
Pfizer for accelerated growth, following the expected separation of Upjohn from Pfizer later this
year. Frank will then provide details regarding our fourth quarter performance and our 2020
financial guidance.
2019 was a productive and transformational year for Pfizer, in which we generated solid full year
financial results. These results were highlighted by exceptional 8% operational revenue growth
for the year and 9% in the fourth quarter for our Biopharma business, which will become the New
Pfizer, following the expected separation of Upjohn.
Once again, our Biopharmaceuticals Group outstanding growth was driven primarily by the
continued strong performance from all our key growth drivers. These include Ibrance, Xtandi,
Eliquis, Xeljanz, Vyndaqel among others. Biopharma also generated 14% operational growth in
emerging markets in 2019. I would point out that Biopharma's 2019 growth came from volume
increases not pricing. In fact, pricing had a negative 2% impact in Biopharma's results.
For full year 2019, global Ibrance revenues increased 23% operationally to become a nearly $5
billion a year product. In the US, Ibrance realized robust growth and retained it's strong leadership
position in the CDK class with a nearly 90% share. Ibrance's performance outside of the US was
also very strong and we still see significant opportunities in countries where the use of CDK
inhibitors has not yet reached the levels seen in the US. Overall, Ibrance is approved in more than
90 countries, is the number one prescribed CDK 4/6 inhibitor globally and has reached more
than 250,000 places.
For Xtandi, alliance revenues in the US were up 20% for the full year and when combined with our
royalty income on ex-US sales, totaled nearly $1.2 billion in 2019. Xtandi is the leading branded
novel hormone therapy in an increasingly competitive but growing class, with 37% market share in
total prescriptions. The robust year-over-year growth was due to continued uptake of the non-
metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer indication as well as prescriber confidence in the
recognition of extend strong data across CRPC.
With the recent launch of our extended indication in metastatic castration-sensitive prostate
cancer in the US, Xtandi is now the first and only oral treatment approved by the FDA in three
distinct types of prostate cancer.
Eliquis continued to perform well. Pfizer share in the global revenues was up 26% operationally to
$4.2 billion. This growth was driven primarily by continued increased adoption in non-valvular
Atrial fibrillation, as well as oral anti-coagulant market share gains. Eliquis is now the oral anti-
coagulant leader in 12 markets across the globe.
Xeljanz had a strong performance, with global revenues increasing 29% operationally to $2.2
billion. We are very pleased with the continued positive uptake across all indications, rheumatoid
arthritis, psoriatic arthritis and ulcerative colitis and we continue to launch psoriatic arthritis and
ulcerative colitis in new markets.
Looking at our rare disease business, Vyndaqel continues to ramp up nicely in the US, following
the May 2019 approval and launch for the treatment of ATTR cardiomyopathy. Overall, this first of
its kind medicine contributed $473 million in revenue in 2019. Our disease awareness efforts
helped drive the diagnosis rates to 9% by the end of the fourth quarter compared with 1% prior
to launch. As of the end of 2019, more than 9,000 patients have been diagnosed, more than
5,500 patients had received a prescription for Vyndaqel and more than 3,000 patients hadreceived the drug. These numbers do not include approximately 100 patients who are still in the
early access program.
Global Prevnar 13 revenues were up 3% operationally to $5.8 billion. The US CDC also published
its updated recommendation for immuno competent adults aged 65 and older to start clinical
decision-making in the November morbidity and mortality weekly report, highlighting that a
patient can share the decision to vaccinate with PCV 13 with a physician, physician's assistant,
nurse practitioner or pharmacists.
Looking at our sterile injectables portfolio, our focus on manufacturing recovery is taking shape
and beginning to have a positive impact on the top-line in the US. We have made solid progress
with remediation and modernization and expect continued improvement throughout 2020. Of
note, while global revenue from our sterile injectables portfolio declined 1% operationally for the
full year, it increased 5% operationally during the fourth quarter. Additionally, more than 80% of
our injectables portfolio is in stock today. And we anticipate this percentage will continue to
increase in 2020.
Our global Biosimilars portfolio grew 22% operationally to $911 million for the full year. This was
driven largely by 70% growth in the US, thanks to the launch of Retacrit and a gradual uptake of
Inflectra. The growth in the US was partially offset by a decline in International markets, driven
mainly by Inflectra. We expect an additional contribution from Biosimilars in 2020, with the launch
of three oncology monoclonal antibody biosimilars. Last week we announced the launches of
Zirabev and Ruxience in the US market and next month we expect to launch Trazimera. All three
products will be available at a substantially discounted price compared with their originator
products.
Full year revenues for our Upjohn business were down 16% operationally to $10.2 billion. The key
headwind during the year was the advent of generic competition on Lyrica in the US, which was
partially offset by 7% operational growth in China. The growth in China was driven primarily by
Viagra and Celebrex as well as Lipitor in non-reimbursed channels, which constitute significant
market share in China.
We are making good progress with the pre-integration planning for Upjohn's proposed
combination with Mylan, which remains on track for mid-2020. In December, we announced that
former Pfizer Chairman, Ian Read, and Current Pfizer Director James Kilts will join the Viatris
Board of Directors upon completion of the transaction. We are also working closely with our
counterparts of Mylan on the CFO selection process. We expect to announce the appointments
of both the CFO and the third Director by the end of this quarter. We have great confidence in
Viatris which will combine Upjohn's strong commercial capabilities and iconic brands with Mylan's
terrific pipeline.
Turning now to R&D, we remain very pleased with the progress we are making with our pipeline.
We are expecting key clinical results in 2020, several of which have the potential to make this an
exciting year for patients hoping for new treatment options. We anticipate sharing data from up
to 15 proof-of-concept readouts with contributions from all our therapeutic areas, as well as up to
10 pivotal study starts and five key pivotal study readouts.
I will now highlight some of those expected events. We continue to expect our two event-driven
Ibrance early-breast cancer programs, PENELOPE-B and PALLAS to read out in late 2020 and
early 2021, respectively. If successful, and following regulatory approval, these programs could
double the number of patients eligible to benefit from Ibrance.The Phase 2 open label, single-arm ANCHOR-CRC study evaluating the efficacy and safety of the
combination of Braftovi and Mektovi and cetuximab in patients with previously untreated
BRAFV600E-mutant metastatic colorectal cancer is currently ongoing. Results from the study will
be submitted for presentation at a medical congress in the second half of 2020.
For Abrocitinib, our investigational JAK1 inhibitor for the treatment of moderate to severe atopic
dermatitis. We look forward to sharing topline findings from the Phase 3 JADE compare trial in
the coming months. Pending successful conclusion of the core Phase 3 studies, regulatory
submission in the US is projected for the third quarter of 2020, with subsequent markets
following later in the year.
This study is designed to assess the efficacy and safety of abrocitinib or dupilumab placebo in
adults on background medicated therapy with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis. The study
also has a key secondary endpoint but it is designed to assess the effect on each severity of
abrocitinib compared with dupilumab in adults with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis on
background topical therapy. There are up to five proof-of-concept readouts expected in 2020
from our industry-leading immuno kinase pipeline. Our hope is to advance several of these in to
Phase 3 trials.
This include TYK2/JAK1 with potential POC readouts for psoriatic arthritis and for a topical
formulation for psoriasis and atopic dermatitis, as well as an oral JAK3/TEC for vitiligo and TYK2
for psoriasis. This is a great example of our unique strategy to purposefully match a molecule to a
disease where we think it has the potential to make the most difference,a as well as a
formulation that we believe has the potential to treat milder forms of disease.
Our gene therapy platform is advancing with promising Phase 1/2 to hemophilia A data that is
expected to support a Phase 3 start this year. This would be our second gene therapy pivotal
study following the ongoing hemophilia B Phase 3 study. In addition, our DMD gene therapy
program is gathering additional robust patient data building on the progress we shared at the
parent project muscular dystrophy conference last June. We are preparing for an expected POC
in the first half of 2020 and a Phase 3 pivotal study start in second half of this year.
We look forward to successfully completing the Phase 3 studies for our investigational 20-
Valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine candidate in adults and remain on track to submit the
biologics license application to the FDA by the end of this year. Pfizer's candidate represents a
potential significant advancement compared with the potential of 15-valent. If successful in Phase
3 and approved, the five additional serotypes may provide coverage against approximately 33%
more strains that cause invasive pneumococcal disease in adults and 42% more strains causing
the disease in infants in the United States.
For our maternal vaccine for respiratory syncytial virus, RSV, we are preparing for an expected
POC in the second quarter of 2020, followed by a potentially swift progression to Phase 3. We
look forward to sharing more updates on our pipeline during our upcoming Investor Day on March
31.
In summary, we finished 2019 with strong momentum and we look forward to continuing that
momentum in 2020. During the year, we generated a solid financial performance, further
advanced our strong R&D pipeline and took bold actions to reshape Pfizer into an innovation
powerhouse, that will build on our legacy of delivering breakthroughs that change patients' lives.
Now, I will turn it over to Frank to provide details on the quarter and our outlook for the remainder
of 2020. Frank?`Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Supply and
Thanks, Albert. Good day, everyone. Now moving on to the financials, fourth quarter 2019
revenues, were $12.7 billion down 8% operationally versus the year ago quarter. Excluding the
impact of the Consumer Healthcare business, revenue was down 1% operationally.
Our Biopharmaceuticals Group business revenues were $10.5 billion, up 9% operationally versus
the year ago quarter, with strong operational growth in Ibrance, Eliquis, Xeljanz and Vyndaqel and
a second straight quarter of operational growth for our Hospital business, including our sterile
injectables.
Revenues for our Upjohn business in the fourth quarter decreased 32% operationally to $2.2
billion, with the primary year-over-year impact again being generic competition for Lyrica in the US
that began in July of 2019. Excluding the unfavorable impact of Lyrica in the US and other recent
product losses of exclusivity, fourth quarter 2019 revenues for Upjohn declined 6% operationally.
I know UpJohn's business in China has been an area of focus, and fourth quarter revenues for
Upjohn declined 1% operationally. We saw the expected revenue declines for Lipitor and Norvasc
in provinces where the volume based procurement program has been implemented and these
declines were mostly offset by operational growth from products not impacted by the VBP
program including Celebrex and Viagra.
Adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenue was favorably impacted by the July
completion of the Consumer Healthcare joint venture transaction with GSK, partially offset by the
negative impact of foreign exchange and the Lyrica loss of exclusivity.
In the fourth quarter, we recorded a $0.06 loss per share on a GAAP basis, which -- primarily due
to a $2.6 billion asset impairment charge for Eucrisa and restructuring purchase accounting and
legal charges.
Adjusted diluted EPS for the fourth quarter was $0.55 versus $0.63 in the year ago quarter. The
decrease was primarily due to lower revenues, again, mainly due to the Lyrica LOE in the US, and
higher operating expenses.
I want to point out that diluted weighted average shares outstanding declined by 281 million
shares compared to the year ago quarter, reflecting the impact of shares repurchased during
2018 and 2019, and partially offset by dilution related to share-based employee compensation
programs.
Finally, foreign exchange had a negative impact of $158 million, or 1%, on fourth quarter 2019
revenues and a $0.03 negative impact on adjusted diluted EPS compared to the year ago
quarter.
And as you can see on the chart, our 9% operational growth in the Biopharma business was
driven by strong performance by Ibrance, Eliquis, Xeljanz, Xtandi, Vyndaqel and Inlyta.
Moving on to 2019 financial guidance, as you can see on the chart, we met or exceeded all
components of our 2019 financial guidance.
Now I want to highlight how our 2020 guidance compares to 2019 revenue and adjusted diluted
EPS. Starting on the left side of this slide, our 2019 results reflect partial year contributions from
the Consumer Healthcare business segment, which we deconsolidated in the third quarter of
2019.Excluding $2.1 billion in revenues generated from the Consumer Healthcare business segment,
total Company 2019 revenues were $49.7 billion, and 2019 adjusted diluted EPS is $2.95. For
2020, the adjusted diluted EPS guidance range reflects Pfizer's share of the Consumer
Healthcare's joint ventures earnings that were generated in fourth quarter 2019 and will be
reported in the first quarter 2020 along with Pfizer's share of the JVs' anticipated earnings for the
first three quarters of 2020.
As you can see, the mid-point of our 2020 guidance range for revenues implies comparable
performance to 2019 revenues after excluding the partial year contribution from Consumer
Healthcare, as well as an anticipated $200 million favorable impact from foreign exchange based
on mid-January 2020 rates compared to last year. Despite an anticipated $2.4 billion in LOE
headwinds in 2020. We expect the mid-point of the revenue range to remain flat operationally,
excluding Consumer Healthcare.
Now, let's go through the full details of our 2020 financial guidance for total Company. As we've
said, we are expecting the close of the transaction between our Upjohn business and Mylan to be
completed in mid-2020. So we are providing three sets of guidance: first, total Company, which
reflects our current construct of the Biopharma and Upjohn businesses and excludes any impact
from the pending Upjohn combination with Mylan; second new Pfizer, which is a full-year pro
forma view that reflects the impact of the pending Viatris transaction by removing Upjohn and
including $12 billion in cash proceeds from Upjohn to new Pfizer and other transaction related
factors such as transitional service agreement revenue; and third, Upjohn is a standalone
business. All of these scenarios are based on a full year of revenues and expenses in 2020.
Beginning with total Company, 2020 revenue guidance of $48.5 billion to $50.5 billion, reflects
anticipated continued strong momentum in our Biopharma business, primarily offset by the
continued negative impact of product losses of exclusivity in our Upjohn business, primarily Lyrica
in the US.
Moving on to other elements of our 2020 financial guidance for total Company, compared with
2019 actual results, the mid-points of these ranges imply: higher adjusted cost of sales as a
percentage of revenues due to the continued impact from the Lyrica LOE; higher adjusted R&D
expenses; and higher adjusted other income, which reflects earnings from the Consumer
Healthcare joint venture; and lower adjusted SI&A expenses and adjusted diluted EPS.
In 2020, financial guidance for adjusted EPS assumes no new share repurchases and we will focus
instead on increasing the dividend and investing in the business during this period of growth. As a
result, our guidance for adjusted diluted EPS assumes diluted weighted average shares
outstanding of approximately 5.65 billion shares, which is approximately the same as 2019.
Moving on to financial guidance for New Pfizer for the full year 2020, we now anticipate full year
2020 revenues between $40.7 billion and $42.3 billion, with the mid-point of the guidance range
representing 8% operational growth as compared to 2019 Biopharma revenues, excluding
Meridian and Mylan Japan, and an improvement from our initial July targets.
This guidance range excludes $600 million of contributions from Meridian, Pfizer subsidiary and
manufacturer of EpiPen and other autoinjector products, as well as from the strategic
collaboration with Mylan in Japan for the development, manufacturing, and marketing of generic
medicines. Due to an organization realignment, both of these assets have shifted to Upjohn
effective at the start of 2020. Both Meridian and Mylan Japan will be reported in Pfizer's Upjohn
business beginning in first quarter 2020.We now anticipate full year 2020 adjusted IBT as a percentage of revenue of approximately 37%,
also, an improvement from July. We anticipate the mid-point of the guidance range for adjusted
diluted EPS to be $2.30. The operating cash flow guidance range remains approximately $11 billion
to $12 billion. This EPS guidance reflects the $12 billion cash that Pfizer will receive upon the close
of the combination of Upjohn with Mylan, which will be used to pay down debt during 2020.
As you can see the mid-points for new Pfizer's 2020 revenue and adjusted IBT margin guidance
have improved materially since our preliminary 2020 projections were presented in July in
conjunction with the announcement of the proposed Mylan and Upjohn combination. We have
provided a bridge from our initial July targets to this current guidance on the bottom of the chart
for clarity.
Upon the close of the Mylan/Upjohn combination and once we become New Pfizer, you can
expect the same level of detail on 2020 guidance that we provided today for total Company.
Moving on to 2020 financial guidance for Upjohn for the full year 2020, we anticipate revenues of
$8 billion, $8.5 billion, reflecting the continued negative impact of losses of exclusivity for
products such as Lyrica in US, which began facing multi-source generic competition in July 2019,
and the expansion of the volume-based procurement program in China, and reflecting the
inclusion of revenues and expenses associated with Meridian and Mylan Japan.
We anticipate full year 2020 adjusted EBITDA for the Upjohn business of $3.8 billion to $4.2 billion.
Other than the inclusion of revenues and expenses associated with Meridian in Mylan Japan,
there are no operational changes to Upjohn's 2020 financial guidance compared with preliminary
financial targets provided in July of 2019. Again, we have provided a bridge from our initial July
targets to this current guidance at the bottom of the chart.
Moving on to key takeaways, regarding 2019, we delivered a strong fourth quarter with our
Biopharma business growing 9% operationally, which represents our go-forward business after
the pending combination of Upjohn and Mylan. We provide a 2020 guidance ranges for total
Company, New Pfizer and Upjohn. Importantly, we are projecting strong organic revenue growth
for New Pfizer in 2020.
We accomplished key product and pipeline milestones since our previous quarterly update and
we returned $16.9 billion to shareholders in 2019 through a combination of dividends and share
repurchases. Looking ahead, we remain committed to delivering attractive shareholder returns in
2020 and beyond.
Now, I'll turn it back to Chuck.
`Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. `
Thanks, Frank and Albert, for those remarks. At this time operator, can we please poll for
questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from `Randall Stanicky, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets. from RBC Capital Markets.
Q - `Randall Stanicky, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets. `Great. Thanks guys for the questions. I have two, one for Albert and one for Angela. Albert, a
couple of weeks ago, you called out $4.5 billion in enabling cost in SI&A, with an opportunity to
simplify. So how do we think of all the cost savings opportunity after you close Upjohn in terms of:
number one, how much incremental cost savings do you see beyond what is built into the 37%
margin: and then, number two, how much of that could hit back half 2020 versus 2021? And then,
I have a follow-up after that for Angela.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. I think you should -- how can he ask the questions to Angela now. And we can back. So,
indeed we have this year approximately $14.3 billion of SI&A and I will ask Frank to run the
numbers in more details. And as I said, $4.5 billion approximately of that is what we call enabling
functions. So these are functions like finance, legal, HR, facilities that they are facilitating and
enabling the core functions for our business to perform. Core functions, I mean R&D that is
discovering the products; manufacturing, that is making them happen; and commercial, that it is
making them available to the patients.
We do believe that this $4.5 billion and actually approximately 10,000 people can be improved.
And we have plans to do so. In the current guidance and I will ask Frank to comment, there is a
part, a small part of that cost opportunity saving already incorporated. And in 2021, will be a much
bigger part, So Frank.
A - `Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Supply and
So Randall, just let me run the numbers, which is, if you look at 2019 actual SI&A for example, we
spent about $14 billion as a company, obviously, that $4.5 billion that Albert alluded to in that $14
billion. If you look at our 2020 guidance for SI&A, the range is $12 billion to $13 billion, mid-point
$12.5 billion. $12.5 billion from $14 billion is a decline of $1.5 billion. Now, roughly half of that is
Consumer, because we went from consolidating Consumer -- equity accounting on Consumer
once the deal closed in July 31, 2019.
The remaining half is really operational savings across the Company, including a part of the --
including some of the $4.5 billion that Albert alluded to. And that, obviously, helped contribute to
the IBT as a percentage of revenue improving from 35% -- from the mid-30%s to 37%. And then
to Albert's point, obviously, what we're doing now is working on further improvements that would
obviously positively impact the SI&A and that will flow to the bottom line.
A - `Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. `
Great. Thanks, Albert and Frank. Next question please.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Chris Schott, Analyst, JPMorgan from JPMorgan.
Q - `Chris Schott, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Great. Thanks very much for the question. Just had a three quick product ones. The first was on
Vyndaqel. Seems like a nice step-up in all your patient metrics, seems like all of those basically
doubled or tripled from 3Q. Can you help bridge those figures with the sequential sales ramp we
saw which wasn't quite as dramatic?
The second question I had was on Ibrance. Just aberration there in terms of what drove the
revised timelines for PALLAS, and have you taken another interim look at the data at this point?And then, finally, on to tanezumab. Just an update in terms of what the status and outlook is for
that product at this point? Thanks so much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Very good. Thank you very much. I will ask Angela to address the Vyndaqel and tanezumab
questions and then I will say few words about Ibrance and may maybe I will ask Mikael to chime in.
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
Yeah. So, thanks for the question. And certainly, we are pleased with the increased diagnosis,
prescription, as well as the numbers of patients that are receiving Vyndaqel. As you said, our
diagnosis now is up to about 9%. The ability for patients to receive prescriptions up to about 64%
of those that are diagnosed and those that are receiving medications are around 35% of those
that are diagnosed. And every quarter, since we've been reporting this, we've been seeing some
nice increases. So we're certainly pleased with that.
I think in terms of just the commensurate alignment with the actual net sales numbers, I think, that
there are obviously -- every single day, this is a dynamic situation. And the number and the
proportion of patients, whether they are Medicare and commercial lives, those are changing, and
so the gross to nets of those are going to effect, I think, what you see on a net sales basis. So I
think that we are watching and really focused on driving diagnosis and ensuring that as many
patients can get on these drugs as possible and we're starting to see some really nice pickup.
But I think, that is still a very dynamic situation because we're really relatively new in this process.
So we'll continue to monitor and should expect to see some quarter-to-quarter changes in terms
of net sales.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And obviously the new patients, they are contributing disproportionately because they are in
fewer months of treatment in terms of sales.
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
And then, your second question was on tanezumab. So we're really pleased that in December of
2019, we completed our US submission of tanezumab and we are also pursuing regulatory
submissions in the EU and in Japan. This submission was done in close collaboration with the FDA
and it includes the 2.5 milligram in moderate to severe osteoarthritis patients. So at this moment
in time, we're awaiting acceptance of this filing. But we see significant potential of tanezumab in
osteoarthritis. So we're really excited about this filing and particularly, because we're in a time
where non-opioid solutions are very, very much needed for these patients.
If you look at the market potential, today, there are about 27 million Americans that suffer from
osteoarthritis and 11 million of those have moderate to severe OA. 80% of those 11 million people
have tried and failed three or more analgesics. So that tells us that there is just a huge amount of
unmet need in this patient population. Patients are cycling through a number of pain medications
and there just is an incredible need for new options, and this is where we think tanezumab can
really fill an unmet need. It has the potential to become the first-in-class non-opioid treatment for
these patients and we eagerly await the acceptance of this file from the FDA.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Now let me address the question on Ibrance. The expected completion of the studyand now it's moved in the very beginning of '21. The only reason of these is that the events are
not coming at the pace that we had forecasted and expected. So it rather means people are not
progressing into their disease. I don't think we can draw any conclusions if that means good news
or bad news, I think it's just structure of the data. We don't know if the people aren't progressing
equally in the two arms or they are not progressing in their treatment arm, that remains to be
seen when we unblind the data.
As regards to your question, if there was an interim analysis. There was not an interim analysis. So
we haven't seen any interim analysis. There will be an interim analysis, but we do not expect that -
- the most likely scenario is that the study will continue when this interim analysis comes. The
study was designed to come to full completion and the criteria that we had set to stop for
efficacy in the interim study are very, very high. So it's not impossible, but this will happen. But
most likely scenario, it is that as we had planned at the start it will come to a completion, at the
end of it this is what will happen. But we are very -- we still remain very, very encouraged and
optimistic about Ibrance. Of course, it's a Phase 3, you never know what would be, but all the
science behind it is, supporting that we could have a positive outcome. And I will ask actually
Micheal, to make a few comments on the science and what does this mean.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
I'll just punctuate a few things that Albert described so well. Four aspect of why we are very
excited and optimistic about the science and clinical data to predict a potential positive outcome
for the discussed PALLAS study, as you know, first of all that the CDK 4/6 inhibitor Ibrance
converge with estrogen receptor drugs to stop cancer cells or breast cancer cells to divide. We
have shown that in the PALOMA-2 and 3 studies and more recently we reported that we could
reproduce a data direction in real world evidence based on real world data from Flatiron and
other databases. And this noteworthy, including also overall survival data, again showing in
medical practice the importance of this drug.
Three, the PALLAS study that looked at the ability of palbociclib Ibrance to stop dividing of
estrogen-receptor positive primary breast cancer showed that this mechanism was very well
operating in a powerful way. And finally, let me remind you that other agents that act on
estrogen-receptor positive primary breast cancers and converge with palbociclib such as
tamoxifen and aromatase inhibitors all were initially developed in metastatic cancer, indeed very
well in adjuvant treatment in early breast cancer. So these four observations and others makes us
continue to be excited and very optimistic.
And as Albert alluded to, relatively small change in projected trial is based on the trial that actually
started four and half years ago and it is quite common that in the final 12 months or so minor
changes in enrollment rate and process planning for study reports can affect a trial. But with all of
these, you can hear, we remain encouraged, enthusiastic about what Ibrance can offer for
adjuvant treatment of breast cancer.
A - `Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. `
Great. Thanks for the helpful context, Mikael. Next question please.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Terence Flynn, Analyst, Goldman Sachs. from Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Terence Flynn, Analyst, Goldman Sachs. `Hi. Thanks for taking the questions. Maybe just two product ones from me. I was wondering if you
can talk about Ibrance rest of world dynamics, any specific headwinds this quarter and how to
think about the trajectory into this year? And then, for Xeljanz, I was wondering if you can give us
the split of sales by indication and if you're seeing any impact in RA from the launch of AbbVie's
Rinvoq on either share or price? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very, very much. So, Angela.
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
Sure. So first of all on Ibrance, we continue to see good growth and strong growth ex-US, but
probably two factors that are tempering the net sales as you saw in Q4. The first is pricing and
that continues to be something that we work hard at, especially in EU, to gain access for our
product in Europe. And the second is class growth. So you look at the class growth of the CDK
class through the quarters, that has increased, but over the last quarter it has tempered. And it's
sitting at around 35% CDK class growth right now in class share, but within that the Ibrance still
has a very, very high product share in the 80%s. So I think it's pointing out to us the fact that there
is still opportunity for us to grow and that growing the CDK class is going to be an area of our
tremendous focus for us ex-US in 2020 and beyond.
Your second question was around Xeljanz, and so on Xeljanz, again, we continue to see excellent
growth in Xeljanz. In fact, despite the fact that you only see the 1% net sales growth in Q4, I will
point out that, globally, full year, we had 29% growth of Xeljanz, which is one of the highest of all
of our core brands here at Pfizer and our entire portfolio. Q4, we saw 23% prescription growth
and this prescription growth was driven by extremely strong performance in rheumatoid arthritis,
which really was not impacted by the label changes. And we still continue to see strong growth in
ulcerative colitis, even though here was the biggest label change, and so physicians did have to
adjust the way that they were prescribing Xeljanz. But we expect this growth to continue because
we have excellent momentum and confidence in prescribing from our physicians, we have
significant unmet need, and we have greatly improved access. And this access is, in fact, what
drove the 1% net sales in Q4.
There was a -- in Q4 of '18, we saw an inventory build at the end of the year, which didn't happen
in Q4 of '19. So that was one of the reasons that affected our Q4 performance in '19. And then,
also, and more importantly, throughout the course of 2019, we gained significant access. In fact,
we added 59 million incremental lives through contracting. And it's because of the timing of when
these contracts were signed or renewed that drove the subsequent impact of rebates. And this
came to ahead and disproportionately affected us in Q4 of '19.
So I think, stepping back, we're really pleased with the access that we do have in Xeljanz. And
since it was launched eight years ago, this is the most favorable access situation that we've ever
had, which is very important when it comes to our ability to compete with Rinvoq. You asked a
question around Rinvoq. Just to put into perspective, I think, that we are excited about having
another competitor help drive the growth of the JAK class in all of our indications. That being
said, Xeljanz still enjoys a leading market share, especially in RA, where we have more than 15%
of the market share of the entire class.
A - `Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. `
Great. Thank you very much, Angela. Next question please.Operator
Your next question comes from `Umer Raffat, Analyst, Evercore. from Evercore.
Q - `Umer Raffat, Analyst, Evercore. `
Hi. Thanks so much for taking my question. First, Albert, if I may, what are you hearing on a
possible upcoming rule on IPI? There's a lot of press that companies have been notified by White
House. I was curious what you know about it and if there's something we should be very
concerned about?
Mikael, two quick one. One quick one for you on the DMD gene therapy for a minute. You
mentioned there is a proof-of-concept coming. My question is, have there been additional
protocol driven pauses and enrollment? And I asked because recall when the first SAU [ph] in
acute kidney injury happened the trial was paused and I'm curious, has anything like that
happened again?
And then finally, Frank, maybe just quickly on SI&A line. I know it's a little higher than consensus,
but technically, year-over-year versus 4Q '18, it wasn't that much higher. But I also realized 4Q '18
had some Consumer. Maybe if you could just tell us about your holiday party? Thank you very
much.
A - `Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Supply and
All right. So let me start with the IPI. We have not received any notification on that. So there is no
news from our side other than what we read on the newspaper. So, Mikael?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yeah. Just to remind you, we shared at the PBMD conference mid of last year, update on six
patients dosed with our DMD gene therapy that showed encouraging data on expression in
muscle fibers among the micro-dystrophin and on some of the patients we had also an
opportunity to report the encouraging trends on functional outcomes. We have dosed additional
patients since then and we continue to gather experience and efficacy, safety and clinical
management that are incorporated in the procedures how we manage these patients going
forward. We plan to conclude Phase 2 this spring. And based on current data and insights, we are
planning to start Phase 3, of course pending regulatory dialogues later this year as indicated in
Albert's opening remarks.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
All right. Frank, maybe you want to tell us about the holiday party. I was not invited.
A - `Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Supply and
Sure. Yes. I wasn't invited either. So, maybe you will visit the party. Let me run the numbers, and I'll
explain what happened. So for the quarter, SI&A line was about $4.1 billion, it was up about 4%
operationally, a $100 million give or take from the prior year quarter. What really drove that was
increased investment behind some of our brands, some of our oncology products, some of our
launch products like Vyndaqel, and some increased investment in emerging markets. But it was
really investment in terms of supporting our brands.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `Yeah. Thank you, Mikael. And just to make a comment, we are very, very diligent in the way that
we allocate capital. And when we have opportunities to put in promotional money, so we can get
a very strong start, we do it. And we take those money usually by being very diligent in the way
that we control the indirect expense. I have been very clear that within direct there is a very clear
distinction in our mind. So when it comes to things that there are overheads and things that they
are not affecting directly the business results, we are very, very tough. And when it comes to
areas that the investments can affect business results, we are creative and generous. So that's
what you just saw here.
A - `Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Supply and
And these are clearly direct expense --
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And these are direct expenses. And the same -- by the way, although, you didn't ask -- comes to
R&D, right now, we are increasing R&D investments, but we are increasing R&D investments only
for programs, only for projects. We are not increasing infrastructure, we are not increasing
research centers, at labs [ph], we maintain a very strong presence there and we keep that very
strong. But what is driving the increased R&D, it is more Phase 3 or Phase 2 studies. It is very clear.
A - `Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. `
Great. Thank you. Next question please, operator?
Operator
Your next question comes from `David Risinger, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley.
Q - `David Risinger, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Yes. Thanks very much. So I have three questions please. First Albert, could you discuss why Pfizer
decided not to repurchase shares in 2020? And then, maybe, Frank, you can comment on how
we should think about the EPS implications when we consider your guidance relative to consensus
which had assumed some share repurchase?
Second, regarding the opportunity to rationalize the $4.5 billion in costs. Could you just give us a
sense for what percentage reduction is reasonable to assume a few years out? I was guessing
maybe 20%, but I just don't know what's reasonable. And then, third, regarding the transfer of
$600 million in revenue to Upjohn, does that change the economics that Pfizer will receive as part
of the exit to Mylan? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. And I think basically all question can be answered by Frank. I would just make some
introductory comments. The reason why in our capital allocation we are allocating right now
money to increase the dividend and also to invest in our business, or the OpEx to modernize our
facilities, the reason why we don't do right now -- purchase it is, because we want to make sure
that we maintain very strong, high power to invest in the business. The past was a very different
Pfizer. The past of the last decade had to deal with declining of revenues, constant declining of
revenues. And we had to do what we had to do, even if that was finance a (inaudible) or
purchasing back our sales. We couldn't invest them and create higher value.Now, it's a very different situation. We are a very different Company. The Company is going to
have best-in-class top-line growth, revenue story, starting from now from the separation of
Upjohn in the middle of the year -- from the expected separation of Upjohn in the middle of the
year. And we do not need -- we can organically grow EPS. As you can see all our projections on
EPS this year are organically, no (inaudible), but we can use the capital to invest in good Phase 2,
Phase 3 assets that could build our pipeline. So this is the strategy behind it.
Now, let me ask, Frank, to run the numbers.
A - `Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Supply and
So David, all I'll do is, I don't want to duplicate anything Albert said. I'll just add a couple of things
on the share repurchases. One, we also announced a dividend increase in December. So
obviously, we continue to deploy capital in the area of dividends, which we think is important to
our investment thesis and that's something obviously as we go forward, we'll continue to look at.
And then obviously, our 2020 guidance assumes no repurchases. So when you look at the
improvement, which is material in terms of the mid-point versus what we did back in July, none of
that is coming from share repurchases.
Now, let me answer your other couple of questions. On the $600 million transfer to Upjohn and
does that change any of the economics? Let me give some context on this, which is; one, nothing
has been decided yet. We are still in negotiations with Mylan on those two businesses and
whether or not they will transfer to Viatris upon close. If we don't come to an agreement, those
businesses would remain with New Pfizer. And so, we're still in negotiations. And so in terms of
the economics, I'd say, more to come, still to be determined. And if and when we complete that,
obviously, I'll be in a better position to answer that.
On the $4.5 billion of indirect spend and directionally what do we think we can do there, I don't
want to give a specific percentage, because we're still working our way through the process, but I
think I alluded to this earlier, which is, we've already made some nice headway. I think we can
make additional headway. That additional headway will show up in SI&A, and obviously, our intent
would be for that to show up the IBT as a percentage of revenue line. So that's what we're
working to do. Our intent is to improve upon those numbers and as we work our way through the
process and as we have more to report, we'll make sure we do so.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Frank. And also, a comment on the reasons why we transfer those business to Upjohn.
So both of these businesses first of all, they fit more under Upjohn in terms of the dynamics that
they have, so that they can be manage much better. And secondly, I think they fit very nicely with
Mylan because; one, it is the EpiPen predominantly business that right now is shared between
Mylan, we are providing for them. And the second it is, a partnership that we have with Mylan,
that was established years back and with generics in Japan. So both of them fit much better in
Viatris and that's the reason why we separated. And also that will allow you to have, in case that
this happens, a much more clearer view of the growth trajectory of the Company because now
you know exactly what would be the P&L of the remaining Company.
A - `Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. `
Thank you. Next question please, operator.
OperatorYour next question comes from `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor from Cantor.
Q - `Louise Chen, Analyst, Cantor `
Hi. Thanks for taking my questions here. So I had a few. My first question is, is the approximately
6.5% five-year sales CAGR for standalone Pfizer the New Pfizer is still holds? Second question I
had is, how much of a priority is M&A for you under the New Pfizer and what kind of size of deals
or types of deals are you most interested in? And last question I have is on the PCV dataset
that's coming through. You and a competitor also have a whole set of PCV data. I'm just curious
how you see that landscape evolving over time? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thank you very, very much Louise. Let me start with 6% CAGR if it still holds up. Absolutely,
it still holds. Actually as you can see, if anything else, this business what we are projecting five
years CAGR -- all the way to '25 actually CAGR of 6%, this year performed at 8%, 9% for the
quarter and we are projecting 8% for 2020. So definitely we are on good way to achieve that.
As regards to the M&A, yes, the M&A is a very important part of our strategy, and as I just alluded
before, this is why also we are not diluting our firepower with stock purchasing right now because
we do believe that we can create significant value with a right strategic move. Now, we never say
never to anything, but strategically we have made very clear that we are not interesting for a big
M&A, but we will have a cost synergies as value driver, because, first of all, that would be like
diluted in our top-line growth. I don't think there are many companies that they can have this type
of growth trajectory what we have in the next few years.
Second, we could be distracted, because having a big M&A means that thousands of people will
have to work on integrations rather than supporting all these products that we just show, that are
growing in 20%s and 30%s, and also all this pipeline that is coming up. So we never say never,
but this is not our strategy. Our strategy for M&A, it is to be able to have Phase 2, Phase 3
programs, all right, Phase 2, Phase 3, which could become potential medicines in the period '25,
'26, '27, '28, so that we can augment our internal pipeline and we are able that we maintain the
6% growth for the long term, actually, for the very, very long term because right now, five years I
would say is a long-term.
And the other thing that I want to emphasize it is that, the 6% CAGR, it is risk adjusted. I repeat, it
is risk adjusted. Let me answer that. In our projections, we are adjusting all the non-read studies
right now appropriately. Now, if all the Phase 3 goals are on the right way and they are all
successful, it's not going to be 6%, it's going to be double-digits, it is going to be 13%, 14%, 15%.
Now, if everything fails, also, it would not be 6%. It will be very low. But if statistics works and the
studies, let's say, 50% more or less are successful, that means that we will achieve 6%. That's
why I want to emphasize that there is no binary event in our projections. Binary event would be if
that 6% was dependent on two or three major readouts, that if they could go one way or
another, could affect. Right now, they are dependent on 15, 16, 17 blockbusters. And then many
other, but they are much smaller.
So then Frank, maybe something to add on that before I ask Mikael to comment on PCV data?
A - `Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Supply and
And Louise, the only thing I wanted to add, just to punctuate everything Albert said is, and why
are we focusing on Phase 2b Phase 3, it's because the LOEs really start to kick in in 2027. So if you
think about we are in January of 2020, we literally have eight years to work our way through thisproblem. And by the way, given that kind of a timeframe, given the breadth and strength of our
pipeline, given our balance sheet, our capacity, obviously, we feel confident we will be able to
solve that.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yeah. I'm pleased that you asked about our (inaudible) next generation. So, as you know, we have
adult and pediatric studies ongoing. The adult study has been given breakthrough designation at
September 28, based on our encouraging Phase 2 data. And we expect very soon to report
Phase 3 outcome of the adult piece PCV20 trial. And obviously, we are optimistic about that
outcome based on the Phase II and the breakthrough designation.
On the pediatric, we have now accumulated further post fourth dose data of the PCV20 Phase 3
study. These data from the fourth dose further substantiate the positive data reported in the
press release after the third dose. And we expect initiation of Phase 3 soon for the infant vaccine
pending discussions with regulators. The full dataset will be presented at the major vaccine
related conference likely mid of this year.
Now, Albert commented also in his introduction very nicely on the improved relative coverage of
the PCV20 from us versus a potential compared to the 15-valent and he mentioned 33% better
coverage for adults and 42% better coverage in the US for infants. Obviously, very important
significant better coverage. I just wanted to punctuate, when you look in the top European
market, similar -- the improved coverage in adults is actually 60% to 100%, in infants 80 to 200%.
This is all for invasive pneumococcal disease. Also in US, we have analyzed for community-
acquired pneumonia where we see substantial that to cover it for the 20 versus a potential 15-
valent.
So all in all, you can see, we look forward to datasets advancing the program and think it would
be the premier 20-valent and premier pneumococcal vaccine for patients.
A - `Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. `
Thank you. Next question please, operator?
Operator
Your next question comes from `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen from Cowen.
Q - `Steve Scala, Analyst, Cowen `
Thank you. I have a few questions. An increase in the dividend was mentioned twice, but it sounds
as though Upjohn will be spun not split, in which case, the dividend will be reduced. So I'm
wondering, if you could clarify the dividend comment? And I assume the 2020 EPS guidance
implies a spin, not a split.
Secondly, on the abrocitinib versus Dupixent study, given the fact that it is completed, Mikael, I'm
wondering if the data met the very positive portrayal you provided on the Q3 call, which included
Superior itch relief to Dupixent. And then, lastly, will the proof-of-concept DMD data be
presented at the March 31st meeting? Thank you very much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, thank you very much, Steve. Very good questions. So Frank, why don't you clarify once more
the dividend?A - `Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Supply and
Sure. So Steve, in terms of the guidance, you are right. It assumes a spin not a split. And then in
terms of the dividend, I think, you said in your question, there would be a reduction. I don't see it
that way. What we've said is, the sum of Viatris dividend and our dividend would equal the current
dividend that Pfizer show the receipts today. So I don't see a reduction in the dividend. The
dividend income will be kept whole. I think we've been very clear about that all along.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And will continue growing, maybe not at the same pace, which we do now at $0.02 per quarter,
but will continue growing.
A - `Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Supply and
Right. And Steve I can quickly run the numbers for you, if you'd like. So, we think what Viatris has
said is, their first full year of about $4 billion of free cash flow, they would pay about 25% of that in
the dividend. So that's a $1 billion. Total Viatris will have about 1.2 billion shares, you put the 1 billion
over 1.2 billion shares, it's about $0.83. The exchange ratio is 0.12, you put 100 shares of Pfizer,
you get 12 shares of Viatris assuming a spin. That's roughly $10 a share. We would reduce our
dividend on an annual basis by that $10, but the sum of our dividend plus that $0.10 would equal
to what Pfizer share only gets today. In my thing, it's $10 not $0.10.
A - `Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. `
Abrocitinib?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yes. So thank you for your interest in abrocitinib and we believe that it's going to be a new drug
class for such a prevalent disease that affect tens of millions of Americans, atopic dermatitis and
where an oral alternative seems to be a real patient and physician preference. We will soon
report out the data from the important Compare study. So I haven't actually seen to data, so I can
only punctured a little bit what we discussed at earlier investor meetings that, the historical
comparison between abrocitinib and Dupixent suggest that we should expect to see a similar or
better impact on clearing skin, and particularly, as Albert alluded to in his introduction, there is an
important key secondary endpoint looking at each relief, starting with a readout already of two
weeks and then following the study through 12 to 16 weeks.
And the historical data suggests that we should be very optimistic about abrocitinib,
outperforming biological such as Dupixent on each relief at earlier time points and provide the
potential benefits of early onset of relief for disease. Now we have to wait for the data to be able
to obviously be absolutely confident in that outcome. But this is what I believe and look forward
very much to see the data come shortly.
A - `Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. `
And on the DMD question.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yeah. We are finalizing I think the program for the R&D Day. So I can't absolutely promise you, but
I think it's likely that such an interesting program as the DMD gene therapy will be one of thenumber of patients over a longer time period. So please welcome and take a front row seat.
Thank you very much to both and by the way, Frank, as always was right. It is $10 for $0.12 for
Mylan.
A - `Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. `
All right. We will move on to our next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Geoff Meacham, Analyst, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch from Bank of America.
Q - `Geoff Meacham, Analyst, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch `
Morning, guys. Thanks so much for the question. Just have a couple. Mikael, in gene therapy
platform, with the advancement of hemophilia A and B, as well as DMD into Phase 3, what's the
capacity to add additional indications to the portfolio? I mean you guys have been successful with
partnering, but at this point, it does seem like you could expand the platform organically in a
material way.
And then, for Angela, on Xtandi, just wanted to get your perspective on the inroads you've made
in M0 prostate patients and where do you think could represent a tipping point commercially,
especially given generic Zytiga available in the US? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Mikael?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yes. So, Jeff, we are -- share you enthusiasm for the gene therapy platform and what is
particularly, I think, a strategic advantage for us is to end-to-end capability from discovery, clinical,
manufacturing and of course, that capability is also linked to important external partners that
gives us capacity to advance increasing number of internal as well as partner programs. And we
have an option for the Vivet Wilson disease program that could in a relatively near-term future be
available for clinical studies. And we expect from internal and external initiative to aspire to about
bringing one new gene therapy into the clinic every year or so for the next period to come. And
we think that should build up a very comprehensive gene therapy portfolio.
The three programs you alluded to are, of course, the frontier for us with Factor IX that we hope
to be the first Company bringing that over the finish line in Phase 3 now, and to start additional
two Phase 3s for HEM A, where we think we have a best-in-class profile so far. And then, we
already spoke about DMD.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much. Angela?
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
Sure. So in terms of the M0, the non-metastatic CRPC, I mean, what we're seeing here is just
tremendous growth and tremendous performance. Just broadly speaking, in terms of Xtandi, we
had a great quarter, right. We grew 29% and this was driven by two things. One, was actually
demand across both metastatic as well as non-metastatic, but also, what we saw was thecontinued expansion of the actual class, the novel hormone therapies. And in this class, Xtandi
has the lion's share. We have about 35% share right now.
So first of all, to answer your question vis-a-vis generic Zytiga, we really don't see a competition
from a generic versus brand in this instance. I think the competition with Zytiga is really amongst
generic Zytiga versus branded Zytiga, whereas what we're seeing here is a clear uptick in Xtandi.
And specifically from the PROSPER trial in this M0 population, as you say, we are continuing to
see, as I've talked about in all the previous quarters, really, really significant and very confident
and uptake in urology prescribing and we do believe that this is underpinning the growth of our
non-metastatic population. And the fact that these are patients also earlier in their disease is
helpful in driving our growth in this population.
I'll also mention that just from a market share perspective, though the non-metastatic, the M0
population has Xtandi leader as well as Nubeqa, Xtandi by far and away has the leading market
share in this segment and has been from the time that it was launched.
A - `Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. `
Great. Thank you, Angela. Next question, please, operator.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research from Wolfe Research.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Thank you. A couple of questions, one is on Prevnar in China. So sales have been ramping up
there, but the regulatory authorities recently approved a domestically produced 13-valent product
and the CEO of that company suggest they have capacity that's in the 10s of millions of doses
and who knows if that's true or not, but I'm wondering, if you can give some perspective on how
you see competitive dynamics in a situation like this going forward, not only in China, where a
domestic producer could potentially benefit from favoritism, but also if that company were to
take their product into other markets outside of China at a different price point? I think a lot of
investors assume vaccines are durable, forever, but I'm wondering if this sort of thing could be
disruptive and how you take this sort of potential competition into your forecast?
Second question is on M&A. So any M&A that you may engage with in 2020, should we assume at
least during this first six-month window, while you still have Upjohn that that is probably put on
hold? And the last question on Vyndaqel, might there be a low-hanging fruit phenomenon where
we see initial nice uptake, but then it kind of flattens out suddenly or do you expect this will be
continued strong linear growth?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much. I will give a quick answer to your M&A question, Tim, and then, Angela can
deal with Prevnar and probably that growth. On M&A, no. The answer is, no, absolutely not. We
are very actively looking to invest capital on value creation opportunities. And then I assume that
we will have several of them in the first half of 2020 before the close of the deal, again, across
the lines that I have described. You know exactly what we're doing. We want to make sure that
we sustain the growth beyond 2027 when the LOEs will have some impact. Angela, what about
Prevnar, China?
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `Sure. So we acknowledge that there is a new competitor in the form of Walvax in PCV13.
However, I want to recognize that there are some differences here. Though it is a 13-valent
vaccine, the Walvax vaccine is made with a different conjugate. And this conjugate technology
being an older technology, so quite different from what we see in PCV13. That being said, it is a
competitor. However, if you step back and look at the opportunity that we have in the
pneumococcal vaccinations, there are approximately 14 million new births every year in China and
today only over, maybe 1% of those infants are being vaccinated. So regardless of the volumes
that Walvax might have available, I think, the opportunity between us is just much larger than that.
And we have a tremendous amount of untapped potential in the marketplace and we are
confident that with the quality, the reliability, as well as the tremendous experience that Pfizer has
had globally with PCV13, but also the tremendous success that we've had in China, specifically for
PCV13, that our growth will continue. And this is what we expect. We have a very robust footprint.
As you know the vaccines and it will be the same for Walvax's PCV13, this is an out-of-pocket
market and it will be the same for both of us. So this is where we'll be competing, which is why
having a robust promotional engine and having a footprint of representatives that can really be
available to support patients and caregivers at the points of vaccinations is really important. And I
think in this regard, we have demonstrated great expertise and ability to grow this market. So
that's how we see it. We acknowledge the competition, but we continue to see tremendous
potential.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
What about Vyndaqel?
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
All right. So in terms of Vyndaqel, so yes, of course, in the year of launch, one might expect to
see a little bit of a bolus, a number of patients who have been identified and are awaiting
diagnosis and treatment. That being said, we are confident about what we've learned in the
marketplace in our first year of launch. We are confident that we have the right set of tools for
helping physicians to suspect the patients that might have ATTR-CM. We have mobilized
education around using non-invasive methods like scintigraphy to diagnose patients and we have
also mobilized a patient support hub to help patients receive their medications. So I think doing
more of that, as well as continuing to think about new methods to help diagnose and treat
patients such as using artificial intelligence and increased number of tools, all of that will continue
to support our ability to drive the important and rapid diagnosis of patients as well as their
treatment.
A - `Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. `
Great. Thank you. Next question, please?
Operator
Your next question comes from `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi from Citi.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Analyst, Citi `
Thank you. Couple of questions, please. Firstly on your pending oncology biosimilars rollout in the
US, given the challenges historically with biosimilar penetration, could you talk to your
expectations, particularly with these two drugs? There should be an economic incentives for
payers given the pass-through, but yet there is issues in patients who are already on anestablished (inaudible) biosimilar to switch -- and it's a brand to switch to biosimilar. So if you
could give us some kind of sense as to how much penetration and how quickly you may expect,
that would be super helpful?
And then second, in terms of Tafamidis, Angela, you kindly gave some penetration figures at
beginning, which I was struggling to keep up with and write-down. But just more broadly, could
you outline how large you think the untapped patient population really is here and how far Pfizer
is along in establishing that market? Many thanks.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Angela, lot of questions for you today. Please go ahead.
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
Okay. Sure. All right. So I think firstly, we see the dynamics in oncology biosimilars being very
different from that of what we saw for inflammation in the form of Inflectra. So to your point
about how will the dynamics change here and how quickly can payers as well as providers capture
their savings, it's going to be much quicker. The use of oncology biosimilars are much more rapid,
right. You see more patients cycling through, treatment times are much shorter. So that's going to
enable payers and providers to capture savings much more quickly, which is a very different
dynamic that you see in Inflectra where it's a chronic treatment and patients on that treatment for
a very long time. So I think that's one big difference.
The second is that there is already some -- we already have some precedents. We saw this with
Retacrit, where after a year of being in the market, though I know it's a supportive care in
oncology, we already have 20% market share. This is still far cry from what we see in Europe,
where there is much more rapid uptake that I think that it's a signal and an indicator of the
differences you see in the various biosimilar markets. And we also have some early signals from
competitor biosimilars that have already some good market share in oncology biosimilars. So I
think that we have some good indicators that this is going to be a different.
I think the benefit that we see here is that we have a portfolio of three oncology biosimilars all
coming out around the similar time, like around now. And I think what we have -- we have a robust
pricing strategy, discount to the WAC of the originator, as well as I think strong relationships and
networks built with both providers and payers that give us confidence that this will be an area of
high growth for Pfizer.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Angela.
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
And then your question was around Tafamidis. Sorry, can you just repeat that again?
A - `Frank D'Amelio, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Supply and
It was the untapped population.
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
Got you. So as we have said in previous calls, we do believe that this is a rare disease and that in
the US, there will be about 100,000 patients in total. Globally, 500,000, but in the US, 100,000.To date, we have diagnosed 9,000 patients. So that leads us to 9% of the population that we
have diagnosed. So while this may feel like very significant progress from the time that we have
launched, and it is, I think, you can also see that we have a long, long way to go to finding all
100,000 of these patients. And what I spoke earlier about in terms of the education, in terms of
how do you suspect disease, how you diagnose the disease, and then, very quickly gaining
access, so our patients can benefit from treatment of the disease, these are all three levers that
we are intensely focused on.
A - `Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. `
Great. Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Navin Jacob, Analyst, UBS from UBS.
Q - `Navin Jacob, Analyst, UBS `
Hello. Thanks for taking my A couple if I may. Just on biosimilars following up with Angela, your
comment about strong growth continuing on for the biosimilars. So wondering if you could give
any color around how we should think about the trajectory over the next couple of years, is this a
doubling or tripling of that now almost $1 billion business? And then, also, would love to
understand how you're thinking about the tail of each of the individual assets? Are you seeing or
should we be thinking of this as a ramp that goes up for a few years and then eventually starts
tailing off like other generics or do you see this stabilizing and having a sustainable tail?
And then just on Vyndaqel, you received a positive CHMP opinion in the EU in December. Given
that Vyndaqel is already approved probably in Europe, the indication, wondering how we should
be thinking about the price with the addition of the cardiomyopathy indication? Is there any
chance for moving that around? And then how we think about the ramp in the EU relative to the
US? Thank you so much.
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
So I will start with the last one first. So you're right, we just received EU approval for Vyndaqel.
And as you know, there is quite a time lag between approval and then reimbursement in each of
the countries. So all I can say is, right now, we are in active negotiations with the countries in terms
of determining the price of Vyndaqel as well as its reimbursement. You referred to the fact that
we already have the 20 milligram proof-of-polyneuropathy in Europe and we recognize that. That
being said, we have -- first of all ATTR-CM is a completely different indication. The trials that were
conducted as well as the significant mortality benefits that were demonstrated in our clinical trials
for ATTR-CM are completely different and we have the clinical data to demonstrate the great
patient benefit that that we have in ATTR-CM. And so that's the basis of our discussions with each
of the countries in Europe for reimbursement.
Your second question was around Vyndaqel growth and the pace of it. I think, the way to think
about it is the following. We have through analogs seen that only 30% to 50% of all rare diseases
are ever diagnosed, but of course, we believe that based on the mortality data that we have and
the patient benefit that can be derived, that it is critical that we meet that at least beat that. And
so that's what we are intensely focused on. We have 10% of our patients or 9% in the US that are
diagnosed today. We have a long way to go and that's what we need to do.
Your last question --A - `Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. `
What's the rhythm on the biosimilars, so we've had strong growth, 22% this year for the year,
what can we expect going forward?
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
That's right. So I think in terms of the biosimilars, again, this is an area of growth that we can
anticipate. We have three biosimilars now in oncology, plus the two that we have in supportive
care. And so we look forward to this being a significant growth contributor to our oncology
portfolio, not just from a growth percentage perspective, but also from a revenue base
perspective.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
I just wanted to add that Vyndaqel cardiomyopathy has a positive EU recommendation. So we
expect the approval to come soon and that links very nicely to really helpful outline you did
Angela.
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
Thanks, Mikael.
A - `Chuck Triano, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. `
And if we can take our last question please, operator.
Operator
Your final question comes from the line of `Mani Foroohar, Analyst, SVB Leerink from SVB Leerink.
Q - `Mani Foroohar, Analyst, SVB Leerink `
Hey, guys. Thanks for taking my question. A couple of little ones on the rare disease side. In terms
of Tafamidis, we saw pretty attractive growth OUS, including some markets that don't necessarily
have the cardiomyopathy indication yet. Is there some follow-on benefit in polyneuropathy from
the increased promotional efforts in cardiomyopath in Europe and elsewhere?
As a second question, given the expansion of patient opportunity into polyneuropathy in the US,
how do you think about the opportunity to pursue a supplemental NDA or similar strategy in the
US based on the real world evidence guidelines laid out previously by the FDA? Or would that
require a separate study?
And then, finally, on the gene therapy side, obviously, pretty interesting data, hemophilia at ASH
moving forward in a couple of Phase 3s now. How do you think about that market in a universe
where you have multiple therapies within curative intent in gene therapy alongside a number of
fairly robust chronic therapies? Who are the patients who should receive an irreversible
intervention in terms of gene therapy? And who do you think are more appropriate for chronic
therapy such as your own BeneFIX? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I think I will ask Mikael to start with gene therapy and the ASH and all of this great portfolio
assets that we have and how they fit together. Mikael?A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yeah. Thank you very much. What I think is unique in our hemophilia portfolio, first, of course, we
have a legacy being one of the pioneers for intravenous deliverer of Factor VIII and Factor IX. So
we have a platform and experience on the business and R&D side. And as you so nicely alluded
to, we also shared with our partner Sangamo some very much best-in-class data recently on
Factor VIII gene therapy. Our current portfolio has Factor VIII and Factor IX gene therapy plus our
TFPI antibody that has like Hemlibra an opportunity to provide subcu alternative but actually TFPI
can be applicable for both Factor VIII and Factor IX deficiency. So the way we see it develop is
that, I think, physicians will look at gene therapies that durability and good tolerability.
And that has really been the hallmark for the strategies when we developed Factor VIII and Factor
IX best-in-class profile, because there are alternatives for these patients. So once they see the
data for drugs -- the treatments that are approved that have durability and really good outcomes,
which I think has been so far what we have seen with our gene therapies, those will be the one
that can be adopted because there are alternatives that have less convenience, but will at least
until strong data is available to be used. For patients that are early in their disease, diagnosed at
earlier age, I think this will be a very important treatment as it saves them from the breakthrough
bleedings that occur on lifelong treatment with infused factor and particularly for patients that are
at early age that are a very physically active, it is important to have a solution for cure. So I think
this will be a tremendous important patient populations.
But the availability of subcutaneous agents will supplement them and also allow for patients that
may have antibodies to the gene therapies to use them until a sufficient number of gene
therapies available that there is always one for each patient. And finally bringing it together, I think
what's unique with us is the entire portfolio that can address these patients and we really much
forward to be around 2021 and 2022 when we see this portfolio coming into registration phase. I
think that was the main piece here.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. And then, Angela, may be on Vyndaqel, we have seen some uptick in markets that
cardiomyopathy was not approved, what's going on there and about supplemental filing on
polyneuropathy?
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
Yeah, in terms of polyneuropathy, in the US, this is something that we're continuing to explore
with the FDA --
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
No decisions have been made yet, but we are in discussions.
A - `Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group `
That's right. Exactly. And then in terms of the uptakes in polyneuropathy, I mean, I'm not sure that
it's a cardiomyopathy effect. As you know, we are approved. It's an approved indication for us ex-
US. So we continue to actively promote it and it's probably as a result of those activities.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, we will have, as we said, approval for that indication. And this is one we think we will seeare just promoting of course the indications that we have registered over there. So we don't do
anything outside that.
All right. I think this concludes more or less our call. Just I wanted to make some comments
because really I feel that we are at an exciting point in Pfizer's history. And If you take a big-
picture view over the last decade, we have changed and refocused our approach to R&D. We
have improved dramatically its productivity and we have developed the best pipeline we ever
had and one of the best I believe in the industry.
As you've seen in 2019, it was a year that we took deliberate and powerful steps to strengthen
each one of our businesses and eventually shred the current Pfizer into a new, smaller, high
growth profile enterprise that will remain a powerhouse in marketing, but also has been
converted into powerhouse of science.
Following, the expected close of the Upjohn and Mylan transaction later this year, of course, we
will be a very different Company. And we will focus on continuing to execute our strategy. This
includes, we will continue the commercial momentum and preparing our new product launches.
You have all asked a lot of questions about those products that keep surprising with our growth
profile. And also, you've seen what we are taking seriously and we are investing in new launches.
We are continue advancing our internal pipeline and we'll augment it with mid-stage R&D
programs through targeted bolt-on business development opportunities. As I referenced before,
we should continue seeing these type of activities in the first and second half of this year.
Of course, we are working very intensively to set up Upjohn to be in a strong position when it
combines with Mylan to become Viatris and create a formidable company. And of course, we will
continue leading the conversation in Washington as we work to address the affordability
challenge facing patients. So these are the areas that we are focusing for next year.
Once again, we look forward to sharing more pipeline updates during our Investor Day on March
31. Have a great rest of your day.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude Pfizer's fourth quarter 2019 earnings conference call.
Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.