Q4 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's Fourth Quarter 2022 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr.Chris Stevo,
Senior Vice President and Chief Investor Relations Officer. Please go ahead, sir.
`Christopher J. Stevo, Senior Vice President and Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Good morning. Welcome to Pfizer's fourth quarter earnings call. I'm joined today by Dr.Albert
Bourla, our Chairman and CEO; `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, our CFO; and Dr.`Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and, President of
Worldwide Research and Development and Medical. Joining for the Q&A session, we will also
have `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business, Chief Commercial Officer and President, Global Biopharmaceuticals
Business; `Aamir Malik, Chief Business Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President, our Chief Business Innovation Officer; Dr.`William Pao, Chief Development Officer, Executive Vice President, our Chief
Development Officer; and Doug Lankler, our General Counsel.
Before we begin the call, I want to remind you of some logistical items. Materials for this call and
other earnings-related materials are on the Investor Relations section of pfizer.com. Please see
our forward-looking statements disclaimer on Slide 3. And additional information regarding thesestatements and our non-GAAP financial measures is available in our earnings release as well as in
our SEC forms 10-K and 10-Q under Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Information and Factors
That May Affect Future Results.
Forward-looking statements on the call are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties, speak
only as of the call's original date, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any of
these statements.
With that, I will turn the call over to Albert.
`Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you, Chris. Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. During this morning(cid:0)s call, I
will touch on some of our highlights from 2022, and share some thoughts regarding Pfizer's
exciting near and long-term growth plans.
2022 was an outstanding year for Pfizer on multiple fronts. We exceeded $100 billion in revenues
for the first time in our 174-year history. We maintained our industry-leading clinical success rates
and further improved our cycle times, which were already were among the industry's best. We
were named to 10 different "best employer" lists, including those published by Forbes, LinkedIn,
Glassdoor and others. Most important, more than 1.3 billion patients around the world were
treated with our medicines and vaccines. A truly humbling achievement.
Our key growth drivers for the full year 2022 included: global sales of Paxlovid, strong growth of
Comirnaty in developed markets, the launch of Prevnar 20 for the adult population in the U.S., the
continued strong growth of Eliquis globally, the strength of our Vyndaqel family globally, and the
addition of newly acquired products Nurtec ODT/Vydura and Oxbryta.
Looking ahead, we foresee strong operational revenue growth of 7% to 9% in 2023, excluding
revenues from our COVID-19 products and the impact of foreign exchange. We expect our
potential new launches, newly acquired products and inline products will all contribute to this
growth.
These projections include our forecasts for several important potential product launches,
including our RSV vaccine for older adults, potential Prevnar 20 pediatric indication, and products
and candidates that came to us through recent business development activities, including
etrasimod for ulcerative colitis, Nurtec and zavegepant for migraine, and Oxbryta for sickle cell
disease.
We're in the midst of an 18-month period during which we expect to have up to an
unprecedented 19 new products or indications in the market. Fifteen of these 19 are from our
internal pipeline, with the remaining four coming to Pfizer, as just explained, via the recent
business development deals.
Recognizing the importance of these potential launches, as well as those expected in 2024, to
both Pfizer and the patients who rely on our innovations, we are increasing the support we are
putting behind them by investing an incremental $1.3 billion in SI&A expenses in 2023. Dave will
provide more details on these investments during the presentation.
One example of a product that is already benefitting from this additional support is Cibinqo,
which recently has seen an improving growth trajectory that we expect to continue through the
course of 2023. In the fourth quarter of 2022, Cibinqo's new-to-brand prescriptions grew 84%
sequentially, the fastest growth rate in the class.We have started 2023 with 55% commercial formulary access, and we expect that access to
continue to improve during the year, especially with the upcoming expected expansion of the U.S.
indication to include adolescents, 12 years to 18 year-olds, if approved. We also introduced a new
direct-to-consumer campaign in November, which has increased patient awareness of Cibinqo
and led to more patients asking their doctors about it.
We look forward to the expected UC launches of Etrasimod in ulcerative colitis and Ritlecitinib in
alopecia areata is approved as well as the expected to launch of Abrilada our biosimilar to Humira
to further expand our franchise in immunology disease.
However, we recognize that investors are not only interested to hear this year's guidance, but
also to understand the long-term growth prospects of the company. Particular questions are
focused on our plans to offset the expected $17 billion impact of the LOE's between 2025 and
2030, and our long-term projections for our COVID-19 products. We will try to address both,
starting with this slide regarding our business, excluding COVID.
As you can see in this chart, we expect the 15 of the 19 potential launches that are coming from
our internal pipeline to generate 2030 revenues that will more than offset the expected LOE
losses forecast for 2025 to 2030. The potential $20 billion in the chart is a risk-adjusted number. I
would also point out that some of the potential launches are expected to be bigger contributors
to our growth than others. And if all 15 were to achieve their full potential, this figure could go
even higher.
In addition, we believe we have the ability, if successful, to add at least $25 billion of risk-adjusted
revenues to our 2030 topline expectations through business-development activity. As we have
said previously, we believe the deals we have already done for Arena, Biohaven, Global Blood
Therapeutics and ReViral have the potential to get us more than 40% of the way there with
approximately $10.5 billion in expected 2030 revenues.
I am very pleased to see that the analysts' consensus expectations for the same revenues have
already reached $9.5 billion, closing materially the gap that previously existed between internal
and external expectations. Four of these products have already launched or are expected to
launch, subject to regulatory approval, in 2023. We also have more than enough capital to invest
in the additional opportunities needed to meet or exceed this target.
And, of course, we have many more potential vaccines and medicines in our pipeline, with
numerous launches expected in the 2024 to 2030 timeframe, if successful in clinical trials and
approved. Some of the most promising assets include: our oral GLP-1 candidate for diabetes and
obesity all of them are under this dotted box XP, potential combo vaccines for flu, COVID-19 and
RSV, our potential vaccines for Lyme disease and shingles, multiple new oncology product
candidates, including ARV-471 and our CDK4 inhibitor for endocrine receptor-positive breast
cancer, our gene therapy candidates for hemophilia A, hemophilia B and Duchenne muscular
dystrophy, our pan-hemophilia A&B antibody treatment, and many more.
If approved, we expect each of these to be key incremental contributors to our growth
aspirations through 2025 and beyond. Even without any of these additional potential products,
we expect our 2025 to 2030 revenue CAGR to be approximately 6%. And if some of them are
successful, the CAGR could exceed 10%.
Now, let me turn my attention to our COVID-19 portfolio. At the JP Morgan Conference earlier
this month, I spoke about expecting 2023 to be a transition year, representing a low point in our
COVID-related revenues. Let me provide a little more color on that.I will start with Comirnaty in the U.S. as an example. In 2022, 31% of the population or 104 million
Americans received an average 1.4 doses of COVID-19 vaccines for a total of 144 million doses.
Comirnaty's share was 64% or 92 million of these 144 million doses as you can see in the first
column.
In 2023, we expect about 24% of the population -- or 79 million people to receive vaccine doses
for COVID during this year. This drop is due to expected fewer primary vaccinations and reduced
compliance with recommendations. We expect they will receive about 1.3 doses per person on
average in 2023. The drop is because fewer people are expected to receive their primary doses
and, for the most part, only those who are older or at higher risk are expected to continue
receiving more than one booster per year.
This should result in about 102 million total vaccine doses administered in 2023. We believe Pfizer
will maintain at least its 64% market share and therefore expect about 65 million doses of the
Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine to be administered in 2023.
In 2024, we expect the utilization rates and market share figures to stabilize and come in roughly
the same as in 2023.
Then starting in 2025, and continuing in 2026 and beyond, we expect to see an increase in
COVID-19 vaccination rates, assuming the successful development and approval of a COVID/flu
combination product.
A successful introduction of a COVID/flu combo could over time bring the percentage of
Americans receiving the COVID-19 vaccine closer to the portion of people getting flu shots, which
is currently about 50%. Outside the U.S., we expect these general trends to be similar -- with
some variations from country to country.
So, what does this mean for revenues? We expect 2023 to be a transition year in the U.S. In 2022,
we sold at pandemic prices more doses than were eventually used. This resulted in a
government inventory build that we expect to be absorbed some time in 2023 probably the
second half of the year. Around that time, we expect to start selling Comirnaty through
commercial channels at commercial prices. We expect that in years 2024 and beyond, the doses
sold and doses used during the year will more closely align together and the commercial price to
remain relatively stable with only inflation like price increases.
Now, let me briefly turn to Paxlovid. In 2022, we estimate that 110 million COVID-19 symptomatic
infections were reported in the world, excluding China. Approximately 12% of them were treated
with approximately 14 million oral therapy courses and Paxlovid had the lion's share of them with
approximately 90% market share. Average was 86%, but in the second half of the year, it
exceeded the 90%.
Keep in mind that this reflects a full year of reported infections, but only a partial year of Paxlovid
availability due to supply constraints in the first quarter of 2022.
In 2023 and beyond, we expect infections to increase slightly at 2% annually, due to waning
immune protection over a population resulting from reduced vaccination rates. Similarly, we
expect treatment rates to increase as awareness, education and additional oral entries will grow
the oral antiviral market.
Finally, we expect Paxlovid to maintain very high share despite additional competitive entries,
given its strong benefit-risk profile and brand recognition.So what does this mean for revenue? As with Comirnaty, we expect 2023 to be a transition year
for Paxlovid as well. In 2022, we sold at Pandemic prices more treatment courses than were
eventually used. This resulted in a government inventory build that we expect to be absorbed
some time in 2023, probably second half. Around that time, we expect to start selling Paxlovid
through the commercial channels at commercial prices. We expect in years 2024 and beyond that
the courses sold and used will align closely together within every year.
There has been a great deal of speculation regarding the new but uncertain market opportunity
for Paxlovid in China, so let me share what we are seeing. We have an agreement with one
company to import and distribute Paxlovid in China, local company, and we have a manufacturing
agreement with another local Chinese company for local manufacturing.
Pfizer shipped only tens of thousands of courses to China in fiscal year 2022. From December
which is the first month of our non-U.S. fiscal year, through March, we expect to ship millions of
courses to meet local demand.
We expect we will be able to sell effectively under government reimbursement through end of
March. And despite China's recent decision not to include Paxlovid on the country's National Drug
Reimbursement List, we expect to offer the product on the private market after April 1, unless, of
course, a listing opportunity opens up before then.
Lastly, I want to point out that while we are expecting increased utilization in all regions of the
world as infections increase, we are not including any major new non-U.S. or non-China contracts
in our 2023 forecasts.
Let me close with a few thoughts regarding our scientific engine. R&D continues to be the
lifeblood that fuels us as a company, which is why we plan to increase our R&D spend by at least
8.7% in 2023 to 12.4 and 13.4 billion. In addition to the increased investments, we are taking steps
not only to further improve our industry leading success rates and cycle times, but also to
increase overall return on investment and R&D productivity.
As you can see in the last year, we continuously prioritize our pipeline to focus on the assets that
represent potential breakthroughs and have the potential for generating higher returns -- putting
more capital behind larger opportunities like GLP-1, flu, elranatamab, and others.
We are at an inflection point to act from a position of strength with our best-in-class R&D
productivity, a robust pipeline of innovative assets and one of the highest R&D budgets in the
industry. With that, I will turn it over to Dave to provide details on our fourth-quarter performance
and our outlook for 2023. After Dave, Mikael will provide an update on our R&D pipeline.
Take it over, Dave.
`Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Great. Thank you, Albert, and good morning, everyone. Albert has already taken you through
many of the key drivers of our full-year performance, so I will focus my opening remarks on some
key highlights from the fourth quarter.
Revenues grew operationally 13%, primarily driven by Comirnaty's strong growth in developed
markets following the slowdown in deliveries that we discussed in the third quarter ahead of the
rollout of the bivalent booster. We also saw very strong performances from Paxlovid outside the
U.S. and the ongoing launch of Prevnar 20 for adults within the U.S.Excluding direct sales and alliance revenues related to our COVID-19 products, Pfizer's revenues
grew 5% operationally in the quarter, and if recently acquired products from Biohaven and Global
Blood Therapeutics are also excluded, revenues were up approximately 3% in Q4. Reported
diluted earnings per share this quarter grew 48% to $0.87, while adjusted diluted EPS of $1.14
grew 69% on an operational basis in the quarter. Both EPS figures include a $0.32 benefit from
lower acquired IPR&D expenses compared to last year's fourth quarter.
Once again in the quarter, foreign exchange movements significantly impacted our results,
reducing fourth quarter revenues by approximately $2.5 billion, or 11%, and adjusted diluted EPS
by $0.19, or 24%, compared to LY. On a full-year basis, foreign exchange negatively impacted
revenues by $5.5 billion, or 7%, and adjusted diluted EPS by $0.36, or 9%.
Turning now to 2023 and the financial outlook for the company. Let me first point out that our
approach to guidance in 2023 is fundamentally different than prior years. Given the expected
transition to commercial markets for our COVID franchise, and away from an Advanced Purchase
Agreement environment, our guidance reflects our best estimates for revenues and profits for
these products for the full year, not just what has been contractually secured.
On a total company basis, we expect revenues of between $67 billion to $71 billion, reflecting an
operational decline of 31% at the midpoint. Importantly, we expect that revenues from our
business excluding COVID products will grow between 7% and 9% on an operational basis in
2023. That growth is projected to be split between contributions from our new product launches,
our recently acquired products, as well as our in-line portfolio.
The total company revenue declines are entirely driven by our COVID products, which are
expected to go from their peak in 2022 to their low point in 2023 before potentially returning to
growth in 2024 and beyond. While patient demand for our COVID products is expected to
remain strong throughout 2023, much of that demand is expected to be fulfilled by products that
were delivered to governments in 2022 and recorded as revenues last year.
Now I want to point out that our total company revenue guidance range is wider than what is
implied by the 7% to 9% operational growth rate range for the business excluding COVID. The
wider guidance range reflects the potential volatility that we see in our COVID product revenues,
given that they can be significantly impacted by factors outside of our control, such as the
infection rates and severity of the virus, as well as the timing for transitioning to a traditional
commercial model here in the U.S.
And you can see on this slide our cost and expense guidance for 2023. As I mentioned in my
remarks at our investor event in December, both SI&A and R&D expenses are expected to be
significantly higher in 2023 versus 2022, despite the fact that our overall revenues are coming
down.
Higher investments in SI&A are significantly focused on the successful launches of the large
number of potential new products that Albert highlighted, as well as recently acquired assets.
Additionally, the expected commercial launch of both Comirnaty and Paxlovid in the U.S. will
require additional investments as we transition away from the government market. These
investments are squarely focused on supporting the company's 2025 to 2030 growth
aspirations.
We also intend to invest significantly into our research efforts this year, with multiple exciting and
potentially high-value programs receiving additional funding, including our oral GLP-1 programs,
elranatamab, and respiratory combination vaccines.All of this spending to support our commercial and research activities, we believe, will not only
yield an attractive return, but will also contribute towards setting us on a path to achieving our
long-term growth goals.
I'll point out, that when you exclude revenues and expenses related to COVID products, our
expected operating margin profile this year is largely consistent with the prior year. This reflects
incremental investments in SI&A related to launch products and R&D, as well as lower acquired
IPR&D expenses.
In 2023, we are investing in both R&D and SI&A in advance of revenue contributions from new
products. Looking longer-term, we expect this spending will be maintained, with the P&L growing
into this cost base as new product revenues begin to be fully realized, with margins improving as
a result.
Given that 2023 is both a year of investment and transition, I thought it would be helpful to
outline many of our key assumptions built into our guidance. I don't intend to walk you through all
the elements here, but Slides 19 and 20 outline many of the details.
In summary, these assumptions include: Strong revenue growth of 7% to 9% in our business
excluding COVID products. Additional investments in SI&A and R&D to support Pfizer's near and
longer-term growth plans. Continued patient demand for our COVID-related products worldwide,
with vaccination rates declining slightly and utilization of treatments slightly increasing. Rephasing
of the European Commission Comirnaty contract over multiple years versus full delivery in 2023.
And, finally, U.S. commercialization of our COVID products in the second half of 2023.
In summary, as we enter a new year, our business is extremely strong, with many in-line, acquired
and expected launch products capable of driving strong growth with an attractive pipeline of
potential products coming in the future. We believe 2023 will be an important year for Pfizer, and
that is why we are deploying our resources into quality execution in order to fully realize the
growth opportunities we see within our portfolio and within our pipeline, which have the potential
to impact our growth outlook 2030 and beyond.
So with that, let me turn it over to Mikael.
`Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Thank you, Dave. Today, I want to set the stage for an anticipated catalyst-rich 18 months. As
Albert mentioned, we are in a position of unprecedented strength in our history and I'm excited
to share a high-level overview of an evolved strategy for Pfizer R&D to focus our resources on
transformative programs, which could be most impactful for patients, drive improved return on
R&D investment and create the most value.
We will leverage and continue to innovate our powerhouse capabilities in medicine design, and
continue to innovate lightspeed drug development to further improve our industry-leading
success rates and cycle times. We have rethought our approach to rare disease and we'll move
from having a standalone research unit to aligning key programs with other therapeutic areas. We
plan to externally advance rare disease programs that do not fit into a core therapeutic area of
focus.
At the same time, we plan to tap into the expanding external innovation ecosystem by actively
pursuing biotech innovation and emerging innovation that fits strategically and accessing external
assets that are differentiated. Taken together we believe these actions will help position us tolead the industry in reaching more patients with the most impactful near-term blockbuster
breakthroughs while driving forward the next wave of innovations.
I'm pleased to share some examples with you today. We are pursuing potentially transformative
efficacy in our inflammation & immunology franchise, with the potential launches of etrasimod in
ulcerative colitis and ritlecitinib in alopecia areata, which both have the potential to be
blockbusters, and a planned Phase 3 study start of anti-interferon Beta in dermatomyositis and
other idiopathic inflammatory myopathies.
Our next wave of innovation includes two monoclonal antibody candidates for atopic dermatitis
which exemplify our multispecific platform and in-house biomedicine design expertise. Two
assets currently in Phase 1 clinical trials each target three cytokines in a single therapeutics, so we
refer to them as trispecifics.
On the right our Phase 1 pharmacokinetic profiles of the average plasma concentration. For both
molecules, the profiles suggest that once-a-month, or even less frequent, subcutaneous dosing
may be supported. There is potential for improved efficacy with more potent interleukin 4 and
interleukin 13 neutralization plus an expanded breadth of efficacy by blocking Thymic Stromal
Lymphopoietin to potentially cover more endotypes, or by blocking interleukin 33 to potentially
enhance itch reduction.
The Phase 1 studies continue. We aim to bolster our 30-year experience in hematology with a
strong pipeline that complements our in-line portfolio and collectively has blockbuster potential. I
will talk more about elranatamab and GBT-601 in a moment, so will highlight here that we expect
multiple data readouts for TTI-622 in hematological malignancies, two Phase 3 readouts for
inclacumab in sickle cell disease in the second half of 2024 and a Phase 3 readout for
marstacimab in patients with hemophilia A or B in the second quarter of 2023.
Marstacimab has FDA Fast Track designation for both hemophilia A and B with inhibitors. If
successful, we project submitting for the non-inhibitor indication in both hemophilia A and B in the
third quarter of 2023. We recently announced positive top-line results from a Phase 3 study of
our hemophilia B gene therapy candidate and expect a pivotal readout for our hemophilia A gene
therapy in the first half of 2024.
We recently presented strong updated Phase 2 data on elranatamab, our investigational B-cell
maturation antigen, or BCMA, CD3-targeted bispecific antibody, for relapsed or refractory
multiple myeloma in heavily pre-treated patients who had received at least three classes of prior
therapies. This candidate, which has the potential to be a leader in the BCMA bi-specific class,
demonstrated a high objective response rate of 61% in patients with no prior BCMA-targeted
treatment, early and deep responses, and a manageable safety profile.
Given factors currently limiting the availability of novel therapies in the triple-class exposed
setting, elranatamab has the potential to reach a broader and greater number of patients as an
off-the-shelf option with reduced dosing frequency that is administered subcutaneously, offering
more convenience than intravenous administration.
With FDA Breakthrough Therapy Designation granted last year, elranatamab could potentially be
approved this year. As there is blockbuster potential and patient value beyond the triple-class
refractory population, our clinical strategy aims to move to earlier lines of therapy and
combination approaches with the potential, if successful, for multiple approvals to expand
eligibility and duration of therapy.Now, to our next generation oral, once-daily, hemoglobin S polymerization inhibitor candidate that
is in a unique class and has the potential to expand the prophylactic treatment of people with
sickle cell disease. Standard-of-care treatment rates have typically been low due to side effects,
poor efficacy, or both.
While Oxbryta made substantial progress in preventing hemoglobin polymerization, or sickling,
GBT-601 is a potentially best-in-class candidate which may reduce both hemolysis and frequency
of vaso-occlusive crises. The most recent data from our Phase 1 multiple ascending dose study
showed improvements in hematocrit and hemoglobin levels over time, mean hemoglobin
occupancy of more than 32% for the 100 milligram maintenance dose and more than 41% for the
150 milligram maintenance dose, and improvements in red blood cell health with the higher
maintenance doses.
The maintenance doses were well tolerated. We believe these results may be transformative for
patients, with a potential to achieve 35% to 45% hemoglobin occupancy, which is considered
optimal for both hemoglobin oxygen affinity and preventing sickling, and approaches levels seen
with gene therapies. This asset is also being studied in an ongoing phase 2 study with a seamless
Phase 2/3 design. We plan to start the Phase 3 part in the second half of 2023.
Next, we aim to expand our leadership in breast cancer with a pipeline of complementary next-
wave candidates. Our CDK4 inhibitor targets improving on CDK4/6 inhibition standard of care by
maximizing CDK4 coverage. We are studying it in Phase 1 in hormone receptor positive/HER2
negative metastatic breast cancer as a single agent and in combination with endocrine therapy.
The majority of hormone receptor positive breast cancers express low CDK6, while CDK4 is likely
to be a major cell cycle driver. We have seen that CDK4/6 inhibition can lead to neutropenia that
requires more frequent blood test monitoring mostly driven by CDK6 inhibition and that
complete CDK4 inhibition by CDK4/6 inhibitors is challenging due to dose-limiting hematologic
adverse events.
In the Phase 1 combination study, the confirmed objective response rate in combination with
fulvestrant or letrozole reached nearly 30% and the clinical benefit rate was approximately 50%
in 21 patients with measurable disease. The median progression-free survival was more than 24
weeks in 26 patients including five without measurable disease. All patients were heavily pre-
treated with a median of four lines of prior treatment.
All patients received prior CDK4/6 inhibitor treatment and 67% received prior fulvestrant. The
asset was well tolerated with CDK4 showing only 15% Grade 3 neutropenia and no Grade 4.
Here, we show a scan of a patient who achieved partial response and was on treatment for 47
weeks. She had received six lines of prior treatment, including CDK4/6 inhibition and fulvestrant.
We are currently engaged in dose optimization, enrolling CDK4/6-naive cohorts, and planning to
start the randomized study in second-line treatment of estrogen receptor positive/HER2 negative
metastatic breast cancer this year.
Additional data readouts from our next wave of breast cancer candidates are anticipated in the
first half of 2023. In addition to the assets I spoke about today, we anticipate multiple milestones
over the next 18 months.
We expect a pivotal IBRANCE readout in hormone receptor positive/HER2 positive metastatic
breast cancer, a pivotal study start for ARV-471 and a Phase 2 readout for our KAT6 inhibitor. We
have achieved incredible advancement in our vaccines portfolio, including candidates that harness
our leadership in mRNA with an unprecedented number of milestones expected.In addition to the expected launches shown here, we expect a Phase 3 data readout from our
modRNA flu candidate, and a potential respiratory combination study start. A Phase 1/2 study of
our shingles candidate, the first mRNA-based shingles vaccine program began last week. In
inflammation and immunology as well as internal medicine, key catalysts include potential
launches of potential blockbusters, a planned pivotal study start with anti-interferon Beta and
data readouts in metabolic disease.
We're also making good progress in our anti-infectives portfolio, including anticipating full
approval for PAXLOVID, and planned study starts for both our second-generation COVID-19
antiviral candidate, which may have no or limited drug-drug interactions and our RSV antiviral
candidate.
In closing, we are very optimistic about the many transformative catalysts emerging from the
pipeline. Pfizer scientists are working with urgency and commitment to help the most patients as
quickly as we can. Thank you. Let me turn it over to Chris to start the Q&A session.
`Christopher J. Stevo, Senior Vice President and Chief Investor Relations Officer `
Thank you, Michael. Chelsea, why don't you call for questions, please. We'll take as many
questions as time permit and investor relations will be available after the call answering a detailed
questions that you're not able to address on the call itself.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Yes sir. (Operator Instructions) And we'll take our first question from `Louise Chen, Cantor Fitzgerald & Co with Cantor.
Your line is open.
Q - `Louise Chen, Cantor Fitzgerald & Co `
Thank you for taking my questions here. So first question I had for you is, do you expect your
COVID flu combo to be on an mRNA platform. And then I wanted to ask you on RSV vaccine.
There's a few players in the space and just wondering if you think anybody could potentially get a
preferential recommendation from ACIP or is that really hard to achieve? And the last question is
on your trispecific monoclonal antibody, is Atopic Dermatitis still a key focus for you and if so are
you moving the focus to this monoclonal antibody or are you still focused on Trastuzumab for
Atopic Dermatitis? And also you had an oral PD, -- sorry a topical PDE-4 for that was in
development. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you, Louise. Clearly for the ACIP will depend on the data and is difficult not to say the
preferential could be achieved or not. But for both questions, COVID fluids mRNA, RSV is not --
Mikael and then also, about the trispecific antibodies.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
So as Albert quotes about Cibinqo's expansion, we think there's room for many opportunities in
Atopic Dermatitis. We wanted to highlight this as really noble pioneering approach to go beyond
the current antibodies in Atopic Dermatitis with potentially many other allergic diseases. But thereis room for several products in our pipeline in both oral and topical segments, as you mentioned.
So this is an area, I think we will excel in.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
And what about COVID flu, about this mRNA and RSV that it is not mRNA. How do you feel about
it?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Well, I think it actually offers an opportunity when you have the breath to have a pipeline with
different platforms. We think that the COVID flu, which contains six components -- and we have
made a real good progress in enrolling the study and will start to share data in the near future. By
itself of course a fast track forward pending data. But for the use of a potential triple vaccine
rather than adding up more and more mRNA with the current technology that we have seen can
lead to reactogenicity limitation and less tolerability, we think this flexibility to add on a protein
may give you the perfect balance between efficacy and tolerability.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you, Mike. And also true as we are mastering multiple technology vaccines. So we are using
fit for purpose here, every time we feel that the technology is appropriate for the problem we're
trying to solve, we apply this technology. Flu and COVID, they are speed is of essence, because
there are variants that are coming. So mRNA is ideal position to address these tolerance. With
RSV, the virus is not staying that often [ph]. So a protein approach that has brilliant durability
profile almost like placebo was -- when we saw the data, the responses of the vaccine arm
compared to the placebo arm are very difficult to separate with very, very high efficacy in our
case. I think it's the best way to move our -- we have the benefit of having multiple approaches
and multiple technologies. Next question, please.
Operator
Our next question will come from `Terence Flynn, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.
Q - `Terence Flynn, Morgan Stanley `
Great. Thanks for taking the questions. Maybe two part for me. I was just wondering if you can
provide any more details on European vaccine -- the European vaccine contracts that were
extended. Just wondering, if you were able to secure a higher average price given some of the
headlines in the press earlier this week. And then latest thinking on Paxlovid commercial pricing in
the US as well. I was wondering if you could you could weigh in on that? And then the second
question relates to economics with BioNTech on a combo vaccine. Just wondering how that will
work in the event that you do go forward with a combined COVID and seasonal flu messenger
RNA vaccine? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
I'll take the last one and then Angela will answer the European vaccine and the Paxlovid. The -- as
you know that flu vaccine we are developing BioNTech also have an economic position into it. And
of course, the COVID vaccine, it is a vaccine, but we are sharing with that. So we are not ready to
make any comments regarding the economics, about the potential COVID and flu vaccine.
Angela, what about the European situation and Paxlovid for pricing?So for Comirnaty in Europe and this was a multi-year contract that we entered into with the
Commission and the Member States. And so I think the pricing there is what it is for the contract
and we're in discussions with the European Commission regarding the -- '23 and what the
deliveries will look like. Specifically for Pax, I think that was your next question. That is going
commercial only later in this year. So we're now preparing, what those pricing scenarios could
look like and we'll share more at the right time.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you, Angela. And also to repeat, I think David has mentioned already. But in our guidance
for this year, we factor only a portion of the European contact. So we spread the volumes into
multiple years. Although no agreement has been reached yet. Next question, please.
Operator
Our next question will come from `Robyn Karnauskas, Truist with Truist. Your line is open.
Q - `Robyn Karnauskas, Truist `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. So just to drill down a little bit on Paxlovid. Looks like key data
numbers are implying about 9.3 million versus say the 12 million that you mentioned for 2022. So I
was wondering if we think about the split going forward ex-US, could it be somewhat similar. Do
you think it'll be more skewed, be more even in the US and ex-US? And then my second question
is, it also could imply that about half of your 20 million contracts were used in 2022. So how do
you think about -- like could it be very minimal revenue as you drawdown that Paxlovid and will go
into a stockpile? Thanks.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Yeah. Angela?
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
Sure. Well, let's start with the US Paxlovid. So in 2022, when we launched Paxlovid, we -- the first
quarter of Paxlovid -- at the first quarter of post-launch, we did not really have sufficient supply
because we were still ramping up. So the total number of doses that were used in the US for
Paxlovid is actually less than the demand. So that's why you see the -- we used about 8.6 billion
and 8.9 billion doses in the US when actually demand was much more than that.
Then you asked a question about IQVIA and the difference. And IQVIA doesn't capture all the
channels so you're not going to see an exact match. But I think that in general for 2023, the
number of doses that you will see for the US and for ex-US, it's just going to be a function of the
contracts that were made, the deliveries that we have to make in each of the countries and also
the timing of the commercialization. And it just looks different in every single country.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you, Angela. And also to emphasize that the 12 million in our calculations are global
number, not the US number. It's a global number. So I believe the 9 million of IQVIA is
approximately in the US. And -- but I don't know if they have also an estimation for outside the US.
So next question, please.
OperatorOur next question comes from --
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
It's a global number -- I'm sorry for the clarification. It's a global number excluding time, that -- a
lot of what [ph] I mentioned. Next question please.
Operator
Our next question will come from Geoff Meacham with Bank of America. Your line is open.
Q - `Geoffrey Meacham, BofA Securities `
Hey, guys. Good morning and thanks for the question. Just had two. The first one is on COVID-19.
When look at the 2023 demand and beyond really for both products, I guess I'm trying to better
understand the volume side of the equation. Are you guys digging in the emergence of say a
new variant or maybe a change in behavior towards boosters, that's the first question? The
second one is from a BD perspective, Albert, you a lot of cash to deploy. If your COVID
assumptions don't quite play out, does that inform the number of deals or the size of deals, I
guess, I'm trying to get a view about where BD fits in your strategic priorities? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Of course. In fact [ph], what is the assumption about the disease? Because that's fundamental
assumption behind all these projections that we are doing. It is that the disease will continue in
the foreseeable future, manifesting clinical, the same way that it does the last six, nine months.
So there would be mutations, and there would be infections over there and that the vaccination
rates will be coming down because of lack of compliance, but will stabilize to a certain degree of
people, but they believe in vaccinations and they feel they are at higher risk and they want to
make the vaccines.
At the same time, the infections were slightly going up because when you have way in immune
protection from the population then you will see more infections are actually more severe
infection. These are the assumptions that were are using. We are not using assumptions that all
the variants will have -- were escaping the protection of the vaccine. But we are using the
assumptions that people will be getting one point free in the beginning and then going down 1.1,
1.2 doses per year as an overall booster.
What was the second question? On the BD. Yes. Clearly business development is by far one of
our biggest priorities. Something that I personally take care of and something that we have a very
big team screaming all the opportunities. I would like to ask Aamir, who's responsible for that
area to make some comments about our priorities.
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief Business Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President `
So just specifically to your questions, you heard Albert describe we set this aspiration goal of $25
billion in 2030 from BD where over 40% of the way there with approximately $10.5 billion of that
number through the deals that we've done. And we feel very confident that we've got the
financial flexibility on the balance sheet and the firepower to complete what we need to, to
achieve that goal. And we're going to continue to be disciplined about how we pursue that.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you. I think we can move to the next question.Operator
Our next question will come from Steve Scala with Cowen. Your line is open.
Q - `Stephen Scala, Cowen and Company, LLC
Thank you. I have a couple questions. On Page 4 of the release, Pfizer reiterated that non-COVID
revenue growth in 2023 will be 7% and 9%, and anticipates it will be split between launch
acquired in in-line products, that implies about $3.5 billion in incremental revenue growth. But in
2022, Prevnar alone grew $1 billion and Eliquis and Vyndaqel together added another $1 billion. So
with the launch and acquired products growing well, what does this guidance imply for the base
business in 2023? It seems like a substantial slowdown is implied in the base business, in the
current year? Second question. Has Pfizer learned anything from the Zeposia performance to
date that would either increase or decrease its confidence in an Etrasimod? Thank you very much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
I would say -- Dave, do you want to say how is allocated the growth between in-line, new
products and acquired products?
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Yeah. Really good question. I think if you look at each of those free buckets, we see growth from
acquired products, we see acquired from new products and importantly, we see growth in our in-
line portfolio as well. We do not anticipate nor do we see a slowdown in that respect.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
It's approximately, one third, one third, one third. And Angela, what about Etrasimod?
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
I think we're really excited about Etrasimod as a new entry in UC. It's a market that has been
heavily dominated by biologics and then followed by the use of JAK after the biologics. But really
in the earlier treatment -- given the earlier treatment position, there really hasn't been much
innovation and that's where we see Etrasimod fitting in. I think the safety profile of Etrasimod and
its efficacy allows it to be used very well as a -- as an agent prior to the use of biologics. And
that's where we see the ability to tap into new segment and to grow.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
And because I'm very excited about the product. William would you like also to add something
about it.
A - `William Pao, Chief Development Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yeah, I would just say we're excited about its best in class profile. The study that we did had a
3+3 design. We hope and anticipate that we'll have no black box warning. We don't anticipate any
require for titration. The once oral dosing. 100% of our patients were in complete remission after
year. And we're still a -- but we're in complete mission after one we're steroid-free. And we also
have quick lymphocyte recovery after discontinuation. So we feel all of these features potentially
make Etrasimod a best in class profile.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `That's exactly the point. Best in class in the area that it is poorly served right now with current
solution. So we see a lot of opportunity. Let's go to the next question, please.
Operator
Our next question will come from `Colin Bristow, UBS with UBS. Your line is open.
Q - `Colin Bristow, UBS `
Hey, good morning, and thanks for taking the questions. I guess, first question on COVID and sort
of piggyback on back on what Jeff was asking. In some of your slides and comment, you're clearly
expecting a sort of stable vaccine utilization rate when -- in the last 12 months we've seen this
number decline on a backdrop of a virus that is evolving to less clinically severe variance. And so
what underpins your confidence in these longer-term assumptions?
Then also on in terms of your COVID '23 guidance, you mentioned -- you'd guided to a sufficient
range for variations and infection rate et cetera. I was just wondering how much an allowance
you've made for the potential timing or reduction in contractual orders as is the current situation
with the Brussels negotiation? And then maybe just a quick one on the pipeline DMD. This feels
noticeably in the background versus other assets at the similar stage. Just could you update us on
your level of enthusiasm and commitment to this program, especially in light of the potential
competitor approved one May of this year? Thanks so much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
DMD, Mikael.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
We continue to be enthusiastic about gene therapy in DMD. I think we have actually published the
strongest data on the two drugs with efficacy, as well as a lot of biomarkers from our Phase 1
across a much broader age group than anyone else. And I can't comment when possibly
someone else will get it registered, but we expect data read out within possibly less than a year.
And we think that this could be a very important drug, and we will have randomized data, which is
not the case for the -- any other application currently to have at that size and scope.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you. As regards to the assumptions of our COVID to protect the vaccines for example. We
are dropping the numbers. So for instance the 31% of people receiving the vaccine, that was the
actually in '22. We're going to '24. Then we are reaching a level of really people that they are
really committed to the idea of getting vaccinations and they are grouped by physicians they truly
believe in the vaccination and the value of vaccination. We are also dropping the number of
doses there, so we go to 1.3.
And then eventually as (inaudible) the year's progress, the number of doses that people will
receive is the small. Keep in mind that to get numbers like 1.2, you need a very, very small percent
of patients to dose this. So you can achieve something like that. Maybe 5% of the population to
get a second dose and then you would go to these numbers as you would see, if you include
also primary doses and children. So we believe the assumptions are very reasonable with the
expectations that the COVID will remain as it is right now. So nothing more severe and nothing
that would make it less disappearance -- we take into consideration. But the compliance with the
recommendation for the current authorities also because of the public would be less.Clearly, people at that moment will be an introduction of combination vaccines because the
convenience of something like that. And the fact that people are presenting themselves to
receive flu vaccines given that a combo vaccine could be the same injection and will cost zero
copay likely will become the choice of many to get this full coverage. So we are quite confident
on these assumptions. But of course, they are only assumptions, we need to wait and see.
The other thing, it is on the Europe, you asked few questions. I know that there are rumors, but I
don't think that it is appropriate for us to make any comments, while we are in a good sense with
our partners in the Commission and with the Member States. So we only said that we factor on
the part of the deliveries in this year, instead of all the deliveries because we are in the middle of
negotiations, but we can't make other comments. Next question, please.
Operator
Our next question will come from `Trung Huynh, Credit Suisse with Credit Suisse. Your line is open.
Q - `Trung Huynh, Credit Suisse `
Hi, guys, morning. It's `Trung Huynh, Credit Suisse from Credit Suisse. Thanks for taking my questions. I have a
quick clarification on COVID, and then my question. So just on the clarification in those long-term
COVID vaccine and pack slides, do you expect any US government sales in '24 and '26? It just
looks it just looks like commercial sales from your slides. So does that mean Medicaid, Medicare
populations are bought at commercial price? And can you comment on the margin change for the
vaccine and packs as you step up to that commercial price?
And secondly just following on from the base business question from Steve. We saw lower
revenues ex-US for some important base business drugs. Say Eliquis was down 19% ex-US,
Ibrance down minus 22%, ex-US, Prevnar there was also decline there. You've noted some
product related issues, but are you seeing anything more broadly in the US, which is making it for
a more difficult environment? And going forward should we expect more normal levels ex-US for
these products?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
A good ground because that's easy. We do not expect '24 and '25 and beyond to have
governmental sales in the US. In fact, we think that not even this year other than some small
delivers that we have still pending with the US government from the ground as before. We will
not see any US parentheses, but our assumption right now that we will move into a commercial
model that will cover all channels as with all other vaccines and products. Imagine saying this we
haven't said anything yet about Paxlovid, so I can't comment. At the moment you can calculate.
We said there is price, you can calculate the net and then you can make your assumptions. On
margins, we don't get margins for specific products.
Now, a little bit on the lower revenues -- about the revenues ex-US. Angela, you want to make
any comment on that?
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
Sure. As you said, there were some specific reasons for why we saw what we saw for Eliquis,
Ibrance, PCV. I mean Eliquis specifically was the loss of exclusivity and our patent challenges had
led to some generic increase at risk in both the UK and the Netherlands. I mean, Ibrance is a
mature product and so it goes through sort of the reimbursement and the sort of the pricing
regulation that is -- that typically go through in Europe. And I think PCV, in general, we are -- whatwe're seeing is that I think on the P side, not on the adult side, but on the P side, vaccinations are
still not back up to where they are where it was prior to the pandemic. So I think in all three cases,
there were very specific reasons, goals for what you saw, and we don't anticipate anything
extraordinary or different. In 2023, I think it's sort of business as usual.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Very good. Next question, please.
Operator
Our next question will come from `Tim Anderson, Wolfe Research with Wolfe Research. Your line is open.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Wolfe Research `
Thank you. I think one of the challenges for analysts mauling Pfizer is to try to understand what
flow through to profitability is from Paxlovid and Comirnaty. So I'm hoping directionally you can tell
us how that looks going forward, once you get past this transitional year of '23? So on '24 and
beyond is the profitability of that combined franchise likely to be higher, less or the same as what
it was in '20, '21 and 2022 ? And then a second question is on SG&A. How much of that increase
was driven by inflation in 2023? And just any quick comments on European austerity measures on
pricing?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Dave?
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Yeah, so on COVID franchise, usually we don't give profitability for each product. But you can
imagine, as we stated before on the vaccine, we split our gross margin with BioNTech. So
therefore that would obviously carry lower profitability mix compared to a typical product. In
Paxlovid it's probably the opposite in a sense that we share that -- the economics of that fully, so
it's probably a bit on the larger -- higher margin side in general.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
And the one which you can predict. For example, in the first years '21, '22, we have very high R&D
expenses. We maintained our R&D expenses in COVID. Very big part of our expenses in '23 is for
COVID, because we are investing. But you expect over time, those unless if we bring new
products that would not be as highest. On the contrary prices are going up, that says that
margins could improve, but also SI&A promotional expenses are going up, right. So we don't
wanted to give direction from what it used to be '21 and '22 likely, we expect going forward to be
higher the margins. But all of these equations will -- would be in play. Next question, please?
Operator
Our next question will come from `Mohit Bansal, Wells Fargo with Wells Fargo. Your line is open.
Q - `Mohit Bansal, Wells Fargo `
Great. Thanks for taking my question and thanks for all the clarification. Maybe one question if I
can ask. So regarding the expenses for COVID businesses. Dave, you mentioned that you will be
essentially re-launching these products with the commercial scale of everything. So is there -- sohow much cost given that your COVID business is declining significantly this year. Are you
modeling any kind of cost cuts in that business or should be more -- on dollar basis are still the
same. Is there any synergies you can achieve, especially for vaccine with your existing Prevnar
business because if the channels are similar or not? And last part is, do you think you can do more
share buybacks given the stock price at this point? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Let me take the first two quickly. Of course, as we saw the business is going down because of
COVID the average is growing. Expenses are going up, because we are promoting new launches
[ph] is including COVID. So right now moving into Comirnaty in commercial and exclusivity [ph] in
to commercial channels. Now we treat them like normal promotional products, very sensitive in
promotions in the beginning there were a lot [ph]. So we are going very hard with promotions,
TV, film forces and all the other educational measures that we are taking when we do this type of
launch. So there is clearly these things. What about David are we going to buyback?
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Yeah, so really good question. I think, as we look at our capital allocation this point in time, we
actually see a lot of opportunities to invest back into our business both from a research
perspective and importantly, getting behind our launches to make sure that we're doing all that
we can to ensure that our growth trajectory in '25 and '30 is -- and those goals and aspirations
become reality. So I think, our best and highest use of capital right now is investing in our business
both internally as well as from a BD perspective. I would say, never say never to an incremental
share repurchase, but that's not high on the priority list at this moment.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
And Mohit also -- you ask also about the synergy is clear. There are lot of synergies, right now
both in Paxlovid -- Paxlovid discovered by a lot of physicians and we have very, very strong primary
care field force and we have very strong also vaccines to force the discovering all these
physicians that we have either vaccinate or prescribing Paxlovid. So clearly a lot of synergies in
retail and in the medical profession promotions. Let's go to the next call, please?
Operator
Our next question will come from Chris Schott with JPMorgan. Your line is open.
Q - `Christopher Schott, JPMorgan `
Great. Thanks so much for the questions. Just building on some of the topics discussion here. I
just want to be sure I'm understanding that the OpEx dynamics properly over time? So I guess
should we think about 2023 as more of a onetime step up in OpEx and then much slower growth
in '24 and beyond? Or should we think about this as a couple year process as you really get the
pipeline and new products ramped and then it's maybe more second half of the decade before
we think even about margin, bigger margin expansion or that OpEx slowing? I just want to make
sure I'm understanding those dynamics properly.
And then the second one was on the COVID flu combination. I guess, is your expectation at the
tolerability of that will be similar to what we see with Comirnaty? Or is there some trade-off of we
could see maybe slightly higher kind of side effects with the six components you mentioned, but
that's offset by the convenience? I'm trying to make sure I understand what your expectations are
for that program? Thanks so much.A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Why don't we go to this -- thank you very much Chris, to the scientific question to Mikael first?
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yeah. We think that the total ability will be well on par with vaccines used in the target population
and be perceived as tolerable and convenient. As you describe, the combination will attract the
high volume of flu people to also be able in one shot to renew the COVID coverage, particularly
with more and more variant coming. So we are very positive, and think we are right in the balance
of those and opportunity there.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you. And of course, the data will say, but right now is the profile of two are targeting. And
we think it's easy to do it with two viruses. So to load enough, so that you have very good efficacy
and good tolerability profile. We believe there will be more challenging for free, but of course,
needs to be same, and that's why we believe that our eyes will be in a protein and having such a
good tolerability profile offers better combination of a triplet when triplet all with mRNA. Dave,
also, there was this question that I think you touched upon it earlier in your script, about how we
see going forward the expenses of SI&A?
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Yeah. So importantly in 2023, we're seeing a step up in SI&A. And it's really gain investments
around the launches and the products that get acquired, which we think are really important to
really drive growth in the back half decades, so we're very focused on that. We do think '23 is
probably the peak year of step up from an expenses and then post '23 these expenses would
more and more moderate [ph] after that.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you very much. Let's go to the next question.
Operator
Our next question will come from `David Risinger, SVB Securities with SVB Securities. Your line is open.
Q - `David Risinger, SVB Securities `
Yes. Thanks very much. And thanks for all of the additional details that you're providing. So it
seems like the 2023 guidance is conservative, which is encouraging. But looking to Paxlovid
longer-term on Slide 11, I guess, I'm surprised that the percentage of symptomatic patients that
you expect to be treated with an oral therapy would almost double from 12% to 22% between '22
and '26 even though the pandemic is being viewed as being over. So I'm hoping that you could
talk a little bit about those assumptions and what the denominator is, so when you say
symptomatic patients is that high risk/elderly that you're calculating the 12% on going to '22 et
cetera?
And then, in terms of the Paxlovid share, it was approaching 91% at the year end of '22 according
to the slide. But only declining to 80% in '26 when there are several companies both large and
small ranging from Gilead to smaller companies that are planning to develop agents to compete
aggressively and that could have implications for both volume and pricing longer-term, so wantedA - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
David, very good question. So let me try to explain a little bit. First of all, it's not 12 going to '22,
it's really 17 going to '22, right. The 12 which is in '22, it is a partial year, so they didn't include the
full year. The real demand it is with a '23 full year, it is 17 and is going up because of two factors.
One, it is a small increase in infections. And as I explained, the assumption is that COVID will not
disappear, will be there. But vaccine rates, vaccinations are going down. So that we'll create -- will
wake the protection, any protection of the population and that will manifest with a small increase,
which you factor by 2% based on our modeling a small percentage of both the infections and the
-- mentioned already also the severities. So that's one.
So the second is that the more in the introductions of new entries, likely will not happen before
'25 -- '24, '25 in the US at least. Will depend if EUA will still be available which will depend if we
were being a state of emergency or not for EUA. But if we would not be in a state of emergency,
which could be like the scenario that would be in EUAs, and we don't see '24 any introduction,
actually we see in '25, the introduction.
The introduction though also as always rest are increasing the overall class share. So -- and the
fact -- it's what also is driving, we are dropping markets are, but we are increasing the wallet.
There are still -- are we dropping the markets share aggressively enough or are we, I'd say both -
- very optimistic in dropping? The assumption here it is that we are the only one who have right
now for years presence in the market with a label that is extremely strong with 86% clinical
efficacy, against hospitalization and against deaths, high action [ph] against deaths. So it's very
difficult for anyone to reproduce this data right now. The studies will run forever likely and would
be very large.
So very, very difficult to reproduce something like that. So as a result given that for years, we will
be among -- we will be basically the -- rely on market share, plus the excellent profile, the loyalty
that would be developed. All of that are telling us that it is very reasonable with -- to maintain very
high market share into (inaudible) in first in class. And it's in every treatment from cancer to that
compared to the second and third, is easy to maintain 60%, 70% of the robust conditions. Now,
that we have all these advantages, we think maintaining at 70% to 75%. I think it's reasonable, of
course, we'll have to see. Next question, please.
Operator
Our next question will come from `Chris Shibutani, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
Q - `Chris Shibutani, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you very much. Two questions. One on the Paxlovid, crosscurrents there between China in
terms of the millions doses that you described for your first fiscal quarter and a potential
transition to a private market in China? And then US were a similar transition will occur to the
commercial. Can you help at all frame what you think the relative contributions could look like in
'23 and how that could progress?
And then in particular with regard to the transition to commercial markets for the COVID franchise
products. Can you share any early color on the discussions or engagement that you're having with
payers? What kind of dynamics? Any color there would be helpful, particularly in the broader
context of a global pharmaceutical opportunity with many different therapeutics that will be on
their list of budget items, obesity, Alzheimer's, et cetera. So any color on the discussions with the
payers would be helpful? Thank you.A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Angela?
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
Sure. Hi, Chris. So I think for Paxlovid, again the time period, the way to think about is two times
here from now to April, which is a reimbursed market, which give us access to both public as well
as private channels, and then after April, private channels only. As you heard, we've included in
our guidance what we believe, we can do in the first three months of this year. But given the fact
that the back half of the year we will -- as we -- it's going to be high certain, it will be a very
dynamic market. We'll continue to make sure that we have supply, but we'll have to just wait and
see what happens there.
On the side of US, similarly, we will be transitioning this year. We will have a year where some of
the revenue will be made through the completion of contracts that we made with the US
government in 2022. And then part of the year, the revenues will come from the
commercialization of Paxlovid. So you're going to see that play through, both of those dynamics
play group. And I think you had one more question.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Yeah, the payers, what is the reaction with vaccine or?
A - `Angela Hwang, Chief Commercial Officer, President, Global Biopharmaceuticals Business `
Yeah. So it's still early days especially in the US, right, but that's only happening little of the year.
But what I can say is that we have had some early discussions already with agencies and
reimbursement agencies outside of the US, who have given us earlier feedback. And even if you
take a country like the UK, we've actually had very favorable feedback on the pricing that we
provided, and they agreed with the cost effectiveness of Paxlovid. So I think we'll -- that's good
feedback, and we'll be taking those learnings and those value arguments to all multiple countries
around the world.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you Angela. Next question please.
Operator
Our next question will come from `Carter Gould, Barclays with Barclays. Your line is open.
Q - `Carter Gould, Barclays `
Great. Good morning. Thanks for taking the questions. And David thank you for all the
transparency on the underlying assumptions. I guess, two for me. First off, just in terms of the
upcoming, I guess, messaging around the end of the public health emergency. Can you talk
about the potential impact you see on your EUAs access as well on specifically thinking about
Paxlovid populations in this period before we switch to a commercial market where you are still --
the government's still, I guess, working through the inventory they have on hand?
And then going to the COVID flu combination, just trying to better understand some of your
assumptions here. Because I guess when we think about that 26%, 40% adoption number, it's
some -- I guess, either the incremental bump from '24 is 15% or the 40% absolute. Just kind ofwhat that implies about how you think the underlying flu market will change? I guess that comply
30% to 80% share within two years. But just wanted to understand kind of the underlying drivers
there and how you think about that market evolving?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you. Maybe I'll try myself quickly because we're running out of time. If there is end of
emergency, we don't think that will have any impact on current EUAs. Will have an impact on
issuing new EUAs. I don't think that anything changes in the way of emergency or not, whether
the inventories will be managed or we access that patients will having any of these treatments.
Now, as regards of COVID flu is the introduction of combination of the product would say in the
flu market, I think yes, well would say that it's a major. Flu market was always a single market until
now and suddenly there is a chance that other respiratory diseases like COVID or RSV will come.
So I think that will change. And now the step up it is clear, we expect that around 24%, 25% it is
population in the US that believes needs protection and is diligent enough, but believes more
belief, but they are diligent enough to follow the recommendation and go and get their annual
booster for COVID.
When they would present themselves. Excuse me, when the flu people will present themselves
and they will be asked the question if you want flu, single or flu with a combo and they will be
given the information that will protect them in the single injection at the same time, zero copay
for COVID as well. We believe it's reasonable to expect that the 25% stable will be comforted. So
we'll add another 5% of the population. And that over time, that will move closer to the 50% to
protect 40 over there. So those are the assumptions that we're using. Next question please?
Operator
Our next question will come from `Kerry Holford, Berenberg with Berenberg. Your line is open.
Q - `Kerry Holford, Berenberg `
Hi, thanks. Couple of questions on vaccines please. Firstly on RSV. Can you confirm you're on track
to provide that second season of data ahead of approval and reimbursement discussions in May,
June for the older adult vaccine? And can you confirm whether you have now filed your maternal
RSV vaccine with the regulator. If not, are you waiting for the approval in the older adult setting
first? And then just one the flu COVID combo. If we assume you up positive flu Phase 3 data in
the second on for the year, positive Phase 1 combo data in the first half, would you expect to
move the combo interface 3 or is that the possibility will not need a full Phase 3 combo study to
proceed to filing an approval? Thanks.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Mikael.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
Yeah. I mean, we always follow multi-seasonal vaccines and we'll share the second season data
as soon as it's available. Of course, there are many ways this can play out with combination
vaccines and which could lead to more regular vaccination rather than protracted. And on you also
asked about the -- let's see the flu COVID combo here --
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief Business Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President `If we need a full Phase 3 trial?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
So if we need a full Phase 3, if we have both flu and COVID. We expect that you need a Phase 3
that is based in immunogenicity and safety and not a large long trial based on events. So we think
we can complete that fast. And if anyone can do it fast, it's we. So that's very high on our list
currently pending data to move with light speeding [ph].
Q - `Kerry Holford, Berenberg `
Right. And there was a question of reimbursement of RSV vaccine [ph], I think.
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief Business Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yeah. I think Kerry, you asked the second season durability data. How they'll impact
reimbursement discussions?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Yeah. I think, it will impact ACIP recommendation. In fact since -- once you have ACIP
recommendation or not, you're getting dramatic access with all formulated without co-pay. So
that I think it would be the key what ACIP would say. Let's go to the next question, please.
Operator
Our next question will come from `Andrew Baum, Baum Citigroup Inc with Citi. Your line is open.
Q - `Andrew Baum, Baum Citigroup Inc `
Thank you. On Paxlovid following commercial approval and the withdrawal of the EUA, will
pharmacist prescribing remain intact? And then a couple for Mikael, could you just explain the
reasons for the out licensing the TL1A inhibitor to Roivant? I apologize, if I missed it. And then
second in relation to your multi specific antibodies, your trispecifics. This has been tried
previously, I think AbbVie and J&J previously tried in RA and I think in psoriasis would TNF/IL-17s.
But they ran into issue with binding affinity and they didn't have efficacy. Do you think you've
managed to solve the issue here?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
I don't know on the -- if the pharmacist will. Is very likely I think, but I don't know. We don't have
any assumptions, right now. And let's go to Mikael.
A - `Mikael Dolsten, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Worldwide Research, Development and `
I'll start with Andrew. Great question. You touched my heart today. We have cracked it. These
antibodies that are shared today have first of all pharmacokinetics like an excellent single
antibody, but three in one product and have very high potency which you asked about. Actually,
exceeding the marketed product substantially. So we think it's really something that we will move
very quickly as we learn more about COVID.
And you asked about TL1A. We think we have a very good partnership with Roivant that helps us
to do more things within our pipeline. And you've heard `Aamir Malik, Chief Business Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President earlier allude to that we have
commercialization right actually with Japan, we have about half of the value of this product andthink have such a richness in this space and really enjoy to build the ecosystem with others and
maximize what we bring to patients.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Aamir, do you want to add something here?
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief Business Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President `
The only quick thing I will add Andrew is, if you look at how prolific our R&D engine has been, the
total funding demand from all of the R&D programs that were generated would significantly
exceed what we guided to as R&D spending in '22 and '23. So in that context, we are going to be
very thoughtful about how we prioritize. We have a robust process for that. And consequently,
from time-to-time, you're going to see programs like TL1A that have very clear scientific merit,
but we think we're sharing the cost of risk, and capabilities with a partner is the best way to
create value. And that's what we did in that situation. And we've had a long history of doing that
in a number of other situations as well.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Thank you. Now, let's move to the last question.
Operator
Our last question will come from `Evan Seigerman, BMO Capital Markets with BMO. Your line is open.
Q - `Evan Seigerman, BMO Capital Markets `
Hi, guys, thank you for squeezing me in and I'm not going to ask a COVID question because I
think they were all asked. So just looking at business development. When you did Biohaven, what
were some of the characteristics of the deal that you want to bring forward in kind of your go
forward approach for BD? How should we think about potential holes in your pipeline that you
could fill with external deals? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `
Aamir, why don't you take this one?
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief Business Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President `
Sure. The Biohaven deal for us represented an excellent opportunity to leverage our capabilities
and specifically where were capabilities in terms of our global commercial footprint that Biohaven
as a company alone could not maximize the -- where application of those capabilities could take
Nurtec and the follow-on product to places and reaches for patients that they couldn't have
gotten to alone. And also the way in which we structured that transaction began with an ex-US
partnership, which we then expanded to take on the full global CGRP franchise, and also
excluded some assets that were less relevant to us strategically that created a new co. And I
think what you can take away from that is that we're going to continue to look for things that are
scientific breakthroughs where we can add capabilities, and we're also going to be creative and
disciplined about how we structure our deals. And we think that's going to serve us well as we
complete our ambition against our $25 billion goal.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman `Thank you, Aamir. So thank you very much. In summary, let me close by saying, first of all, I feel
extremely proud for the team in Pfizer that was able to deliver -- break all records in 2022, the
highest-ever revenue, the highest ever the profits. The highest more importantly ever number of
patients, but we protect it or treat it with our medicines. The best ever reputation for our
company. The most productive wave of R&D with 18, 19 products launching in the next 18 months.
The best R&D machine in terms of multiple measures, all of that we were able to achieve in 2022.
Clearly though, I believe that the best years of Pfizer are ahead because we are building on a
significant capital position, but we know how to deploy to create growth. We are building on an
R&D engine, but it is more productive than ever in the history of this company and manufacturing
engine, but it is the envy of the industry. The commercial envy -- the commercial engine, but it is
ranked again and again and again as the best commercial engine in the industry. And of course, a
mindset in Pfizer that is characterized, but nothing is impossible. We can make everything
possible.
So with that in mind, I think that we are moving ahead, hopefully to even more successful 2023.
Thank you very much for your attention, your interest on us and your support for shareholders.
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This does conclude Pfizer's fourth quarter 2022 earnings
conference call. We appreciate your participation and you may disconnect your line at any time.