Q4 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, everyone, and welcome to Pfizer's Fourth Quarter 2024 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Francesca
DeMartino, Chief Investor Relations Officer and Senior Vice President. Please go ahead ma'am.
`Francesca DeMartino, Chief Investor Relations Officer, Senior Vice President `
Good morning, and welcome to Pfizer's earnings call. I am `Francesca DeMartino, Chief Investor Relations Officer, Senior Vice President, Chief Investor
Relations Officer. On behalf of the Pfizer team, thank you for joining us. This call is being made
available via audio webcast at pfizer.com.
Earlier this morning, we released our results for the fourth quarter and full year 2024 via a press
release that is available on our website at pfizer.com. I'm joined today by Dr.`Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, our
Chairman and CEO; and `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, our CFO. Albert and Dave have some prepared remarks,
and we will then open the call for questions. Members of our leadership team will be available for
the Q&A session.
Before we get started, I want to remind you that we will be making forward-looking statements
and discussing certain non-GAAP financial measures. I encourage you to read the disclaimers inour slide presentation, the press release we issued this morning, and the disclosures in our SEC
filings, which are all available on the IR website at pfizer.com.
Forward-looking statements on the call are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties, speak
only as of the call's original date, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any of the
statements.
With that, I will turn the call over to Albert.
`Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Francesca. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. 2024
was a strong year of execution and performance for Pfizer. We were guided by clear strategic
priorities, and we met or exceeded our goals for each one, while also delivering on our financial
commitments. I'm pleased with the progress we made in executing transformative changes that
strengthened our company.
First, we successfully integrated the Seagen business, one of the largest investments we have
made in the past decade, creating one of the best oncology companies in the industry. At the
start of 2024, we split our commercial operations into two divisions, U.S. and International, and
appointed two senior commercial leaders to increase focus in both.
`Aamir Malik, Chief U.S. Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President and `Alexandre de Germay, Chief International Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President have done a tremendous job to upgrade our commercial
capabilities. They consolidated our external agencies down to one powerhouse, global ad
company and leveraged the power of AI to transform our marketing and selling engine. New
data-driven deployment of our commercial and medical field resources, precision micro-targeting
in social media and elevation of the Pfizer brand in commercial communications are some of the
strategies that have significantly increased our commercial and medical effectiveness and the
returns on investment.
We are seeing the impact of these actions in our strong financial performance and in the
recognition of our market leaders. We earned the top position in the 2024 IQVIA U.S. Field Force
Ranking Report and improved our ranking to claim number one or two spot in 70% of the
specialties in which we focus. I'm also proud of our strong year of pipeline progress in 2024,
including more than a dozen approvals, seven pivotal study starts and eight key Phase 3
readouts.
I'm very excited with the changes in our R&D engine under its new leadership. `Chris Boshoff, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Research & Development
moved fast to create four end-to-end R&D units focused on Oncology, Vaccines, Internal
Medicine and Inflammation and Immunology. This structure fully empowers research units that can
operate with the focus and agility of a biotech company while tapping into our differentiated,
enterprise-wide capabilities such as AI-powered drug discovery and development.
Our focus on financial discipline has also yielded good results. We ended the year with expanded
margins after a series of actions to realign our cost base. And we strategically deployed capital to
enhance shareholder value, investing nearly $11 billion in support of internal R&D programs,
delevering by $7.8 billion and returning $9.5 billion directly to shareholders through our dividends.
Finally, we also reinforced our commitment to strong governance. Our two new Board members
bring deep expertise in financial markets and shareholder value creation. All these changes have
created a strong foundation and allow us to start the new year from a position of strength.
So now let me speak about our 2025 priorities. Last year, we had a significant emphasis onproductivity while maintaining focus on margin expansion, commercial excellence, and
shareholder-friendly capital allocation.
Let me start with R&D. Across our pipeline, we believe we have a strong year of catalysts ahead
of us and expect our new R&D organization to achieve multiple key milestones including the
possibility of at least four regulatory decisions, up to 9 potential Phase 3 readouts, and 13
potential pivotal program starts.
For example, with atirmociclib, our next generation highly selective CDK4 inhibitor candidate,
yesterday, we dosed our first patient in a Phase 3 study in first-line metastatic breast cancer. We
also anticipate starting an additional first-line study in combination with the vepdegestrant, the ER
degrader we are co-developing with Arvinas.
Our ADC sigvotatug vedotin continues its Phase 3 study in second-line non-small cell lung cancer,
and this year we expect to start a Phase 3 study in first-line non-small cell lung cancer. Our PDL1V
ADC candidate, a potential first-in-class PD-L1-targeting vedotin ADC is expected to begin two
Phase 3 studies this year, one in first-line metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, and
one in second-line, plus non-small cell lung cancer, where we -- the unmet need is significant.
We have a robust clinical development program aimed at expanding ELREXFIO indications in
multiple myeloma. And this year, we anticipate the readout of a Phase 3 study in double-class
exposed relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. But if successful and approved, will triple the
addressable population versus the currently approved indication.
In Vaccines, we expect to start the Phase 3 study this year for our PCV-25 candidate, covering 25
serotypes. This is important foundational work that could help us bridge to and accelerate
progress with our fifth-generation PCV candidate covering more than 30 serotypes. This year, we
also expect to start a Phase 3 study for our C. Diff vaccine candidate. In Internal Medicines, we
remain on track to provide an upgrade of our dose-optimization studies of danuglipron in the first
quarter of this year. For ponsegromab, we expect to start a pivotal study this year in cancer
cachexia, and ibuzatrelvir, our second-generation COVID-19 oral antiviral candidate continues its
Phase 3 study.
Within I&I, we continue to progress a portfolio of medicines that include two potential first-in-class
trispecific antibodies currently in Phase 2.
Now let's discuss our commercial strategy.
2024 was a strong year of commercial execution and we are pleased with our progress in
improving performance of our newly-launched products and gaining and maintaining market
share for several of our core brands. I will start by highlighting the strength and impact of our
Oncology portfolio.
PADCEV plus pembrolizumab is an important growth driver as it has already become the number
one prescribed first-line treatment for locally advanced/metastatic urothelial cancer in the U.S. We
are expecting potential registrational interim data this year from ongoing pivotal studies in muscle
invasive bladder cancer, which if successful and approved, would nearly triple the total
addressable patients in the U.S.
BRAFTOVI/MEKTOVI achieved a 27% year-over-year worldwide operational growth and
expanded its leadership position in multiple BRAF tumors, which are some of the hardest-to-treat
cancers. Yesterday, we announced that BRAFTOVI in combination with cetuximab and
mFOLFOX6 showed statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvement in progression-free survival and overall survival in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer with a BRAF V600E
mutation. We are very excited with a robust improvement in PFS and OS and are looking forward
to presenting this data in a scientific conference.
LORBRENA, a treatment for adults with ALK-positive metastatic non-small cell lung cancer,
achieved 37% worldwide year-over-year operational growth and is emerging as a potential
standard of care in the first-line setting. Following last June's unprecedented CROWN trial data
showing 60% of patients were alive without disease progression after five years, LORBRENA has
seen a double-digit share increase in the first line in both new patient starts and new prescribers.
ELREXFIO had a strong performance in 2024 with more than $130 million in full-year revenue and
increasing overall share within the class of BCMA-directed bispecific antibodies for patients with
triple-class exposed relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma in the United States.
I also want to comment about our COVID-19 portfolio. We continue to see stabilizing patterns in
the disease burden with a strong correlation between the COVID-19 burden of disease and
PAXLOVID utilization. We see the same stabilizing patterns in U.S. vaccination rates at relatively
low levels. Our assumptions for 2025 are on par with these 2023 and 2024 patterns, and with the
multi-year contracts we have secured in international markets, we are confident that our COVID-
19 portfolio will continue to be a predictable and durable contributor to our business.
In another key category, our VYNDAQEL family of products achieved continuing momentum with
90% year-over-year growth in the U.S., and 32% operational growth in international markets. We
drove progress in diagnosing more patients and improving access to this treatment for
transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy. ELIQUIS is a core brand for Pfizer with 10% worldwide year-
over-year operational growth. It is prescribed to millions of patients and we continue to
strengthen its leadership position in a growing oral anticoagulant market.
We are also pleased with the ongoing positive momentum for NURTEC, with 36% worldwide
year-over-year operational growth, driven by strong commercial execution. NURTEC is the leader
in the oral CGRP class used for treating and preventing migraine, with about 49% market share,
and we see opportunities for continued growth.
Our respiratory vaccines, ABRYSVO and Prevnar 20, also are key products in our commercial
portfolio. We have achieved a market leadership position for the season in shipped doses for
ABRYSVO, with an approximately 13 percentage points increase in market share, and remain
confident in our ability to retain our position through strong commercial execution, even as we
see a decrease in the total adult RSV market volume, driven by a reduction in vaccination rates in
the U.S., for the older adult indication.
We achieved positive momentum in key regions, such as Europe and Latin America, and are also
seeing a strong demand for our maternal indication. ABRYSVO's season-to-date cumulative
maternal vaccination rate nearly tripled compared to last season. With Prevnar, we are confident
that we are well-positioned for strong, sustained leadership, with over 87% market share in the
U.S. across indications. Globally, the pediatric market accounts for approximately two-thirds of our
PREVNAR revenues, and we also continue to make progress for the adult indication in key
international markets. We are encouraged by opportunities to maintain our leadership in the PCV
space with our next-generation PCV-25 candidate mentioned earlier.
In Phase 1, we demonstrated potentially improving immunogenicity for serotype 3, one of the
largest contributors of disease at approximately 20% of invasive disease in adults aged 65 and
older in the United States and Europe. Across our commercial portfolio, in 2025, we are confidentthat we are in a strong position to build in our 2024 success and achieve commercial excellence
in our key categories of Oncology, Cardiovascular, Migraine, Vaccines, and I&I.
With that, I will turn it over to Dave.
`Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Thank you, Albert, and good morning, everyone. I'll build on Albert's comments by reinforcing
that we are very pleased with the financial results for both the fourth quarter, as well as the full
year of 2024.
These results demonstrate that our focus and execution against our strategic priorities are driving
both positive patient outcomes, as well as financial and operational strength. In addition to our
strong top-line performance, our cost-reduction programs are creating a more efficient
organization, driving operating margin improvement. And as we move into 2025, these efforts
will continue to lay the groundwork for potential increased capital returns and reinforce our
commitment to maintaining and growing our dividend while enhancing long-term shareholder
value.
With that said, let me start with our full year and fourth quarter results, then I'll touch on our
capital allocation priorities. I'll finish up with a few comments on our 2025 guidance, which we are
reaffirming today, and our near-term expectations that will continue to drive our growth potential
in the latter half of the decade.
For the full year of 2024, we recorded revenues of $63.6 billion versus $59.6 billion last year.
Importantly, our operational revenue growth when excluding contributions from our COVID
products, was 12%, exceeding our expectations of 9% to 11%. Full year 2024 adjusted gross
margins expanded to 74% as we continued to drive cost improvements across our manufacturing
network. On the bottom line, we reported full year 2024 diluted EPS of $1.41 versus $0.37 last
year, and adjusted diluted earnings per share of $3.11 versus $1.84 last year, significantly ahead of
expectations due to our overall strong P&L performance.
Now turning to the fourth quarter performance versus the same period of LY, let me walk down
the P&L. Total company revenues were $17.8 billion versus $14.6 billion in the fourth quarter of last
year. Once again, our non-COVID-19 products exhibited robust performance with revenues of
$13.7 billion reflecting 11% operational year-over-year growth. This performance continues to show
that our refined commercial approach is working. We continue to focus on key products and
geographies. We've refined how we allocate our commercial field resources globally, and we're
further optimizing our marketing resources into key priority areas. We saw strong contributions
across our product portfolio, primarily driven by the VYNDAQEL family, PADCEV, ELIQUIS and
NURTEC, partially offset by declines in a ABRYSVO and XELJANZ.
Adjusted gross margin in the fourth quarter was approximately 68%, primarily the result of a net
unfavorable mix related to our COVID-19 products, primarily due to the COMIRNATY profit split
with BioNTech and applicable royalty expenses. This was partially offset by our ongoing focus on
cost management across our manufacturing network as I previously mentioned. And as we
previously communicated, long term improvements in gross margin will remain a key focus for
the company over the next few years.
We expect to begin to achieve initial savings from Phase 1 of our manufacturing optimization
program in the latter part of 2025 and continue to expect approximately $1.5 billion in savings
from this first phase by the end of 2027. We continue to evaluate other strategies to improve ournetwork structure and as well as our product portfolio. And we plan to share more information on
those components of the program once it becomes available.
Total adjusted operating expenses are essentially flat operationally at $7.3 billion in the fourth
quarter of 2024, and I will note that this amount includes spending acquired via our Seagen
transaction. Looking at the components specifically, SI&A expenses decreased 4% operationally
driven primarily by a decrease in marketing and promotional spend for various products, including
COMIRNATY and PAXLOVID, partially offset by an increase in spending for certain oncology and
recently launched and acquired products. Adjusted R&D expenses increased 8% operationally,
driven primarily by a net increase in spending mainly to develop certain product candidates
acquired from Seagen, partially offset by lower spending on certain ongoing vaccine programs,
and certainly as a result of our cost realignment program.
We continue to be disciplined with our operational expense management and delivered on our
goal of at least $4 billion in net cost savings from our cost realignment program. Q4 reported
diluted earnings per share was $0.07, and our adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.63,
benefiting from our top-line performance as well as our efficient operating structure, partially
offset by a higher effective tax rate, driven primarily by jurisdictional mix.
In support of our goal to enhance R&D productivity and to focus on high-impact medicines, our
fourth quarter GAAP results reflect strategic decisions in our development plans and updated
long-range revenue forecasts for several medicines. And as a result, we recorded approximately
$2.9 billion in non-cash intangible asset impairments related to several medicines in development
as well as several in-line products. These decisions reinforce our focus on future growth as well as
innovation.
Now, let me quickly touch upon our capital allocation strategy, which is designed to enhance long-
term shareholder value. Our strategy consists of maintaining and growing our dividend over time,
reinvesting in our business at an appropriate level of financial return, and finally making value-
enhancing share repurchases after delevering our balance sheet.
In 2024, we returned $9.5 billion to shareholders via our quarterly dividend, invested $10.8 billion
in internal R&D, and as expected, completed business development activity was minimal. Our
commitment to delevering our capital structure to a gross leverage target of 3.25x by the end of
2025 remains a key priority. In support of that goal, in 2024, we delevered by approximately $7.8
billion, paying down approximately $2.3 billion in maturing debt and approximately $5.5 billion in
commercial paper.
And in January of '25, we monetized another tranche of our Haleon shares, which for reporting
purposes is a Q1 '25 event. We received approximately $3 billion in net cash proceeds, and now
our ownership in Haleon was reduced from approximately 15% to approximately 7%. We intend to
monetize our remaining Haleon investment in a prudent fashion during 2025. Overall, in Q4, we
generated robust operating cash flows, which combined with the most recent Haleon net sales
proceeds of approximately $3 billion resulted in significant free cash flow generation as we enter
2025. Our objective remains to delever and return to a more balanced allocation of capital
between reinvestments and direct return to shareholders over time.
Given we issued our full year 2025 financial guidance on December the 17th, let me just hit a few
highlights. We expect total company full year '25 revenues to be in the range of $61 billion to $64
billion, and full year '25 adjusted diluted earnings per share to be in the range of $2.80 to $3 a
share, which reflects our expectation of strong contributions across our product portfolio, as well
as our focus on disciplined cost management.Importantly, we believe the steps taken to rightsize our cost base will put us on a strong footing
towards increased operational efficiency and support our goal to return to pre-pandemic
operating margins. In further support of this initiative, we now expect to deliver overall net
savings of $4.5 billion from our ongoing cost realignment programs by the end of 2025, while
continuing to advance programs that will improve cost of goods sold in the years to come.
As a reminder, the impact of the IRA Medicare Part D Redesign is expected to be a net headwind
to the company's revenue of approximately $1 billion across our product portfolio, dampening
growth by approximately 1.6% versus 2024. The impact of catastrophic coverage is expected to
exceed the potential volume benefit from the reduction of the patient out-of-pocket cap, leading
to a negative impact beginning in early in the year, while the positive impact of lower patient out-
of-pocket costs is expected to build throughout this year.
As the IRA is felt more acutely in higher-priced medicines, we expect VYNDAQEL, IBRANCE,
XTANDI, and XELJANZ, to reach catastrophic coverage much earlier in the year. And due to these
changes, we expect a higher gross-to-net impact on our revenues for all drugs in the beginning
of 2025 that is expected to moderate throughout the remainder of the year when compared to
2024. And lastly, I will mention that we continue to monitor currency fluctuation as the year
progresses.
So in closing, let me just emphasize several key aspects of our business. We believe our financial
targets for 2025 are both reasonable and achievable, reinforcing our commitment to operational
excellence. We also believe our revenue volatility is largely in the past as COVID-related
uncertainties have diminished. Additionally, our cost improvement programs have set the stage
for ongoing margin expansion. We will continue our focus in execution to maximize the
commercial value of our product portfolio. And our new R&D leadership is committed to driving
value-creating innovation, and strengthening our pipeline.
And lastly, we have a clear path to reloading our balance sheet, enabling enhanced capital
deployment and pursuit of additional opportunities to strengthen our business and create value
for our shareholders. We are dedicated to maintaining and growing our dividend and meeting our
delevering targets by the end of 2025, providing for a more balanced capital allocation.
And with that, I'll turn it back to Albert to start the Q&A session.
`Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thank you, David. But before we turn to the questions, I would like to close the year with
one comment. Pfizer knows how to execute well when we set our focus on something. We saw
what we could do in 2020 when we rapidly developed and prepared to manufacture billions of
doses of the COVID-19 vaccine; in '21, when we repeated the same with PAXLOVID; and in '22,
when with successful commercialization, we exceeded $100 billion in full year revenues.
In 2023, despite the difficulties with the rebased COVID-19 expectations, we invested in our
future with a big bet in oncology, with the acquisition of Seagen. And last year, we exceeded
expectations repeatedly with four consecutive quarters of strong financial performance from our
disciplined commercial execution. Now, as we are directing similar focus and our proven ability to
execute on our R&D pipeline, we are confident that we are well-positioned to drive meaningfully
improved productivity.
And with that, operator, please assemble the queue.
Questions And AnswersOperator
(Question And Answer)
(Operator Instructions) We'll go first to `Steve Scala, TD Cowen with TD Cowen. Please go ahead.
Q - `Steve Scala, TD Cowen `
Thank you so much. And I have two questions. First, on the danuglipron dose optimization data,
it's apparently still on track for the first quarter of this year. What is the range of possible
outcomes? And is dropping this version of the compound a possibility? And what would be the
next step? Second question is, `Chris Boshoff, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Research & Development, I assume he's on the line. Under the heading of
nothing's perfect, can you share with us two or three things in the Pfizer R&D portfolio or system
that you think need to be fixed? New leaders usually say they want to move quicker, but
sometimes they also thoroughly go through the portfolio and shed many projects. Is that also a
possibility? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Chris?
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Research & Development `
Should we start with danu? So for danu, just to be clear, we -- as we stated previously, we're now
targeting first quarter to have data from the ongoing dose optimization and formulation study,
the PK study, and we're on track to deliver that in Q1. And we haven't seen the data yet, but
obviously, that data will then determine decisions for the future of danuglipron. On your second
question, as we've recently announced, we already focused our portfolio further. We've now
established four end-to-end therapeutic areas, oncology, vaccines, internal medicine, and I&I. And
part of that will be to focus on those opportunities that could provide the biggest value, both for
patients, but also for Pfizer. So you will see during the coming months that we further focus and
execute and accelerate those medicines, we believe, could be potential future blockbusters.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Chris. And Steve, you're right that usually the new leaders are taking their time to
assess, but the good news with Chris is that he knew really the Pfizer organization, and I'm very
impressed with the speed and thoughtfulness that he's deploying his changes. Already he
announced the new organization, selected a lot of leaders and refocused our pipeline in
collaboration with `Andrew Baum, Chief Strategy and Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President. So next question, please.
Operator
We'll go next to `Geoff Meacham, Citigroup Inc. with Citibank. Please go ahead.
Q - `Geoff Meacham, Citigroup Inc. `
Good morning, everyone. Thanks for the question. Just had a couple of quick ones. So for the
COVID franchise, you guys talked about stabilizing revenue for this year. Maybe just give us some
level of conviction and your level of investments in this business kind of going forward. I think
most investors kind of would like for it to kind of be viewed as just maybe upside to the story.
And then from a capital allocation perspective, when you guys think about the appetite for
potential BD as you reprioritize or look at the pipeline and evaluate a lot of the assets in say earlynumber of TAs if you had more optimization to do, that can be achieved through BD. Thank you
very much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Aamir?
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief U.S. Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
So Jeff, on COVID, maybe I'll start with PAXLOVID you saw Albert describe. We have multiple
years now of reference where PAXLOVID utilization tracks directly to the level of disease
outbreak. And the year 2024 was no different. So we know that to be the case, and we've also
put in place a very effective commercial model in PAXLOVID that allows us to deliver on that and
continue to improve. In fact, if you look at 2024, we had higher physician treatment rates than '23.
And we also had gains in market share versus '23.
So we know we have a model that works. And with regards to resource allocation, we have
targeted our resource modeling for PAXLOVID so that we are investing the places where it's
relevant, when it's relevant. So we have a very, very tailored model. And I think you see that in the
results, we had a very big summer and early fall wave of COVID in '24. And then we had a milder
and shorter winter wave. And you see that reflected in PAXLOVID utilization. And we've also
ensured that we have the right pricing model in place, and put in place a new agreement with the
U.S. Government on our PAXLOVID contract that defines the eligibility for the USG path going
forward. So there's clarity on that for January, February and going into March.
And with regards to vaccinations on COMIRNATY, again, we saw a pattern in '24 that very closely
mirrored '23. So vaccination rates were quite stable. Again, here we also saw an improvement in
our market share position for COMIRNATY. And we are confident that our commercial execution,
both with regards to the retail setting and the non-retail setting, will continue to put us in good
stead as we move forward.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. And of course, in international, to save time here, we have contracts with our -- multi-
year contracts that they are covering not only this year, but the year after. So all of that makes us
feel that this is a very stable and predictable revenue stream. Why don't we go to capital
allocation? And then Dave, maybe also, Andrew, you can comment on the BD.
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
So just, Albert, I'll be real quick. From a capital allocation perspective, I'm very pleased with the
company's cash flow generation throughout 2024 as we've continued to enhance our cash flow
yield, number one. Number two, continued to aggressively delever. And now as we enter 2025,
we'll be in a position from a cash and a delevering perspective to have a more balanced capital
allocation strategy, allowing us to do slightly bigger business development programs, if so
desired, in 2025. And with that, maybe I'll pass it over to Andrew to give some context around
how we're thinking about that.
A - `Andrew Baum, Chief Strategy and Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yes. So to recap what Chris says, we've narrowed our current therapeutic areas to the four. So
Oncology, Vaccines, I&I, and Internal Medicine. Now, it's fair to say that those are fairly broad
areas, they're big buckets that you can put lots of therapeutic indications in. If we were to exploreadjacencies or indeed therapeutic areas where historically Pfizer hasn't been active, I think, firstly,
we'll be looking for truly breakthrough science that's tractable with a drug.
Second, an unmet medical need that we feel that can be monetized. And thirdly, and most
importantly, we have to have the talent with it in order to develop those assets if we go into a
therapeutic area that is one that is unfamiliar to us or we don't have historically that backbone of
talent.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much, Andrew and Dave. Next question, please.
Operator
We'll go next to `Chris Schott, J.P. Morgan with J.P. Morgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Chris Schott, J.P. Morgan `
Great. Thanks so much. Just two questions for me. Just coming back to capital deployment,
Dave, just to build on those comments, you talked about slightly larger BD transactions. Can we
just help size the range of what Pfizer is able to look at from here and how you think about
balancing business development versus share repo, which I know I think you talked about as you
started to delever would be part of the story?
The second is on the RSV market. So just like a little bit about the thinking and the size of the
opportunity from here and the potential for growth given some of the 2024 results, both the U.S.,
as well as globally. Thank you.
A - `Dave Denton, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President `
Yes. So as far as capital deployment goes, Chris, I think the good news is the company has a very
robust cash flow generation capabilities, and over time, we'll be able to do both dividends as well
as BD as well as value enhancing share repurchases. Specifically, as we come into 2025, given the
strength of the company from a cash flow perspective, we have the capacity, the $10 billion to $15
billion ZIP code from a business development perspective within 2025 if we chose to focus in that
area.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Aamir and Alexandre, the RSV.
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief U.S. Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
So very quickly in the U.S., firstly, the market did decrease in 2024 and that's something that we
have been signaling for quite some time. This was because of shifts in ACIP as well as the early
adopters of the vaccine in 2023. The important thing for us, the things that we can control, the
strength of our commercial execution led us to the leading market share of the doses shipped to
end-customers at 50% for 2024, and an improvement in the shots-in-arms market share by 18
percentage points versus last year. And our maternal indication also performed very well, tripling
the uptake from last season.
Now, as we look forward, in the absence of any major policy or ACIP change in '25, the RSV
market without that is likely not to grow, but there are a lot of catalysts for midterm growth. One
is any policy updates to year-round vaccination, second age expansion for 18 to 59 year olds thatare at risk where we have great data, as well as potential revaccination recommendations as data
becomes more available. So those are midterm growth catalysts. And in the meantime, we
remain confident in our ability to execute as that evolves.
A - `Alexandre de Germay, Chief International Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
So the international front, Chris, the -- what we see in this quarter is the beginning of financial
impact of the work we've done in approving and getting through the VTC and the payers for
ABRYSVO. And what -- in the countries where we were -- where we received a positive VTC and
got reimbursement, we start to see great execution working hand-in-hand with the authority and
the HCP.
Let me give you two examples in maternal immunization. So in the UK, after winning the exclusive
tender, healthcare professionals vaccinated with ABRYSVO over 60% of the eligible pregnant
women in just one quarter in Q4. In France, in a competitive setting, ABRYSVO was administered
to over 40% of the eligible pregnant women in Q4 alone. So clearly, we see a potential as we
move into 2025 in the MRI, a great opportunity to expand usage and to expand the vaccination.
And of course, that is not just in the developed market, but also in emerging markets. And for
instance, as you know, ABRYSVO was listed at the Pan American Health Organization. And so
starting this year, we can have Latin American countries to start contracting ABRYSVO.
Now in the OA, we start also to see some traction and the vaccination campaign in the UK
already reached 44% of the eligible population and regional vaccination was granted late 2024 in
about half of the German population. And we're expecting to get the full German population
access in Q1 2025. So again, on both maternal immunization and older adults, plenty of
opportunity to grow.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
We'll go next to `Vamil Divan, Guggenheim Securities LLC with Guggenheim Securities. Please go ahead.
Q - `Vamil Divan, Guggenheim Securities LLC `
Yes, great. Thanks for taking my question. So maybe a couple I could on the pipeline. So Prevnar,
the 25-valent, you mentioned starting Phase 2 in adults this year. Just curious if you can comment
on what you've seen so far. It gives you comfort in moving forward when we might see the data
publicly. And also any updates on the pediatric population and when you, where things stand
there. And then the second one's on ponsegromab. And just you have the obviously cancer
cachexia, which you're starting Phase 3. We also noticed in the Phase 2 heart failure program, you
increased the patient enrollment significantly there. Just curious if you can provide any
perspective on what drove that change and just maybe your broader views on the heart failure
opportunity for that product? Thanks.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, Chris?
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Research & Development `And so first for PCV-25, as Albert mentioned, this is an ongoing Phase 2 study with potential best
in class vaccine. The Phase 2 study is ongoing in both adults and in pediatrics. As we've
mentioned earlier, serotype 3 is very important and is emerging as a very important serotype
with up to 20% to 30% of the population actually develops serotype 3. So we're very pleased
that we're now seeing what looks like best-in-class immunogenicity against serotype 3.
On the pediatric front, as you mentioned, the study is ongoing, so we hope to provide additional
data later this year, but everything we've seen so far suggests to us that we've got improved
immunogenicity of PCV-25 versus our current vaccine. Just a reminder as well, we do have a fifth
generation vaccine, 30 plus, that's also now in preclinical development that we hope to launch in
Phase 1 later this year. On ponsegromab, very quickly, we're excited about the data for cancer
cachexia and the cancer cachexia study should start later this year in a Phase 3 experience. And
we stopped the development of the cardiovascular study.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, and I want also to emphasize that the development strategy on PCV-30 plus involves
the development of PCV-25, so defined strategy which is development and regulatory that will
allow us to accelerate 30 plus by investing now in '25, which will come earlier, of course, to the
market. And I think there was a question also on the penetration for PCV, but right now, both
pediatric and adult, we have a very, very high market share. We reported actually 87% market
share.
Next question, please.
Operator
We'll go next to `Courtney Breen, Bernstein with Bernstein. Please go ahead.
Q - `Courtney Breen, Bernstein `
Hi, everyone. Thanks for taking my call today. And thanks for the details on kind of how you're
thinking about the R&D organization. Just a clarifier, and perhaps you can help us understand the
strategy a little bit more here. It sounds like you're shifting into four R&D organizations. I also
heard reference though to end-to-end areas. So can you talk about whether these are similar or
different to how oncology was set up earlier this year or earlier last year? And then additionally,
can you talk a little bit about how you're allocating investment across R&D, across those four
separate engines? How are you making sure that the bar is high in all of those different
therapeutic areas and ensuring you've got the right prioritization given the independence of
these units?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. That's a great question. So Chris, start, and then Andrew can chime in.
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Research & Development `
Yes. So thank you very much for the question. So for oncology, as you stated, since the beginning
of 2023, we had an end-to-end organization collaborating discovery, early-stage development,
late-stage development, as well as medical. We already had that in vaccine since 2009, and now
we build the same structure for I&I and Internal Medicine. So essentially, all four of those will be
end-to-end organizations for quicker decision-making and quicker handover between discovery,
Phase 1, and then from early development into late-phase development. Andrew, regarding the --A - `Andrew Baum, Chief Strategy and Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yes, Courtney, you hit upon a critical question. So historically, when you look back, there's no
shortage of first-in-class breakthrough molecules that we've successfully shepherded through
development. However, some of those really have not delivered in terms of financial revenues,
and therefore, to shareholders. And the key issue is really ensuring that we have successful
portfolio prioritization, bringing back commercial lens to much earlier during the process and
having estimates that are derived in an unbiased way in a dynamic and subject to continued
revision.
So as my role as Chair of the PMT since I joined Pfizer, partnering with Chris, we've been working
through that pipeline, starting with the latest stage assets, but then moving earlier to make sure
the decisions we make, drug by drug, indication by indication, are ones that are going to deliver
value for shareholders as well as the patients.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you for the question, Courtney. And I want also to chime in and say that in our -- the R&D
organization that we have right now, I think, has very, very, very strong capabilities. And it's proven
with the number of approvals that we had, 13 last year, and even the same number in '23. No one
even had even close to these numbers. If you see our success rates are at 17% compared to 10%,
11% of the industry. Very few that have these success rates. And in time to the market, we are
having approximately 5.6 years, when most of the industry is in seven, eight years after
improvements.
However, looking back, I don't think that we necessarily, we could have done way better in
choosing the right products to focus our R&D capabilities, which is, I think, what now Chris and
Andrew, with the commercial assessments, will try to do. The good news is that if it was a
question of capabilities to improve our R&D productivity, that would be a multi-year undertake.
When it is a question of refocusing your investments, that's way more quick. And I'm very
optimistic that the results will come out very, very quickly.
With that, let's go to the next question.
Operator
We'll go next to `Evan Seigerman, BMO Capital Markets with BMO Capital Markets. Please go ahead.
Q - `Evan Seigerman, BMO Capital Markets `
Hi, guys. Thank you so much for taking my question. Congrats on all the progress. So given RFK
Jr.'s approval by the Senate Finance Committee this morning, can you walk me through how you
plan on working with him as a likely Head of HHS, especially with his views on vaccines and
general skepticism of the pharma industry?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I was also informed that the Senate Committee voted in favor of him. So I think his
confirmation is pretty much secure right now. Of course, we'll see what the full Senate will do.
Look, I mean, we had, with the Trump administration, as a pharma industry, in particular I will
speak as Pfizer, a very good relationship. Personally, myself, I have a very long lasting relationship
with the President, but was cemented during the operation of Warp Speed, when we developedthe vaccine for COVID. And I know that the President is very proud of what he was able to
accomplish.
And he has made public statements on that. We met with Mr.Kennedy, actually the President
introduced me to him and we had dinner all three together. And we tried to understand his views.
I focused more not on the things that we clearly disagree like the vaccines, but on the things that
we can agree and we can do things together. And those are things in chronic diseases, in
cardiovascular diseases, and more importantly, in cancer, which is something that is very, very high
in the mind of the President. And it is also very high in the mind of Mr.Kennedy. I met him a few
times also after that.
And we expect that we will have a collaboration. It's not my -- do I expect that we will agree on
everything on vaccines? I don't know. But I think probably, as I hear all the statements that have
been done by him and by the administration, he will have a way more tempered view on how to
interact with the vaccines. But I don't want to speak about him further. I think there are a lot of
opportunities that probably outweigh the risks that we have with the radical change that we will
see from the Trump administration, actually, that we are seeing now with the Trump
administration. So I'm cautiously optimistic.
Now, let's move to the next question.
Operator
We'll go next to Kripa Devarakonda with Truist Securities. Please go ahead.
Q - `Srikripa Devarakonda, Truist Securities, Inc. `
Hey guys, thank you so much for taking my question and congratulations on all the progress. I
have a question on your breast cancer franchise. You recently announced a strategy for
developing your CDK4 in frontline, first-line breast cancer as monotherapy and also in
combination with the vepdeg, the ER PROTAC. As the landscape evolves, with other CDK4, 6
inhibitors, different combinations, how do you see Pfizer's portfolio in breast cancer evolve over
the next few years? Do you see this as the strategy of getting a piece of the broader pie or are
there areas with your CDK4 in your -- with vepdeg, where you think you could establish a niche?
And also with the Phase 3 data from vepdeg expected any time in first quarter, what needs to
happen with these data for it to be considered competitive? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Chris.
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Research & Development `
And thank you thank you very much. Thank you for the question. We are very fortunate because
we've got a lot of optionality now in breast cancer. I'll start with CDK4. We believe this is the best-
in-class CDK inhibitor and what we've seen for compliance and the rate of AEs, specifically
treatment-related AEs, as well as discontinuations. We are very optimistic that CDK4 could not
only replace IBRANCE, but all CDK4/6 inhibitors, early-line breast cancer, including first-line, as
well as potentially in the future also in the adjuvant setting.
As Albert has mentioned, we are pleased that the first-line study is now ongoing. That's CDK4,
atirmociclib in combination with letrozole. To your point, we also expect the readout for vepdeg in
the second-line setting with a derisk study that includes ESR1 population, as well as all-comatreatment. We are planning a study in the first-line setting combining vepdeg plus CDK4 in first-
line ER positive breast cancer.
I also just quickly want to mention CDK -- and KAT6, because KAT6 is a differentiated epigenetic
molecule. This is a first-in-category medicine. You've seen the data, very exciting, very
encouraging data in later line disease, and we're accelerating that also into a registration study
with an ongoing Phase 3 trial in second-line plus ER positive breast cancer. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Was there a question also for Daniel? No, it was not. Okay, good. Let's go now to the
next question, please.
Operator
We'll go next with `Terence Flynn, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Q - `Terence Flynn, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Great. Thanks so much for taking the question. Maybe two for me on the pipeline. On ELREXFIO,
first, just on the commercial side, can you talk about what you're seeing in terms of uptake at the
academic versus community centers? Are you seeing any broadening out into the community
setting, or is that really going to be contingent on getting some of the earlier line data that you're
expecting later this year from the Phase 3 trial? And then on danuglipron on the dose
optimization study, can you just kind of clarify how much data you're going to share later this
quarter? Will we get weight loss data? Will we get tolerability data? How much data will be in the
initial press release? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Aamir?
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief U.S. Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yes, we're very excited about the momentum on ELREXFIO. We continue to see increase in share
and new patient starts quarter-over-quarter in the class, and the uptick also does include
community receptivity and awareness, and new account adoptions. And obviously, with the whole
slew of trials, assuming they're successful to follow, I think there's a lot of momentum behind
ELREXFIO, and over the course of this year, we expect it to grow rapidly, driven primarily by
increased demand in our top 100 accounts, as well as increased adoption in the community
setting, which I think positions ELREXFIO very, very well for the future as we expand indications
into earlier lines of therapy in '26 and beyond.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. And myself, I was quite impressed with the community oncologist uptake of this
product as quickly as it's happened in the U.S. But also, we have very good news for ELREXFIO in
the international market. Alexandre?
A - `Alexandre de Germay, Chief International Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yes, indeed. ELREXFIO was commercially launched in already six markets in 2024, out of our top
15 markets, so quite a fast penetration. And of course, in 2025, we're expecting to get an
additional 18 markets and four additional of our top 15 markets will launch this year. But thecombination of the expand access plus the performance of the brands where we already have
introduced the product, gives us great confidence for accelerated growth.
And to give you a sense, Japan is the second largest market outside of the U.S., and we had a
significant and very rapid demand in Japan where ELREXFIO was introduced first to market BCMA
bispecific. And that's, we've seen an immediate acceleration of utilization, actually deep into the
community in Japan. And where we've launched with other products, BCMA bispecific, like in the
UK, in Spain, in Italy, are markets where we have demonstrated that ELREXFIO leadership, and we
expect to continue this leadership position in 2025. So the combination of increased access and
where we already introduced growth expansions, there are two reasons why we believe the
product has great potential.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
In general, ELREXFIO, because we do think that it is a mega blockbuster that it will become, you
need to understand that already in the first year, we had more than $130 million of sales. And this
is in a very niche indication. This is triple refractory, which means patients that they have short
duration of treatment, and they are really failed after everything else that was tried. As we move
to -- we have four Phase 3 studies, right? One could read this year, and that not only triples the
population, so we go to bigger population, but also expands significantly the duration of
treatment. And that it is true, as we go to the next line and to the first line eventually. So we think
that in the U.S. and international, this product will become a very big oncology product for Pfizer.
And with that, Daniel -- please, Chris.
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Research & Development `
Yes, just -- what we said earlier. So in Q1, we expect the PK data. We are on target for that.
Remember, this is looking at different formulations and will determine the dose selection for a
once-a-day tablet, for a once-a-day approach for a potential taking forward into a registration
strategy. Although you mentioned weight loss, weight loss is a secondary endpoint on the study.
This is a smaller study, it's an in-unit study, so it may not be that reliable for weight loss from a
small number of patients.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
We'll go next to `Mohit Bansal, Wells Fargo Securities LLC with Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.
Q - `Mohit Bansal, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Great. Thank you very much for taking my question. And maybe if you can talk a little bit about
Prevnar, how are you seeing Prevnar share? I mean you did talk about the market share here, but
in terms of peds versus adults, how are you seeing the market share evolving now that also
VAXNEUVANCE has an expansion in ex-US. There is also a lower adult eligibility in terms of age.
So can you talk a little bit about these dynamics and how do you see market evolving here?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
All right. Let's start with International, and then we go to the U.S. for a change.
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Research & Development `Okay. All right. So on Prevnar, as you know, in international two-thirds of the business come from
the pediatric education, and this -- that kind of sort of macro view, with our Prevnar pneumococcal
vaccine, we have maintained exclusivity in NIP in about 140 markets around the world. So that
gives you the sense of the breadth of our pneumococcal vaccine. And as we move over the
times, our intention is, of course, to replace our Prevnar 13 to our Prevnar 20.
So now, of course, they are now going to the details in emerging markets. We have a very large
cohort of babies every year, so around 76 million new babies. And of course, alongside our great
collaboration with the Gavi organization, we have our commercial organizations where we have
demonstrated this year a double-digit growth of our Prevnar franchise. So a great execution in the
emerging market.
Now, in the developed markets, following the EMA and the Japan approval, remember in March
only of 2024, we've started to gain VTC approval and funding. And where we start to see that,
we see that we are recapturing very quickly some of the business that went to competition.
So give you an example. In Japan, Prevnar 20, as I said, was approved in March. We got the VTC
recommendation in October. And our market share in first dose went from 3% in September to
86% in December. So we see that when the Prevnar 20 gets approved, we really have an
opportunity to regain that business. And on the adult side, here again, we've seen a very strong
growth in 2024 that will continue to expect significant growth just because we are expanding
access in more mature markets with our Prevnar 20 adults.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And Aamir, in the U.S.?
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief U.S. Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
In the U.S., let me start with the adult market. We have right now a very strong position in the
adult market. Now, we are going to face competitive pressure over the course of 2025 from
(inaudible), but we are confident that we will continue to maintain meaningful market share. A lot
of that has to do with our commercial execution, as well as the fact that many accounts,
particularly non-retail accounts, prefer to stock a single vaccine. So we'll see that evolve over the
course of the year. And while we don't think that there's much catch-up opportunity in the 65
plus, we also think there is growth opportunity in the 50 to 64 age group that brings about 30
million adults into the eligible population.
So those will be the dynamics in adults. Now, in peds, there, again, we have very significant
market share. And on the theme of improved market share across all of our vaccines, we saw a 12
percentage point improvement from August '23 to December '24 in our pediatric market share.
And here, we expect this to be a much more stable market. We plan to retain that kind of
leadership share, and we expect volumes to be more stable here.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Thank you very much. Next question.
Operator
We'll go next to Dave Risinger with Leerink Partners. Please go ahead.
Q - `David Risinger, Leerink Partners `Yes. Thanks very much, and thanks for all the updates. So my question is just going back to RFK
Jr.So assuming he is confirmed as HHS Secretary, and given his history of suing manufacturers and
his commentary on lawsuits in the hearings last week, could you just help us understand his ability
as HHS Secretary to remove U.S. vaccine liability protections that manufacturers currently benefit
from and allow manufacturers the freedom to develop and sell vaccines that save lives? Thank
you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Look, I don't want to comment, because these are all legal issues, but I believe that the
liability is through Senate, through Congress approval. So I don't think anyone can change that
without, let's say, Senate approval. I know that, that creates a turbulence into the market today,
and which RFK could -- it was almost certain that he would get confirmed. And we have engaged
with him early enough, so that we can mitigate all the issues. If he does the things that he has
said in the past, because during the hearings, he of course, clearly tempered his statements on
vaccines, but if he tries to do some of the things that he said in the past, I think that you won't
find in front of him the industry.
You won't find in front of him the total medical community and the total scientific community and
payers that they don't want to see a reduction in vaccination, because that's a very cost effective
way of controlling health care costs. And more than important, this is not what the Trump
administration would like to see another health crisis. So I would say that I feel cautiously
optimistic that they will be very, very prudent with everything they try to do.
Let's go to the next question.
Operator
We'll go next to `Trung Huynh, UBS Securities LLC with UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Trung Huynh, UBS Securities LLC `
Hi, guys. Thanks for the questions. Just two from me. So firstly, going back to ABRYSVO, I think
Aamir noted potential policy changes in RSV. So do you have any insight if there's going to be a
discussion from ACIP on revaccination or cohort expansion this year? I guess that could be a
positive for your guide. And then two, on PADCEV's potential registrational muscle invasive
bladder cancer trial. In general, I think cystectomy is used to cure patients in this setting. So just
wondering how you're going to position this and how quick could you penetrate this population if
approved. Thanks very much.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Very quickly, Aamir on ABRYSVO and then we go.
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief U.S. Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
What I described, Trung, were the catalysts that could result in market expansion for ABRYSVO.
Obviously, it's too early and not our place to comment on what exactly ACIP's going to take on
and when.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
And Chris, on PADCEV?A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Research & Development `
So thank you for the question. Reminder that this is an event-driven study. So we hope by the end
of this year, but if the event doesn't happen, we'll move a little bit on. And muscle invasive, about
28,000 population in the U.S. alone. So it could more than double, as we mentioned, triple the
population currently eligible. Currently, there's no standard of care treatment other than surgery,
cystectomy, for patients considered Cisplatin ineligible.
So there's two studies, one for cisplatin eligible and one for Cisplatin ineligible. For the Cisplatin
eligible, the current -- currently is dominated by new adjuvant chemotherapy. So there's a real
need for both adjuvant and new adjuvant treatment and replace chemotherapy in the setting of
cisplatin eligible disease. And of course, for Cisplatin ineligible disease, it will completely change
the future treatment paradigm. So we're very excited if these studies are positive and what
we've seen. We've got confidence in these data from earlier studies. So, yes.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
We'll go next to `Akash Tewari, Jefferies Financial Group Inc. with Jefferies. Please go ahead.
Q - `Akash Tewari, Jefferies Financial Group Inc. `
Hey, thanks so much. Just on QD danuglipron, it looks like you're using a bilayer immediate
release in matrix technology here, but you don't actually test your bilayer formulation until the
second half of your weight loss trial. Is that what your team's waiting on before you make a formal
update? Or is it perhaps the Lilly or for orforglipron data that's also going to factor into this
decision? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
I don't think we can disclose the technology. I know that there were speculations into the
marketplace, but we haven't disclosed the technology. So I'm not sure we can say much, but
Chris, you want to add anything?
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Research & Development `
No, I don't think we need to add right now. Yes.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Let's go to the next question.
Operator
We'll go next to `Chris Shibutani, Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. with Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.
Q - `Chris Shibutani, Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. `
Great. Thank you. A quick one on the pipeline and another on business development strategy. On
the pipeline, I noticed in Phase 2, you've advanced the GIPR antagonist. Is that something that
you'll be continuing to share data on, particularly as a monotherapy? And do you have any effortsyou used included a capacity of perhaps in the $10 billion to $15 billion ZIP code. And I'm curious to
know what you're solving for. And I ask this in part, because historically, there had been a view of
using cash to acquire $25 billion in revenue by the end of the decade.
But now when we think about where we are in this decade and what you could be solving for
structurally, there seem to be approaches sourcing assets from China, for instance, many of your
competitors are doing this. Are you solving for near-term revenues, or are you looking to use
other methods, including perhaps partnerships over M&A? That would be helpful. Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Let me start a little bit on the BD, and also Andrew, you can chime in. We had been very clear
about so far we have acquired $20 billion of 2030 revenues. We are very confident that we will hit
this number. Very confident. So far so good on that, right? Looking forward, of course, we are
looking at more strategic opportunities right now, which will enhance pipeline in areas that we
would like to play rather than near-term revenues on BD. I would ask Andrew to comment, and
then if you can speak, Chris, about the GIPR antagonist.
A - `Andrew Baum, Chief Strategy and Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President `
Sure. So hi, Chris, nice to hear your voice. So on the BD side, Albert said the key word, which is
strategic. So everything we do will be doing through a strategic lens of building around our core
competencies or building competencies in areas that maybe we have not been in previously, if
that's what we decide to do. On your point regarding China, it has not escaped our attention. Of
course, the innovation from China across multiple therapeutic areas, and indeed, that was most
evident with oncology some years ago, but now it's expanding to most therapeutic areas.
They're mostly fast forwards, but I expect that will change as well. It's an area that we are very,
very active in. We continue to have very fruitful discussions, and let's just see where we go.
So I'll hand over to Chris.
A - `Chris Boshoff, Chief Scientific Officer and President, Research & Development `
We have a very strong footprint in China. And that includes not only commercial, but we have very
strong R&D footprint that they are looking at Chinese innovation, because they are progressing
very fast and to identify an opportunity. Chris.
On the GIPR antagonist, this is potentially a first-in-class oral small molecule GIPR antagonist. It's
currently in an ongoing Phase 2 placebo-controlled study evaluating the GIPR antagonist in adults
with obesity on the background of GLP-1 receptor agonists. If the data from the first Phase 2 study
are positive, we may potentially be able to develop also fixed-dose combinations, including with
GLP-1, including potentially danuglipron in the future.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Next question, please.
Operator
We'll go next to `Alex Hammond, Wolfe Research with Wolfe Research. Please go ahead.
Q - `Alex Hammond, Wolfe Research `Thanks for squeezing me in. On VYNDAQEL, with new competitors on the market and on the way,
can you walk us through how we should think about the near-term commercial dynamics? Where
could we see the largest share impact, newly prescribed patients or switches? Thank you.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Alex. Aamir?
A - `Aamir Malik, Chief U.S. Commercial Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yes. VYNDA obviously had very significant momentum in '24. You saw the growth rates, and that
was due in large part to the commercial efforts and the attention and investment we put behind
it. We saw improvement in diagnosis rate as well as new patient starts. And we also did benefit
from what was a one-time bolus of annual enrollment patients in the first quarter of '24 due to
favorable affordability. So as we look into '25, there's both headwinds and tailwinds, and we're
confident in the growth of VYNDA, obviously at a different rate than it grew in '24.
We do see increased diagnosis education, growth in the prescriber base, and there will continue
to be favorable affordability conditions. But we do expect that there will be some headwinds.
Obviously, you referred to two new market entrants. That will have some impact that remains to
be seen both on switching patients as well as new patient starts. I think it's also important to
remember that there will be impact of IRA on VYNDA and the effect that it has on the
calendarization of our GTN, with more of the GTN impact coming earlier in the year as we reach
the catastrophic phase.
Now with all of that said, I think we remain really confident and excited. With VYNDA, we've got a
robust clinical profile that has data both from the clinical trial and the long-term extension. We've
got five-year real-world data on (inaudible). We've got strong access, and we are confident in our
position as the standard of care.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Let's move to the last question now.
Operator
Our last question comes from `Tim Anderson, Bank of America Securities with Bank of America. Please go ahead.
Q - `Tim Anderson, Bank of America Securities `
Thank you. I have a question on just obesity strategy. So to me, late-entrant companies with one
lead asset might struggle, unless they have real clinical differentiation. It could be in a better
position if they have a collection of assets. There's naturally turnkey solutions out there in terms
of companies that any larger company could either partner with or acquire outright. How is Pfizer
looking at its BD efforts in this regard, either partnership or acquisition that could bring you one or
more assets that aren't far away from being in Phase 3?
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Andrew?
A - `Andrew Baum, Chief Strategy and Innovation Officer, Executive Vice President `
Yes. Hi, Tim. So I agree with your assertion that obesity is heterogeneous, and likely require a setmanage what is a lifelong condition. These assets do exist. Some are scattered. Some have
portfolios. But you could imagine that, of course, we are looking at all the opportunities and trying
to understand what delivers the most value to patients and, obviously, to Pfizer shareholders.
A - `Albert Bourla, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much. And I think that concludes our call. Thank you all for your interest. 2024 was
a strong year of performance, and our 2025 strategic priorities are very clear. We are planning to
execute as well on them as we executed in 2024. Thank you very much, and have a nice day.
Operator
This does conclude today's program. Thank you for your participation. You may disconnect at any
time.