ITEM 5. OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS A. Operating Results The information set forth under the following headings of the 2016
Swedish Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference: • Ericsson in brief 10 Table of Contents • The business • This is Ericsson • Global presence 24/7 • Reporting Structure 2016 • Other information • Five-year summary • Alternative Performance Measures (APMs) • Financials • Board of Directors’ report • Business in 2016 • Financial highlights • Business results – Segments • Business results – Regions • Risk management • Notes to the consolidated financial statements • Note C1 – Significant accounting policies • Note C20 – Financial risk management and financial instruments – Foreign exchange risk • Risk Factors • Market, technology and business risks • Regulatory, Compliance and Corporate Governance risks Operating results for the years ended
December 31, 2014 and 2015 Business in 2015 In 2015, net sales increased by 8% mainly due to sales growth in India, North America and Mainland China as well as higher IPR licensing
revenues. All three segments showed sales growth. Both operating income and margin increased compared to last year despite significantly higher restructuring charges. The increase is mainly related to higher IPR licensing revenues, lower negative
currency hedge effects and lower operating expenses, excluding restructuring charges. In the year, the US dollar strengthened towards a number of currencies including SEK, impacting sales and operating income positively. The IPR strategy, to generate value from investments in R&D, has been successful and over the last five years IPR licensing revenues have
more than tripled. IPR revenues were SEK 14.4 (9.9) billion. Ericsson now has agreements with the majority of handset suppliers. In 2015,
there was good progress in the targeted growth areas; IP network, Cloud, OSS and BSS, TV and Media as well as Industry and Society. Ericsson continued to invest in order to establish leadership in these areas. 11 Table of Contents The effort to restore Network Rollout to a sustainable profitable business progressed well, with
a break-even operating income, excluding restructuring charges, for the second half of 2015. The global cost and efficiency program
progressed according to plan, with the target to achieve net annual savings of SEK 9 billion during 2017 compared with 2014. Operating expenses, excluding restructuring charges, declined to SEK 61.4 (63.0) billion. Ericsson will continue
to address operating expenses and increase efforts to further reduce cost of sales in order to improve the gross margin. Ericsson
delivered a full-year cash flow from operating activities of SEK 20.6 (18.7) billion, exceeding the cash conversion target of more than 70%. The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 3.70 (3.40) per share for 2015, an increase of 9% compared
with last year. Financial highlights Net
Sales Reported sales increased by 8%. Sales growth in India, North America and Mainland China as well as higher IPR licensing revenues
were partly offset by lower sales in Japan, Russia and Brazil. All three segments showed sales growth. Global Services sales grew by 11%,
with 15% growth in Professional Services, while Network Rollout sales were almost flat. Networks sales grew by 5% and Support Solutions sales by 19%. IPR licensing revenues amounted to SEK 14.4 (9.9) billion. In 2015, a global patent license agreement was signed with Apple. In the year, the US dollar strengthened towards a number of currencies including SEK, impacting sales positively. At the same time the strong
US dollar gradually impacted investments negatively in some emerging markets. Sales, adjusted for comparable units and currency, decreased
by –5%. Gross margin Gross
margin declined to 34.8% (36.2%). Excluding restructuring charges, the gross margin declined to 35.7% (36.6%) due to a mix with a lower share of mobile capacity business and higher share of Global Services sales. This was partly offset by higher IPR
licensing revenues and effects of implemented efficiency measures. The mix of sales by commodity was; software 23% (24%), hardware 34%
(34%) and services 43% (42%). Restructuring charges and global cost and efficiency program Restructuring charges amounted to SEK –5.0 (–1.5) billion, in line with previous estimates. The charges were mainly related to the
global cost and efficiency program announced in November 2014. The global cost and efficiency program is progressing according to plan and is expected to generate net annual savings of SEK 9 billion during 2017 compared with 2014. With current visibility, total restructuring charges for 2016 are estimated to be approximately SEK 3–4 billion. This includes both
restructuring charges related to the global cost and efficiency program and normal restructuring charges for the ongoing business transformation. Operating expenses Total operating
expenses increased to SEK 64.1 (63.4) billion. Operating expenses, excluding restructuring charges, decreased from SEK 63.0 to SEK 61.4 billion, due to lower R&D expenses amounting to SEK 32.8 (36.0) billion. This is partly a result of
implementation of activities related to the global cost and efficiency program. Additions to capitalized development expenses amounted to SEK 3.5 (1.5) billion. The increase was due to higher activity in technology platform development than a year
ago. Other operating income and expenses Other operating income and expenses improved to SEK 0.1 (–2.2) billion. The increase is mainly related to currency hedge effects of
SEK –1.1 (–2.8) billion. They derive from the hedge contract balance in US dollar, which has further decreased in value. The SEK has weakened towards the US dollar between December 31, 2014 (SEK/USD rate 7.79) and
December 31, 2015 (8.40). The negative currency hedge effects were more than offset by several minor positive items and a capital gain of SEK 0.3 billion related to a real estate divestment in the US. Operating income Operating income
increased to SEK 21.8 (16.8) billion despite significantly higher restructuring charges. The increase is mainly related to higher IPR licensing revenues, lower negative currency hedge effects and lower operating expenses, excluding restructuring
charges. The net currency effect had a positive impact on operating income. Operating margin was 8.8% (7.4%). 12 Table of Contents Financial net Financial net amounted to SEK –1.9 (–1.0) billion. The decrease is mainly due to a negative effect of foreign currency revaluation
and lower interest rates. Taxes The tax rate for 2015 was 31% compared with 30% in 2014, negatively impacted by the geographical mix. Tax costs were SEK –6.2 (–4.7)
billion. Net income and EPS Net
income increased to SEK 13.7 (11.1) billion, for the same reasons as for the increase in operating income. EPS diluted was SEK 4.13 (3.54). Business
results – Segments Networks Reported sales increased by 5% compared to last year. The increase was mainly due to higher IPR licensing revenues. Operator investments in
mobile broadband in India and South East Asia increased. The large-scale LTE deployments in Mainland China continued at a high pace in 2015. Sales in North America were flat compared to last year, supported by the strengthened US dollar. Mobile
broadband investments in North America were negatively impacted by operator focus on cash flow optimization in order to finance major acquisitions and spectrum auctions. In 2015, sales in targeted growth area IP networks grew, mainly driven by investments in packet core, VoLTE and user data management. During the year, the US dollar strengthened towards a number of currencies, including SEK, impacting sales positively. At the same time, the
strong US dollar gradually impacted investments negatively in some emerging markets. Sales, adjusted for comparable units and currency, decreased by –8% compared to last year. Operating income and margin decreased due to a higher share of mobile broadband coverage business and higher restructuring charges. Increased
IPR licensing revenues, lower operating expenses and lower negative effect of currency hedge contracts contributed positively to operating income and margin. The year started with a high level of R&D expenses which gradually decreased as a result of the global cost and efficiency program. The
ambition to improve Networks profitability remains. Restructuring charges amounted to SEK –2.8 (–0.4) billion and the negative
effect from hedge contracts was SEK –0.9 (–2.1) billion. Global Services Reported sales increased by 11% compared to last year. Professional Services reported sales grew 15% with strong development across the
portfolio and with growth in all ten regions. Consulting and Systems Integration sales grew, driven by OSS and BSS transformation projects
and by solutions for Industry & Society customers. Sales in Managed Services grew by 17% and the number of signed contracts increased by more than 40% compared with 2014. Network Rollout sales were flat. Lower coverage project activities in Japan, North America and Latin America impacted sales negatively. Global Services sales, adjusted for comparable units and currency, declined –2%. Global Services operating income increased by more than 30% compared with 2014, driven by increased sales in Professional Services and reduced
losses in Network Rollout. Professional Services margin was stable compared to last year. The effort to restore Network Rollout
profitability progressed well with a break-even result, excluding restructuring, for the second half of the year. Network Rollout full-year operating income improved to SEK –1.4 (–2.5) billion. Restructuring charges for Global Services increased to SEK –1.7 (–0.8) billion. The implementation of the Global Services delivery
strategy accelerated during the year as part of the global cost and efficiency program, resulting in a remote delivery rate of 50% (44%). The ambition to optimize service delivery and improve profitability will continue. The effect of currency hedge contracts on operating income was SEK –0.2 (–0.6) billion. Support Solutions Reported sales
increased by 19% compared with 2014, with North America and India as main contributors. Sales, adjusted for comparable units and currency, were flat. The overall transition of business models, from traditional telecom software licenses to recurrent
license revenue deals, continued. Sales in OSS and BSS developed favorably. Growth of mobile broadband drives operators to transform
their OSS and BSS solutions, in order to monetize the data growth while at the same time managing the increased complexity. Two important TV & Media agreements were announced in North America in the second half of the year, showing the
strong position Ericsson has in this transforming market. 13 Table of Contents IPR licensing revenues increased compared with 2014. Operating Income and margin improved significantly compared with 2014, driven by higher sales. Focus going forward is to improve earnings
leverage through increased recurring software sales and efficiencies. Restructuring charges increased to SEK –0.5 (–0.1) billion
due to the global cost and efficiency program. The effect of currency hedge contracts on operating income was SEK –0.1 (–0.2) billion. Business results – Regions North America Mobile broadband investments were slow as operators focused on cash flow optimization in order to finance major acquisitions and
spectrum auctions. Investments stabilized during the second half of the year, driven by data traffic growth. ICT transformation, TV & Media and Professional Services developed favorably. Latin America Sales decreased compared
to last year mainly due to lower activities in Brazil. Operator investments increased in local currency, but not enough to compensate for the depreciation towards the US dollar and currency restrictions in many parts of the region. Professional
Services sales grew, mainly in OSS and BSS. Northern Europe and Central Asia Sales declined, primarily due to lower mobile broadband investments in Russia with sales of SEK 4.7 (6.7) billion. However, sales stabilized in
the second half of the year, but at a lower level compared to the same period last year. Professional Services sales increased, driven by Managed Services and ICT transformation projects in the Nordics. TV & Media and OSS and BSS developed
favorably, driving sales growth in Support Solutions. Western and Central Europe Investments in mobile broadband were driven by the transition from 3G to 4G and capacity enhancements. At the same time, some important
projects peaked. Sales were stable with a shift towards Professional Services and Support Solutions, as operators focus on network optimization, efficiency and new functionality. Mediterranean Sales increased somewhat,
driven by Managed Services. Investments in mobile broadband were driven by the transition from 3G to 4G and improvements of the quality and capacity of the networks. Middle East Sales increased, primarily
in Global Services. In the first half of the year, Network sales growth was mainly driven by some major mobile broadband projects, which were completed in the second half of the year. Sub-Saharan Africa Sales increased across all segments, driven by strong consumer demand for mobile broadband, despite a challenging regulatory environment
and recent macro-economic development. Operators’ focus on network quality and efficiency drove Professional Services sales growth. India Sales growth was driven by increased operator investments in mobile broadband infrastructure and Professional Services. Increased
focus on network quality and cost optimization continued to drive strong sales growth for Managed Services. Support Solutions sales showed significant growth, driven by OSS and BSS. North East Asia Sales growth was driven by 4G deployments in Mainland China, partly offset by lower operator investments in Japan. Professional Services showed
growth, supported by the acquisition of Sunrise Technologies’ telecom business. 14 Table of Contents South East Asia and Oceania Sales increased, primarily driven by mobile broadband deployments across several markets. Professional Services sales developed favorably as
operators focused on efficiency and network optimization. TV & Media showed a positive development during the year. Other Sales increased, driven by the Apple global patent license agreement and currency, as a majority of the IPR contracts are in US dollar.
Broadcast services showed good growth. IPR licensing revenues amounted to SEK 14.4 (9.9) billion. B. Liquidity and Capital Resources The information set forth under the following headings
of the 2016 Swedish Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference: • Financials • Board of Directors’ report • Financial highlights – Cash flow • Financial highlights – Financial position • Financial highlights – Seasonality • Financial highlights – Capital expenditures • Notes to the consolidated financial statements • Note C19 – Interest-bearing liabilities • Note C20 – Financial risk management and financial instruments • Note C25 – Statement of cash flows See “