Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” in our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022. A. Operating Results The information set forth under the following headings of the 2023 Swedish Annual Report (adjusted version) is incorporated herein by reference: • Financial report • This is Ericsson • Business strategy • Board of Directors’ report 5 Table of Contents • Business in 2023 • Financial highlights • Business results – Segments • Business results – Market areas • Risk management • Notes to the consolidated financial statements • Note A1 – Material accounting policies • Note F1 – Financial risk management • Risk Factors • Alternative performance measures • Corporate Governance report • Regulation B. Liquidity and Capital Resources The information set forth under the following headings of the 2023 Swedish Annual Report (adjusted version) is incorporated herein by reference: • Financial report • Board of Directors’ report • Financial highlights – Cash flow • Financial highlights – Financial position • Financial highlights – Seasonality • Financial highlights – Off-balance sheet arrangements • Financial highlights – Capital expenditures • Notes to the consolidated financial statements • Note B9 – Other current liabilities • Note D1 – Provisions • Note D2 – Contingent liabilities • Note D4 – Contractual obligations • Note F1 – Financial risk management • Note F4 – Interest-bearing liabilities • Note H3 – Statement of cash flows C. Research and Development, Patents and Licenses, etc. The information set forth under the following headings of the 2023 Swedish Annual Report (adjusted version) is incorporated herein by reference: • Financial report • Business strategy • Risk factors – Risks related to business activities and industry • Board of Directors’ report • Financial highlights – Research and development, patents and licensing Ericsson has a policy of strong commitment to research and development (“R&D”) with substantial contributions to cutting-edge open standards and technologies, leading the development of cellular technology – from 2G to 5G and beyond. Our strong R&D investments position us to further extend our technology leadership for cost performance and sustainability. It is Ericsson’s policy to protect and capitalize on our R&D investments by creating, securing, protecting, and licensing a portfolio of patents in support of our overall business goals. Our patent portfolio comprises more than 60,000 granted patents, which are licensed globally on FRAND terms to the users of our technology. Ericsson is one of the largest contributors to O-RAN, driving the alignment between 3GPP and Open RAN and investing heavily in Cloud RAN to ensure long-term competitiveness. Within Enterprise, Ericsson is increasing investments in developing the network APIs. Other areas of focus in R&D include the capability of networks to handle gigabytes per second more efficiently, using more automation, using Artificial Intelligence to improve network performance and reducing energy consumption, while securing sustainability leadership to support customers to lower the total cost of ownership and meet net zero requirements. Research and Development and Patent Information 2023 2022 2021 R&D employees 28,219 29,304 27,379 R&D expenses SEK bn 50.7 47.3 42.1 Patents over 60,000 over 60,000 over 60,000 D. Trend Information The information set forth under the following headings of the 2023 Swedish Annual Report (adjusted version) is incorporated herein by reference: • Financial report • CEO Comment • Our industry vision • Enterprise expansion • Leading with integrity • Looking ahead • Board of Directors’ report • Business in 2023 • Financial highlights – Seasonality 6 Table of Contents • Business results – Segments • Business results – Market areas E. Critical accounting estimates • Financial report • Notes to the consolidated financial statements • Note A2 – Critical accounting estimates and judgments