Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” in our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023. A. Operating Results The information set forth under the following headings of the 2024 Swedish Annual Report (adjusted version) is incorporated herein by reference: • Financial Report • This is Ericsson • Strategy • Board of Directors’ Report • Business in 2024 • Financial highlights • Business results – Segments • Business results – Market areas • Risk management • Notes to the consolidated financial statements • Note A1 – Material accounting policies • Note F1 – Financial risk management • Risk Factors • Alternative performance measures • Corporate Governance Report • Regulation B. Liquidity and Capital Resources The information set forth under the following headings of the 2024 Swedish Annual Report (adjusted version) is incorporated herein by reference: • Financial Report • Board of Directors’ Report • Financial highlights – Cash flow • Financial highlights – Financial position • Financial highlights – Seasonality • Financial highlights – Capital expenditures • Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5 Table of Contents • Note B9 – Other current liabilities • Note D1 – Provisions • Note D2 – Contingent liabilities • Note D4 – Contractual obligations • Note F1 – Financial risk management • Note F4 – Interest-bearing liabilities • Note H3 – Statement of cash flows C. Research and Development, Patents and Licenses, etc. The information set forth under the following headings of the 2024 Swedish Annual Report (adjusted version) is incorporated herein by reference: • Financial Report • Strategy • Risk factors – Risks related to business activities and industry • Board of Directors’ Report • Financial highlights – Research and development, patents and licensing Ericsson has a policy of strong commitment to research and development (“R&D”) with substantial contributions to cutting-edge open standards and technologies, leading the development of cellular technology – from 2G to 5G and beyond. Our strong R&D investments position us to further extend our technology leadership for cost performance and sustainability. It is Ericsson’s policy to protect and capitalize on our R&D investments by creating, securing, protecting, and licensing a portfolio of patents in support of our overall business goals. Our patent portfolio comprises more than 60,000 granted patents, which are licensed globally on fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory terms to the users of our technology. With high-performing programmable networks, enabled by openness and cloud, Ericsson collaborates with our partners and customers to drive the future of connectivity, enabling programmability and delivering unparalleled user experiences. Our technology leadership is critical in enabling these networks, and today around 50% of the world’s mobile 5G traffic excluding China is carried over Ericsson’s radio networks. Within Enterprise, Ericsson is increasing investments in developing network APIs. Other areas of focus in R&D include the capability of networks to handle gigabytes per second more efficiently, using more automation, using Artificial Intelligence to improve network performance and reducing energy consumption, while securing sustainability leadership to support customers to lower the total cost of ownership and meet net zero requirements. Research and Development and Patent Information 2024 2023 2022 R&D employees 26,744 28,219 29,304 R&D expenses SEK bn 53.5 50.7 47.3 Patents over 60,000 over 60,000 over 60,000 D. Trend Information The information set forth under the following headings of the 2024 Swedish Annual Report (adjusted version) is incorporated herein by reference: • Financial Report • CEO Comment • Mobile networks – the next wave • Leadership in mobile networks • Expansion into enterprise • Leading with integrity • Market developments and business performance • Looking ahead • Board of Directors’ Report • Business in 2024 • Financial highlights – Seasonality • Business results – Segments • Business results – Market areas E. Critical accounting estimates • Financial Report • Notes to the consolidated financial statements • Note A2 – Judgments and critical accounting estimates