ITEM 5. OPERATI NG AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS A. Operati ng Results The information set forth under the
following headings of the 2017 Swedish Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference: • The business • Ericsson in brief • This is Ericsson • Strategy and financial targets • Segments • Business Model • Other information • Five-year summary • Alternative Performance Measures • Financials • Board of Directors’ report • Business in 2017 • Financial highlights • Business results – Segments • Business results – Market Areas • Risk management • Notes to the consolidated financial statements • Note C1 – Significant accounting policies 16 Table of Contents • Note C20 – Financial risk management and financial instruments – Foreign exchange risk • Risk Factors • Market, technology and business risks • Regulatory, Compliance and Corporate Governance risks Operating results for the years ended
December 31, 2015 and 2016 Reporting structure in 2016 Starting July 1, 2016, Ericsson implemented an organizational change. The financial reporting during 2016 has been carried out according
to the same segment structure as in 2015; Networks, Global Services and Support Solutions. The 2016 reporting structure is appliedbelow. From January 1, 2017, financial reporting is done according to the new structure, i.e., by the new segments Networks, IT & Cloud
and Media. Full-year highlights Reported sales decreased by –10% mainly due to weaker demand for mobile broadband, especially in markets with a weak macroeconomic
environment. IPR licensing revenues declined to SEK 10.0 (14.4) billion. Operating income declined to SEK 6.3 (21.8) billion due to
lower sales and a changed business mix in mobile broadband, with a lower proportion of capacity business. This was partly offset by lower operating expenses. Cash flow from operating activities was SEK 14.0 (20.6) billion. Net cash at year-end was SEK
31.2 billion. The Board of Directors proposes a dividend for 2016 of SEK 1.00 (3.70) per share to the AGM. Business in 2016 In 2016, net sales
decreased by –10% mainly due to lower demand for mobile broadband, especially in markets with a weak macroeconomic environment. Sales declined in all three segments. Both operating income and margin decreased compared to last year due to lower
sales and lower gross margin, partly offset by lower operating expenses. IPR licensing revenues were SEK 10.0 (14.4) billion. IPR
licensing revenues in 2015 were positively impacted by a global patent license agreement signed with Apple, which included an initial payment. Full-year sales for the targeted growth areas; IP network, Cloud, OSS and BSS, TV and Media as well as Industry and Society, were flat and
accounted for 20% of group sales. The global cost and efficiency program, first initiated in November 2014, and expanded in 2016,
-progressed according to plan. The target of the program is to reduce the annual run rate of operating expenses, excluding restructuring charges, to SEK 53 billion in the second half of 2017. Operating expenses in 2016 decreased to
SEK 60.5 (64.1) billion which included restructuring charges of SEK –4.1 (–2.8) billion. Ericsson delivered a full-year
cash flow from operating activities of SEK 14.0 (20.6) billion, exceeding the 70% cash conversion target. Financial highlights Net sales Reported sales decreased by –10% mainly due to lower demand for mobile broadband, especially in markets with a weak macroeconomic
environment. Sales in Europe declined following completion of mobile broadband projects in 2015. Mobile broadband sales in North America remained stable while Professional Services sales declined, mainly due to lower managed services activities. A
significant managed services contract in North America was renewed with reduced scope. Sales in South East Asia increased, driven by large deliveries in coverage projects. IPR licensing revenues amounted to SEK 10.0 (14.4) billion. Sales in 2015 were positively impacted by a global patent license agreement signed
with Apple, which included an initial payment. The baseline for current IPR licensing contract portfolio is approximately SEK 7 billion on an annual basis. Smartphone volume growth, agreements with currently unlicensed handset suppliers and IoT
licensing will determine growth opportunities going forward. Currency exchange rates had no material impact on full-year sales. Sales,
adjusted for comparable units and currency, decreased by –10%. 17 Table of Contents Full-year sales for targeted growth areas were flat and accounted for 20% of group sales. The
partnership with Cisco has to date generated more than 100 deals across all regions. The sales mix by commodity was: software 22% (23%),
hardware 33% (34%) and services 45% (43%). Gross margin Gross margin declined to 29.8% (34.8%) due to a sales mix with lower share of mobile capacity business, higher share of Global Services sales
and lower IPR licensing revenues as well as lower Global Services margins. In addition, restructuring charges included in the gross -margin increased to SEK –3.5 (–2.3) billion. Restructuring charges and efficiency program Restructuring charges amounted to SEK –7.6 (–5.0) billion. The charges were mainly related to the cost and efficiency program
initially announced in November 2014, and expanded in 2016. The cost and efficiency program is progressing according to plan and the target is to reduce the annual run rate of operating expenses, excluding restructuring charges, to SEK
53 billion in the second half of 2017. Efforts continue in order to reduce cost of sales, targeting to improve gross margin in the second half of 2017 compared with full-year 2016. With current plans, total restructuring charges for 2017 are
estimated to be SEK 3 billion. Operating expenses Total operating expenses decreased to SEK 60.5 (64.1) billion as a result of the cost and -efficiency program and lower amortizations of
intangible assets. Operating expenses included restructuring charges of SEK –4.1 (–2.8) billion. Other operating income and expenses Other operating income and expenses were SEK 0.4 (0.2) billion. Currency hedge contract effects impacted the result with SEK –0.9
(–1.1) billion. They derive from the hedge contract -balance in USD. The SEK has weakened against the USD between December 31, 2015 (SEK/USD rate 8.40) and December 31, 2016 (SEK/USD rate 9.06). The negative currency hedge
effects were more than offset by several minor positive items. Operating income Operating income decreased to SEK 6.3 (21.8) billion due to lower sales and lower gross margin, partly offset by lower operating expenses.
Operating margin was 2.8% (8.8%). Financial net The financial net declined to SEK –2.3 (–1.9) -billion following decreased interest rates and depreciated local currencies in certain
markets. Taxes Tax cost decreased to
SEK –2.1 (–6.2) billion due to lower net income, offset by prior-year adjustments and non-deductible expenses. These factors resulted in a tax rate of 53% in 2016 compared with the more normal tax
rate of 31% in 2015. Average tax rate for the years 2011–2015 was 32%. Net income and EPS Net income decreased to SEK 1.9 (13.7) billion., for the same reasons as for the decrease in operating income. EPS diluted was SEK 0.52 (4.13)
and EPS (Non-IFRS) was SEK 2.66 (6.06). Business results – Segments Networks Background Networks represented 48.7% of net sales in 2016 (50.1% in 2015), The segment delivers products and solutions that are needed for mobile and
fixed communication, several generations of radio networks, IP and transmission networks, core networks and cloud. Business in 2016 Sales as reported decreased by –12%. The decrease was mainly due to lower sales of mobile broadband, reduced sales of core networks and
lower IPR licensing revenues. Core networks sales declined due to lower sales of legacy products, not offset by growth of the new portfolio. Mobile broadband investments were negatively impacted by a weak macroeconomic environment in a number of markets such as Latin America, the
Middle East and South Africa. In addition, sales declined in Europe following the completion of large coverage projects in 2015 and in India due to delayed spectrum auctions. The sales decline was partly offset by sales growth in South East Asia
where large deliveries in mobile broadband coverage projects were made. 18 Table of Contents In North America and in North East Asia, investments in network equipment were stable. In
Mainland China, large-scale LTE deployments continued for the third consecutive year. Sales, adjusted for comparable units and -currency,
decreased by –13%. Operating income and margin decreased, mainly due to a lower share of mobile broadband capacity sales and lower
IPR licensing revenues. The decrease was partly offset by reduced operating expenses, mainly as an effect of the ongoing cost and efficiency program. The work to improve profitability continued with significant headcount reductions and structural
changes. Restructuring charges amounted to SEK –4.0 (–2.8) billion and the negative effect from currency hedge contracts was
SEK –0.7 (–0.9) billion. Global Services Background Global Services represented
45.7% of net sales in 2016 (43.7% in 2015). The segment delivers network rollout services and professional services (i.e., managed services, consulting and systems integration (CSI), customer support as well as network design and optimization
services). Business in 2016 Sales
as reported decreased by –6%. Professional Services sales declined due to lower managed services activities in North America where a contract has been renewed with reduced scope. CDMA sales declined YoY impacting -Professional Services sales
negatively. Network Rollout sales declined due to lower mobile broadband demand, primarily in Europe and Latin America. Sales, adjusted
for comparable units and -currency, decreased by –5%. Global Services operating income decreased to SEK 3.3 (8.2) billion. Activities
were performed to adapt the service delivery organization to lower business volumes and to increase the -efficiency. Restructuring charges increased to SEK –3.0 (–1.7) billion. Professional Services operating income declined to SEK 5.2 (9.6) billion due to increased restructuring charges of SEK –2.3 (–0.7)
billion, lower sales and a negative impact from large projects in systems integration transformation, where operators are looking to transform their IT environments to increase efficiency and prepare for 5G. Ericsson has been successful and won
several IT transformation contracts. However, the short-term margin impact from these contracts is challenging as a consequence of investments in competence build-up and market share. Network Rollout operating income declined to SEK –1.9 (–1.4) billion due to lower sales in combination with increased cost and
negative effects from a few contracts in emerging markets. The effort to improve Network Rollout -profitability continues through efficiency improvements including implementation of global methods and tools. Support Solutions Background Support Solutions represented 5.6% of net sales in 2016 (6.1% in 2015). The portfolio of Support Solutions is designed around measurable
performance improvements in an operator’s business processes, with software that is scalable, configurable and that provides end-to-end capabilities. The business
segment develops and delivers software-based solutions for OSS and BSS as well as TV and media solutions. Business in 2016 Sales as reported decreased by –17%, partly due to lower IPR licensing revenues. OSS and BSS sales declined due to lower sales of legacy
products and lower software sales in digital transformation projects where sales are mainly project milestone based. In addition, sales declined in markets with a weak macroeconomic environment. Sales in TV & Media declined due to lower sales of legacy products primarily in North America. Customer trials on the next-generation
TV & Media platform are ongoing, but have not yet translated into sales. Operating income declined to SEK –1.0 (1.5) billion
mainly due to lower IPR licensing revenues and lower sales in both OSS and BSS as well as in TV & Media. Several activities in order to reduce cost and adjust the organization to lower business volumes are ongoing. The overall transition of business models -continues, from traditional telecom software licenses to recurrent license revenue deals. Business results – Regions North
America 19 Table of Contents Mobile broadband investments were stable. Professional Services sales were negatively impacted by
reduced scope in a managed services contract. Support Solutions sales declined due to delayed investment decisions by customers. The focus on 5G strongly increased, with -trials ongoing with all major customers. Latin America Sales decreased following
reduced mobile broadband investments due to a weak macroeconomic environment in the region and due to devaluation of local currencies. The strong momentum for digital transformation continued. Professional Services sales declined due to lower
activities in managed services. Northern Europe and Central Asia Sales declined, primarily due to continued lower mobile broadband investments in Russia. Global Services sales were flat with a decline in
Network Rollout, offset by increased Managed Services sales in Sweden. OSS and BSS sales were flat while TV & Media sales declined. Western
and Central Europe Sales declined as the initial LTE deployments were finalized. Operators continue to focus on transforming their
networks to meet the increasing demand for coverage and capacity, while at the same time improving efficiency. Mediterranean Sales declined due to lower investments in mobile broadband infrastructure, mainly related to capacity business. Operator investments in ICT
transformation and demand for managed services continued. Middle East Sales declined, primarily in Networks due to lower broadband investments in Egypt, Pakistan, Ethiopia and Turkey. The decrease was partly
offset by growth in Global Services sales, mainly in network rollout and optimization services in Saudi Arabia. Sub-Saharan Africa Investments declined, impacted by a weak -macroeconomic environment, local currency depreciation in key markets as well as low oil
and commodity prices. India Mobile broadband sales declined mainly driven by delayed spectrum auctions which delayed operator investments. Professional Services sales
remained stable with operators’ higher focus on network quality and cost optimization. North East Asia Sales declined slightly due to lower investments in Mainland China and Korea, partly offset by market share gains in Japan and Taiwan. In
Mainland China 4G deployments continued. However, reduced investments in legacy technologies and significantly reduced investment by one customer, impacted sales negatively. South East Asia and Oceania Sales
increased, primarily driven by mobile broadband deployments across several markets. Professional Services sales developed favorably as operators focus on efficiency and network optimization services. Other IPR licensing revenues amounted to
SEK 10.0 (14.4) billion. Sales in 2015 were positively impacted by a global patent license agreement signed with Apple, which included an initial payment. B. Liquidity and Capital Resources The information set forth under the following headings
of the 2017 Swedish Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference: • Financials 20 Table of Contents • Board of Directors’ report • Financial highlights – Cash flow • Financial highlights – Financial position • Financial highlights – Seasonality • Financial highlights – Capital expenditures • Notes to the consolidated financial statements • Note C19 – Interest-bearing liabilities • Note C20 – Financial risk management and financial instruments • Note C25 – Statement of cash flows See “