Item 5.A Operating
Results—Factors Affecting Comparability of Year-On-Year Results of Operations." 4.B Business Overview OVERVIEW Novartis provides healthcare solutions that address the evolving needs of patients and societies worldwide. Our broad portfolio includes
innovative pharmaceuticals and oncology medicines, generic and biosimilar medicines and eye care devices. Our mission is to discover new ways to improve and extend people's lives. Our vision is to be
a trusted leader in changing the practice of medicine. Our strategy is to use science-based innovation to deliver better patient outcomes in growing areas of healthcare. Following
the completion of a series of transactions in 2014 and 2015, the Group's continuing operations comprise three global operating divisions, Innovative Medicines, Sandoz and
Alcon. We also separately report the results of Corporate activities. The disclosure in this Form 20-F focuses on these continuing operations unless otherwise specified. From March 2,
2015, the date of the completion of a series of transactions with GSK, continuing operations also includes the results from the oncology
assets acquired from GSK and the 36.5% interest in GSK Consumer Healthcare Holdings Ltd. for the period from March 2015 (the latter reported as an investment in associated companies). We sold
on March 2, 2015, our Vaccines Division, excluding our influenza vaccines business, to GSK. Our influenza vaccines business was sold on July 31, 2015 to CSL and our Animal Health
Division was sold on January 1, 2015 to Lilly. Continuing Operations: • Innovative Medicines: Innovative patent-protected prescription medicines • Sandoz: Generic pharmaceuticals and biosimilars • Alcon: Surgical and vision care products • Corporate activities 33 Table of Contents Discontinued Operations: • Vaccines and Diagnostics: Preventive human vaccines and blood-testing diagnostics • Consumer Health: OTC (over-the-counter medicines) and Animal Health • Corporate: certain transactional and other expenses related to the portfolio transformation Novartis
has leading positions globally in the areas of each of our three divisions. To maintain our competitive positioning across these segments of the healthcare industry, we place a
strong focus on innovating to meet the evolving needs of patients around the world, working to grow our presence in new and emerging markets, and to enhance our productivity to invest for the future
and increase returns to shareholders. The financial results of our continuing Corporate activities include the costs of the Group headquarters and those of corporate coordination functions in major
countries. In addition, Corporate includes other items of income and expense that are not attributable to specific segments such as certain revenues from intellectual property rights and certain
expenses related to post-employment benefits, environmental remediation liabilities, charitable activities, donations and sponsorships. In
January 2018, we announced that Elizabeth (Liz) Barrett has been appointed CEO Novartis Oncology and a member of the ECN, effective February 1, 2018. Mrs. Barrett
succeeds Bruno Strigini who decided to retire from Novartis for personal reasons. In
September 2017, we announced that Joseph Jimenez, CEO of Novartis, informed the Board of Directors of his desire to step down as CEO in 2018, after eight years in the position. The
Board of Directors has appointed Vasant (Vas) Narasimhan, M.D., Global Head of Drug Development and Chief Medical Officer, as CEO of Novartis, effective February 1, 2018. Dr. Narasimhan
is a member of the ECN and joined Novartis in 2005. In
August 2017, we announced that, effective January 1, 2018, Bertrand Bodson has been appointed to the new role of Chief Digital Officer, reporting to the CEO of Novartis.
Mr. Bodson is responsible for creating and executing a company-wide digital strategy. As part of this strategy, we plan to improve the ways we use data in drug discovery and development, engage
with patients, doctors and other stakeholders, as well as to automate business processes. In
early 2017, we announced a strategic review of our Alcon Division in order to explore all options to maximize value for our shareholders. We have made significant progress in our
ongoing strategic review and have examined all options, ranging from retaining the business to a capital markets solution (e.g., an IPO or a spin-off). As part of this, we have updated Alcon's
strategic plan which confirms that it has the potential to grow sales at or above market while delivering profitability at least in line with the industry. We have also made significant progress on
developing a potential capital markets solution, including financial carve-outs, tax and legal entity structuring, and identifying listing and incorporation locations. Key criteria for a final
decision and timing remain continued Alcon sales growth and margin improvement which need to be demonstrated for multiple quarters leading to potential action not likely before first half of 2019. In
addition, we transferred our over-the-counter ophthalmic products and certain surgical diagnostic products (2017 sales of approximately $0.8 billion) from the Innovative
Medicines Division to the Alcon Division effective January 1, 2018. Our prescription Ophthalmic medicines business remains with the Innovative Medicines Division. In compliance with IFRS,
beginning with our first quarter 2018 results, Novartis will update its segment financial information to reflect this transfer, both for the current and prior years, to aid comparability of
year-on-year results. The
Group is organized into three divisions, Innovative Medicines, Sandoz and Alcon, as well as Corporate activities. Our divisions are supported by the following cross-divisional
organizational units: Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research, Global Drug Development and Novartis Operations, which includes Novartis Technical Operations, Novartis Business Services and
Novartis Corporate Affairs. 34 Table of Contents The
Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research (NIBR) is the innovation engine of Novartis, which conducts drug discovery research and early clinical development trials for our
Innovative Medicines Division and also collaborates with our Sandoz Division. Approximately 6,000 full-time equivalent scientists and associates at NIBR are working to discover new medicines for
various diseases at sites located in the US, Switzerland and China. For more information about NIBR, see "—Innovative Medicines—Research and Development—Research
program," below. Our
Global Drug Development (GDD) organization oversees all drug development activities for our Innovative Medicines Division and the biosimilars portfolio of our Sandoz Division.
Development of products for the Surgical and Vision Care franchises within our Alcon Division and of small molecule generics for our Sandoz Division are not included in GDD. GDD works collaboratively
with NIBR, Innovative Medicines and Sandoz to execute our overall pipeline strategy and takes an enterprise approach to pipeline portfolio management. GDD incorporates centralized global functions
such as Regulatory Affairs and Global Development Operations, as well as Global Development units aligned with our business franchises. GDD was created to increase Group-wide coordination of drug
development and to improve resource allocation, technology implementation and process standardization with a goal of further increasing innovation. GDD includes approximately 10,000 full-time
equivalent associates worldwide. Novartis
Technical Operations (NTO) was established to centralize management of our manufacturing operations across our Innovative Medicines and Sandoz Divisions, with a goal of further
improving efficiency. Manufacturing for Alcon's Surgical and Vision Care franchises continues to be managed by our Alcon Division. NTO is expected to optimize capacity planning and adherence to
quality standards, and to lower costs through simplification, standardization and external spend optimization. Centralization is also expected to improve our ability to develop next generation
technologies, implement continuous manufacturing and share best practices across divisions. NTO includes approximately 26,900 full-time equivalent associates and 68 manufacturing sites across our
Innovative Medicines and Sandoz Divisions. Novartis
Business Services (NBS), our shared service organization, delivers integrated solutions to all Novartis divisions and units worldwide. NBS seeks to drive efficiency and
effectiveness across Novartis by simplifying and standardizing services across six service domains: human resources, real estate and facility services, procurement, information technology, commercial
and medical support activities, and financial reporting and accounting operations. NBS has approximately 10,870 full-time equivalent associates in more than 50 countries. NBS works to leverage the
full scale of Novartis to create value across the company and to free up resources to invest in innovation and our product pipeline. NBS continues to transfer the delivery of selected services to its
five Global Service Centers in Dublin, Ireland; Hyderabad, India; Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; Mexico City, Mexico; and Prague, Czech Republic. In
2017, our Public Affairs and Group Country Management organizations were combined to form Novartis Corporate Affairs to better enable close collaboration among country presidents,
unit heads and Public Affairs. In
2017, Novartis continuing operations achieved net sales of $49.1 billion, while net income from continuing operations amounted to $7.7 billion. Of total net sales from
continuing operations, $12.4 billion, or 25%, came from Emerging Growth Markets, and $36.7 billion, or 75%, came from Established Markets. Emerging Growth Markets comprise all markets
other than the Established Markets of the US, Canada, Western Europe, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. Research & Development expenditure in 2017 amounted to $9.0 billion. Headquartered
in Basel, Switzerland, our Group companies employed 121,597 full-time equivalent associates as of December 31, 2017. Our products are sold in approximately 155
countries around the world. 35 Table of Contents Innovative Medicines Division Our Innovative Medicines Division researches, develops, manufactures, distributes and sells patented prescription medicines to enhance health
outcomes for patients and health-care providers. Innovative Medicines is organized into two global business units: Novartis Oncology and Novartis Pharmaceuticals. Novartis Pharmaceuticals consists of
the global business franchises Ophthalmology, Immunology and Dermatology, Neuroscience, Respiratory, Cardio-Metabolic and Established Medicines. In
2017, the Innovative Medicines Division accounted for $33.0 billion, or 67%, of Group net sales, and for $7.8 billion, or 87%, of Group operating income (excluding
Corporate income and expense, net). Sandoz Division Our Sandoz Division develops, manufactures, distributes and sells prescription medicines, as well as pharmaceutical active substances that are
not protected by valid and enforceable third-party patents. Sandoz is organized globally in three franchises: Retail Generics, Anti-Infectives, and Biopharmaceuticals. In Retail Generics, Sandoz
develops, manufactures and markets active ingredients and finished dosage forms of pharmaceuticals to third parties. Retail Generics includes the areas of cardiovascular, central nervous system,
dermatology, gastrointestinal and hormonal therapies, metabolism, oncology, ophthalmics, pain, and respiratory, as well as finished dosage form anti-infectives sold to third parties. In
Anti-Infectives, Sandoz manufactures active pharmaceutical ingredients and intermediates—mainly antibiotics—for internal use by Retail Generics and for sale to third party
customers. In Biopharmaceuticals, Sandoz develops, manufactures and markets protein- or other biotechnology-based products, including biosimilars, and provides biotechnology manufacturing services to
other companies. In
2017, Sandoz accounted for $10.1 billion, or 21%, of Group net sales, and for $1.4 billion, or 15%, of Group operating income (excluding Corporate income and expense,
net). Alcon Division Our Alcon Division researches, develops, manufactures, distributes and sells eye care products. Alcon is a global leader in eye care with
product offerings in eye care devices and vision care. Alcon is organized into two global business franchises: Surgical and Vision Care. The Surgical franchise includes technologies and devices for
cataract, retinal, glaucoma and refractive surgery, as well as intraocular lenses to treat cataracts and refractive errors, like presbyopia and astigmatism. Alcon also provides viscoelastics, surgical
solutions, surgical packs, and other disposable products for cataract and vitreoretinal surgery. The Vision Care franchise comprises daily disposable, monthly replacement, and color-enhancing contact
lenses, as well as a complete line of contact lens care products including multi-purpose and hydrogen-peroxide based solutions, rewetting drops and daily protein removers. In
2017, Alcon accounted for $6.0 billion, or 12%, of Group net sales, and for $–0.2 billion, or–2%, of Group operating income (excluding
Corporate income and expense, net). INNOVATIVE MEDICINES Overview Our Innovative Medicines Division is a world leader in offering innovation-driven, patent-protected medicines to patients and physicians. The
Innovative Medicines Division researches, develops, manufactures, distributes and sells patented pharmaceuticals, and is composed of two business units: Novartis Oncology and Novartis Pharmaceuticals. The
Novartis Oncology business unit is responsible for the commercialization of products in the areas of oncology and rare diseases. The Novartis Pharmaceuticals business unit is
organized into the following global business franchises responsible for the commercialization of various products in their respective 36 Table of Contents therapeutic
areas: Ophthalmology, Immunology and Dermatology, Neuroscience, Respiratory, Cardio-Metabolic and Established Medicines. On
March 2, 2015, we completed the acquisition of the oncology products of GSK, together with certain related assets. In addition, we acquired a right of first negotiation over
the co-development or commercialization of GSK's current and future oncology R&D pipeline, excluding oncology vaccines.
The right of first negotiation is for a period of twelve and one half years from the acquisition closing date. Following
an internal reorganization announced on January 27, 2016, nineteen mature products were transferred from our Innovative Medicines Division to the Retail Generics
franchise of our Sandoz Division, and Alcon's Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals products were transferred to our Innovative Medicines Division. In
addition, we transferred our over-the-counter ophthalmic products and certain surgical diagnostic products (2017 sales of approximately $0.8 billion) from the Innovative
Medicines Division to the Alcon Division effective January 1, 2018. Our prescription Ophthalmic medicines business remains with the Innovative Medicines Division. In compliance with IFRS,
beginning with our first quarter 2018 results, Novartis will update its segment financial information to reflect this transfer, both for the current and prior years, to aid comparability of
year-on-year results. The
Innovative Medicines Division is the largest contributor among the divisions of Novartis and reported consolidated net sales of $33.0 billion in 2017, which represented 67% of
the Group's net sales. The
product portfolio of the Innovative Medicines Division includes more than 60 key marketed products, many of which are leaders in their respective therapeutic areas. Innovative Medicines Division Products The following table and summaries describe certain key marketed products in our Innovative Medicines Division. While we typically seek to sell
our marketed products throughout the world, not all products and indications are currently available in every country. In addition, a product may be available under different brand names depending on
country and indication. Some of the products listed below have lost patent protection or are otherwise subject to generic competition. Others are subject to patent challenges by potential generic
competitors. Please see "—Intellectual Property" for general information on intellectual property and regulatory data protection, and for further information on the status of patents and
exclusivity for Innovative Medicines Division products. Selected Marketed Products Novartis Oncology Business Unit Business franchise Product Common name Indications (vary by country and/or formulation) Formulation Oncology Afinitor/Votubia and Afinitor Disperz/ Votubia dispersible tablets everolimus Postmenopausal women with advanced hormone receptor-positive, HER2-negative breast cancer in combination with exemestane after failure of treatment with letrozole or anastrozole Tablet Dispersible tablet for oral suspension Advanced renal cell carcinoma after failure of treatment with VEGF-targeted therapy Advanced neuroendocrine tumors of gastrointestinal, lung or pancreatic origin Renal angiomyolipoma associated with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) in patients not requiring immediate surgery Subependymal giant cell astrocytoma associated with TSC in patients not requiring immediate surgery 37 Table of Contents Business franchise Product Common name Indications (vary by country and/or formulation) Formulation Adjunctive treatment of patients aged 2 years and older with TSC and refractory seizures Arzerra ofatumumab Treatment of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) who are refractory to fludarabine and alemtuzumab In combination with an alkylator-based regimen for the
 treatment of patients with CLL who have not received prior therapy and are not eligible for fludarabine-based therapy Maintenance/extended treatment for patients with CLL
 who are in complete or partial response after at least two lines of induction therapy In combination with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide for the treatment of patients with
 relapsed CLL Intravenous infusion Exjade and Jadenu deferasirox Chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions and non-transfusion dependent thalassemia Dispersible tablet for oral suspension Oral film-coated tablet Granules Farydak panobinostat Relapsed and/or refractory multiple myeloma, in combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone, after at least two prior regimens including bortezomib and an immunomodulatory agent Capsule Femara letrozole Hormone receptor-positive early breast cancer in postmenopausal women following surgery (upfront adjuvant therapy) Early breast cancer in post-menopausal women following
 standard tamoxifen therapy (extended adjuvant therapy) Advanced breast cancer in post-menopausal women (both as first- and second-line therapies) Tablet Gleevec/Glivec imatinib mesylate/ imatinib Certain forms of Ph+ chronic myeloid leukemia Certain forms of KIT+ gastrointestinal stromal tumors Certain forms of acute lymphoblastic leukemia Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans Hypereosinophilic syndrome Aggressive systemic mastocytosis Myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative
 diseases Tablet Capsule Jakavi ruxolitinib Disease-related splenomegaly or symptoms in adult patients with primary myelofibrosis (also known as chronic idiopathic myelofibrosis), post-polycythemia vera myelofibrosis or post-essential thrombocythemia myelofibrosis Polycythemia vera in adult patients who are resistant to or intolerant of hydroxyurea Tablet Kisqali ribociclib Postmenopausal women with hormone receptor positive, human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 negative locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer as initial endocrine-based therapy in combination with an aromatase
inhibitor Tablet 38 Table of Contents Business franchise Product Common name Indications (vary by country and/or formulation) Formulation Kymriah tisagenlecleucel Patients up to 25 years of age with B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia that is refractory or in second or later relapse Suspension for intravenous infusion Promacta/Revolade eltrombopag Thrombocytopenia in adult and pediatric patients one year and older with chronic immune (idiopathic) thrombocytopenia who have had insufficient response to corticosteroids or immunoglobulins Thrombocytopenia in patients with chronic hepatitis C to allow initiation and maintenance of interferon-based therapy Severe aplastic anemia in patients as first-line therapy (in Japan) and second-line in patients who have had an insufficient response to immunosuppressive therapy (rest of world) Film-coated tablet Rydapt midostaurin In combination with standard cytarabine and daunorubicin induction and cytarabine consolidation chemotherapy, for the treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) who are FLT3 mutation-positive, as detected by an FDA
 approved test. Rydapt is not indicated as a single-agent induction therapy for the treatment of patients with AML. For the
 treatment of adult patients with aggressive systemic mastocytosis, systemic mastocytosis with associated hematological neoplasm or mast cell leukemia Capsule Sandostatin LAR and Sandostatin SC octreotide acetate Acromegaly Symptom control for certain forms of neuroendocrine tumors Treatment of advanced
 neuroendocrine tumors of the midgut or of unknown primary origin Vial Ampoule/pre-filled syringe Signifor and Signifor LAR pasireotide Cushing's disease Acromegaly Solution for subcutaneous injection in ampoule Powder and solvent for suspension for IM injection Tafinlar + Mekinist dabrafenib + trametinib Unresectable or metastatic melanoma with BRAF V600E or V600K mutations as detected by a validated test Metastatic non-small cell lung cancer with BRAF V600E mutation as
 detected by a validated test Capsule ( Tafinlar ) Tablet ( Mekinist ) Tasigna nilotinib Certain forms of chronic myeloid leukemia in patients resistant or intolerant to prior treatment including Gleevec/Glivec First-line chronic myeloid leukemia Capsule 39 Table of Contents Business franchise Product Common name Indications (vary by country and/or formulation) Formulation Tykerb/Tyverb lapatinib In combination with capacitabine for the treatment of patients with HER2+ advanced or metastatic breast cancer who have progressed on prior trastuzumab therapy In
 combination with an aromatase inhibitor (specifically letrozole in US) for the treatment of patients with hormone sensitive metastatic breast cancer In combination with
 trastuzumab for patients with HR-negative metastatic disease that has progressed on prior trastuzumab therapy(ies) plus chemotherapy In combination with paclitaxel for first
 line treatment of patients with HER2+ metastatic breast cancer for whom trastuzumab is not appropriate Tablet Votrient pazopanib Advanced renal cell carcinoma Certain types of advanced soft tissue sarcoma after prior chemotherapy Tablet Zometa zoledronic acid Skeletal-related events from bone metastases Hypercalcemia of malignancy Vial/4mg Ready-to-use Zykadia ceritinib Anaplastic lymphoma kinase-positive metastatic non-small cell lung cancer post crizotinib Capsule Novartis Pharmaceuticals Business Unit Business franchise Product Common name Indications (vary by country and/or formulation) Formulation Ophthalmology Azarga/Azorga brinzolamide and timolol Decrease of intraocular pressure in adult patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension for whom monotherapy provides insufficient intraocular pressure reduction Eye drops Ciprodex ciprofloxacin and dexamethasone Treatment of bacterial ear infections Ear drops Duotrav travoprost and timolol Reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with open-angle glaucoma or who have ocular hypertension Eye drops Durezol difluprednate Treatment of inflammation and pain associated with ocular surgery Treatment of endogenous anterior uveitis Eye drops Lucentis ranibizumab Neovascular age-related macular degeneration Visual impairment due to diabetic macular edema Visual impairment due to macular edema secondary to central retinal vein occlusion Visual impairment due to macular edema secondary to branch retinal vein occlusion Visual impairment due to choroidal neovascularization secondary to pathologic myopia Visual impairment
 due to choroidal neovascularization secondary to other pathologies Intravitreal injection Pataday and Pazeo olopatadine Signs and symptoms of allergic conjunctivitis Ocular itching associated with allergic conjunctivitis Eye drops 40 Table of Contents Business franchise Product Common name Indications (vary by country and/or formulation) Formulation Patanol olopatadine Signs and symptoms of allergic conjunctivitis Eye drops Simbrinza brinzolamide and brimonidine tartrate Decrease of elevated intraocular pressure in adult patients with open-angle glaucoma or hypertension for whom monotherapy provides insufficient intraocular pressure reduction Eye drops Travatan, Travatan Z, Travatan BAK-Free , Izba travoprost Reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with open-angle glaucoma or who have ocular hypertension Eye drops Immunology and Dermatology Cosentyx secukinumab Active ankylosing spondylitis Active psoriatic arthritis Moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis Pustular psoriasis Auto-injector Lyophilized, pre-filled syringe Ilaris canakinumab Cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes Tumor necrosis factor-receptor associated periodic syndrome Hyperimmunoglobulin D syndrome / mevalonate kinase deficiency Familial Mediterranean fever Systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis Gouty arthritis Adult-onset Still's
 disease Solution for injection Lyophilized powder for reconstitution for subcutaneous injection Myfortic mycophenolic acid (as mycophenolate sodium) Prophylaxis of organ rejection in patients receiving allogeneic renal transplants Gastro-resistant tablet Neoral/Sandimmune cyclosporine, USP Modified Prevention of rejection following certain organ transplantation Non-transplantation autoimmune conditions such as severe psoriasis and severe rheumatoid
 arthritis Capsule Oral solution Intravenous ( Sandimmune ) Simulect basiliximab Prevention of acute organ rejection in de novo renal transplantation Vial for injection or infusion Xolair omalizumab Chronic spontaneous urticaria/chronic idiopathic urticaria See also, "Respiratory" Liquid formulation in pre-filled syringe Lyophilized powder in vial Zortress/Certican everolimus Prevention of organ rejection (heart, liver and kidney) Tablet Dispersible tablet Neuroscience Extavia interferon beta-1b Relapsing remitting and/or relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis in adult patients Subcutaneous injection Gilenya fingolimod Relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis Capsule Respiratory Onbrez Breezhaler indacaterol Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease Inhalation powder hard capsules Seebri Breezhaler glycopyrronium bromide Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease Inhalation powder hard capsules Ultibro Breezhaler indacaterol and glycopyrronium bromide Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease Inhalation powder hard capsules Xolair omalizumab Moderate to severe allergic asthma See also, "Immunology and Dermatology" Lyophilized powder in vial and liquid formulation in pre-filled syringe Cardio-Metabolic Entresto sacubitril and valsartan Symptomatic chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction Tablet 41 Table of Contents Business franchise Product Common name Indications (vary by country and/or formulation) Formulation Established Medicines Cibacen benazepril hydrochloride Hypertension Adjunct therapy in congestive heart failure Progressive chronic renal
 insufficiency Tablet Comtan entacapone Parkinson's disease patients who experience end-of-dose motor (or movement) fluctuations Tablet Diovan valsartan Hypertension Heart failure Post-myocardial infarction Tablet Capsule Oral solution Diovan HCT/ Co-Diovan valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide Hypertension Tablet Eucreas vildagliptin and metformin Type 2 diabetes Tablet Exelon rivastigmine Mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease dementia Severe Alzheimer's disease dementia Dementia
 associated with Parkinson's disease Capsule Oral solution Transdermal patch Exforge valsartan and amlodipine besylate Hypertension Tablet Exforge HCT valsartan, amlodipine besylate and hydrochlorothiazide Hypertension Tablet Focalin and Focalin XR dexmethylphenidate HCl and dexmethylphenidate extended release Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder Tablet Capsule Galvus vildagliptin Type 2 diabetes Tablet Lescol and Lescol XL fluvastatin sodium Hypercholesterolemia and mixed dyslipidemia in adults Secondary prevention of major adverse cardiac events Slowing the progression of atherosclerosis Heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia in children and adolescents Capsule ( Lescol) Tablet ( Lescol XL) Ritalin methylphenidate HCl Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and narcolepsy Tablet Ritalin LA methylphenidate HCl modified release Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder Capsule Stalevo carbidopa, levodopa and entacapone Parkinson's disease patients who experience end-of-dose motor (or movement) fluctuations Tablet Tegretol carbamazepine Epilepsy Pain associated with trigeminal neuralgia Acute mania and bipolar affective disorders Alcohol withdrawal syndrome Painful diabetic neuropathy Diabetes insipidus centralis Polyuria and polydipsia of neurohormonal origin Tablet Chewable tablet Oral suspension Suppository TOBI and TOBI Podhaler tobramycin Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection in cystic fibrosis Nebulizer solution ( TOBI) Inhalation powder ( TOBI Podhaler ) Trileptal oxcarbazepine Epilepsy Tablet Oral suspension 42 Table of Contents Business franchise Product Common name Indications (vary by country and/or formulation) Formulation Tyzeka/Sebivo telbivudine Chronic hepatitis B Tablet Oral solution Voltaren/Cataflam diclofenac sodium/potassium/resinate/free acid Inflammatory and degenerative forms of rheumatism Post traumatic and post-operative pain, inflammation and swelling Painful and/or inflammatory conditions in gynecology Other painful and/or inflammatory conditions such as renal and
 biliary colic, migraine attacks and as adjuvant in severe ear, nose and throat infections Post-traumatic inflammation of the tendons, ligaments, muscles, and joints Localized forms of soft-tissue and degenerative rheumatism Tablet Capsule Oral drops/ oral suspension Ampoule for injection Suppository Gel Powder for oral solution Transdermal patch Key Marketed Products Novartis Oncology Business Unit Oncology • Gleevec/Glivec (imatinib mesylate/imatinib) is a kinase inhibitor approved as a targeted
therapy for Philadelphia chromosome-positive (Ph+) chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) and to treat patients with metastatic and/or unresectable KIT (CD117) positive (KIT+) gastrointestinal stromal tumors
(GIST), and as an adjuvant treatment for certain adult patients following resection of KIT+ GIST. First launched in 2001, Gleevec/Glivec is approved in
approximately 125 countries. Gleevec/Glivec is also approved in the US, EU and Japan to treat Ph+ acute lymphoblastic leukemia, a rapidly progressive
form of leukemia. In addition, Gleevec/Glivec is approved in the US and EU to treat dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans, a rare solid tumor;
hypereosinophilic syndrome; myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative diseases and other rare blood disorders. In the US, Gleevec is also approved for
aggressive systemic mastocytosis. Gleevec/Glivec has received approvals in more than 80 countries as a post-surgery (adjuvant setting) therapy for
certain adult patients with KIT+ GIST. Following approval by the FDA in 2013, the EMA approved Gleevec / Glivec in July 2013 for pediatric patients with
newly diagnosed Ph+ acute lymphoblastic leukemia
in combination with chemotherapy. • Tasigna (nilotinib) is a signal transduction inhibitor of the BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase. Since
its launch in 2007, Tasigna has been approved in more than 125 countries to treat patients with Ph+ CML in the chronic and/or accelerated phase who are
resistant or intolerant to existing treatment, including Gleevec/Glivec . It is also approved in more than 120 markets, including the US, EU member
states, Switzerland and Japan, to treat newly diagnosed patients in the chronic phase. In June 2017, the European Commission approved the inclusion of treatment-free remission data in the "Tasigna
Summary of Product Characteristics." Treatment-free remission is the ability to maintain molecular response after stopping tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy in Ph+ CML patients in chronic phase. In
December 2017, the FDA also approved the inclusion of treatment-free remission data in the US label for Tasigna . 43 Table of Contents • Sandostatin SC (octreotide acetate for injection) and Sandostatin LAR (octreotide acetate for injectable suspension) are
somatostatin analogs indicated for the treatment of patients with acromegaly, a
chronic disease caused by over-secretion of growth hormone in adults. Sandostatin is also indicated for the treatment of patients with certain symptoms
associated with carcinoid tumors and other types of gastrointestinal and pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. Additionally, Sandostatin LAR is approved in
more than 60 countries for treatment of patients with advanced neuroendocrine tumors of the midgut or unknown primary tumor location. Sandostatin was
first launched in 1988 and is approved in more than 100 countries. • Afinitor/Votubia (everolimus) is an oral inhibitor of the mTOR pathway. Afinitor is approved in more
than 120 countries including the US, EU member states and Japan for patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma whose
disease has progressed on or after treatment with vascular endothelial growth factor-targeted therapy (in the EU) or after failure of treatment with sunitinib or sorafenib (in the US). Afinitor has been
approved in more than 110 countries, including the US, EU member states and Japan for the treatment of locally advanced, metastatic or
unresectable progressive neuroendocrine tumors (NET) of pancreatic origin. It was approved in the US in February 2016 and the EU in June 2016 for the treatment of patients with progressive,
well-differentiated, nonfunctional NET of gastrointestinal or lung origin that are unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic, and is now approved for this indication in more than 45 countries
worldwide. In addition, Afinitor is approved in 117 countries for postmenopausal women with advanced hormone receptor-positive, HER2-negative breast
cancer in combination with exemestane after recurrence or progression following a non-steroidal aromatase inhibitor (in the EU) or failure of treatment with letrozole or anastrozole (in the US). All
oncology indications are approved under the trade name Afinitor, in the tablet formulation. Everolimus, under the trade name Afinitor in the US and Votubia in the EU, is also approved in more than 100 countries to treat patients
with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) who have subependymal giant cell astrocytoma (SEGA) not requiring immediate surgery, and in more than 95 countries to treat patients with TSC who have renal
angiomyolipoma not requiring immediate surgery. The dispersible tablets for oral suspension formulation is approved for patients with TSC who have SEGA in more than 40 countries including the
US (under the trade name Afinitor Disperz ), EU member states (under the trade name Votubia ) and Japan
(under the trade name Afinitor ). Dispersible tablets also are approved in more than 30 countries, including EU member states (under the trade name Votubia ),
 as adjunctive treatment for patients aged 2 years and older whose refractory partial-onset seizures, with or without secondary
generalization, are associated with TSC. An application is currently under review in the US in support of an indication in select patients with TSC-associated refractory seizures. Everolimus, the
active ingredient in Afinitor/Votubia , is also available under the trade names Zortress/Certican for use
in transplantation in the US and EU, respectively, and is exclusively licensed to Abbott and sublicensed to Boston Scientific for use in drug-eluting stents. • Exjade and Jadenu (deferasirox) is an oral iron
chelator approved for the treatment of chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions in patients two years of age and older, as well as chronic iron overload in patients with non-transfusion
dependent thalassemia in patients 10 years of age and older. Patients with chronic anemia from diseases such as thalassemia, sickle cell disease and myelodysplastic syndromes require repeated
transfusions, which puts them at risk of iron overload. Exjade, a dispersible tablet for oral suspension, was first approved in 2005 and is now approved
in more than 100 countries, including the US, EU member states and Japan. An oral film-coated tablet formulation that can be swallowed or crushed is approved in the US and Canada under the tradename Jadenu . It was approved in the EU and Switzerland under the tradename of Exjade . Regulatory applications
have been submitted in several other countries. In addition to the film-coated tablet formulation, an additional formulation has also been developed as granules for patients who cannot swallow
tablets, using the same composition as the film-coated tablet formulation. Jadenu Sprinkle granules were approved in the US, and Jadenu granules were
approved in Japan in 2017. 44 Table of Contents • Tafinlar + Mekinist (dabrafenib + trametinib) is the first
combination of its kind for the treatment of patients with BRAF V600 mutation positive unresectable or metastatic melanoma, as detected by a validated test, in the US, EU and several other markets. Tafinlar + Mekinist is also approved for the treatment of patients with BRAF V600 mutation positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer,
as detected by a validated test, in the US, EU and several other markets. Tafinlar targets the serine/threonine kinase BRAF in the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK
pathway and Mekinist targets the threonine/tyrosine kinases MEK1 and MEK2 in the MAP kinase pathway, resulting in dual blockade of this pathway. This is
the first combination of a BRAF and a MEK inhibitor to demonstrate an overall survival benefit over BRAF inhibitor monotherapy after three years in two Phase III studies in BRAF V600 mutation
positive unresectable or metastatic melanoma patients. Tafinlar and Mekinist are each also approved as
single agents for the treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma in more than 60 and 40 countries worldwide, respectively. Tafinlar and Mekinist were each acquired from GSK. As part of our purchase of oncology products from GSK, we obtained the worldwide exclusive rights granted by
Japan Tobacco Inc., to develop, manufacture, and commercialize trametinib. • Promacta/Revolade (eltrombopag) is a once-daily oral thrombopoietin receptor agonist that works
by stimulating bone marrow cells to produce platelets. It is the only approved once-daily oral thrombopoietin receptor agonist, and is marketed under the brand name Promacta in the US and Revolade in most countries outside the US. It is approved in more than 100
countries for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in adult patients with chronic immune (idiopathic) thrombocytopenia (ITP) who have had an inadequate response or are intolerant to other treatments. In
the US and EU, Promacta/Revolade is approved for patients one year and older with chronic ITP who have had an insufficient response to other treatments. Promacta/Revolade is approved in Japan for aplastic anemia as first-line therapy and for patients who are refractory to other treatments. It is also
approved in 45 countries for the treatment of patients with severe aplastic anemia (SAA) who are refractory to other treatments (in the US for the treatment of patients with SAA who have had an
insufficient response to immunosuppressive therapy and in the EU for the treatment of adults with acquired SAA who were either refractory to prior immunosuppressive therapy or heavily pretreated and
are unsuitable for hematopoietic stem cell transplant). In January 2018, the FDA granted a Breakthrough Therapy designation to Promacta for the first
line treatment of severe aplastic anemia. In addition, Promacta/Revolade is approved in more than 50 countries for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in
patients with chronic hepatitis C to allow them to initiate and maintain interferon-based therapy. Promacta/Revolade is marketed under a collaboration
agreement between Ligand Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Novartis. Promacta/Revolade was acquired from GSK. • Votrient (pazopanib) is a small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor that targets a number of
growth factors to limit new blood vessel and tumor growth and cell survival. Votrient is approved in the US for the treatment of patients with advanced
renal cell carcinoma (RCC), and in the EU for first-line treatment of adult patients with advanced RCC and for patients who have received prior cytokine therapy for advanced disease. RCC is the most
common type of kidney cancer in adults, and nearly one-fifth of patients have advanced RCC at the time of diagnosis. Votrient is also indicated for the
treatment of patients with advanced soft tissue sarcoma (STS) who have received prior chemotherapy (efficacy in adipocytic STS or gastrointestinal stromal tumors has not been demonstrated), and in the
EU for the treatment of adult patients with selective subtypes of advanced STS who have received prior chemotherapy for metastatic disease or who have progressed within 12 months after
(neo)adjuvant therapy. STS is a type of cancer which can arise from a wide variety of soft tissues including muscle, fat, blood vessel and nerves. Votrient is approved in more than 100 countries
worldwide for advanced RCC and in more than 90 countries for advanced STS. Votrient was acquired from GSK. 45 Table of Contents • Jakavi (ruxolitinib) is an oral inhibitor of the JAK1 and JAK2 tyrosine kinases. It is the
first JAK inhibitor indicated for the treatment of disease-related splenomegaly or symptoms in adult patients with primary myelofibrosis, post-polycythemia vera myelofibrosis or post-essential
thrombocythemia myelofibrosis and adult patients with polycythemia vera who are resistant to or intolerant of hydroxyurea. Jakavi is currently approved
in 101 countries for patients with myelofibrosis and in more than 75 countries for patients with polycythemia vera, including EU member states and Japan. A five year follow-up of the two pivotal
trials, COMFORT-I and COMFORT-II suggests a reduced risk of death for patients randomized to Jakavi compared to placebo or best available therapy,
respectively. Novartis licensed ruxolitinib from Incyte Corporation for development and commercialization in the indications of oncology, hematology and Graft-versus-host disease outside the US.
Ruxolitinib, marketed in the US as Jakafi® by Incyte Corporation, is approved by the FDA for the treatment of patients with polycythemia vera who have had an inadequate response to or are
intolerant of hydroxyurea. Jakafi® is also approved by the FDA for treatment of patients with intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis, including primary myelofibrosis, post-polycythemia
vera myelofibrosis and post-essential thrombocythemia myelofibrosis. • Kisqali (ribociclib, formerly LEE011) is a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, a class of drugs
that help slow the progression of cancer by inhibiting two proteins called cyclin-dependent kinase 4 and 6 (CDK4/6), approved for the treatment of postmenopausal women with hormone receptor
positive, human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 negative locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer as initial endocrine-based therapy in combination with an aromatase inhibitor. Kisqali has been
approved in approximately 45 countries, including in the US in March 2017 and in the EU member states in August 2017. In May 2017, the
FDA also approved the Kisqali Femara Co-Pack (ribociclib tablets; letrozole tablets). Kisqali was
developed by the Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research under a research collaboration with Astex Pharmaceuticals. • Rydapt (midostaurin, formerly PKC412) is an oral, multi-targeted therapy, a type of treatment
that interferes with certain pathways that are involved in the growth, progression and spread of cancer. In April 2017, the FDA approved Rydapt in
combination with standard cytarabine and daunorubicin induction and cytarabine consolidation chemotherapy, for the treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) who are
FLT3 mutation-positive, as detected by an FDA approved test. Rydapt is not indicated as a single-agent induction therapy for the treatment of patients
with AML. Rydapt is also approved in the US for the treatment of adult patients with aggressive systemic mastocytosis (ASM), systemic mastocytosis with
associated hematological neoplasm (SM-AHN) or mast cell leukemia. In September 2017, the EMA approved Rydapt in combination with standard daunorubicin
and cytarabine induction and high-dose cytarabine consolidation chemotherapy, and for adults in complete response followed by Rydapt single agent
maintenance therapy, for adults with newly diagnosed AML who are FLT3 mutation-positive. It is also approved in the EU for use as monotherapy for the treatment of adults with ASM, SM-AHN or mast cell
leukemia. Indications vary by country and not all indications are available in every country. Rydapt is the first targeted treatment for newly diagnosed
FLT3-mutated AML and the first approved treatment for advanced systemic mastocytosis. • Kymriah (tisagenlecleucel, formerly CTL019) suspension for intravenous infusion is a
CD19-directed genetically modified autologous chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cell therapy. Kymriah is approved in the US for the treatment of
patients up to 25 years of age with B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia that is refractory or in second or later relapse. 46 Table of Contents Novartis Pharmaceuticals Business Unit Ophthalmology • Lucentis (ranibizumab) is a recombinant humanized high affinity antibody fragment that binds to
vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A), a key mediator of intraocular neovascularization. Lucentis is an anti-VEGF therapy specifically designed
for the eye, minimizing systemic exposure. Lucentis is approved for six indications: neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration (nAMD), visual
impairment due to diabetic macular edema (DME), visual impairment due to macular edema secondary to branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO), visual impairment due to macular edema secondary to central
retinal vein occlusion (CRVO), visual impairment due to choroidal neovascularization secondary to pathologic myopia (myopic CNV) and visual impairment due to choroidal neovascularization (CNV)
associated with causes other than nAMD or secondary to pathologic myopia (PM). EC approval in visual impairment due to CNV associated with causes other than nAMD or secondary to PM was received in
2016, and this indication is now approved in 86 countries including the countries of the EU and Switzerland. Further submissions for this indication have been filed in 29 countries. The Lucentis pre-filled syringe has now launched in 33 countries. Lucentis is licensed from Genentech, and
Novartis holds the rights to commercialize the product outside the US. Genentech holds the rights to commercialize Lucentis in the US. For further
information see "Note 26. Transactions with related parties—Genentech/Roche" in the "Excerpts from Novartis Annual Report 2017" furnished to the SEC on Form 6-K on
January 24, 2018. • Travatan (travoprost), Travatan Z (travoprost)
and Duotrav (travoprost/timolol) are indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with open-angle glaucoma or who have
ocular hypertension. Single agent travoprost products ( Travatan , Travatan Z , Travatan BAK-Free and Izba ) are prescribed as first-line agents and are marketed in more than
140 countries, including the US, countries of the EU, Canada and China. Duotrav is a fixed-dose combination solution of the prostaglandin analog
travoprost with the beta-blocker timolol, and is approved as a second-line treatment in adults for the reduction of IOP in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension who are
insufficiently responsive to topical beta-blockers or prostaglandin analogs. Duotrav is currently marketed in more than 140 countries, including
countries of the EU, Canada and China. Immunology and Dermatology • Cosentyx (secukinumab) is a fully human monoclonal antibody that selectively neutralizes
circulating interleukin 17A (IL-17A). IL-17A is a cytokine involved in the pathogenesis of psoriasis, ankylosing spondylitis and psoriatic arthritis. Cosentyx has been approved in over 75 markets,
including the US, Japan and the countries of the EU, for the treatment of moderate-to-severe
plaque psoriasis. Cosentyx is also approved in more than 65 countries for the treatment of adults with ankylosing spondylitis and psoriatic arthritis,
including the US and the countries of the EU. Cosentyx is also approved in Japan for the treatment of pustular psoriasis, and both psoriasis vulgaris
and psoriatic arthritis in adults who are not adequately responding to systemic therapies (except for biologics). Phase III 5-year data presented at a European medical congress in September
2017 showed high and long-lasting skin clearance in patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis with a continued favorable safety profile of Cosentyx sustained over the 5-year treatment period. Cosentyx in ankylosing spondylitis and psoriatic
arthritis showed sustained improvements in signs and symptoms of both conditions in up to 80% of patients at three and four years respectively, as well as pain relief being rapid and sustained out to
two years in both psoriatic arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis patients. Data presented at a US medical congress in November 2017 showed that almost 80% of ankylosing spondylitis patients have no
radiographic progression of the spine at four years. In 2017, a label update for Cosentyx was also approved in the EU based on data showing long-term
superiority over Stelara® (ustekinumab) in moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis, along with efficacy in the treatment of moderate-to-severe scalp psoriasis, one of the most difficult to
treat forms of the disease. 47 Table of Contents • Neoral (cyclosporine, USP Modified) is an immunosuppressant to prevent organ rejection
following a kidney, liver, or heart transplant. Neoral is also approved for use in lung transplant in many countries outside of the US. This
micro-emulsion formulation of cyclosporine is also indicated for treating selected autoimmune disorders such as psoriasis and rheumatoid arthritis. First launched in 1995, Neoral is marketed in
approximately 100 countries. • Xolair (omalizumab) is a recombinant, DNA-derived, humanized IgG1K monoclonal antibody. Xolair is
designed to block IgE, which limits the release of mediators in the early and late phases of the allergic inflammatory cascade. Xolair is currently approved in the EU, Switzerland and more than 80
countries as a treatment for chronic spontaneous urticaria (CSU), also known as
chronic idiopathic urticaria (CIU). CSU is a skin condition that appears spontaneously and causes persistent hives and/or painful deeper swelling of the skin for six weeks or more. The approval for
CSU in the EU includes use as add-on therapy for the treatment of CSU in adult and adolescent (12 years and above) patients with inadequate response to H1 antihistamine treatment, and, in the
US, for the treatment of adults and adolescents (12 years of age and above) with CIU who remain symptomatic despite H1 antihistamine treatment. In 2017, new data demonstrated retreatment
efficacy with Xolair in CSU patients after a treatment pause. See also, Xolair in "Respiratory" below.
We co-promote Xolair with Genentech in the US and share a portion of operating income, but we do not record any US sales. Novartis records all sales of Xolair outside the US. For further information see "Note 26. Transactions with related parties—Genentech/Roche" in the "Excerpts from
Novartis Annual Report 2017" furnished to the SEC on Form 6-K on January 24, 2018. • Ilaris (canakinumab) is a selective, high-affinity fully human monoclonal antibody that
inhibits interleukin-1 b (IL-1 b ), a key cytokine in the inflammatory pathway, by blocking the action of
IL-1 b for a sustained period of time. Ilaris is approved in more than 70 countries as a treatment for various
inflammatory conditions, especially for adults and children with cryopyrin-associated periodic syndrome, systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis, and the symptomatic treatment of refractory acute gouty
arthritis. In 2016, Ilaris received approval for patients with adult-onset Still's disease in Europe, and for three rare and distinct types of Periodic
Fever Syndromes, also known as Hereditary Periodic Fevers, in the US and Japan. Ilaris was approved in the EU in February 2017 for the same three
Periodic Fever Syndromes. Neuroscience • Gilenya (fingolimod) is an oral disease-modifying therapy approved to treat relapsing forms of
multiple sclerosis. Gilenya has a reversible lymphocyte redistribution effect targeting both focal and diffuse central nervous system damage caused by
multiple sclerosis (MS). In the US, Gilenya is indicated for relapsing forms of MS. In the EU, Gilenya is indicated for adult patients with high disease activity despite treatment with at least one disease modifying agent, or rapidly evolving severe relapsing-remitting MS. Gilenya impacts four key
measures of disease activity: relapses, MRI lesions, brain shrinkage (brain volume loss) and disability progression. Gilenya is currently approved in more than 80 countries around the world. Gilenya is licensed from
Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation. Respiratory • Xolair (omalizumab) is approved for the treatment of moderate-to-severe, or severe, persistent
allergic asthma for children (age 6 and older) and adults in more than 90 countries, including the US since 2003, the EU since 2005, and Japan since 2009. Xolair is provided as lyophilized powder for
resolution, and in addition as liquid formulation in a pre-filled syringe in most European countries. See
also, Xolair in "Immunology and Dermatology" above. We co-promote Xolair with Genentech in the US and
share a portion of operating income, but we do not record any US sales. Novartis records all sales of Xolair outside the US. For further information see
"Note 26. Transactions with related parties—Genentech/Roche" in the "Excerpts from Novartis Annual Report 2017" furnished to the SEC on Form 6-K on January 24, 2018. 48 Table of Contents Cardio-Metabolic • Entresto (sacubitril/valsartan) is a first-in-class angiotensin receptor/neprilysin inhibitor
indicated for the treatment of symptomatic chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF). It acts to enhance the protective neurohormonal systems of the heart (neprilysin system) while
simultaneously suppressing the harmful system (the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, or RAAS). Entresto was approved in the US and in the EU in
2015. Entresto is now approved in more than 95 countries, and launched in more than 50 countries. Both European Society of Cardiology heart failure
guidelines and US heart failure guidelines have given a class I recommendation, the strongest class of recommendation, for the use of sacubitril/valsartan in patients with HFrEF. Established Medicines • Galvus (vildagliptin), an oral DPP-4 inhibitor, and Eucreas , a single-pill combination of vildagliptin and metformin, are
indicated for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. The products were first
approved in 2007. Galvus is currently approved in more than 130 countries, including EU member states, Japan (as Equa ) and countries in Latin America and
Asia-Pacific. Eucreas was the first single-pill combination of
a DPP-4 inhibitor and metformin approved in Europe, and also under the trade name Galvus Met , and is currently approved in more than 125 countries. In
2012, Galvus received approval in the EU for expanded use as a second-line monotherapy for type 2 diabetes patients who cannot take metformin. In
2012, the EU approved the use of Galvus in combination with insulin, with or without metformin, for patients with type 2 diabetes when diet,
exercise and a stable dose of insulin do not result in glycemic control. The use of vildagliptin in triple combination with metformin and a sulphonylurea is also approved in the EU for the treatment
of type 2 diabetes when diet and exercise plus dual therapy with vildagliptin and metformin do not provide adequate glycemic control. Galvus monotherapy indication was approved in China in 2015. Eucreas was approved in Japan in 2015 under the name Equmet as the first single-pill combination
metformin/DPP-4 inhibitor approved in that country. • Exforge (valsartan and amlodipine besylate) is a single-pill combination of the ARB Diovan and the
calcium channel blocker amlodipine besylate. First approved for the treatment of high blood pressure in Switzerland in 2006, and in the
US and EU in 2007, it is now available in more than 100 countries. Exforge HCT (valsartan, amlodipine besylate and hydrochlorothiazide) is a
single pill combining three widely prescribed high blood pressure treatments: an ARB, a calcium channel blocker and a diuretic (hydrochlorothiazide). Exforge
HCT was approved in the EU and the US in 2009, and is now available in more than 75 countries. • Diovan (valsartan), together with Diovan
HCT/Co-Diovan (valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide), is an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB). Diovan is the only agent in its
class approved to treat all of the following: high blood pressure (including children 6 to 18 years), high-risk heart attack survivors and patients with heart failure. First launched in 1996, Diovan is available in more than 120 countries for treating high blood pressure, in more than 80 countries for heart failure and for heart attack
survivors. First launched in 1997, Diovan HCT/Co-Diovan is approved in more than 100 countries worldwide. • Voltaren/Cataflam (diclofenac sodium/potassium/resinate/free acid/diethylamine) is a leading
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) for the relief of symptoms in rheumatic diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis, and for various other inflammatory and pain conditions. Voltaren/Cataflam was first registered in 1973 and is available in more than 140 countries. This product is marketed by the Innovative Medicines
Division in a wide variety of dosage forms including tablets, capsules, drops, suppositories, ampoules and topical therapy. Our Sandoz Division also markets generic versions of the product in various
countries. In addition, we have licensed the Voltaren trademarks to our consumer healthcare joint venture with GSK to be 49 Table of Contents used
in the marketing of the topical and low dose oral forms of Voltaren as over-the-counter products. • Exelon capsules/oral solution (rivastigmine tartrate) and Exelon Patch (rivastigmine transdermal system) are cholinesterase
inhibitors indicated for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia and
Parkinson's disease (PD) dementia. They are the oral and transdermal formulations, respectively, of the cholinesterase inhibitor rivastigmine. Exelon capsules have been available since 1997 to treat mild-to-moderate AD dementia and are approved in more than 80 countries. In 2006, Exelon capsules
became the only cholinesterase inhibitor to be approved for mild-to-moderate PD dementia in addition to AD in both the US and EU. Exelon Patch was
approved in 2007 in the US and EU and has been approved for the treatment of mild-to-moderate AD in more than 90 countries, including more than 20 countries where it is also approved for
Parkinson's disease dementia. The once-daily formulation Exelon Patch has shown comparable efficacy and superior tolerability to the highest recommended
doses of Exelon capsules, with significant improvement in cognition and overall functioning compared to placebo. In 2013, the FDA expanded the approved
indication for Exelon Patch (15cm 2 ) to also include the treatment of patients with severe Alzheimer's disease. In 2013, European Marketing
Authorization was obtained for the higher dose in mild-to-moderate AD. The higher dose of Exelon Patch (15cm 2 ) has been approved in more
than 70 countries. The severe indication has now been approved in more than 10 countries. Compounds in Development The following table and paragraph summaries provide an overview of the key Innovative Medicines Division projects currently in the Confirmatory
Development stage, including projects seeking to develop potential uses of new molecular entities as well as potential additional indications or new formulations for already marketed products. Changes
to the "Selected Development Projects" table are highlighted in the table below entitled "Projects Added to and Subtracted from the Development Table Since 2016." Compounds
and new indications in development are subject to required regulatory approvals and, in certain instances, contractual limitations. These compounds and indications are in
various stages of development throughout the world. It may not be possible to obtain regulatory approval for any or all of the new compounds and new indications referred to in this Form 20-F in
any country or in every country. See "—Regulation" for further information on the approval process. The
year that each project entered the current phase of development disclosed below reflects the year in which the decision to enter the phase was made. This may be different from the
year in which the first patient received the first treatment in the related clinical trial. A reference to a project being in registration means that an application has been filed with a health
authority for marketing approval. Selected Development Projects Project/Product Common name Mechanism of action Potential indication/ Disease area Business franchise Formulation/ Route of administration Year Project Entered Current Development Phase Planned filing dates/Current phase ABL001 asciminib BCR-ABL inhibitor Chronic myeloid leukemia, 3rd line Oncology Oral 2017 2020/III Chronic myeloid leukemia, 1st line Oncology Oral 2017 ³ 2022/II ACZ885 canakinumab Anti-interleukin-1 b monoclonal antibody Secondary prevention of cardiovascular events Cardio-Metabolic Subcutaneous injection 2017 US/EU (registration) (1) 2nd line non-small cell lung cancer Oncology Subcutaneous injection 2017 2021/III 1 st line non-small cell lung cancer Oncology Subcutaneous injection 2017 ³ 2022/III Adjuvant non-small cell lung cancer Oncology Subcutaneous injection 2017 ³ 2022/III (1) Submissions
pending acceptance by FDA and EMA. 50 Table of Contents Project/Product Common name Mechanism of action Potential indication/ Disease area Business franchise Formulation/ Route of administration Year Project Entered Current Development Phase Planned filing dates/Current phase Afinitor/Votubia everolimus mTOR inhibitor Tuberous sclerosis complex seizures Oncology Oral 2017 EU (approved) US (registration) AMG 334 erenumab Selective CGRP receptor antagonist Prophylaxis of migraine Neuroscience Subcutaneous injection 2017 US/EU (registration) Arzerra ofatumumab Anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody Refractory indolent non-Hodgkin's lymphoma Oncology Intravenous infusion 2010 2020/III BAF312 siponimod Sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor modulator Secondary progressive multiple sclerosis Neuroscience Oral 2012 2018/III BYL719 alpelisib PI3K a inhibitor Hormone receptor-positive, HER2-negative advanced breast cancer (postmenopausal women), 2nd line (+ fulvestrant) Oncology Oral 2015 2018/III BYM338 bimagrumab Inhibitor of activin receptor Type 2 Hip fracture recovery Neuroscience Intravenous infusion 2012 ³ 2022/II Sarcopenia Neuroscience Intravenous infusion 2014 ³ 2022/II CAD106 amilomotide Beta-amyloid-protein therapy Alzheimer's disease Neuroscience Intramuscular injection 2009 ³ 2022/II/III CFZ533 TBD Blocking, non-depleting, anti-CD40 monoclonal antibody Solid organ transplantation Immunology and Dermatology Intravenous infusion 2017 ³ 2022/II CNP520 TBD BACE inhibitor Alzheimer's disease Neuroscience Oral 2016 ³ 2022/II/III Cosentyx secukinumab Anti-interleukin-17 monoclonal antibody Non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis Immunology and Dermatology Subcutaneous injection 2015 2019/III Psoriatic arthritis head-to-head study vs. Humira® (adalimumab) Immunology and Dermatology Subcutaneous injection 2015 2020/III Ankylosing spondylitis head-to-head study vs. proposed Sandoz biosimilar adalimumab Immunology and Dermatology Subcutaneous injection 2015 ³ 2022/III CTL019 (approved in the US as Kymriah ) tisagenlecleucel CD19-targeted chimeric antigen receptor T-cell immunotherapy Pediatric/young adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia Oncology Intravenous infusion 2017 US (approved) EU (registration) Relapsed/refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma Oncology Intravenous infusion 2017 US/EU (registration) Relapsed/refractory follicular lymphoma Oncology Intravenous infusion 2017 2020/II Chronic lymphocytic leukemia Oncology Intravenous infusion 2017 2021/III Relapsed/refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma in 1st relapse Oncology Intravenous infusion 2017 ³ 2022/II Relapsed/refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (+ pembrolizumab) Oncology Intravenous infusion 2017 ³ 2022/III ECF843 TBD Boundary lubricant Dry eye Ophthalmology Eye drops 2017 ³ 2022/II EGF816 TBD EGFR mutation modulation Non-small cell lung cancer Oncology Oral 2017 2020/III EMA401 olodanrigan Angiotensin II type 2 receptor antagonist Peripheral neuropathic pain Neuroscience Oral 2015 2021/II Entresto valsartan and sacubitril (as sodium salt complex) Angiotensin receptor/ neprilysin inhibitor Chronic heart failure with preserved ejection fraction Cardio-Metabolic Oral 2012 2019/III Post-acute myocardial infarction Cardio-Metabolic Oral 2015 2020/III Gilenya fingolimod Sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor modulator Pediatric multiple sclerosis Neuroscience Oral 2017 US/EU (registration) 51 Table of Contents Project/Product Common name Mechanism of action Potential indication/ Disease area Business franchise Formulation/ Route of administration Year Project Entered Current Development Phase Planned filing dates/Current phase HDM201 TBD p53-HDM2 inhibitor Acute myeloid lymphoma Oncology Oral 2017 ³ 2022/II INC280 capmatinib c-MET inhibitor Non-small cell lung cancer Oncology Oral 2014 2019/III Non-small cell lung cancer EGFR mutation Oncology Oral 2016 ³ 2022/II Jakavi ruxolitinib JAK1/JAK2 inhibitor Acute graft-versus-host disease Oncology Oral 2016 2020/III Chronic graft-versus-host disease Oncology Oral 2016 2020/III KAE609 cipargamin PfATP4 inhibitor Malaria Established Medicines Oral 2012 ³ 2022/II KAF156 TBD Imidazolopiperazines derivative Malaria Established Medicines Oral 2014 ³ 2022/II Kisqali ribociclib CDK4/6 inhibitor Hormone receptor-positive, HER2-negative advanced breast cancer (postmenopausal women), 1st/2nd line (+ fulvestrant) Oncology Oral 2014 2018/III Hormone receptor-positive, HER2-negative advanced breast cancer (premenopausal women), 1st line, (+ tamoxifen + goserelin or NSAI + goserelin) Oncology Oral 2015 2018/III Hormone receptor-positive, HER2-negative breast cancer (adjuvant) Oncology Oral 2016 ³ 2022/III LAM320 clofazimine Mycobacterial DNA binding Multi-drug resistant tuberculosis Established Medicines Oral 2016 2018/III LCI699 osilodrostat Cortisol synthesis inhibitor Cushing's disease Oncology Oral 2014 2018/III LHW090 TBD Neprilysin inhibitor Resistant hypertension Cardio-Metabolic Oral 2017 ³ 2022/II LIK066 TBD SGLT 1/2 inhibitor Weight loss Cardio-Metabolic Oral 2016 ³ 2022/II LJN452 tropifexor FXR agonist Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis Immunology and Dermatology Oral 2015 ³ 2022/II LMI070 branaplam SMN2 RNA splicing modulator Spinal muscular atrophy Neuroscience Oral 2017 2021/III LOU064 TBD BTK inhibitor Chronic spontaneous urticaria Immunology and Dermatology Oral 2017 ³ 2022/II Lucentis ranibizumab Anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody fragment Retinopathy of prematurity Ophthalmology Intravitreal injection 2014 2018/III MAA868 TBD Factor XI inhibitor Stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation Cardio-Metabolic Subcutaneous injection 2017 ³ 2022/II MTV273 TBD BCMA-targeted chimeric antigen receptor T-cell immunotherapy Multiple myeloma Oncology Intravenous infusion 2017 2021/I OMB157 ofatumumab Anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody Relapsing multiple sclerosis Neuroscience Subcutaneous injection 2015 2019/III PDR001 spartalizumab Anti PD-1 monoclonal antibody Malignant melanoma (w/ Tafinlar + Mekinist ) Oncology Intravenous infusion 2017 2019/III Endocrine neoplasm Oncology Intravenous infusion 2017 2019/III Malignant melanoma Oncology Intravenous infusion 2017 2021/II Promacta/ Revolade eltrombopag Thrombopoietin receptor agonist Severe aplastic anemia, 1st line Oncology Oral 2016 2018/III QAW039 fevipiprant DP2 antagonist (CRTH2 antagonist) Asthma Respiratory Oral 2015 2020/III 52 Table of Contents Project/Product Common name Mechanism of action Potential indication/ Disease area Business franchise Formulation/ Route of administration Year Project Entered Current Development Phase Planned filing dates/Current phase QBW251 TBD CFTR potentiator Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease Respiratory Oral 2017 ³ 2022/II QGE031 ligelizumab High affinity anti-IgE monoclonal antibody Chronic spontaneous urticaria/ chronic idiopathic urticaria Immunology and Dermatology Subcutaneous injection 2014 2021/II QMF149 indacaterol, mometasone furoate (in fixed dose combination) Long-acting beta2-adrenergic agonist and inhaled corticosteroid Asthma Respiratory Inhalation 2015 2019/III QVM149 indacaterol, mometasone furoate, glycopyrronium bromide (in fixed dose combination) Long-acting beta2-adrenergic agonist, long-acting muscarinic antagonist and inhaled corticosteroid Asthma Respiratory Inhalation 2015 2019/III RTH258 brolucizumab Anti-VEGF single-chain antibody fragment Neovascular age-related macular degeneration Ophthalmology Intravitreal injection 2014 2018/III Diabetic macular edema Ophthalmology Intravitreal injection 2017 2020/III Rydapt midostaurin Signal transduction inhibitor Acute myeloid leukemia (FLT3 wild type) Oncology Oral 2016 ³ 2022/III SEG101 crizanlizumab P-selectin inhibitor Sickle cell disease Oncology Intravenous infusion 2016 2019/III Signifor LAR pasireotide Somatostatin analogue Cushing's disease Oncology Long-acting release/ intramuscular injection 2017 EU (approved) US (registration) Tafinlar + Mekinist dabrafenib + trametinib BRAF inhibitor + MEK inhibitor BRAF V600+ melanoma (adjuvant) Oncology Oral 2017 US (approved) EU (registration) UNR844 TBD Reduction of disulfide bonds Presbyopia Ophthalmology Eye drops 2017 2021/II VAY736 TBD Anti-BAFF (B-cell activating factor) monoclonal antibody Autoimmune hepatitis Immunology and Dermatology Subcutaneous injection 2016 2021/II Primary Sjogren's syndrome Immunology and Dermatology Subcutaneous injection 2015 ³ 2022/II VAY785 emricasan Pan-caspase inhibitor Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis Immunology and Dermatology Oral 2017 ³ 2022/II Xolair omalizumab Anti-IgE monoclonal antibody Nasal polyps Respiratory Subcutaneous injection 2017 2020/III ZPL389 TBD Histamine H 4 receptor antagonist Atopic dermatitis Immunology and Dermatology Oral 2017 2021/II Key Development Projects • ABL001 (asciminib) is a potent and specific inhibitor of the protein BCR-ABL. It binds to a distinct region of the protein, resulting in a
mechanism of action that is different compared to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) approved to treat Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia (Ph+ CML). Because of its unique
receptor binding site, the compound may have the potential to be prescribed in combination with TKIs approved to treat Ph+ CML. Clinical trials investigating ABL001 are ongoing. A Phase III
clinical study was initiated in October 2017 comparing the efficacy of ABL001 versus bosutinib in patients with CML-CP who are either resistant or intolerant to two prior TKIs. 53 Table of Contents • ACZ885 (canakinumab) was first approved in 2009 for cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes as Ilaris . In 2017 data from CANTOS, a Phase III
study evaluating quarterly injections of ACZ885 in people with a prior heart attack and
inflammatory atherosclerosis, was presented at the European Society of Cardiology Congress and published simultaneously in The New England Journal of Medicine and The Lancet. CANTOS met its primary
endpoint with a statistically significant 15% reduction of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) in people with a prior heart attack and inflammatory atherosclerosis who were treated with 150mg
of ACZ885 in addition to standard of care including lipid-lowering therapy. This effect was driven by 24% relative reduction in risk of heart attack. A non-significant 10% reduction in risk of
cardiovascular death was also observed. A sub-group of study participants, in the 150 mg arm, whose inflammation was reduced below the median high-sensitivity C-reactive protein level, measured at
three months after one dose of treatment, saw a 27% relative risk reduction on the primary MACE endpoint. A review of a blinded, pre-planned oncology safety analysis revealed a 77% reduction in lung
cancer mortality and 67% reduction in lung cancer cases in patients treated with 300 mg of ACZ885. Novartis is discussing the CANTOS study findings with health authorities and plans to submit
the cardiovascular data for regulatory approval, as well as evaluate the lung cancer findings in additional Phase III confirmatory studies. • AMG 334 (erenumab) is a fully human monoclonal antibody designed to block the calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor, which is
believed to play a critical role in mediating the incapacitating pain of migraine. Data from a pivotal Phase II study of erenumab presented in September 2017 at the Congress of the
International Headache Society showed reduced monthly migraine days in patients with chronic migraine for whom previous preventive treatments have failed. In these patients, erenumab cut the average
number of migraine days by at least five days and up to a week per month, depending on treatment dose. New data was also presented at the September 2017 Congress of the International Headache Society
assessing the safety of erenumab 140 mg intravenous in a cardiovascular population with stable angina who are at increased risk for myocardial ischemia. Results of this study showed that inhibition of
the CGRP receptor with erenumab had no impact on exercise capacity as measured by an exercise stress test. In January 2018, Novartis announced topline results from the Phase IIIb LIBERTY study
of erenumab. The study met its primary endpoint with significantly more patients taking erenumab experiencing at least a 50% reduction from baseline in their monthly migraine days as compared to
placebo. The trial assessed patients who tried and failed two to four previous preventive medications due to lack of efficacy or intolerable side effects. LIBERTY is the first migraine prevention
trial of its kind conducted specifically in patients who have tried multiple therapies without success, and are in need of additional treatment options. In 2017 Novartis submitted AMG 334 to
the EMA for migraine prophylaxis. Amgen Inc.'s filing for the same indication was also accepted by the FDA in July 2017. If approved, Novartis and Amgen plan to co-commercialize erenumab in the
US. Amgen has exclusive commercialization rights in Japan, and Novartis has exclusive commercialization rights in the rest of the world. The companies plan to continue global co-development. • Arzerra (ofatumumab) is a fully human monoclonal antibody that is designed to target the CD20
molecule found on the surface of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells and normal B lymphocytes. Arzerra is approved in more than 60 countries
worldwide as monotherapy for the treatment of patients with CLL who are refractory after prior treatment with fludarabine and alemtuzumab, and is also approved for other indications in CLL in the US
and EU. A Phase III trial is underway to investigate ofatumumab in refractory indolent non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Novartis is also investigating ofatumumab (disclosed as OMB157) in two
Phase III studies for relapsing multiple sclerosis. Arzerra is marketed under a license agreement between Genmab A/S and Novartis. • BAF312 (siponimod) is an oral, second-generation sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor modulator under development for the treatment of secondary
progressive multiple sclerosis (SPMS). BAF312 54 Table of Contents binds
selectively to the sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor subtypes 1 and 5, and distributes effectively to the brain where it may impact central nervous system inflammation and repair
mechanisms. Results from the EXPAND Phase III study, evaluating efficacy and safety for SPMS, demonstrated that BAF312 reduced three- and six-month confirmed disability progression against
placebo, with a safety profile similar to fingolimod. New data from the Phase III EXPAND study presented at the October 2017 joint meeting of the European and American Committees for Treatment
and Research in Multiple Sclerosis demonstrated the effects of BAF312 on magnetic resonance imaging lesions and brain shrinkage in SPMS. Effects of BAF312 on disability progression in patients without
on-study relapses were also presented. Results from EXPAND have been submitted for peer review publication. Novartis is planning to file BAF312 in the US and EU in 2018 for SPMS. If approved, label
content will be subject to negotiation with regulatory authorities, but is expected to reflect the unique SPMS population studied in the EXPAND trial. • BYL719 (alpelisib) is an orally bioavailable, alpha isoform-specific PI3K inhibitor. In breast cancer cell lines harboring PIK3CA mutations,
BYL719 has been shown to inhibit the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway and have anti-proliferative effects. In addition, cancer cell lines with PIK3CA mutations were more sensitive to BYL719 than those without
the mutation across a broad range of different cancers. BYL719 is being studied in the Phase III SOLAR-1 trial in combination with fulvestrant in men and postmenopausal women with hormone
receptor-positive advanced breast cancer who received prior treatment with aromatase inhibitor and a Phase II trial to determine the maximum tolerated dose in combination with fulvestrant in
PIK3CA mutated estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer patients. • Cosentyx (secukinumab) is a fully human monoclonal antibody that selectively neutralizes
IL-17A. Cosentyx is in Phase III development in non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis. We expect results from this trial in 2019. Cosentyx is also
in a Phase III head-to-head clinical trial in psoriatic arthritis against Humira® (adalimumab) and a
Phase III head-to-head clinical trial in ankylosing spondylitis against the proposed biosimilar adalimumab in development by Sandoz. • CTL019 (tisagenlecleucel, approved in the US as Kymriah ) is a CD19-directed genetically
modified autologous chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cell therapy that uses the patient's own immune system to fight certain types of cancer. CARs are engineered proteins that enable a patient's
own T cells to seek out specific target proteins present on a patient's cancerous tumor. When these cells are re-introduced into the patient's blood, they demonstrate the potential to bind to the
cancer cells and destroy them. CTL019 targets a protein called CD19 that is associated with a number of B-cell malignancies. In August 2017, the FDA approved CTL019 as Kymriah for the treatment of
patients up to 25 years of age with B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) that is refractory or in
second or later relapse. Kymriah is also currently under regulatory review in the US for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed/refractory
diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), the most common type of non-Hodgkin lymphoma. In the EU, the EMA is reviewing the CTL019 Marketing Authorization Application for the treatment of adult
patients with relapsed/refractory DLBCL ineligible for autologous stem cell transplantation and for pediatric and young adult patients with relapsed/refractory ALL. At the American Society of
Hematology Annual Meeting in December 2017, Novartis presented data from the primary analysis of the pivotal, Phase II JULIET trial that CTL019 sustained complete responses at six months in
adults with relapsed/refractory DLBCL. CTL019 is also expected to enter Phase II development for adult patients with relapsed/refractory follicular lymphoma who have failed at least two prior
systemic therapies. A Phase III study in second-line use in adult patients with DLBCL after first relapse is also being planned. Clinical trials in these patient populations are anticipated to
begin in 2018. In January 2018, the FDA granted Priority Review for Kymriah for the treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory DLBCL who are
ineligible for or relapse after autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT). Also in January 2018, the EMA granted accelerated assessment for CTL019 for the treatment of children and young adults with
relapsed or refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic 55 Table of Contents leukemia,
and for adult patients with relapsed or refractory DLBCL who are ineligible for ASCT. Novartis and the University of Pennsylvania's Perelman School of Medicine, which developed this
CD19-directed CAR T cell therapy, have a global collaboration to research, develop and commercialize CAR-T therapies for the investigational treatment of cancers. • EMA401 (olodanrigan) is a novel angiotensin II type 2 receptor (AT 2 R) antagonist. Targeting AT 2 R is an emerging
approach to neuropathic pain treatment. AT 2 R antagonists block the pain signaling pathways in the peripheral nervous system. The first Phase II study to assess the potential of
EMA401 in peripheral neuropathic pain was initiated in 2017, with the second Phase II study planned to start in 2018. • Entresto (sacubitril/valsartan) is a first-in-class angiotensin receptor/neprilysin inhibitor
approved and marketed for the treatment of chronic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. In addition, Novartis is conducting multiple studies of Entresto as part of the FortiHFy clinical
program. This includes two large outcome studies. The first, PARAGON-HF, a Phase III trial of Entresto in patients with chronic heart failure with preserved ejection fraction, has completed enrollment with results expected in
2019. Novartis continues recruitment in PARADISE-MI, a Phase IIIb trial for patients at high risk for heart failure after an acute myocardial infarction, with results expected in 2020. • Gilenya (fingolimod, formerly FTY720) is a sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor modulator approved
for the treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis in adults as Gilenya . Results from the Phase III PARADIGMS study, investigating the
safety and efficacy of oral once-daily Gilenya in children and adolescents (ages 10 to 17) with multiple sclerosis showed that oral fingolimod
resulted in an 82% reduction in the number of relapses in the patient population over a period of up to two years, compared to interferon beta-1a intramuscular injections. In December 2017, the FDA
granted Gilenya Breakthrough Therapy designation for relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis in pediatric patients (ages 10 to 17). Gilenya is not currently
approved for pediatric use. • INC280 (capmatinib) is a highly selective MET inhibitor. In June 2016, Novartis initiated ongoing Phase II studies to prospectively
explore the predictive value of different mechanisms of MET dysregulation (including MET amplification and MET leading to exon 14 deletion mutation) in advanced non-small cell lung cancer. INC280 is
licensed by Novartis from Incyte Corporation. • Jakavi (ruxolitinib) is an oral inhibitor of the JAK 1 and JAK 2 tyrosine kinases. Jakavi is currently
in Phase III development in acute graft versus host disease and chronic graft versus host disease. Novartis licensed
ruxolitinib from Incyte Corporation for development and commercialization in the indications of oncology and hematology outside the US. In the second quarter of 2016 the license was amended to also
include rights to research, develop and commercialize ruxolitinib in graft-versus-host disease outside the US. Ruxolitinib is marketed in the US as Jakafi® by Incyte Corporation. • KAF156 belongs to a novel class of antimalarial compounds called imidazolopiperazines. It has the potential to clear malaria infection,
including resistant strains, as well as to block the transmission of the malaria parasite. As demonstrated in a Phase IIa proof-of-concept trial, the compound is fast-acting and potent across
multiple stages of the parasite's lifecycle, rapidly clearing both P. falciparum and P. vivax parasites. In August 2017 Novartis began a
Phase IIb study to test multiple dosing combinations and dosing schedules of
KAF156 and lumefantrine, including the feasibility of a single dose therapy in adults, adolescents and children. • Kisqali (ribociclib; formerly LEE011) is a selective cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor that
inhibits two proteins called cyclin-dependent kinase 4 and 6 (CDK4/6). In March 2017 the FDA approved Kisqali in combination with an aromatase inhibitor
as initial endocrine-based therapy for treatment of postmenopausal women with hormone receptor positive, human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 negative (HR+/HER2-) advanced or metastatic breast
cancer. In August 2017 the EC 56 Table of Contents approved Kisqali in combination with an aromatase inhibitor as initial endocrine-based therapy for treatment of postmenopausal women with HR+/HER2-
locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer. Results from the pivotal Phase III MONALEESA 2 study showed Kisqali plus letrozole significantly
extended progression free survival (PFS) compared to a standard of care, letrozole, as a first line treatment in postmenopausal women with HR+/HER2- advanced breast cancer. Kisqali plus letrozole
reduced the risk of disease progression or death by 44% over letrozole alone, significantly extending PFS across all patient
subgroups. Novartis is continuing to assess Kisqali through the MONALEESA clinical trial program, which includes MONALEESA 2, MONALEESA 3 and MONALEESA
7. These trials are evaluating Kisqali in multiple endocrine therapy combinations across a broad range of patients, including men and premenopausal
women. In December 2017, Kisqali was granted Breakthrough Therapy designation by the FDA for initial endocrine-based treatment of pre- or
peri-menopausal women with HR+/HER2- advanced or metastatic breast cancer in combination with tamoxifen or an aromatase inhibitor. Kisqali was developed
by Novartis as part of a drug discovery collaboration with Astex Pharmaceuticals. • LIK066 is an inhibitor of the sodium-glucose co-transporter-1 (SGLT1) and sodium-glucose co-transporter-2 (SGLT2). The dual mechanism (renal
and intestinal) acts to improve multiple metabolic end points including glycemic control, weight, blood pressure and lipid biomarkers. We initiated Phase II dose ranging studies for weight loss
in the first half of 2017. • LJN452 (tropifexor) is a potent, non-bile acid, Farnesoid X receptor (FXR) agonist, which is being developed for the treatment of nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH). LJN452 has been shown to reduce steatosis, inflammation, and fibrosis in animal models, alongside a favorable safety profile in first in-human studies. This oral treatment is
designed to break the cycle of fatty build-up in the liver and harness the body's built-in mechanisms for coping with excess bile acid. Recruitment is underway for the first LJN452 clinical study in
NASH patients. • OMB157 (ofatumumab) is a fully human monoclonal antibody administered by subcutaneous injection in development for multiple sclerosis (MS).
OMB157 works by binding to the CD20 molecule on the B cell surface and inducing B cell depletion. Positive Phase IIb results in MS patients were presented in 2014 and showed significant
reduction in the number of new brain lesions in the first 24 weeks after ofatumumab administration. Novartis initiated a Phase III program for OMB157 in relapsing MS in August 2016. The
program is on track, and we expect to complete the Phase III program in MS in 2019. Ofatumumab is marketed by Novartis for oncology indications as an intravenous infusion under the brand name Arzerra . • PDR001 (spartalizumab) is a PD-1 antagonist that may restore the ability of immune cells to induce cell death and fight cancer. PDR001 is being
evaluated in a Phase III trial in combination with Tafinlar + Mekinist for
metastatic BRAF V600+ melanoma, in a Phase II trial for neuroendocrine tumors and in Phase I trials in other tumor types. • QAW039 (fevipiprant) is being investigated in the reduction of asthma attacks in patients with severe asthma and in the improvement of lung
function in patients with moderate asthma. This compound is designed to block the activity of the DP2 receptor, an upstream driver of allergen- and non-allergen dependent inflammation in asthma,
resulting in reduction in IL-4, IL-5, and IL-13, inhibition of eosinophil migration, and inhibition of smooth muscle cells growth in the airway. Phase II clinical data shows a positive effect
on symptoms (asthma control questionnaire) and lung function, and reduction in sputum eosinophils. • QMF149 (indacaterol acetate/mometasone furoate) is a once daily fixed-dose combination being investigated in asthmatic patients who are
uncontrolled on an inhaled corticosteroid. QMF149 combines indacaterol acetate (an inhaled long-acting beta 2 -adrenergic agonist with 24 hour duration of action) and mometasone
furoate (an inhaled corticosteroid with 24 hour duration of action) delivered via the Breezhaler device, a single dose dry powder inhaler. QMF149
is currently being evaluated in two Phase III clinical trials to support registration outside the US. 57 Table of Contents • QVM149 (indacaterol acetate, glycopyrronium bromide, mometasone furoate) is a fixed-dose combination of indacaterol acetate (an inhaled
long-acting beta 2 -adrenergic agonist with 24 hour duration of action), glycopyrronium bromide (an inhaled long-acting muscarinic antagonist with 24 hour duration of action),
and mometasone furoate (an inhaled corticosteroid with 24 hour duration of action) in development for once-daily maintenance treatment of poorly controlled asthmatic patients to be delivered
via the Breezhaler device, a single dose dry powder inhaler. All three mono-components have previously been developed as individual drugs for either
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or asthma. QVM149 is currently in Phase III clinical trials to support registration outside the US. • RLX030 (serelaxin) is a novel recombinant form of the human hormone relaxin 2, and is believed to act through multiple mechanisms to reduce
stress on the heart, kidneys and other organs. In 2017 Novartis announced the global Phase III RELAX-AHF-2 study investigating the efficacy, safety and tolerability of RLX030 in patients
with acute heart failure (AHF) did not meet its primary endpoints of reduction in cardiovascular death through day 180 or reduced worsening heart failure through day five when added to standard
therapy in patients with AHF. • RTH258 (brolucizumab) is a single-chain antibody fragment that acts as an anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (anti-VEGF) agent. RTH258 is
currently in development for neovascular age related macular degeneration (nAMD) and diabetic macular edema. RTH258 met its primary endpoint of non-inferiority to aflibercept in mean change in
best-corrected visual acuity in two Phase III clinical trials, HAWK and HARRIER. Additionally, superiority was shown in three secondary endpoints that are considered key markers of nAMD
disease, central subfield retinal thickness, retinal fluid and disease activity. Additionally, a majority of patients were on a 12-week treatment schedule immediately following the loading phase, also
assessed by secondary endpoints in the HAWK and HARRIER trials. Beginning in 2018, we expect to make regulatory filings for nAMD in the US, EU and Japan. RTH258 is also currently in development for
diabetic macular edema, with Phase III trials in this indication scheduled to start in 2018. • SEG101 (crizanlizumab) is a humanized anti-P-selectin monoclonal antibody that is being investigated in the reduction of vaso-occlusive pain
crises in patients with sickle cell disease (SCD). SCD is a hereditary blood disorder characterized by sickle-shaped red blood cells. Novartis acquired SEG101 in 2016 by exercising its right to
acquire Reprixys Pharmaceuticals Corporation following receipt of results of the Phase II SUSTAIN study. Results from the Phase II SUSTAIN study demonstrated that SEG101 reduced the
median annual rate of sickle cell-related pain crises compared to placebo in patients with or without hydroxyurea therapy. • Signifor LAR (pasireotide) is a somatostatin analogue approved in the EU in September 2017 as a
long-acting release formulation for patients with Cushing's disease. An application for this indication has also been accepted by the FDA. • Tafinlar (dabrafenib) targets the serine/threonine kinase BRAF in the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK pathway
and Mekinist (trametinib) targets the threonine/tyrosine kinases MEK1 and MEK2 in the MAP kinase pathway, resulting in dual blockade of this pathway,
which is the main escape mechanism for resistance. Tafinlar + Mekinist (dabrafenib + trametinib) is the first combination of BRAF and MEK inhibitors to report three years of follow-up survival data in two Phase III studies in BRAF V600+ unresectable
or metastatic patients. A Phase III study is also underway for BRAF V600 mutation positive melanoma patients in the adjuvant setting. Phase II studies are also underway to evaluate the
efficacy and safety of Tafinlar + Mekinist in patients with BRAF V600 mutation positive non-small cell lung cancer. Data presented at a
major European conference in the third quarter showed reduced risk of disease recurrence by 53% in patients with resected BRAF V600 mutation-positive melanoma and meaningful improvements in secondary
endpoints, including overall survival, distant metastasis-free survival and freedom from relapse. In October 2017, the FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy designation for Tafinlar + Mekinist for the adjuvant 58 Table of Contents treatment
of patients with stage III melanoma with a BRAF V600 mutation following complete resection. In December 2017, the FDA granted Priority Review to Tafinlar + Mekinist for adjuvant treatment of this patient population. Tafinlar + Mekinist is being evaluated in a
Phase III trial in combination with
PDR001 for metastatic BRAF V600+ melanoma, in a Phase II trial for neuroendocrine tumors and in Phase I trials in other tumor types. • UNR844 is a potential first-in-class topical treatment in development for presbyopia. UNR844 is believed to work through reduction of disulfide
bonds, softening the crystalline lens. Presbyopia is a common age-related loss of near distance vision characterized by a progressive inability to focus on objects nearby, making everyday activities,
such as reading, challenging. In a Phase I/II masked, placebo-controlled proof of concept study, 50 patients were treated daily for 90 days with topical UNR844 and 25 patients with
placebo. UNR844 showed a statistically significant difference to placebo in distant corrected near vision at all time points measured (from day 8). At day 90, 82% of participants treated with UNR844
had 20/40 near vision (or 0.30 LogMAR) versus 48% in the placebo group. Near vision of 20/40 allows for the majority of near vision tasks in most people. UNR844 was acquired by Novartis through the
acquisition of Encore Vision, Inc., in January 2017. • VAY736 is a highly specific and potent monoclonal antibody against the B-cell activating factor receptor (BAFF-R) with enhanced
antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity against BAFF-R positive B cells. VAY736 is in Phase II development for the treatment of primary Sjogren's syndrome, a systemic autoimmune disorder
characterized by progressive lymphocytic destruction of exocrine glands and other organs resulting not only in eye and mouth dryness, but frequently complicated by severe fatigue and extraglandular
organ involvement. VAY736 is also being tested for patients with autoimmune hepatitis, a chronic autoimmune disorder, characterized by hepatocyte injury and destruction of the liver architecture
leading to fibrosis/cirrhosis, and ultimately to end stage liver disease requiring liver transplantation. • VAY785 (emricasan) is an investigational, first-in-class, oral, pan-caspase inhibitor being investigated for the treatment of chronic liver
diseases including nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) with advanced fibrosis (scarring) and cirrhosis. In multiple Phase II clinical trials, VAY785 has demonstrated significant, rapid and
sustained reductions in elevated levels of key biomarkers of inflammation and cell death, which play a role in the severity and progression of liver disease. VAY785 is being developed in collaboration
with Conatus Pharmaceuticals Inc. As part of this collaboration, Conatus is conducting several Phase IIb clinical trials with VAY785, including the ENCORE-PH trial in primarily
compensated NASH cirrhosis, the POLT-HCV-SVR trial in post-transplant hepatitis C virus fibrosis and cirrhosis, and the ENCORE-NF in NASH fibrosis. Top-line results of these trials are expected to be
available starting in 2018 and continuing thereafter. In May 2017, Conatus also initiated the Phase IIb ENCORE-LF trial in patients with decompensated liver cirrhosis caused by NASH, with
results expected in the second half of 2019. • ZPL389 is a once-daily oral H 4 receptor antagonist in development for atopic dermatitis, commonly known as eczema. ZPL389 is a
potential first-in-class oral treatment for moderate-to-severe eczema. In a proof of concept study, ZPL389 showed a clinically and statistically significant reduction of eczema. After eight weeks of
treatment, the compound reduced the Eczema Area and Severity Index (EASI) score by 50% in a study of 98 patients. In clinical studies conducted to date, ZPL389 has a favorable safety profile. ZPL389
was acquired by Novartis through the acquisition of Ziarco Group Limited in January 2017. • Zykadia (ceritinib) is a potent and highly selective oral anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)
inhibitor that is in development for ALK positive (ALK+) cancers. In May 2017, the FDA approved the expanded use of Zykadia to include the first-line
treatment of patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer whose tumors are ALK+, as detected by an FDA-approved test. In June 2017 the European Commission approved expanding the use of Zykadia to
the first-line treatment of patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer whose tumors are ALK+. 59 Table of Contents Projects Added to and Subtracted from the Development Table Since 2016 Project/Product Potential indication/ Disease area Change Reason ABL001 Chronic myeloid leukemia, 1st line Added Entered confirmatory development ACZ885 2nd line non-small cell lung cancer Added Entered confirmatory development 1 st line non-small cell lung cancer Added Entered confirmatory development Adjuvant non-small cell lung cancer Added Entered confirmatory development Arzerra Refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma Now disclosed as refractory indolent non-Hodgkin's lymphoma; and Route of administration corrected CFZ533 Solid organ transplantation Added Entered confirmatory development CJM112 Immune disorders Removed Development discontinued Cosentyx Psoriatic arthritis head to head study vs. adalimumab Now disclosed as psoriatic arthritis head to head study vs. Humira® (adalimumab) Ankylosing spondylitis head to head study vs. adalimumab Now disclosed as ankylosing spondylitis head to head study vs. proposed Sandoz biosimilar adalimumab CTL019 (approved in the US as Kymriah ) Pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia Now disclosed as pediatric/young adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma Now disclosed as 3rd line diffuse large B-cell lymphoma Relapsed/refractory follicular lymphoma Added Entered confirmatory development 60 Table of Contents Project/Product Potential indication/ Disease area Change Reason Chronic lymphocytic leukemia Added Entered confirmatory development Relapsed/refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma in 1st relapse Added Entered confirmatory development Relapsed/refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (+pembrolizumab) Added Entered confirmatory development ECF843 Dry eye Added Entered confirmatory development EGF816 Non-small cell lung cancer Added Entered confirmatory development EMA401 Neuropathic pain Now disclosed as peripheral neuropathic pain HDM201 Acute myeloid lymphoma Added Entered confirmatory development Ilaris Periodic fever syndromes Commercialized Jakavi Early myelofibrosis Removed Development discontinued Graft-versus-host disease Now disclosed as acute graft-versus-host disease Chronic graft-versus-host disease Added Entered confirmatory development Kisqali (LEE011) Hormone receptor-positive, HER2-negative advanced breast cancer (postmenopausal women), 1st line (+ letrozole) Commercialized as Kisqali LHW090 Resistant hypertension Added Entered confirmatory development LMI070 Spinal muscular atrophy Added Entered confirmatory development LOU064 Chronic spontaneous urticaria Added Entered confirmatory development MAA868 Stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation Added Entered confirmatory development 61 Table of Contents Project/Product Potential indication/ Disease area Change Reason MTV273 Multiple myeloma Added Entered confirmatory development PDR001 Endocrine neoplasm Added Entered confirmatory development Malignant melanoma (w/ Tafinlar + Mekinist ) Added Entered confirmatory development Neuroendocrine tumors Added Entered confirmatory development PIM447 Hematologic tumors Removed In exploratory development PKC412 (Rydapt) Acute myeloid leukemia Commercialized as Rydapt Advanced systemic mastocytosis Commercialized as Rydapt QAW039 Atopic dermatitis Removed Development discontinued QBW251 Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease Added Entered confirmatory development Cystic fibrosis Removed In exploratory development RLX030 Acute heart failure Removed Development discontinued Tafinlar + Mekinist BRAF V600+ non-small cell lung cancer Commercialized BRAF V600+ colorectal cancer Removed Development discontinued Tasigna Chronic myeloid leukemia treatment-free remission Commercialized VAY736 Autoimmune hepatitis Added Entered confirmatory development VAY785 Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis Added Entered confirmatory development Xolair Nasal polyps Added Entered confirmatory development Zykadia ALK + advanced non-small cell lung cancer (1st line, treatment naïve) Commercialized 62 Table of Contents Project/Product Potential indication/ Disease area Change Reason ALK + advanced non-small cell lung cancer (brain metastases) Removed Development discontinued Principal Markets The Innovative Medicines Division sells products in approximately 155 countries worldwide. Net sales are generally concentrated in the US,
Europe and Japan. The following table sets forth the aggregate 2017 net sales of the Innovative Medicines Division by region: Innovative Medicines 2017 Net sales to third parties $ millions % Europe 11,289 34 United States 11,116 34 Asia, Africa, Australasia 7,875 24 Canada and Latin America 2,745 8 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Total 33,025 100 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Of which in Established Markets* 24,633 75 Of which in Emerging Growth Markets* 8,392 25 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ * Emerging
Growth Markets comprise all markets other than the Established Markets of the US, Canada, Western Europe, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. Many
of our Innovative Medicines Division's products are used for chronic conditions that require patients to consume the product over long periods of time, ranging from months to years.
Net sales of the vast majority of our products are not subject to material changes in seasonal demand. Production The primary goal of our manufacturing and supply chain management program is to ensure the uninterrupted, timely and cost-effective supply of
products that meet all product specifications and quality standards. The manufacture of our products is heavily regulated by governmental health authorities around the world, including the FDA and
EMA. In addition to regulatory requirements, many of our products involve technically complex manufacturing processes or require a supply of highly specialized raw materials. We
manufacture our products at facilities worldwide. See also "—