Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—5.A Operating Results—Factors Affecting Results of Operations—Transformational Changes Fueling
Demand—Global Rise in 57 Table of Contents Healthcare
Spending." The following table sets forth the aggregate 2014 net sales of the Pharmaceuticals Division by region: 2014 Net sales to third parties Pharmaceuticals $ millions % Europe 11,245 35 United States 9,772 31 Asia, Africa, Australasia 7,655 24 Canada and Latin America 3,119 10 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Total 31,791 100 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ $ millions % Established Markets* 23,653 74 Emerging Growth Markets* 8,138 26 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Total 31,791 100 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ * Emerging
Growth Markets comprise all markets other than the Established Markets of the US, Canada, Western Europe, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. Many
of our Pharmaceuticals Division's products are used for chronic conditions that require patients to consume the product over long periods of time, ranging from months to years. Net
sales of the vast majority of our products are not subject to material changes in seasonal demand. Production The primary goal of our manufacturing and supply chain management program is to ensure the uninterrupted, timely and cost-effective
supply of products that meet all product specifications. We manufacture our products at five bulk chemical and 14 pharmaceutical production facilities as well as one biotechnology site. Bulk chemical
production involves the manufacture of therapeutically active compounds, mainly by chemical synthesis or by biological processes such as fermentation. Pharmaceutical production involves the
manufacture of "galenical" forms of pharmaceutical products such as tablets, capsules, liquids, ampoules, vials and creams. Major bulk chemical sites are located in Schweizerhalle, Switzerland;
Grimsby, UK; Ringaskiddy, Ireland and Changshu, China. Significant pharmaceutical production facilities are located in Stein, Switzerland; Wehr, Germany; Singapore; Torre, Italy; Barbera, Spain;
Suffern, New York; Sasayama, Japan and in various other locations. We have a biotechnology plant located in Huningue, France, and another biotechnology plant is under development in Morris Plains, New
Jersey to manufacture personalized medicine. Our biotechnology site in Basel, Switzerland was closed in 2014, and our biotechnology site in Vacaville, California was transferred to Novartis Animal
Health in October 2014. In January 2014, we announced the closing of the production facility located in Suffern, New York. In addition, in 2014 we announced the planned divestment of our
pharmaceutical manufacturing site in Taboão da Serra, Brazil. During
clinical trials, which can last several years, the manufacturing process for a particular product is rationalized and refined. By the time clinical trials are completed and
products are launched, the manufacturing processes have been extensively tested and are considered stable. However, improvements to these manufacturing processes may continue over time. Raw
materials for the manufacturing process are either produced in-house or purchased from a number of third party suppliers. Where possible, we maintain multiple supply sources so that
the business 58 Table of Contents is
not dependent on a single or limited number of suppliers. However, our ability to do so may at times be limited by regulatory or other requirements. We monitor market developments that could have
an adverse effect on the supply of essential materials. Our suppliers of raw materials are required to comply with Novartis quality standards. The
manufacture of our products is complex and heavily regulated by governmental health authorities, which means that supply is never guaranteed. If we or our third party suppliers fail
to comply with applicable regulations then there could be a product recall or other shutdown or disruption of our production activities. We have implemented a global manufacturing strategy to maximize
business continuity in case of such events or other unforeseen catastrophic events. However, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to successfully manage such issues when they arise. Marketing and Sales The Pharmaceuticals Division serves customers with 1,940 field force representatives in the US, and an additional 20,643 in the rest of
the world, as of December 31, 2014, including supervisors and administrative personnel. These trained representatives, where permitted by law, present the therapeutic risks and benefits of our
products to physicians, pharmacists, hospitals, insurance groups and managed care organizations. We are seeing the increasing influence of customer groups beyond the prescribers, and Novartis is
responding by adapting our business practices. Although
specific distribution patterns vary by country, Novartis generally sells its prescription drugs primarily to wholesale and retail drug distributors, hospitals, clinics,
government agencies and managed healthcare providers. In
the US, certain products can be advertised by way of television, newspaper and magazine advertising. Novartis also pursues co-promotion/co-marketing opportunities as well as licensing
and distribution agreements with other companies when legally permitted and economically attractive. The
marketplace for healthcare is evolving with consumers becoming more informed stakeholders in their healthcare decisions and looking for solutions to meet their changing needs. Where
permitted by law, Novartis is seeking to tap into the power of the patient, delivering innovative solutions to drive loyalty and engagement. As
a result of changes in healthcare economics, managed care organizations are now one of the largest groups of payors for healthcare services in the US. In an effort to control
prescription drug costs, almost all managed care organizations use a formulary that lists specific drugs that can be prescribed and/or the amount of reimbursement for each drug. We have a dedicated
managed care team that actively seeks to optimize formulary positions for our products. Competition The global pharmaceutical market is highly competitive, and we compete against other major international corporations which sell
patented prescription pharmaceutical products, and which have substantial financial and other resources. Competition within the industry is intense and extends across a wide range of commercial
activities, including pricing, product characteristics, customer service, sales and marketing, and research and development. In
addition, as is the case with other pharmaceutical companies selling patented pharmaceuticals, Novartis faces ever-increasing challenges from companies selling products which compete
with our products, including competing patented products and generic forms of our products following the expiry of patent protection. Generic companies may also gain entry to the market through
successfully challenging our patents, but we vigorously use legally permissible measures to defend our patent rights. We also face competition from over-the-counter (OTC) products that do not require
a prescription from a physician. See also "—Regulation—Price Controls", below. 59 Table of Contents Research and Development We are a leader in the pharmaceuticals industry in terms of research and development, including the level of our investment. Our
Pharmaceuticals Division invested the following in research and development over the last three years: 2014 2013 2012 $ millions Core R&D (1) $ millions $ millions Core R&D (1) $ millions $ millions Core R&D (1) $ millions Research and Exploratory Development 2,724 2,654 2,664 2,611 2,584 2,530 Confirmatory Development 4,607 4,343 4,578 4,550 4,334 4,167 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Total 7,331 6,997 7,242 7,161 6,918 6,697 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ (1) Core
excludes impairments, amortization and certain exceptional items Our
Pharmaceuticals Division expensed $7.3 billion (on a core basis $7.0 billion) in research and development in 2014. This represented 23% (on a core basis 22%) of the
division's total net sales. Research
and Exploratory Development expenditure was $2.7 billion in 2014, in line with the Research and Exploratory Development expenditure of $2.7 billion in 2013 and the
2012 amount of $2.6 billion. Confirmatory
Development expenditures in 2014 were $4.6 billion, in line with 2013. This included $289 million in impairments of intangible assets in 2014 (2013:
$29 million). On a core basis, Confirmatory Development expenditures decreased to $4.3 billion in 2014 and represented 14% of our Pharmaceuticals Division's net sales. Confirmatory
Development expenditures in 2013 increased by 6% to $4.6 billion as compared against 2012. This included $29 million in impairments of intangible assets in
2013 (2012: $0.1 billion). On a core basis, Confirmatory Development expenditures increased to $4.6 billion in 2013 (2012: $4.2 billion) and represented 14% of our Pharmaceuticals
Division's net sales. The
discovery and development of a new drug is a lengthy process, usually requiring approximately 10 to 15 years from the initial research to bringing a drug to market, including
approximately six to eight years from Phase I clinical trials to market entry. At each of these steps, there is a substantial risk that a compound will not meet the requirements to progress
further. In such an event, we may be required to abandon a compound in which we have made a substantial investment. We
manage our research and development expenditures across our entire portfolio in accordance with our strategic priorities. We make decisions about whether or not to proceed with
development projects on a project-by-project basis. These decisions are based on the project's potential to meet a significant unmet medical need or to improve patient outcomes, the strength of the
science underlying the project, and the potential of the project (subject to the risks inherent in pharmaceutical development) to generate significant positive financial results for the Company. Once
a management decision has been made to proceed with the development of a particular molecule, the level of research and development investment required will be driven by many factors, including the
medical indications for which it is being developed, the number of indications being pursued, whether the molecule is of a chemical or biological nature, the stage of development, and the level of
evidence necessary to demonstrate clinical efficacy and safety. 60 Table of Contents Research program Our Research program is responsible for the discovery of new medicines. The principal goal of our research program is to discover new
medicines for diseases with unmet medical need. To do this we focus our work in areas where we have sufficient scientific understanding and believe we have the potential to change the practice of
medicine. This requires the hiring and retention of the best talent, a focus on fundamental disease mechanisms that are relevant across different disease areas, continuous improvement in technologies
for drug discovery and potential therapies, close alliance with clinical colleagues, and the establishment of appropriate external complementary alliances. All
drug candidates are taken to the clinic via "proof-of-concept" trials to enable rapid testing of the fundamental efficacy of the drug while collecting basic information on
pharmacokinetics, safety and tolerability, and adhering to the guidance for early clinical testing set forth by health authorities. In
2003, we established the Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research (NIBR). At NIBR's headquarters in Cambridge, Massachusetts, more than 1,900 scientists, physicians and business
professionals contribute to research into disease areas such as cardiovascular and metabolism disease, neuroscience, oncology, muscle disorders and ophthalmology. Additionally, more than 4,300
scientists, physicians and business professionals contribute to research in Switzerland, Italy, Singapore, China and three other US sites. Research is conducted at these sites in areas including
neuroscience, autoimmune diseases, oncology, cardiovascular and metabolism diseases, and gastrointestinal diseases. Research platforms such as the Center for Proteomic Chemistry are headquartered at
the NIBR site in Basel, Switzerland. In addition, the Novartis Institute for Tropical Diseases, Novartis Vaccines for Global Health, the Friedrich Miescher Institute, and the Genomics Institute of the
Novartis Research Foundation, focus on basic genetic and genomic research as well as research into diseases of the developing world such as malaria, dengue and African sleeping sickness. In
August 2012, Novartis and the University of Pennsylvania (Penn) announced an exclusive global research and development collaboration to develop and commercialize targeted chimeric
antigen receptor (CAR) immunotherapies for the treatment of cancers. The research component of this collaboration focuses on accelerating the discovery and development of additional therapies using
CAR immunotherapy. In September, as part of its alliance with Novartis, Penn announced plans for the construction of a Center for Advanced Cellular Therapeutics (CACT) on the Penn Medical School
campus in Philadelphia. The CACT is planned to be a first of its kind research and development center established specifically to develop and manufacture adoptive T cell immunotherapies under the
research collaboration guided by scientists and clinicians from NIBR and Penn. Construction of the CACT is expected to be completed in 2016. In
April 2013, we announced that ophthalmic pharmaceuticals research would be consolidated in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Previously this research was conducted at two sites—on
the
Alcon campus in Fort Worth, Texas, and in Cambridge, Massachusetts. This consolidation is part of our ongoing effort to co-locate teams and pursue new scientific directions. In
August 2013, we announced that we will build a neuroscience research team in Cambridge. This new group will focus on using stem cell models, human genetics, and other fields to
discover new medicines for psychiatric and neurodegenerative diseases. In
November 2013, we took action to co-locate scientific resources in order to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our global research organization. We announced that we will
establish a respiratory research group at our site in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and a proposal to close the Horsham, UK research site, as well as a plan to exit research in topical applications for
dermatology and exit from the Vienna, Austria research site. After the consultation period with local works councils in the UK and Austria, these proposals were confirmed and both sites were closed in
2014. In addition, we announced the consolidation of US-based oncology research from Emeryville, California to Cambridge, Massachusetts and the closing of the biotherapeutics development unit in La
Jolla, California. 61 Table of Contents In
February 2014 we acquired CoStim Pharmaceuticals Inc., a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based, privately held biotechnology company focused on harnessing the immune system to
eliminate immune-blocking signals from cancer. This acquisition enhanced our late discovery stage immunotherapy programs directed to several targets, including PD-1. Development program The focus of our Development program is to determine the safety and efficacy of a potential new medicine in humans. As previously
described (see "—Compounds in Development"), we view the development process as generally consisting of an Exploratory phase where "proof of concept" is established, and a Confirmatory
phase where this concept is confirmed in large numbers of patients. Within
this paradigm, clinical trials of drug candidates generally proceed through the traditional three phases: I, II and III. In Phase I clinical trials, a drug is usually
tested with about 5 to 15 patients. The tests study the drug's safety profile, including the safe dosage range. The studies also determine how a drug is absorbed, distributed, metabolized and
excreted, and the duration of its action. In Phase II clinical trials, the drug is tested in controlled studies of approximately 100 to 300 volunteer patients to assess the drug's efficacy and
safety, and to establish the appropriate therapeutic dose. In Phase III clinical trials, the drug is further tested in larger numbers of volunteer patients in clinics and hospitals. In each of
these phases, physicians monitor volunteer patients closely to assess the potential new drug's safety and efficacy. The vast amount of data that must be collected and evaluated makes clinical testing
the most time-consuming and expensive part of new drug development. The next stage in the drug development process is to seek registration for the new drug. See "—Regulation." At
each of these phases of clinical development, our activities are managed by our Innovation Management Board (IMB). The IMB is responsible for oversight over all major aspects of our
development portfolio. In particular, the IMB is responsible for the endorsement of proposals to commence the first clinical trials of a development compound, and of major project phase transitions
and milestones following a positive proof of concept outcome, including transitions to full development and the decision to submit a regulatory application to the health authorities. The IMB is also
responsible for project discontinuations, for the endorsement of overall development strategy and the endorsement of development project priorities. The IMB is chaired by the Head of Development of
our Pharmaceuticals Division and has representatives from Novartis senior management, as well as experts from a variety of fields among its core members and extended membership. Cell and Gene Therapies Unit Novartis Pharmaceuticals has created a dedicated unit focused on the development and commercialization of Cell and Gene Therapies. The
Cell and Gene Therapies Unit aims to develop a new approach to treating or potentially curing some patients suffering from a variety of life-threatening diseases, including blood-borne cancers, sickle
cell disease, thalassemias and other diseases of the blood by replacing, repopulating or resetting the immune system. The unit will initially focus on novel cell therapies and cell-based gene
therapies including: Chimeric Antigen Receptor Technology (CART) in immuno-oncotherapy with CTL019, Facilitated Cell Therapy Platform (FCRx) in renal transplantation with FCR001 and stem cell
expansion and transplantation with HSC835. Diagnostics Recent advances in biology and bioinformatics have led to a much deeper understanding of the underlying genetic drivers of disease and
the molecular pathways cancer uses to progress. Novartis is developing new therapies that specifically target the mechanisms responsible for
disease. To support these advances, Novartis is developing innovative diagnostic tests that could potentially improve physicians' ability to administer the appropriate treatment to those patients who
have the greatest potential to benefit from them. Our Pharmaceuticals Division has two units that support our commitment to advancing precision medicine. 62 Table of Contents Companion Diagnostics Our Companion Diagnostics (CDx) function works as an integrated part of the drug development process. CDx brings internal capabilities
and resources to bear in the development of new diagnostic tests to support our global program teams and efforts in various disease areas. Additionally, the CDx team forms strategic collaborations
with third parties to secure access to technologies and capabilities that fit the requirements of our drug development programs. The CDx unit develops tests to meet high regulatory standards for the
approval of companion diagnostics around the world. Genoptix Medical Laboratory In 2011, Novartis acquired Genoptix Medical Laboratory, located in Carlsbad, California. This organization provides comprehensive
diagnostics and informatics services to community-based hematologists and oncologists in the US. As one of the largest hematopathology centers in the US, Genoptix offers comprehensive testing
solutions in hematology and solid tumor molecular profiling. Their mission is to create value for the patient and the healthcare system by transforming diagnostic information into actionable clinical
insights. Genoptix also provides services to support Novartis and third-party clinical trials. Alliances and acquisitions Our Pharmaceuticals Division enters into business development agreements with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and with
academic institutions in order to develop new products and access new markets. We license products that complement our current product line and are appropriate to our business strategy. Therapeutic
area strategies have been established to focus on alliances and acquisition activities for key disease areas and indications that are expected to be growth drivers in the future. We review products
and compounds we are considering licensing using the same criteria as we use for our own internally discovered drugs. Regulation The international pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated. Regulatory authorities around the world administer numerous laws and
regulations regarding the testing, approval, manufacturing, importing, labeling and marketing of drugs, and also review the safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products. In particular, extensive
controls exist on the non-clinical and clinical development of pharmaceutical products. These regulatory requirements, and the implementation of them by local health authorities around the globe, are
a major factor in determining whether a substance can be developed into a marketable product, and the amount of time and expense associated with that development. Health
authorities, including those in the US, EU and Japan, have high standards of technical evaluation. The introduction of new pharmaceutical products generally entails a lengthy
approval process. Of particular importance is the requirement in all major countries that products be authorized or registered prior to marketing, and that such authorization or registration be
subsequently maintained. In recent years, the registration process has required increased testing and documentation for clearance of new drugs, with a corresponding increase in the expense of product
introduction. To
register a pharmaceutical product, a registration dossier containing evidence establishing the quality, safety and efficacy of the product must be submitted to regulatory authorities.
Generally, a therapeutic product must be registered in each country in which it will be sold. In every country, the submission of an application to a regulatory authority does not guarantee that
approval to market the product will be granted. Although the criteria for the registration of therapeutic drugs are similar in most countries, the formal structure of the necessary registration
documents and the specific requirements, including risk tolerance, of the local health authorities varies significantly from country to country. It is possible that a drug can be registered and
marketed in one country while the registration authority in 63 Table of Contents another
country may, prior to registration, request additional information from the pharmaceutical company or even reject the product. It is also possible that a drug may be approved for different
indications in different countries. The
registration process generally takes between six months and several years, depending on the country, the quality of the data submitted, the efficiency of the registration authority's
procedures and the nature of the product. Many countries provide for accelerated processing of registration applications for innovative products of particular therapeutic interest. In recent years,
intensive efforts have been made among the US, the EU and Japan to harmonize registration requirements in order to achieve shorter development and registration times for medical products. However, the
requirement in many countries to negotiate selling prices or reimbursement levels with government regulators can substantially extend the time until a product may finally be launched to the market. The
following provides a summary of the regulatory processes in the principal markets served by Pharmaceuticals Division affiliates: United States In the US, applications for drug registration are submitted to and reviewed by the FDA. The FDA regulates the testing, manufacturing,
labeling and approval for marketing of pharmaceutical products intended for commercialization in the US. The FDA continues to monitor the safety of pharmaceutical products after they have been
approved for sale in the US market. The pharmaceutical development and registration process is typically intensive, lengthy and rigorous. When a pharmaceutical company has gathered data which it
believes sufficiently demonstrates a drug's quality, safety and efficacy, then the company may file a New Drug Application (NDA) or Biologics License Application (BLA), as applicable, for the
drug. The NDA or BLA must contain all the scientific information that has been gathered about the drug and typically includes information regarding the clinical experiences of patients tested in the
drug's clinical trials. A Supplemental New Drug Application (sNDA) or BLA amendment must be filed for new indications for a previously approved drug. Once
an NDA or BLA is submitted, the FDA assigns reviewers from its staff in biopharmaceutics, chemistry, clinical microbiology, pharmacology/toxicology, and statistics. After a complete
review, these content experts then provide written evaluations of the NDA or BLA. These recommendations are consolidated and are used by senior FDA staff in its final evaluation of the NDA or BLA.
Based on that final evaluation, the FDA then provides to the NDA or BLA's sponsor an approval, or a "complete response" letter if the NDA or BLA application is not approved. If not approved, the
letter will state the specific deficiencies in the NDA or BLA which need to be addressed. The sponsor must then submit an adequate response to the deficiencies in order to restart the review
procedure. Once
the FDA has approved an NDA, BLA, sNDA or BLA amendment, the company can make the new drug available for physicians to prescribe. The drug owner must submit periodic reports to the
FDA, including any cases of adverse reactions. For some medications, the FDA requires additional post-approval studies (Phase IV) to evaluate long-term effects or to gather information on the
use of the product under special conditions. Throughout
the life cycle of a product, the FDA also requires compliance with standards relating to good laboratory, clinical, manufacturing and promotional practices. European Union In the EU, there are three main procedures for application for authorization to market pharmaceutical products in the EU Member States,
the Centralized Procedure, the Mutual Recognition Procedure and the Decentralized Procedure. It is also possible to obtain a national authorization for products intended for commercialization in a
single EU member state only, or for additional indications for licensed products. 64 Table of Contents Under
the Centralized Procedure, applications are made to the EMA for an authorization which is valid for the European Community. The Centralized Procedure is mandatory for all
biotechnology products and for new chemical entities in cancer, neurodegenerative disorders, diabetes and AIDS, autoimmune diseases or other immune dysfunctions and optional for other new chemical
entities or innovative medicinal products or in the interest of public health. When a pharmaceutical company has gathered data which it believes sufficiently demonstrates a drug's quality, safety and
efficacy, then the company may submit an application to the EMA. The EMA then receives and validates the application, and appoints a Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur to review it. The entire review cycle
must be completed within 210 days, although there is a "clock stop" at day 120, to allow the company to respond to questions set forth in the Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur's Assessment Report.
When the company's complete response is received by the EMA, the clock restarts on day 121. If there are further aspects of the dossier requiring clarification, the EMA will then request an Oral
Explanation on day 180, in which the sponsor must appear before the CHMP to provide the requested additional information. On day 210, the CHMP will then take a vote to recommend the approval or
non-approval of the application. The final decision under this Centralized Procedure is an EU Community decision which is applicable to all Member States. This decision occurs on average
60 days after a positive CHMP recommendation. Under
the Mutual Recognition Procedure (MRP), the company first obtains a marketing authorization from a single EU member state, called the Reference Member State (RMS). In the
Decentralized Procedure (DCP) the application is done simultaneously in selected or all Member States if a medicinal product has not yet been authorized in a Member State. During the DCP, the RMS
drafts an Assessment Report within 120 days. Within an additional 90 days the Concerned Member States (CMS) review the application and can issue objections or requests for additional
information. On Day 90, each CMS must be assured that the product is safe and effective, and that it will cause no risks to the public health. Once an agreement has been reached, each Member State
grants national marketing authorizations for the product. After
the Marketing Authorizations have been granted, the company must submit periodic safety reports to the EMA (if approval was granted under the Centralized Procedure) or to the
National Health Authorities (if approval was granted under the DCP or the MRP). In addition, several pharmacovigilance measures must be implemented and monitored including Adverse Event collection,
evaluation and expedited reporting and implementation, as well as update Risk Management Plans. European
Marketing Authorizations have an initial duration of five years. After this time, the Marketing Authorization may be renewed by the competent authority on the basis of
re-evaluation of the risk/benefit balance. Once renewed the Marketing Authorization is valid for an unlimited period. Any Marketing Authorization which is not followed within three years of its
granting by the actual placing on the market of the corresponding medicinal product ceases to be valid. Japan In Japan, applications for new products are made through the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA). Once an NDA is
submitted, a review team is formed consisting of specialized officials of the PMDA, including chemistry/manufacturing, non-clinical, clinical and biostatistics. While a team evaluation is carried out,
a data reliability survey and Good Clinical Practice/Good Laboratory Practice/Good Manufacturing Practice inspection are carried out by the Office of Conformity Audit and Office of GMP/GQP Inspection
of the PMDA. Team evaluation results are passed to the PMDA's external experts who then report back to the PMDA. After a further team evaluation, a report is provided to the Ministry of Health, Labor
and Welfare (MHLW), which makes a final determination for approval and refers this to the Council on Drugs and Foods Sanitation which then advises the MHLW on final approvability. Marketing and
distribution approvals require a review to determine whether or not the product in the application is suitable as a drug to be manufactured and distributed by a person who has obtained a 65 Table of Contents manufacturing
and distribution business license for the type of drug concerned and confirmation that the product has been manufactured in a plant compliant with Good Manufacturing Practices. Once
the MHLW has approved the application, the company can make the new drug available for physicians to prescribe. After that, the MHLW lists its national health insurance price within
60 days (or 90 days) from the approval, and physicians can obtain reimbursement. For some medications, the MHLW requires additional post-approval studies (Phase IV) to evaluate
safety, effects and/or to gather information on the use of the product under special conditions. The MHLW also requires the drug's sponsor to submit periodic safety update reports. Within three months
from the specified
re-examination period, which is designated at the time of the approval of the application for the new product, the company must submit a re-examination application to enable the drug's safety and
efficacy to be reassessed against approved labeling by the PMDA. Price Controls In most of the markets where we operate, the prices of pharmaceutical products are subject to both direct and indirect price controls
and to drug reimbursement programs with varying price control mechanisms. Due to increasing political pressure and governmental budget constraints, we expect these mechanisms to continue to remain
robust—and to perhaps even be strengthened—and to have a negative influence on the prices we are able to charge for our products. Direct efforts to control prices United States. In the US, as a result of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) and the recurring focus on deficit
reduction, there is a significant
risk of continued actions to control prices. Specifically, one proposal that has been repeatedly advanced would impose a government-mandated pricing formula on both patented and generic medications
provided through the Medicare prescription drug benefit (Medicare Part D). In addition, the ACA mandated the creation of a new entity, the Independent Payment Advisory Board, which has been
granted unprecedented authority to implement broad actions to reduce future costs of the Medicare program. This could include required prescription drug discounts or rebates, which could limit net
prices for our products. There is a risk that government officials will continue to search for ways to reduce or control prices. Europe. In Europe, our operations are subject to significant price and marketing regulations. Many governments are introducing
healthcare reforms in a
further attempt to curb increasing healthcare costs. In the EU, governments influence the price of pharmaceutical products through their control of national healthcare systems that fund a large part
of the cost of such products
to consumers. The downward pressure on healthcare costs in general in the EU, particularly with regard to prescription drugs, has become very intense. Increasingly high barriers are being erected
against the entry of new products, and payors are limiting access to innovative medicines based on cost-benefit analyses. In addition, prices for marketed products are referenced within Member States
and across Member State borders, including new EU Member States. Japan. In Japan, the government generally introduces price cuts every other year, and the government additionally mandates price
decreases for specific
products. In 2014, the National Health Insurance price calculation method for new products and the price revision rule for existing products were reviewed, and the resulting new drug tariffs became
effective beginning April 2014. The Japanese government is currently undertaking a healthcare reform initiative with a goal of sustaining the universal coverage of the National Health Insurance
program, and is addressing the efficient use of drugs, including promotion of generic use. Meanwhile, the government tentatively initiated a premium system which basically maintains the price of
patented drugs for unmet medical needs in order to promote innovative new drug creation and the solution of the unapproved indication issue. The continuance of this system will be reviewed as a part
of price reforms in 2016. 66 Table of Contents Rest of World. Many other countries around the world are also taking steps to rein in prescription drug prices. As an example, China,
one of our most important
emerging growth markets, has ordered price cuts on drugs five times since 2011, including 2013 price cuts of up to 20%. Regulations favoring generics In
response to rising healthcare costs, many governments and private medical care providers, such as Health Maintenance Organizations, have instituted reimbursement schemes that favor
the substitution of generic pharmaceuticals for more expensive brand-name pharmaceuticals. In the US, generic substitution statutes have been enacted by virtually all states and permit or require the
dispensing pharmacist to substitute a less expensive generic drug instead of an original patented drug. Other
countries have similar laws, including numerous European countries. We expect that the pressure for generic substitution will continue to increase. Cross-Border Sales Price
controls in one country can also have an impact in other countries as a result of cross-border sales. In the EU, products which we have sold to customers in countries with
stringent price controls can in some instances legally be re-sold to customers in other EU countries with less stringent price controls at a lower price than the price at which the product is
otherwise available in the importing country. In North America, products which we have sold to customers in Canada, which has relatively stringent price controls, are sometimes re-sold into the US,
again at a lower price than the price at which the product is otherwise sold in the US. Such imports from Canada and other countries into the US are currently illegal. We
expect that pressures on pricing will continue worldwide, and may increase. Because of these pressures, there can be no certainty that, in every instance, we will be able to charge prices for a
product that, in a particular country or in the aggregate, would enable us to earn an adequate return on our investment in that product. Intellectual Property We attach great importance to patents, trademarks, copyrights and know-how, including research data, in order to protect our investment
in research and development, manufacturing and marketing. It is our policy to seek the broadest protection available under applicable laws for significant product developments in all major markets.
Among other things, patents may cover the products themselves, including the product's active ingredient and its formulation. Patents may cover processes for manufacturing a product, including
processes for manufacturing intermediate substances used in the manufacture of the products. Patents may also cover particular uses of a product, such as its use to treat a particular disease, or its
dosage regimen. In addition, patents may cover assays or tests for certain diseases or biomarkers, which will improve patient outcomes when administered certain drugs, as well as assays, research
tools and other techniques used to identify new drugs. The protection offered by such patents extends for varying periods depending on
the grant and duration of patents in the various countries or region. The protection afforded, which may vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage. In
addition to patent protection, various countries offer data or marketing exclusivities for a prescribed period of time. Data exclusivity may be available which would preclude a
potential competitor from filing a regulatory application for a set period of time that relies on the sponsor's clinical trial data, or the regulatory authority from approving the application. The
data exclusivity period can vary depending upon the type of data included in the sponsor's application. When it is available, market exclusivity, unlike data exclusivity, precludes a competitor from
obtaining marketing approval for a product even if a competitor's application relies on its own data. 67 Table of Contents United States Patents In the US, a patent issued for an application filed today will receive a term of 20 years from the application filing date,
subject to potential adjustments for Patent Office delay. A US pharmaceutical patent which claims a product, method of treatment using a product, or method of manufacturing a product, may be eligible
for an extension of the patent term based on the time the FDA took to approve the product. This type of extension may only extend the patent term for a maximum of 5 years, and may not extend
the patent term beyond 14 years from regulatory approval. Only one patent may be extended for any product based on FDA delay. In
practice, however, it is not uncommon for significantly more than the 5 year maximum patent extension period to pass between the time that a patent application is filed for a
product and the time that the product is approved by the FDA. As a result, it is rarely the case that, at the time a product is approved by FDA, it will have the full 20 years of remaining
patent life. Rather, in our experience, it is
not uncommon that, at the date of approval, a product will have from 13 to 16 years of patent life remaining, including all extensions available at that time. Data and Market Exclusivity In addition to patent exclusivities, the FDA may provide data or market exclusivity for a new chemical entity or an "orphan drug," each
of which run in parallel to any patent protection. Data exclusivity prevents a potential generic competitor from relying on clinical trial data which were generated by the sponsor when establishing
the safety and efficacy of its competing product. Market exclusivity prohibits any marketing of the same drug for the same indication. • A new small-molecule active pharmaceutical ingredient shall have 5 years of data exclusivity, during which time a competitor
generally may not submit an application to the FDA based on a sponsor's clinical data. • Orphan drug exclusivity provides 7 years of market exclusivity for drugs designated by the FDA as "orphan drugs," meaning drugs
that treat rare diseases, as designated by the FDA. During this period, a potential competitor may not market the same drug for the same indication even if the competitor's application does not rely
on data from the sponsor. • A new biologic active pharmaceutical ingredient shall have 12 years of market exclusivity, during which time a competitor may
not market the same drug for the same indication. • The FDA may also request that a sponsor conduct pediatric studies, and in exchange will grant an additional 6-month period of market
exclusivity, if the FDA accepts the data, the sponsor makes a timely application for approval for pediatric treatment, and the sponsor has either a patent-based or regulatory-based exclusivity period
for the product which can be extended. European Community Patents Patent applications in Europe may be filed in the European Patent Office (EPO) or in a particular country in Europe. The EPO system
permits a single application to be granted for the whole of the EU, plus other non-EU countries, such as Switzerland and Turkey. A patent granted by the EPO or a European country office will expire no
later than 21 years from the earliest patent application on which the patent is based. Pharmaceutical patents can also be granted a further period of exclusivity under the Supplementary
Protection Certificate (SPC) system. SPCs are designed to compensate the owner of the patent for the time it took to receive marketing authorization by the European Health Authorities. An SPC may be
granted to provide, in combination with the patent, up to 15 years of exclusivity from the date 68 Table of Contents of
the first European marketing authorization. But the SPC cannot last longer than 5 years. The SPC duration can additionally be extended by a further 6 months if the product is the
subject of an agreed pediatric investigation plan. The post-grant phase of patents, including the SPC system, is currently administered on a country-by-country basis under national laws which, while
differing, are intended to, but do not always, have the same effect. As
in the US, in practice, it is not uncommon for the granting of an SPC to not fully compensate the owner of a patent for the time it took to receive marketing authorization by the
European health
authorities. Rather, since it can often take from 5 to 10 years to obtain a granted patent in Europe after the filing of the application, and since it can commonly take longer than this to
obtain a marketing authorization for a pharmaceutical product in Europe, it is not uncommon that a pharmaceutical product, at the date of approval, will have a patent lifetime of 10 to
15 years, including all extensions available at that time. Data and Market Exclusivity In addition to patent exclusivity, the EU also provides a system of regulatory data exclusivity for authorized human medicines, which
runs in parallel to any patent protection. The system for drugs being approved today is usually referred to as "8+2+1" because it provides: an initial period of 8 years of data exclusivity,
during which a competitor cannot rely on the relevant data; a further period of 2 years of market exclusivity, during which the data can be used to support applications for marketing
authorization, but the competitive product cannot be launched; and a possible 1 year extension of the market exclusivity period if, during the initial 8-year data exclusivity period, the
sponsor registered a new therapeutic indication with "significant clinical benefit." This system applies both to national and centralized authorizations. This system has been in force since late 2005,
therefore some medicines remain covered by the previous system in which EU member states provided either 6 or 10 years of data exclusivity. The
EU also has an "orphan drug" system for medicines similar to the US system. If a medicine is designated as an "orphan drug," then it benefits from 10 years of market
exclusivity after it is authorized, during which time a similar medicine for the same indication will not receive marketing authorization. Japan In Japan, a patent can be issued for active pharmaceutical ingredients. Although methods of treatment, such as dosage and
administration, are not patentable in Japan, pharmaceutical compositions for a specific dosage or administration method are patentable. Processes to make a pharmaceutical composition are also
patentable. The patent term granted is generally 20 years from the filing date of the patent application on which the patent is based. It can be extended up to 5 years under the Japanese
Patent Act to compensate for erosion against the patent term caused by the time needed to obtain marketing authorization from the MHLW. Typically, it takes approximately 7 to 8 years to obtain
marketing authorization in Japan. A patent application on a pharmaceutical substance is usually filed shortly before or at the time when clinical testing begins. Regarding compound patents, it
commonly takes approximately 4 to 5 years or more from the patent application filing date to the date that the patent is ultimately granted. As a result, it is not uncommon
for the effective term of patent protection for an active pharmaceutical ingredient in Japan to be approximately 10 to 15 years, if duly extended. The
following are additional details regarding the patent expiration dates and exclusivity for certain key products of our Pharmaceuticals Division: Oncology • Gleevec/Glivec. We have patent protection on imatinib,
the active ingredient in Gleevec/Glivec , until July 2015 in the US and until 2016 in the major European countries. The patent on the active ingredient
expired in 2014 for the main indications in Japan. Additional patents were granted in 69 Table of Contents more
than 40 countries, including the US, Japan, France, Germany, UK, Italy and Spain, claiming innovative features of Gleevec/Glivec , including the
crystal form (expiry 2018), tablet formulation (expiry 2023) and process (expiry 2023). Patent protection on the crystal form of imatinib was challenged in the US by generics manufacturers, but no
challenge has been made to the compound patent in the US. In March 2014, litigation in the US against one such generic manufacturer was settled, which will allow that generic manufacturer to enter the
US market on February 1, 2016. Gleevec/Glivec currently faces generic competition in a number of countries including Brazil, Canada, China,
India, Russia, Turkey and for a minor indication in Japan. Litigation is also ongoing in Canada, Portugal, UK, South Korea and Mexico. • Sandostatin. Patent protection for octreotide acetate,
the active ingredient in Sandostatin , has expired. Generic versions of Sandostatin SC are available in
the US and elsewhere. A series of US patents protect Sandostatin LAR , the long acting version of Sandostatin which represents a majority of our Sandostatin US sales. Some of these US patents have
already expired, and the last of these US patents is expected to expire in 2017. Patents protecting the Sandostatin LAR formulation in key markets
outside the US have expired. • Afinitor and Afinitor Disperz/Votubia and Zortress/Certican. Everolimus, the active ingredient in these products is also licensed to Abbott and sublicensed to Boston Scientific for use in
drug-eluting stents. Patent protection on everolimus (including the compound patent) has been challenged in the US. • Exjade. In the US and Canada, generic companies have
challenged the compound patent for the active ingredient in Exjade . In the US, an automatic stay preventing the FDA from approving a generic version of Exjade expired in August 2014. Novartis settled one action against a generic company in the US in March 2014. Another action against a different
generic manufacturer remains pending, with the automatic stay in this case expiring in November 2016. It is possible that the generic company may launch its generic version of Exjade after the automatic
stay expires, or if we lose our patent litigation suit against it. • Femara. Generic versions of Femara are available now in all major markets with the
exception of Japan. • Jakavi. Novartis licensed ruxolitinib from Incyte
Corporation for development and commercialization outside the US. Cardio-Metabolic • Galvus and Eucreas . Patent protection
for vildagliptin, the active ingredient of Galvus , and the patented active ingredient in Eucreas , is
estimated to expire, with extensions, in 2022 in Europe and 2024 in Japan. Immunology and Dermatology • Xolair. Potential biosimilar competitors have initiated
biosimilarity trials in China. No biosimilarity trials have been initiated in highly-regulated markets such as the US, Europe and Japan. • Myfortic. In the US, four patent litigations have been
settled and a generic version of Myfortic is currently available. Generic manufacturers are seeking approval for generic versions of Myfortic in some
European countries. • Cosentyx. Patent protection for the active ingredient in Cosentyx is expected to expire in
2028 in the US, 2030 in Europe and 2029 in Japan. Retina • Lucentis. Novartis licensed Lucentis from Genentech for development and commercialization outside the US. 70 Table of Contents Respiratory • Ultibro. Ultibro is a product which combines indacaterol, the active ingredient in Arcapta/Onbrez , with glycopyrronium bromide, the active ingredient in Seebri . There is no
compound patent protection on glycopyrronium, but there are patents and patent applications for the dry powder formulation
technology that apply to both glycopyrronium and fixed-dose combination indacaterol/glycopyrronium products. In addition, there are patents and patent applications for the combination of indacaterol
and glycopyrronium that are due to expire in 2025 worldwide (excluding extensions in some countries). • TOBI Podhaler. There is no patent protection for the
active ingredient, tobramycin. Patents covering the commercial product will expire from 2018 to 2022 in the US and Europe. Additional patent applications are also pending with respect to the
commercial product in the US and Europe, potentially providing protection until 2025. In addition, in Europe, TOBI Podhaler is entitled to orphan drug
status until 2023 for the current approved indication. Regulatory data protection in the US expires in 2016. Neuroscience • Gilenya. Patent protection for fingolimod, the active
ingredient in Gilenya (licensed from Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation), is expected to expire in 2019 in the US (including a 5-year patent term
extension), and in 2018 in Europe and Japan (including a 5-year patent term extension). In Europe and Japan, we have regulatory exclusivity for the data generated for approval of Gilenya until 2021,
which could possibly be extended by one year in Europe. A patent for the commercial formulation of Gilenya has been granted in most major markets (including Australia and Russia, where there is no compound patent). This patent will expire in 2024 in
most countries, including Europe and Japan, and in 2026 in the US. Patent protection on fingolimod (including on the compound patent) has been challenged in the US. • Exelon. Patent protection on rivastigmine, the active
ingredient in Exelon , has expired and Exelon capsules are subject to generic competition in major
markets, including the US and all of Europe. We hold additional patents with respect to Exelon Patch. Four generic manufacturers have filed applications
to market generic versions of Exelon Patch in the US, and have challenged the patents covering the Exelon Patch. We have filed infringement lawsuits
against all of these manufacturers. Generic versions of Exelon Patch are on the market in several European countries. We are taking steps to enforce patents and trademarks protecting Exelon Patch against the manufacturers and distributors of patches which have challenged our intellectual property rights. • Stalevo. Patent litigation by Orion in the US against
generic manufacturers settled and generic versions of Stalevo were launched in the US. Novartis was not a party to the US litigation. Generic
manufacturers are seeking approval for generic versions of Stalevo in some European countries, and have launched in Germany. Established Medicines • Cubicin. RDP in the EU for Cubicin expires in 2016. However, generic competitors may only submit for EU
approval after 2016, and it may take additional time to obtain marketing
authorization. • Diovan/Co-Diovan/Diovan HCT. In the EU, Diovan and Co-Diovan have faced generic competition since 2011, following expiration of the patent on
valsartan. In the US, the valsartan patent expired in September 2012 and Diovan HCT has faced generic competition since then. Generic versions of Diovan monotherapy were launched in the US in May 2014. Patent protection expired in Japan in 2013 for Diovan and will expire in 2016 for Co-Diovan (including patent term extensions). 71 Table of Contents • Exforge/Exforge HCT. Patents covering Exforge (the combination of amlodipine besylate and valsartan) will
expire in 2019 in the US and 2021 (including patent term extension) in Europe, and
have been challenged in both the US and Europe. Since 2014, the product has faced generic competition in the US. We have regulatory data protection for Exforge in Europe until 2017, however, generic
manufacturers may attempt to circumvent this regulatory exclusivity and seek to gain approval of a
combination valsartan-amlodipine product in Europe before 2017. The patent covering Exforge HCT (the combination of amlodipine besylate,
hydrochlorothiazide and valsartan) will expire in 2023 and has been challenged in the US and Europe. • Ritalin LA/Focalin XR. Several generic manufacturers
have filed applications to market generic versions of Ritalin LA and Focalin XR in the US. Litigation
against several generic manufacturers was initiated in the US but has since been settled. Generic versions of certain strengths of Ritalin LA and Focalin XR are now available in the US. Compounds in Development We file patent applications on our Compounds in Development during the course of the development process. The length of the term of any
patents on our Compounds in Development cannot be known with certainty until after a compound is approved for marketing by a health authority. This is so because patent applications for many of the
compounds will be pending during the course of the development process, but not yet granted. In addition, while certain patents may be applied for early in the development process, such as for the
compound itself, it is not uncommon for additional patent applications to be applied for throughout the development process, such as for formulations, or additional uses. Further, in certain
countries, data exclusivity and other regulatory exclusivity periods may be available, and may impact the period during which we would have the exclusive right to sell a product. These exclusivity
periods generally run from the date the products are approved, and so their expiration dates cannot be known with certainty until the product approval dates are known. Finally, in the US and other
countries, pharmaceutical products are eligible for a patent term extension for patent periods lost during product development and regulatory review. The law recognizes that product development and
review by the FDA and other health authorities can take an extended period, and permits an extension of the patent term for a period related to the time taken for the conduct of clinical trials and
for the health authority's review. However, the length of this extension and the patents to which it applies cannot be known in advance, but can only be determined after the product is approved. Subject
to these uncertainties, we provide the following information regarding our Compounds in Phase III Clinical Development, if any, which have been submitted for registration
to the FDA or the EMA: • LBH589. Patent protection for panobinostat, a pan HDAC (histone deacetylase) inhibitor is expected to expire in 2026 in the US, Europe
and Japan. • LCZ696. Compound patent protection for the individual components, namely sacubitril and valsartan, has expired. Patents covering the
combination of valsartan and sacubitril, as well as the LCZ696 salt complex, have been granted and expire in 2023 and 2026 (2027 in the US), respectively, without extensions. LCZ696 is entitled to
post-approval regulatory exclusivity for five years in the US, 10 years in Europe and 8 years in Japan. We currently estimate that loss of exclusivity will occur in 2027 in the US, 2026
in the EU and 2030 in Japan. • LDE225. Patent protection for sonidegib, a smoothened inhibitor of the Hedgehog pathway, is expected to expire in 2029 in the US and
2027 in Europe, excluding extensions. • RLX030. Patent protection for the serelaxin molecule (human relaxin-2) has expired and the patents covering the formulation and
process will expire prior to the product's projected launch date. A patent covering the method of using serelaxin to treat acute heart failure has been granted in the US and expires in 2029. This use
patent is now under examination worldwide in markets that 72 Table of Contents permit
use patents. Serelaxin is entitled to post-approval regulatory exclusivity for 12 years in the US, 11 years in Europe and eight years in Japan. The
loss of patent protection can have a significant adverse impact on our Pharmaceuticals Division. There is also a risk that some countries, particularly countries in the developing world, may seek
to impose limitations on the availability of patent protection for pharmaceutical products, or on the extent to which such protections may be enforced. In addition, even though we may own or license
patents protecting our products, and conduct pre-launch freedom-to-operate analyses, a third party may nevertheless claim that one of our products infringes an unlicensed third party patent. In
addition, despite data exclusivity, a competitor could opt to incur the costs of conducting its own clinical trials and preparing its own regulatory application, and avoid data exclusivity altogether.
As a result, there can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our intellectual property will be effective, or that we will be able to avoid substantial adverse effects from the loss of patent
protection in the future. ALCON Our Alcon Division is a leader in the research, development, manufacturing and marketing of eye care products worldwide. As of
December 31, 2014, the Alcon Division employed 23,900 full-time equivalent associates worldwide in 75 countries. In 2014, the Alcon Division had consolidated net sales of $10.8 billion
representing 19% of total Group net sales. Alcon
is a global leader in eye care and offers an extensive breadth of products serving the full lifecycle of patient needs across eye diseases, vision conditions and refractive errors,
and is our second largest Division based on sales. To meet the needs of ophthalmologists, surgeons, optometrists, opticians and physician specialists, Alcon operates with three franchises: Surgical,
Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals and Vision Care. Alcon products are available in more than 180 markets. Each franchise operates with specialized sales forces and marketing support. Alcon's
dedication to research and development is important to our growth plans. As part of our efforts, the Alcon Division works together with the Novartis Institutes for BioMedical
Research (NIBR), our global pharmaceutical research organization. This collaboration allows our Alcon Division to leverage the resources of NIBR in an effort to discover and expand ophthalmic
pharmaceutical research targets and to develop chemical and biologic compounds for the potential treatment of diseases of the eye, with a particular focus on diseases such as glaucoma and macular
degeneration. In
July 2014, Alcon entered into an agreement with Google [x] to license its "smart lens" technology with the potential to address ocular conditions. In October
2014, Alcon acquired WaveTec Vision. The acquisition provided Alcon with the ORA System, the first commercialized intra-operative guidance system for
cataract surgeons implanting intraocular lenses (IOLs). Alcon plans to integrate the ORA System into its existing Cataract
Refractive Suite by Alcon. In
March 2012, Alcon gained exclusive rights from ThromboGenics to commercialize Jetrea (ocriplasmin) intravitreal injection outside the
US. Jetrea is the first pharmacological treatment for vitreomacular traction, including macular hole, in Europe. Jetrea was approved for sale in the EU in
2013. In
July 2012, Alcon acquired Endure Medical Systems. The acquisition enabled Alcon to enter into the ophthalmic microscopy field through the addition of the LuxOR microscope, which has applications for
both cataract, as well as vitreoretinal surgeries. LuxOR products were introduced globally in 2013. To
further improve surgical planning and refractive patient outcomes in cataract surgery, Alcon acquired the ophthalmic division of SensoMotoric Instruments in November 2012, providing
Alcon with leading ocular surgical guidance technology. Alcon also agreed to acquire, from Jack Holladay, MD, and software developer Athanassios Kontos, the rights to certain surgical guidance and
planning software used in cataract procedures. 73 Table of Contents Alcon Division Products Surgical Our Alcon Division's Surgical franchise is the market leader in global ophthalmic surgical product revenues, offering ophthalmic
surgical equipment, instruments, disposable products and intraocular lenses for surgical procedures that address cataracts, vitreoretinal conditions, glaucoma and refractive errors. Alcon's
Surgical portfolio includes the Cataract Refractive Suite by Alcon, a suite of equipment to help plan and perform some of the most
challenging steps of cataract surgery with automation and precision. It is comprised of the Centurion vision system phacoemulsification technology
platform; the LenSx laser, a femtosecond laser for increased precision and reproducibility for the corneal incision, capsulorhexis and lens
fragmentation steps of the procedure; the Verion image guided system, an ocular surgical planning, imaging and guidance technology; the ORA System , an
intra-operative guidance system for IOL implantation during cataract surgery; and the LuxOR
LX3 surgical microscope for greater visualization during surgery. The portfolio also includes the Infiniti vision system to
perform cataract surgeries, which is the phacoemulsification platform introduced prior to the Centurion vision system, the Constellation vision system for
retinal operations, and the WaveLight refractive suite for refractive
procedures and Lasik treatments. Alcon also offers the AcrySof family of intraocular lenses (IOLs) to treat cataracts, including the AcrySof IQ , AcrySof IQ ReSTOR, AcrySof IQ Toric and AcrySof
IQ ReSTOR Toric IOLs. In addition, Alcon provides advanced viscoelastics, surgical solutions, surgical packs and other disposable products for cataract and vitreoretinal
surgery. Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals Our Alcon Division's Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals franchise develops and markets a broad range of pharmaceuticals to treat chronic and
acute conditions of the eye including glaucoma, elevated intraocular pressure (associated with glaucoma), eye infection and inflammation, eye allergies, dry eye and retinal diseases. Ophthalmic
Pharmaceuticals also oversees the line of professionally driven over-the-counter brands that include artificial tears and ocular vitamins. Product highlights within the Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals
portfolio include Ilevro ophthalmic suspension for the treatment of pain and inflammation associated with cataract surgery; Simbrinza suspension to lower
intraocular pressure as a fixed-dose combination; Travatan Z, Izba and DuoTrav , each ophthalmic solutions for the treatment of elevated intraocular
pressure associated with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension; Vigamox ophthalmic solution for bacterial conjunctivitis; Pataday ophthalmic solution
for ocular itching
associated with allergic conjunctivitis; Nevanac ophthalmic suspension for eye pain and inflammation following cataract surgery, and to reduce the risk
of macular edema associated with cataract surgery in diabetic patients; the Systane family of over-the-counter products for dry eye relief; and Jetrea intravitreal injection for treating vitreomacular traction, including when associated with macular hole of diameter less than or equal to 400
microns. Vision Care Our Alcon Division's Vision Care franchise develops and markets contact lenses and lens care products. Alcon's broad portfolio of
silicone hydrogel, daily disposables and color contact lenses includes our Air Optix , Dailies and Freshlook brands. Our Dailies product line includes Dailies
Total1 lenses, a first-of-its-kind water gradient contact lens. Our Air Optix product line now includes the new Air Optix Colors silicone hydrogel contact lenses. Our contact lens care solutions business includes the Opti-Free line of multi-purpose disinfecting solutions and drops, as well as the Clear
Care and AOSept Plus hydrogen peroxide lens care solutions. 74 Table of Contents New Products Alcon launched a number of significant products in 2014, and also received a number of key approvals,
including: • 27+ vitrectomy packs for use during micro-incision vitrectomy surgery were launched
globally. • AcrySof ReSTOR 2.5D intraocular lens for distance vision correction during cataract
surgery approved in Japan. • AcrySof IQ ReSTOR Toric 3.0D intraocular lens: multifocal lens with astigmatism
correction during cataract surgery approved in Japan. • AOSept Plus / Clear Care Plus with HydraGlyde lens care
solution was approved and launched in the EU. • Air Optix Colors contact lenses: silicone hydrogel, color cosmetic monthly contact
lenses received approval and was launched in the US and EU. • Centurion vision system: phacoemulsification surgical platform for cataract surgery
was approved in Japan. • Dailies AquaComfort Plus toric lenses: daily disposable contact lenses for improving
refractive errors, such as astigmatism, was launched in the US and select EU countries. • Dailies AquaComfort Plus multifocal lenses: daily disposable contact lenses for
improving refractive errors, such as presbyopia, was launched in the US and select EU countries. • Dailies Total1 daily disposable, water gradient contact lenses launched in Australia,
Hong Kong and Japan. • DuoTrav (travoprost/timolol) solution was approved and launched in China for the
treatment of elevated intraocular pressure associated with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. • Finesse flex loop: new Grieshaber instrument was launched globally for use during vitreoretinal surgical procedures. • Izba (travoprost 0.003%) solution received US and EU approvals for the treatment of
elevated intraocular pressure associated with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension, and was launched in Denmark, Sweden, Romania, Finland and Norway. • LenSx Laser was approved in Japan for use during cataract surgery. • LuxOR LX3 microscope system was approved in the US and EU for use during surgical
procedures. • Opti-Free Pro rewetting drops and lubricant eye drops received approval and was
launched in select EU markets. • Simbrinza (brinzolamide, 1.0%/brimonidine tartrate 0.2%) suspension received EU
approval for the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure associated with glaucoma, was launched in the UK, Denmark and the Netherlands. • Travatan (40µg/mL travoprost) eye drops solution, receives EU
approval for the decrease in elevated intraocular pressure in pediatric patients, aged two months to less than 18 years, with ocular hypertension or pediatric glaucoma • UltraVit 7500 vitrectomy probes was launched globally for the use during vitreoretinal
surgical procedures. • Verion surgical planning system was approved in Japan, and was launched in the US and
EU for use during cataract surgery. 75 Table of Contents Key Marketed Products The following tables set forth certain key marketed products in our Alcon Division. While we intend to sell our marketed products
throughout the world, not all products and indications are currently available in every country. Surgical Cataract AcrySof family of intraocular lenses includes but is not limited to: AcrySof IQ ReSTOR, AcrySof IQ Toric and AcrySof IQ ReSTOR Toric advanced technology intraocular lenses that correct cataracts and distance vision with presbyopia and/or astigmatism Cataract Refractive Suite by Alcon designed to streamline the cataract surgical procedure through surgical planning and execution Centurion vision
system intelligent phacoemulsification technology platform with cataract removal capabilities Infiniti vision system with the OZil torsional hand piece
for cataract procedures LenSx laser used for specific steps in the cataract surgical procedure LuxOR microscope used for ophthalmic surgical
procedures ORA System intra-operative guidance system for intraocular lens implant during cataract surgery Verion imaged-guided system for use
during cataract surgery Vitreoretinal Constellation vision system for vitreoretinal operations Ultravit vitrectomy probes 23+ , 25+ and 27+ vitrectomy packs Purepoint laser system and probes Finesse flex loop Grieshaber surgical instruments Edgeplus blade
trocar cannula system Ispan gas, Perfluron, Silkon oil: Retina stabilizing adjuncts Refractive Allegretto Wave Eye-Q excimer laser for LASIK vision correction WaveLight FS200 laser for specific steps in LASIK surgical procedures WaveLight EX500 laser for LASIK vision correction Glaucoma Ex-press glaucoma filtration device In
addition, Alcon provides advanced viscoelastics, surgical solutions, surgical packs and other disposable products for cataract and vitreoretinal surgery. Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals Glaucoma Simbrinza suspension to lower intraocular pressure without a beta blocker Travatan and Travatan
Z ophthalmic solutions to lower intraocular pressure Izba solution to lower intraocular pressure Azopt ophthalmic suspension
to lower intraocular pressure DuoTrav ophthalmic solution to lower intraocular pressure (outside US markets) Azarga/Azorga ophthalmic suspension to lower intraocular pressure (outside US markets) Nyogel eye gel for reduction of intraocular pressure 76 Table of Contents Anti-Infectives Vigamox and Moxeza ophthalmic solution for treatment of bacterial
conjunctivitis Anti-Inflammation Ilevro suspension to treat pain and inflammation following cataract surgery Nevanac ophthalmic suspension to treat pain and inflammation following cataract surgery, and to reduce the risk of macular edema associated with cataract surgery in diabetic patients Durezol emulsion to treat pain and inflammation associated with eye surgery, and to treat endogenous anterior uveitis TobraDex and TobraDex ST ophthalmic suspensions, combination anti-infective/anti- inflammatory products Voltaren ophthalmic solution to treat post-operative inflammation after cataract surgery, and for temporary relief of pain and photophobia after refractive surgery Dry Eye The Systane family of over-the-counter dry eye products: Systane lubricant eye drops Systane Balance lubricant eye drops Systane Ultra lubricant eye drops Systane gel drops Systane lid wipes Lubricants for eye dryness, discomfort or ocular fatigue: GenTeal lubricant eye drops Tears Naturale lubricant eye drops Oculotect eye drops (outside US markets) Allergy Patanol and Pataday ophthalmic solutions for
ocular itching associated with allergic conjunctivitis Patanase nasal spray for seasonal nasal allergy symptoms Zaditor antihistamine eye drops for
temporary relief of itchy eyes associated with eye allergies (over-the-counter in the US) Zaditen Ophtha an H1-antagonist to fight allergic conjunctivitis Livostin an H1-antagonist to fight allergic conjunctivitis (Canada only) Ear Infections Ciprodex * otic suspension to treat middle and outer ear
infections Ocular Nutrition ICaps eye vitamin dietary supplements provide essential dietary ingredients to support eye
health Vitalux nutrient supplements help patients with age-related macular degeneration maintain their vision (outside US markets) Retinal Jetrea (ocriplasmin) intravitreal injection for the treatment of vitreomacular traction,
including macular hole Triesence suspension for visualization during vitrectomy * Ciprodex is a registered trademark of Bayer Intellectual Property GmbH. 77 Table of Contents Vision Care Contact Lenses Air Optix family of silicone hydrogel contact lenses (including Air Optix Colors lenses) Dailies family of daily disposable contact lenses (including Dailies Total1 lenses) FreshLook family of color contact
lenses Contact Lens Care Opti-Free PureMoist MPDS Opti-Free RepleniSH MPDS Opti-Free Express MPDS Clear Care cleaning and disinfecting solution ( AOSept Plus outside of
North America) Selected Development Projects Surgical Project/Product Mechanism of action Potential indication Planned submission date/Current Phase AcrySof IQ ReSTOR 2.5D IOL Multifocal aspheric intraocular lens Cataractous lens replacement with or without presbyopia Submitted US AcrySof IQ ReSTOR Toric 2.5D IOL Multifocal, aspheric and cylinder correcting intraocular lens Cataractous lens replacement with or without presbyopia, and with astigmatism 2015 US/Advanced development Submitted Japan AcrySof IQ ReSTOR Toric 3.0D IOL Multifocal, aspheric and cylinder correcting intraocular lens Cataractous lens replacement with or without presbyopia, and with astigmatism Submitted US AcrySof IQ ReSTOR Toric 3.0D diopter range expansion IOL Multifocal, aspheric and cylinder correcting intraocular lens Cataractous lens replacement with or without presbyopia, and with astigmatism 2016 US and Japan/Advanced development Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals Project/Product* Mechanism of action Potential indication Route of Administration Planned submission date/Current Phase EXE844b (finafloxacin) Anti-infective Otitis media-tympanostomy tube surgery Topical 2016 US/III EXZ829 (olopatadine hydrochloride) Antihistamine and mast cell stabilization Allergic conjunctivitis Topical Submitted US RTH258 Anti-VEGF single-chain antibody fragment Wet age-related macular degeneration Intravitreal injection ³ 2017/III * EXE044
was approved by the FDA in 2014 as Xtoro (finafloxacin otic suspension, 0.3%). However, we do not plan to
commercialize this product. 78 Table of Contents Vision Care Project/Product* Mechanism of action Potential indication Planned submission date/Current Phase AOSept Plus / Clear Care Plus with HydraGlyde Disinfection and cleaning Contact lens care Submitted US 2016 Japan/ Advanced development * Development
of CLM041 was discontinued in 2014. LCE293 is now disclosed as AOSept Plus/Clear Care Plus with HydraGlyde . Principal Markets The principal markets for our Alcon Division include the US, Canada and Latin America, Japan and Europe. The following table sets forth
the aggregate 2014 net sales of the Alcon Division by region: Alcon Division 2014 Net Sales to third parties $ millions % Europe 2,872 27 United States 4,349 40 Asia, Africa, Australasia 2,449 23 Canada and Latin America 1,157 10 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Total 10,827 100 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ $ millions % Established Markets* 8,049 74 Emerging Growth Markets* 2,778 26 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Total 10,827 100 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ * Emerging
Growth Markets comprise all markets other than the Established Markets of the US, Canada, Western Europe, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. Sales
of certain ophthalmic pharmaceutical products, including those for allergies, anti-inflammatory and dry eye, are subject to seasonal variation. Sales of the majority of our other
products are not subject to material changes in seasonal demand. Research and Development In 2014, our Alcon Division expensed $0.9 billion (on a core basis $0.9 billion) in research and development, which
amounted to 9% of the Division's net sales. The Alcon Division expensed $1.0 billion (on a core basis $0.9 billion) and $1.0 billion (on a core basis $1.0 billion) in
research and development in 2013 and 2012, respectively. Our
Alcon Division associates in research and development work to address diseases and conditions that affect vision, such as cataracts, glaucoma, retina diseases, dry eye, infection,
ocular allergies and refractive error. Our Alcon Division invests approximately $1 billion annually to drive research and new product development in eye care. Alcon's pipeline strategy is built
around a proof-of-concept qualification process, which quickly identifies opportunities that have the best chance for technical success and advances those projects, while terminating others with a low
probability of success. 79 Table of Contents In
addition, the Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research (NIBR) is the Novartis global pharmaceutical research organization that works to discover innovative medicines that treat
disease and improve human health. See "—Pharmaceuticals—Research and Development." For Alcon's Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals franchise, NIBR engages in research activities in an
effort to discover and expand ophthalmic research targets, and to develop chemical and biologic compounds for the potential treatment of diseases of the eye, with a particular focus on diseases such
as glaucoma and macular degeneration. The costs for these activities are allocated to Alcon. Research
and development activities for Alcon's Surgical franchise are focused on expanding intraocular lens capabilities to improve refractive outcomes and on developing instruments for
cataract, vitreoretinal and corneal refractive surgeries. The focus for the Vision Care franchise is on the research and development of new lens materials, coatings and designs to improve patient
comfort, and on lens care solutions that provide the safety, disinfecting and cleaning power needed to help maintain ocular health. As announced in 2014, Alcon is also collaborating with Google
[x], and has licensed its smart lens technology for ocular medical uses, including the potential to monitor glucose levels in diabetic patients and provide an accommodative
contact lens/intraocular lens for patients living with presbyopia. The Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals franchise is focused on the development of products for the treatment of retinal diseases, glaucoma
(intraocular pressure lowering) and ocular allergy. Production We manufacture our Alcon Division's pharmaceutical products at nine facilities in the United States, Belgium, France, Spain, Brazil,
Mexico, Canada and Singapore. Our Alcon Division's surgical equipment and other surgical medical devices are manufactured at twelve facilities in the United States, Belgium, Switzerland, Ireland,
Germany and Israel. Our Alcon Division's contact lens and certain lens care production facilities are in the US, Canada, Germany, Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia. The
goal of our supply chain strategy is to efficiently produce and distribute high quality products. The manufacture of our products is heavily regulated by governmental health
authorities around the world, including the FDA. In addition to regulatory requirements, many of our products involve technically complex manufacturing processes or require a supply of highly
specialized raw materials. For some products and raw materials, we may also rely on a single source of supply. The
manufacture of our products is complex and heavily regulated, which means that supply is never guaranteed. Like our competitors, our Alcon Division has faced manufacturing issues and
has received Warning Letters relating to such manufacturing issues. In particular, in December 2012, Alcon received an FDA Warning Letter following an inspection at the LenSx laser manufacturing site in
Aliso Viejo, California. Alcon responded in writing to the FDA, and in February 2013, FDA responded to Alcon
acknowledging that the corrective actions described in Alcon's written response appear to address the items identified in the Warning Letter. The Warning Letter was lifted in May 2014 after all
corrective actions were completed. The items noted in the Warning Letter did not affect the safety or effectiveness of the LenSx laser, or impact
Alcon's ability to sell the product. If we or our third-party suppliers fail to comply fully with regulations then there could be a product recall or other shutdown or disruption of our production
activities. We have implemented a global manufacturing strategy to maximize business continuity in case of such events or other unforeseen catastrophic events. However, there can be no guarantee that
we will be able to successfully manage such issues when they arise. Marketing and Sales Our Alcon Division conducts sales and marketing activities around the world organized under five operating regions (US, Europe/Middle
East/Africa, Latin America/Caribbean/Canada, Asia and Japan). The Alcon Division's global commercial capability is organized around sales and marketing organizations dedicated to the Surgical,
Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals and Vision Care franchises. 80 Table of Contents Most
of our global Alcon marketing efforts are supported by advertising in trade publications and by marketing and sales representatives attending regional and national medical
conferences. Marketing efforts are reinforced by targeted and timely promotional materials and direct mail to eye care practitioners in the office, hospital or surgery center setting. Technical
service after the sale is provided and an integrated customer relationship management system is in place in many markets. Where applicable in our Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals and Vision Care franchises,
direct-to-consumer marketing campaigns are executed to promote selected products. While
our Alcon Division markets all of its products by calling on medical professionals, direct customers and distribution methods differ across business lines. Although physicians
write prescriptions, distributors, wholesalers, hospitals, government agencies and large retailers are the main direct customers for Alcon ophthalmic pharmaceutical products. Alcon surgical products
are sold directly to hospitals and ambulatory surgical centers, although Alcon sells through distributors in certain markets outside the US. In most countries, contact lenses are available only by
prescription. Our contact lenses can be purchased from eye care professionals, optical chains and large retailers, subject to country regulation. Lens care products can be found in major drugstores,
food, mass merchandising and optical retail chains globally, subject to country regulations. In addition, mail order and Internet sales of contact lenses are becoming increasingly important channels
in major markets worldwide. As
a result of changes in healthcare economics, managed care organizations are now one of the largest groups of payors for healthcare services in the US. In an effort to control
prescription drug costs, almost all managed care organizations use a formulary that lists specific drugs that can be prescribed and/or the amount of reimbursement for each drug. We have a dedicated
managed care team that actively seeks to optimize formulary positions for our products. Competition The eye care industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change and evolving industry requirements and standards.
Our Alcon Division typically competes with different companies across its three respective franchises—Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals, Surgical and Vision Care. Companies within this industry
compete on technological leadership and innovation, quality and efficacy of their products, relationships with eye care
professionals and healthcare providers, breadth and depth of product offering and pricing. The presence of these factors varies across our Alcon Division's product offerings, which provides a broad
line of proprietary eye care products and competes in all major product categories in the eye care market, with the exception of eyeglasses. Our principal competitors also sometimes form strategic
alliances and enter into co-marketing agreements in an effort to better compete with us. Regulation Our Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals products are subject to the same regulatory procedures as are the products of our Pharmaceuticals
Division. See "—Pharmaceuticals—Regulation." Our
Surgical and Vision Care products are regulated as medical devices in the US and the EU. These jurisdictions each have risk-based classification systems that determine the type of
information that must be provided to the local regulators in order to obtain the right to market a product. In the US, safety and effectiveness information for Class II and III devices must be
reviewed by the FDA. There are two review procedures: a Pre-Market Approval (PMA) and a Pre-Market Notification (510(k)) submission. Under a PMA, the manufacturer must submit to the FDA supporting
evidence sufficient to prove the safety and effectiveness of the device. The FDA review of a PMA usually takes 180 days from the date of filing of the application. Under Pre-Market Notification
(510(k)), the manufacturer submits notification to the FDA that it intends to commence marketing the product, with data that establishes the product as substantially equivalent to another product
already on the market. The FDA usually determines whether the device is substantially equivalent within 90 days. 81 Table of Contents In
the EU, the CE marking is required for all medical devices sold. By affixing the CE marking, the manufacturer certifies that a product is in compliance with provisions of the EU's
Medical Device Directive. Most such products are subject to a self-certification process by the manufacturer, which requires the manufacturer to confirm that the product performs to appropriate
standards. This allows the manufacturer to issue a Declaration of Conformity and to notify competent authorities in the EU that the manufacturer intends to market the product. In order to comply with
European regulations, our Alcon Division maintains a full Quality Assurance system and is subject to routine auditing by a certified third party (a "notified body") to ensure that this quality system
is in compliance with the requirements of the EU's Medical Device Directive as well as the requirements of the ISO quality systems' standard ISO 13485. Intellectual Property We attach great importance to patents, trademarks, copyrights and know-how in order to protect our investment in research and
development, manufacturing and marketing. It is our policy to seek the broadest possible protection for significant product developments in all major markets. Among other things, patents may cover the
products themselves, including the product's active substance and its formulation. Patents may also cover the processes for manufacturing a product, including processes for manufacturing intermediate
substances used in the manufacture of the products. Patents may also cover particular uses of a product, such as its use to treat a particular disease, or its dosage regimen. The
protection offered by such patents extends for varying periods depending on the legal life of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from
country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage. We monitor our competitors and vigorously challenge infringements of our intellectual property. See generally
"—Pharmaceuticals—Intellectual Property." Worldwide,
all of our major products are sold under trademarks that we consider in the aggregate to be important to our business as a whole. We consider trademark protection to be
particularly important in the protection of our investment in the sales and marketing of our Surgical, Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals and Vision Care franchises. The scope and duration of trademark
protection varies widely throughout the world. In some countries, trademark protection continues only as long as the mark is used. Other countries require registration of trademarks and the payment of
registration fees. Trademark registrations are generally for fixed, but renewable, terms. We
rely on copyright protection in various jurisdictions to protect the exclusivity of the code for the software used in our surgical equipment. The scope of copyright protection for
computer software varies throughout the world, although it is generally for a fixed term which begins on the date of copyright registration. SANDOZ Our Sandoz Division is a leader in developing, manufacturing and marketing generic pharmaceutical products, follow-on biopharmaceutical
products known as biosimilars, and drug substances that are not protected by valid and enforceable third-party patents. As of December 31, 2014, affiliates of the Sandoz Division employed
26,423 full-time equivalent associates worldwide, and sold products in more than 160 countries. In 2014, the Sandoz Division achieved consolidated net sales of $9.6 billion, representing 16% of
the Group's total net sales. Sandoz
is organized globally in three franchises: Retail Generics, Anti-Infectives, and Biopharmaceuticals & Oncology Injectables. In Retail Generics, Sandoz develops,
manufactures and markets active ingredients and finished dosage forms of pharmaceuticals to third parties. Retail Generics includes the specialty areas of Dermatology, Respiratory and Ophthalmics, as
well as cardiovascular, metabolism, central nervous system, pain, gastrointestinal, and hormonal therapies. 82 Table of Contents In Anti-Infectives, Sandoz manufactures active pharmaceutical ingredients and intermediates—mainly antibiotics—for internal use by Retail
Generics and for sale to third-party customers. In Biopharmaceuticals, Sandoz develops, manufactures and markets protein- or other biotechnology-based products (known as biosimilars or follow-on
biologics) and provides biotechnology manufacturing services to other companies, and in Oncology Injectables, Sandoz develops, manufactures and markets cytotoxic products for the hospital market. Sandoz
has three strategic priorities: to differentiate Sandoz based on its extensive global reach and advanced technical expertise in the development, manufacturing and marketing of
differentiated generics, including medicines that are difficult to develop and manufacture, and biosimilars, to be first-to-market as originators' substance patents expire or become unenforceable, and
to be cost competitive by leveraging economies of scale in production and development. Sandoz differentiated products are comprised of biosimilars and generic injectables, ophthalmics, dermatologics,
and respiratory, as well as difficult-to-make oral solids (such as tacrolimus). According
to IMS Health, Sandoz is the second-largest company in worldwide generic sales and is the global leader in biosimilars, with three marketed medicines accounting for over half
of all biosimilars sales in the combined regions of North America, Europe, Japan and Australia. In addition, we have a
pipeline of several biosimilar molecules under development and in registration, including biosimilar rituximab (sold by Roche under the brand names Rituxan®/MabThera®) and
biosimilar etanercept (sold by Amgen and Pfizer under the brand name Enbrel®). In
2014, Sandoz launched 28 new products in the US including authorized generic versions of our Pharmaceuticals Division products Diovan (valsartan), Focalin XR (dexmethylphenidate ER) and TOBI (tobramycin inhalation solution, USP); as well
as cyclophosphamide injection, USP; calcipotriene and betamethasone dipropionate ointment (Taclonex®, Leo Pharma); adapalene gel (Differin®, Galderma Laboratories);
lansoprazole capsules, amoxicillin capsules, USP, and clarithromycin tablets, USP (PREVPAC®, Takeda Pharmaceuticals); the injectable decitabine (Dacogen®, Eisai), and
Kerydin™ (tavaborole) topical solution, 5% after obtaining exclusive rights from Anacor Pharmaceuticals to commercialize it in the US through Sandoz's branded dermatology business,
PharmaDerm. Furthermore, Sandoz reached an agreement with Upsher-Smith to obtain exclusive US distribution rights for its branded potassium chloride product line, Klor-Con®. Key
product launches in various European countries include AirFluSal Forspiro , a respiratory product that offers the proven combination of
salmeterol (a long-acting inhaled beta 2 -agonist) and fluticasone propionate (an inhaled corticosteroid) for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease patients in an innovative
inhalation device, Vitaros (alprostadil), an innovative topical therapy for erectile dysfunction, escitalopram (Cipralex®, Lundbeck), and
mometasone (the first generic version of Nasonex®, Merck Sharp & Dohme), which was launched in additional European countries in 2014 following launches in several European countries in
2013. In
Biopharmaceuticals, Sandoz continued to strengthen its global leadership in biosimilars, and to drive its contract manufacturing base business. Sandoz biosimilars are sold in over 60
countries. In addition, all three Sandoz biosimilar products continue to occupy the number one biosimilar position in terms of market share in their respective markets. According to IMS data, Sandoz'
recombinant growth hormone Omnitrope was the fastest growing hGH treatment globally by volume. Omnitrope , which is now marketed in over 40 countries, was
also among Sandoz's top three products in terms of sales. In 2014, Sandoz continued to roll
out SurePal , an innovative device that provides patients with a simple and secure way to inject Omnitrope . Anemia
medicine Binocrit continued to demonstrate strong growth in several European countries as a short-acting erythropoietin stimulating
agent (ESA). It is the leading biosimilar in its category by volume across Europe (short-acting only). Sandoz G-CSF biosimilar, Zarzio , continued to
strengthen its leading 83 Table of Contents position
as the number one filgrastim product in Europe by volume, ahead of Amgen's Neupogen® and Chugai's Granocyte®. Sandoz
continued to make significant progress on its biosimilar pipeline in 2014 and now has six molecules in Phase III clinical trials or registration. In 2014, Sandoz completed
Phase III trials for biosimilar pegfilgrastim (Neulasta®, Amgen) for global registration, and completed patient enrollment in its Phase III clinical trial for biosimilar entanercept
(Enbrel®, Amgen). In
addition, in 2014, Sandoz made significant progress with respect to biosimilar filgrastim (Neupogen®, Amgen). Sandoz received marketing authorization for the product in
Japan. In the US, Sandoz completed Phase III trials, and the FDA accepted Sandoz's BLA for filgrastim, which was filed under the biosimilar pathway of the BLA. Sandoz is the first company to
announce it has filed for approval of a biologic under the biosimilars pathway created in the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009. Subsequently, in January 2015, the FDA Oncologic
Drugs Advisory Committee recommended approval of Sandoz's filgrastim for use in all indications in the reference product's label. In
December 2013, Sandoz received Danish marketing authorization for AirFluSal Forspiro . This was Sandoz's first European approval for
this product and followed the completion of EU decentralized procedures (DCP) for eight EU countries. Since then, AirFluSal Forspiro has received
marketing authorizations in a total of 15 European countries, as well as South Korea and Mexico, and been launched in four European countries and South Korea. These approvals and launches of AirFluSal
Forspiro are a key element of Sandoz's strategy to introduce differentiated generic medicines and innovative products. In
2014, Sandoz continued to accelerate its efforts across Sub-Saharan Africa, supported by a strong product portfolio that comprises anti-infectives, tuberculosis treatments, maternal
and child health products, and medicines to address non-communicable diseases. In 2014, Sandoz established branch offices in Cameroon, Kenya and Zambia. New Products Sandoz launched a number of important products in various countries in 2014,
including: • Valsartan ( Diovan) • Cyclophosphamide injection, USP • AirFluSal Forspiro • Kerydin (tavaborole) topical solution, 5% • Vitaros (alprostadil) • Dexmethylphenidate ER ( Focalin XR) • Tobramycin inhalation solution, USP ( TOBI ) • Calcipotriene and betamethasone dipropionate ointment, (Taclonex®, Leo Pharma) • Adapalene gel (Differin®, Galderma Laboratories) • Lansoprazole capsules, amoxicillin capsules, USP, and clarithromycin tablets, USP (PREVPAC®, Takeda Pharmaceuticals) • Decitabine (Dacogen®, Eisai) • Escitalopram (Cipralex®, Lundbeck) • Mometasone (Nasonex®, Merck Sharp & Dohme) 84 Table of Contents Key Marketed Products The following tables describe key marketed products for Sandoz (availability varies by market): Retail Generics Product Originator Drug Description Valsartan Diovan High blood pressure and heart failure Amoxicillin/clavulanic acid Augmentin® Anti-infective Enoxaparin sodium injection Lovenox® Anti-coagulant Acetylcysteine Fluimicil® Respiratory system Fentanyl Duragesic® Analgesic Omeprazole Prilosec® Ulcer and heartburn treatment Linex (lactobacillus) n/a Dietary supplement Tacrolimus Prograf® Transplantation Sumatriptan Imitrex®, Imigran® Migraine headaches Atorvastatin Lipitor® Blood cholesterol reduction Diclofenac Voltaren Analgesic Anti-Infectives Active Ingredients Description Oral and sterile penicillins Anti-infectives Oral and sterile cephalosporins Anti-infectives Clavulanic acid and mixtures with clavulanic acid ß-lactam inhibitors Classical and semisynthetic erythromycins Anti-infectives Intermediates Description Various cephalosporin intermediates Anti-infectives Erythromycin base Anti-infectives Various crude compounds produced by fermentation Cyclosporine, ascomysine, rapamycine, mycophenolic acid, etc. Biopharmaceuticals Product Originator Drug Description Omnitrope Genotropin® Recombinant human growth hormone Binocrit and Epoetin alfa Hexal Eprex®/Erypo® Recombinant protein used for anemia Zarzio and Filgrastim Hexal Neupogen® Recombinant protein used in oncology 85 Table of Contents Oncology Injectables Product Originator Drug Description Leuprorelin Lupron®, Eligard® Prostate cancer Docetaxel Taxotere® Breast, ovarian and non-small cell lung cancer Methotrexate Folex®, Rheumatrex® Arthritis; breast, lung, cervix and ovarian cancer, and others Azacitidine Vidaza® Bone marrow cancer, leukemia Paclitaxel Taxol® Breast, lung and ovarian cancer, Kaposi sarcoma Gemcitabine Gemzar® Bladder, pancreas, lung, ovarian, and breast cancer Etoposide Etopophos®, Vepesid® Lung, ovarian, and testicular cancer Oxaliplatin Eloxatin® Colorectal and colon cancer Irinotecan Camptosar® Colon and Rectal cancer Doxorubicin Doxil®, Adriamycin® Leukemia, breast, bone, lung and brain cancer, many types of carcinoma and soft tissue sarcomas Biosimilars in Phase III Development and Registration The following table describes Sandoz's biosimilar projects that are in Phase III clinical trials and registration: Project/product Common name Mechanism of action Potential indication/ indications Therapeutic areas Route of administration Current phase EP2006 filgrastim Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor Chemotherapy-induced neutropenia, mobilization of peripheral blood progenitor cells and others (same as originator) Oncology Subcutaneous and intravenous US Registration GP2013 rituximab Anti-CD20 antibody Non-Hodgkin lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, rheumatoid arthritis, granulomatosis with polyangiitis (also known as Wegener's granulomatosis), and microscopic polyangiitis and others (same as originator) Oncology and Immunology Intravenous II and III GP2015 etanercept TNF- a inhibitor Arthritidies (rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis), plaque psoriasis and others (same as originator) Immunology Subcutaneous III GP2017 adalimumab TNF- a inhibitor Arthritidies (rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis), plaque psoriasis and others (same as originator) Immunology Subcutaneous III HX575* epoetin alfa Erythropoiesis-stimulating agent Chronic kidney disease, chemotherapy-induced anemia and others (same as originator) Oncology and Nephrology Subcutaneous and intravenous III HX575 s.c.** epoetin alfa Erythropoiesis-stimulating agent Chronic kidney disease Oncology and Nephrology Subcutaneous III LA-EP2006 pegfilgrastim Pegylated granulocyte colony-stimulating factor Chemotherapy-induced neutropenia and others (same as originator) Oncology Subcutaneous III * Planned
submission for US. ** Planned
submission for EU (extension nephrology). Approved as Binocrit since 2007. 86 Table of Contents Principal Markets The two largest generics markets in the world—the US and Europe—are the principal markets for Sandoz, although
Sandoz sells products in more than 160 countries. The following table sets forth the aggregate 2014 net sales of Sandoz by region: Sandoz 2014 Net Sales to third parties $ millions % Europe 4,573 48 United States 3,215 34 Asia, Africa, Australasia 1,168 12 Canada and Latin America 606 6 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Total 9,562 100 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ $ millions % Established Markets* 7,035 74 Emerging Growth Markets* 2,527 26 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Total 9,562 100 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ * Emerging
Growth Markets comprise all markets other than the Established Markets of the US, Canada, Western Europe, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. Many
Sandoz products are used for chronic conditions that require patients to consume the product over long periods of time, from months to years. Sales of our anti-infective products
are subject to seasonal variation. Sales of the vast majority of our other products are not subject to material changes in seasonal demand. Production The goal of our supply chain strategy is to produce and distribute high-quality products efficiently. The manufacture of our products
is heavily regulated by governmental health authorities around the world, including the FDA. In addition to regulatory requirements, many of our products involve technically complex manufacturing
processes or require a supply of highly specialized raw materials. We
manufacture and package our Sandoz products at 45 manufacturing sites across 19 countries, supplying more than 160 countries globally. Among these, our most significant production
facilities are located in Barleben and Rudolstadt, Germany; Kundl, Schaftenau and Unterach, Austria; Ljubljana,
Slovenia; Stryków, Poland. We are implementing a global manufacturing strategy that focuses on building a high-quality manufacturing network that optimizes cost, service, technology and
geography. Active
pharmaceutical ingredients are manufactured in our own facilities or purchased from third-party suppliers. We maintain state-of-the-art and cost-competitive processes within our
own production network. Those processes include fermentation, chemical syntheses and precipitation processes, such as sterile processing. Many follow-on biologics are manufactured using recombinant
DNA derived technology, by which a gene is introduced into a host cell, which then produces a human protein. This manufacturing process requires sophisticated technical expertise. We are constantly
working to improve current, and to develop new, manufacturing processes. Where
possible, we maintain multiple supply sources so that the business is not dependent on a single or limited number of suppliers, and competitive material sourcing can be assured.
However, our ability to 87 Table of Contents do
so may at times be limited by regulatory or other requirements. We monitor market developments that could have an adverse effect on the supply of essential active pharmaceutical ingredients. All
active pharmaceutical ingredients we purchase must comply with high quality standards. We
obtain agricultural, chemical and other raw materials from suppliers around the world. The raw materials we purchase are generally subject to market price fluctuations. We seek to
avoid these fluctuations, where possible, through the use of long-term supply contracts. We also proactively monitor markets and developments that could have an adverse effect on the supply of
essential materials. All raw materials we purchase must comply with our quality standards. For some products and raw materials, we may also rely on a single source of supply. In
July 2014, the FDA confirmed that it had decided to close out the Warning Letter issued in November 2011 against three of Sandoz's North American facilities in Broomfield, Colorado;
Wilson, North Carolina; and Boucherville, Canada. The Warning Letter, which followed inspections at all three sites in the course of 2011, had raised concerns regarding these facilities' compliance
with FDA cGMP regulations. The FDA observations in the Warning Letter related primarily to general documentation, validation and investigation practices. Novartis took steps in collaboration with the
FDA to correct the observations in the Warning Letter with respect to all three sites. In
May 2013, we received a Warning Letter from the FDA concerning the oncology injectables manufacturing facility in Unterach, Austria. The letter contained two observations which
followed an
FDA inspection at the site in October 2012, and are related to historical visual inspection practices for products manufactured at the site. We are collaborating with the FDA to correct all concerns
raised in the Warning Letter, and to ensure that our products are safe and effective and meet the highest quality standards. A follow-up inspection by the FDA in 2014 resulted in no observations. Our
Sandoz Division has experienced significant supply interruptions in the past, and there can be no assurance that supply will not be interrupted again in the future as a result of
unforeseen circumstances. The manufacture of our products is complex and heavily regulated, making supply never an absolute certainty. If we or our third-party suppliers fail to comply fully with
regulations or other unforeseen challenges occur, then there could be a product recall or other shutdown or disruption of our production activities. We have implemented a global manufacturing strategy
to maximize business continuity in case of business interruptions or other unforeseen catastrophic events. However, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to successfully manage such issues
and maintain continuous supply if such issues arise. Marketing and Sales Sandoz sells a broad portfolio of generic pharmaceutical products to wholesalers, pharmacies, hospitals and other healthcare outlets.
Sandoz adapts its marketing and sales approach to local decision making processes, depending on the structure of the market in each country. In
response to rising healthcare costs, many governments and private medical care providers, such as health maintenance organizations, have instituted reimbursement schemes that favor
the substitution of bioequivalent generic products for patented pharmaceutical products. In the US, statutes have been enacted by virtually all states that permit or require pharmacists to substitute
a less expensive generic product for the brand-name version of a drug that has been prescribed to a patient. Generic use is growing in Europe, but penetration rates in many EU countries (as a
percentage of volume) remain well below those in the US. Legislative or regulatory changes can have a significant impact on our business in a country. In Germany, for example, the generic market is in
transition and healthcare reforms have increasingly shifted decision making from physicians to insurance funds. Our
Anti-Infectives franchise supplies generic antibiotics to a broad range of customers, as well as active pharmaceutical ingredients and intermediates to the pharmaceutical industry
worldwide. 88 Table of Contents Our
Biopharmaceuticals franchise operates in an emerging business environment. Regulatory pathways for approving biosimilar products are either relatively new or still in development,
and policies have not yet been fully defined or implemented for the automatic substitution and reimbursement of biosimilars in many markets, including the US (see "—Regulation"). As a
result, in many of these markets, including the US, our biosimilar products are marketed as branded competitors to the originator products. Competition The market for generic products is characterized by increasing demand for high-quality pharmaceuticals that can be marketed at lower
costs due to comparatively minimal initial research and development investments. Increasing pressure on healthcare expenditures and numerous patent and data exclusivity period expirations have created
a favorable market environment for the generics industry. This positive market trend, however, brings increased competition among the companies selling generic pharmaceutical products, leading to
ongoing price pressure on generic pharmaceuticals. In
addition, research-based pharmaceutical companies have responded to increased competition from generic products by licensing their patented products to generic companies (so-called
"authorized generics"). By doing so, research-based pharmaceutical companies participate directly in the generic conversion process. Consequently, generic companies that were not in a position to
compete on a specific product may enter the generic market using the innovator's product. In the US, the authorized generic is not subject to the US Hatch-Waxman Act rules regarding exclusivity (see
"—Regulation"). The company that launches an authorized generic typically launches its product at the same time as the generic exclusivity holder. Authorized generics serve as a business
opportunity for Sandoz when the product of a research-based pharmaceutical company loses patent protection and Sandoz secures a license from the research-based pharmaceutical company to launch the
authorized generic of that product. However, because they are not subject to the Hatch-Waxman Act rules on exclusivity, authorized generics also reduce the value of the exclusivity for the company
that invested in creating the first generic medicine to compete with the originator product. Furthermore, certain research-based companies continually seek new ways to protect their market franchise
and to decrease the impact of generic competition. For example, some research-based pharmaceutical companies have reacted to generic competition by decreasing the prices of their patented product, or
engaging in other tactics to preserve the sales of their branded products, thus potentially limiting the profit that the generic companies can earn on the competing generic product. Development and Registration Before a generic pharmaceutical may be marketed, intensive technical and clinical development work must be performed to demonstrate, in
bioavailability studies, the bioequivalency of the generic product to the reference product. Nevertheless, research and development costs associated with generic pharmaceuticals generally are much
lower than those of the originator pharmaceuticals, as no pre-clinical studies or clinical trials on dose finding, safety and efficacy must be performed by the generic company. As a result,
pharmaceutical products for which the patent and data exclusivity period has expired can be offered for sale at prices often much lower than those of products protected by patents and data
exclusivity, which must recoup substantial basic research and development costs through higher prices over the life of the product's patent and data exclusivity period. While
generic pharmaceuticals are follow-on versions of chemically synthesized molecules, so-called "biosimilar" products contain a version of the active substance of an already approved
original biological medicine. Due to the inherent variability of biologic products and their higher complexity, the development and the regulatory pathway of biosimilars differ significantly from that
of generics. Development
of a biosimilar product is much more technically challenging than the development of a generic pharmaceutical. Unlike generic pharmaceuticals, development of biosimilars
requires clinical 89 Table of Contents studies
in patients. Biosimilars are engineered to match the reference product in quality, safety and efficacy. This is achieved by systematically defining the target of the reference product and then
comparing the biosimilar to the reference product at various development stages to confirm biosimilarity and to establish that there are no clinically meaningful differences between the proposed
biosimilar and the reference biologic. Because the purpose of a biosimilar clinical development program is to confirm biosimilarity and not establish efficacy and safety de novo, the clinical studies
required are less than those required for an originator biologic, and no pre-clinical studies are required. Therefore, the cost of development for a biosimilar is usually less than that of an
originator biologic. The
regulatory pathways for approval of biosimilar products are being developed and established in many countries of the world. A regulatory framework for the approval of biosimilars has
been
established in the EU, Japan, Canada and US, while the WHO issued guidance. Sandoz has successfully registered and launched the first biosimilar (or biosimilar type) product in Europe, the US, Canada,
Japan, Taiwan, Australia and many countries in Latin American and Asia. Sandoz has three approved biosimilar products in more than 60 countries of the world, and is the first company to file a
Biologics License Application (BLA) for marketing approval of a biosimilar in the US. Currently,
the affiliates of the Sandoz Division employ more than 2,700 Development and Registration staff who explore alternative routes for the manufacture of known compounds and
develop innovative dosage forms of well-established medicines. These associates are based worldwide, including facilities in Holzkirchen and Rudolstadt, Germany; Kundl, Schaftenau and Unterach,
Austria; Ljubljana and Mengeš, Slovenia; Boucherville, Canada; and East Hanover, New Jersey. In 2014, Sandoz expensed $0.8 billion (on a core basis $0.8 billion) in
product development, which amounted to 8% of the division's net sales. Sandoz expensed $0.8 billion (on a core basis $0.8 billion) and $0.7 billion (on a core basis
$0.7 billion, as a result, in part, of a decrease of a contingent consideration liability related to a business combination) in 2013 and 2012, respectively. Regulation The Hatch-Waxman Act in the US (and similar legislation in the EU and in other countries) eliminated the requirement that manufacturers
of generic pharmaceuticals repeat the extensive clinical trials required for originator products, so long as the generic version could be shown in bioavailability studies to be of identical quality
and purity, and to be therapeutically equivalent to the reference product. In
the US, the decision whether a generic pharmaceutical is bioequivalent to the original patented product is made by the FDA based on an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) filed by
the generic product's manufacturer. The process typically takes nearly two years from the filing of the ANDA until FDA approval. However, delays can occur if issues arise regarding the interpretation
of bioequivalence study data, labeling requirements for the generic product, or qualifying the supply of active ingredients. In addition, the Hatch-Waxman Act requires a generic manufacturer to
certify in certain situations that the generic product does not infringe on any current applicable patents on the product held by the innovator, or to certify that such patents are invalid or the
product is non-infringing. This certification often results in a patent infringement lawsuit being brought by the patent holder against the generic company. In the event of such a lawsuit, the
Hatch-Waxman Act imposes an automatic 30 month delay in the approval of the generic product in order to allow the parties to resolve the intellectual property issues. For generic applicants who
are the first to file their ANDA containing a certification claiming non-infringement or patent invalidity, the Hatch-Waxman Act provides those applicants with 180 days of marketing exclusivity
to recoup the expense of challenging the innovator patents. However, generic applicants must launch their products within certain time frames or risk losing the marketing exclusivity that they had
gained by being a first to file applicant. In
the EU, decisions on the granting of a marketing authorization are made either by the European Commission based on a positive recommendation by the EMA under the Centralized
Procedure, or by a single Member State under the national or decentralized procedure. See "—Pharmaceuticals— 90 Table of Contents Regulation—European
Union." Companies may submit Abridged Applications for approval of a generic medicinal product based upon its "essential similarity" to a medicinal product authorized
and marketed in the EU following the expiration of the product's data exclusivity period. In such cases, the generic company is able to submit its Abridged Application based on the data submitted by
the medicine's innovator, without the need to conduct extensive Phase III clinical trials of its own. For all products that received a marketing authorization in the EU after late 2005, the
Abridged Application can be submitted throughout the EU. However, the data submitted by the innovator in support of its application for a marketing authorization for the reference product will be
protected for ten years after the first grant of marketing authorization in all Member States, and can be extended for an additional year if a further innovative indication has been authorized for
that product, based on pre-clinical and clinical trials filed by the innovator that show a significant clinical benefit in comparison to the existing therapies. Approval of biosimilars in Europe
follows the same process. However, biosimilars usually have to be approved through the centralized procedure because they are manufactured using recombinant DNA technology. The
regulatory pathway for the approval of a biosimilar product in the US was established under the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act (BPCIA), signed into law in March 2010.
Under the BPCIA, a biosimilar must be highly similar with no clinically meaningful differences compared to the reference product. Approval of a biosimilar in the US requires the submission of a BLA to
the FDA, including an assessment of immunogenicity, and pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics. The BLA for a biosimilar can be submitted four years after the initial approval of the reference biologic,
but can only be approved 12 years after the initial approval of the reference biologic. This pathway is still new and some aspects are untried, controversial and subject to litigation. Intellectual Property We take all reasonable steps to ensure that our generic products do not infringe valid intellectual property rights held by others.
Nevertheless, originating companies commonly assert patent and other intellectual property rights in an effort to delay or prevent the launch of competing generic products. As a result, we can become
involved in significant litigation regarding our
generic products. If we are unsuccessful in defending these suits, we could be subject to injunctions preventing us from selling our generic products and to damages, which may be substantial. Wherever
possible, our generic products are protected by our own patents. Among other things, patents may cover the products themselves, including the product's formulation, or the
processes for manufacturing a product. Patents also may cover particular uses of a product, such as its use to treat a particular disease or its dosage regimen. We seek the broadest possible
protection for significant product developments in all major markets. VACCINES Our Vaccines Division researches, develops, manufactures, distributes and sells human vaccines worldwide. Its products include
meningococcal, influenza, pediatric, adult and travel vaccines. On April 22, 2014, Novartis announced that it had reached definitive agreements with GSK on a set of inter-conditional
transactions that, if completed, would impact our Vaccines Division. As part of these transactions, Novartis agreed to divest Vaccines to GSK, excluding its influenza vaccines business, for up to
$7.1 billion, consisting of $5.25 billion upfront and up to $1.8 billion in milestones, plus royalties. These transactions are expected to close in the first half of 2015. In
October 2014, Novartis announced that it had reached a definitive agreement with the Australian based company CSL Limited to acquire its influenza vaccines business for $275 million. The sale
of the influenza vaccines business is expected to close in the second half of 2015. The proposed transactions with GSK and CSL are subject to closing conditions and regulatory approvals. Following
these transactions, we will retain certain intellectual property rights and related other revenues from the Vaccines Division, which are now reported under Corporate activities. Prior to the
January 9, 2014 completion of the divestment of the blood transfusion 91 Table of Contents diagnostics
unit to Grifols S.A. for approximately $1.7 billion in cash, the division was known as Vaccines and Diagnostics. Diagnostics researched, developed, distributed and sold blood
testing products. As of December 31, 2014, the Vaccines Division employed 6,491 full-time equivalent associates worldwide in more than 40 countries. In 2014, the Vaccines Division had
consolidated net sales of $1.5 billion representing 3% of total Group net sales. The
Vaccines Division's products include meningococcal, influenza, pediatric, adult and travel vaccines, and our current product portfolio includes more than 16 marketed products. In
addition, the division's
development portfolio includes nine potential new products in Phase II and Phase III clinical trials and in various stages of registration. Meningococcal
disease causes approximately 50,000 deaths a year globally. The majority of infections are caused by five serogroups—A, B, C, W-135 and Y—and given
that the distribution of these strains varies greatly over time and location, we are working to develop and deliver meningitis vaccines that offer broad coverage in order to help protect all age
groups at risk. Bexsero , the Novartis Meningococcal Group B Vaccine (rDNA, component, adsorbed), is a broad coverage vaccine available to help protect all
age groups, including infants, against meningococcal disease caused by serogroup B (meningitis B). In 2013, Bexsero received EU approval. Since then, it
has received regulatory approval in the US, Australia, Canada and Chile. To date, Bexsero has been approved in 37 countries. The US approval in January 2015 followed receipt of a Breakthrough Therapy
designation from the FDA in April 2014, the commencement of a rolling submission of a BLA to the FDA for marketing approval of Bexsero to help protect
individuals aged 10 through 25 years old from meningitis B, and the grant by FDA of priority review. In
2013, Bexsero was launched privately in the UK, Germany, France and Ireland, with additional launches in Australia, Canada and several
European countries since then. In 2014, Bexsero received recommendations for use in the National Immunization Programs (NIP) in the UK and Australia. Bexsero is currently under regulatory review in Argentina. Menveo (MenACWY-CRM), a quadrivalent conjugate vaccine for the prevention of invasive meningococcal disease caused by the A, C, Y and
W-135 serogroups of the bacteria, was approved in 2010 in the US for use in individuals 11-55 years old and in the EU for individuals 11 years and older. It is now approved in more than
60 countries. In 2011, Menveo gained approval for use in individuals 2-10 years of age in the US, and in 2012 gained approval in the EU for
individuals 2 years and older. In 2013, the FDA expanded the approval of Menveo for the prevention of meningococcal disease in infants and
toddlers from two months of age. With this expanded indication, pediatricians in the US can offer a single vaccine to help protect infants as young as two months of age, children and adolescents
against four of the five most common serogroups that cause meningococcal disease. Influenza
vaccines are currently the division's largest franchise, and we are among the world's largest producers of influenza vaccine. Influenza vaccination is one of the most effective
public health interventions, sparing millions of people from complications—including death—that can be caused by this infectious disease. In September 2013, Novartis began US
shipments of Flucelvax [Influenza Virus Vaccine] , the first cell-culture derived
influenza vaccine approved in the US, to help protect adults 18 years of age and older against seasonal influenza. Cell-culture technology marks the most significant advancement in influenza
vaccine manufacturing in the US in more than 40 years and is an alternative to traditional egg-based production. Flucelvax does not contain any
preservatives, such as thimerosal, or antibiotics. In
June 2014, Novartis announced that the FDA had licensed its production facility in Holly Springs, North Carolina for the commercial production of seasonal and pandemic influenza
vaccines developed using cell-culture technology. This is the first US facility of its kind and has the capacity to ramp up production in the event of an influenza pandemic. Following this site
approval, Flucelvax was produced in the US and shipped for the first time for vaccination for the 2014-2015 season. 92 Table of Contents In July 2014, Novartis became the first manufacturer to begin annual shipment of its seasonal influenza vaccines to the US market for the 2014-2015 influenza
season. We have shipped more than 70 million doses of our seasonal influenza vaccines, including Flucelvax and Fluvirin , globally for the 2014-2015
influenza season, and at least 43 million of these doses went to US customers. Young
children and older adults are among the most vulnerable to influenza. Fluad , our adjuvanted seasonal influenza vaccine, has been
approved for more than a decade in Europe to enhance the immune response in adults ages 65 and older, helping to overcome their naturally occurring immune vulnerability. In addition, we submitted for
approval of Fluad for adults 65 years of age and older in the United States, and received approval for Fluad
Pediatric for use in children six months to two years of age in Canada in November 2014. Novartis
has been awarded various contracts by the US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), including a (pre)pandemic preparedness contract and an Advanced Development and
Manufacturing (ADM) Center contract. Under the terms of the ADM contract, our production facility in Holly Springs, North Carolina provides late-stage development and manufacturing expertise and
capabilities to support HHS-driven projects, including development of new biodefense agents and rapid manufacturing response in the event of a public health emergency. The (pre)pandemic preparedness
contract was used to support activities initiated by Novartis to develop a new vaccine against H7N9, a strain of avian influenza that emerged in China in early 2013. Following positive trial results
for the vaccine, the US government ordered a large supply of the vaccine for stockpiling that was delivered at the end of 2013. This was in advance of a sharp increase in the number of H7N9 cases in
China that were associated with a second wave of the outbreak. In addition, Novartis remains dedicated to working with the World Health Organization and other stakeholders to support global pandemic
preparedness, including affordable and equitable access to pandemic vaccines for developing countries. In
2012, Novartis informed the WHO and other public health partners that it would cease oral polio vaccine (OPV) manufacturing by 2013. Novartis produced and delivered oral polio
vaccines to UNICEF, PAHO and individual countries in 2013, and supply commitments for 2013 were fulfilled as contracted. Novartis has been proud to have provided a significant proportion of the global
supply of OPV for more than 20 years and is a longtime supporter of the Global Polio Eradication Initiative. Vaccines Division Products The summary and the tables that follow describe selected marketed products and potential products in development in our Vaccines
Division. Subject to required regulatory approvals and, in certain instances, contractual limitations, we intend to sell our marketed products throughout the world. However, our Vaccines Division
products are not currently available in every country. Regarding our products in development, these products and indications are in various stages of development throughout the world. For some
products, the development process is ahead in the US; for others, development in one or more other countries or regions is ahead of that in the US. Due to the uncertainties associated with the
development process, and due to regulatory restrictions in some countries, it may not be possible to obtain regulatory approval for any or all of the new products referred to in this Form 20-F.
See "—Regulation" for further information on the approval process. 93 Table of Contents Selected Marketed Products Product Indication Influenza Vaccines Agrippal A surface antigen, inactivated, seasonal influenza vaccine for adults and children above six months of age Fluad A surface antigen, inactivated, seasonal influenza vaccine containing the proprietary MF59 adjuvant for the elderly Flucelvax (US) Cell culture-based surface antigen, inactivated, seasonal influenza vaccine indicated for those aged 18 years and older Fluvirin A surface antigen, inactivated, seasonal influenza vaccine for adults and children four years of age and up Optaflu (EU) Cell culture-based, surface antigen, inactivated, influenza vaccine for adults 18 years of age and up Meningococcal Vaccines Bexsero Meningococcal Group B Vaccine [rDNA component adsorbed] Menjugate Meningococcal C vaccine for children 2 months of age and up Menveo Meningococcal A, C, W-135 and Y vaccine for children, adolescents and adults between 2 months and 55 years of age Travel Vaccines Encepur Children/ Encepur Adults Tick-borne encephalitis vaccine for children 1-11 years of age and for adults 12+ years of age Ixiaro (1) Prophylactic vaccine against Japanese encephalitis virus Rabipur/Rabavert Vaccine for rabies, which can be used before or after exposure (typically animal bites) in all age groups Pediatric Vaccines Quinvaxem (2) Fully liquid pentavalent vaccine combining antigens for protection against five childhood diseases: diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (whooping cough), hepatitis B and Haemophilus influenzae type b for
children above 6 weeks of age (1) In
collaboration with Valneva. (2) In
collaboration with Crucell. 94 Table of Contents Selected Products in Development Project/product Common name Vaccine Type Planned submission dates/Current phase Acellular Pertussis combination Tdap vaccine Pediatric ³ 2015/I aQIVpediatric Seasonal influenza vaccine Seasonal Influenza ³ 2015/III C. difficile (1) C. difficile vaccine Hospital Infections ³ 2015/I Cell culture QIV Seasonal influenza vaccine Seasonal Influenza ³ 2015/III Fluad US Seasonal influenza vaccine Seasonal Influenza 2014/Submission (2) Flucelvax age 4+ US Seasonal influenza vaccine Seasonal Influenza 2014/Submission Group B streptococcus Group B streptococcus vaccine Maternal ³ 2015/II H5N1 influenza cell culture vaccine (3) Pandemic influenza vaccine Pandemic ³ 2015/II H7N9 (3) H7N9 vaccine Pandemic Influenza ³ 2015/Not applicable Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) (4) HIV vaccine HIV ³ 2015/I MenABCWY Meningococcal A, B, C, W and Y vaccine Meningitis ³ 2015/II P. aeruginosa (1) P. aeruginosa vaccine Hospital Infections ³ 2015/II S. aureus S. aureus vaccine Hospital Infections ³ 2015/I (1) Collaboration
with Valneva. (2) Submission
pending acceptance by FDA. (3) Collaboration
with United States Department of Health and Human Services. (4) Collaboration
with United States National Institutes of Health. 95 Table of Contents Principal Markets The principal markets for our Vaccines Division include the US and Europe. The following table sets forth the aggregate 2014 net sales
of the Vaccines Division by region: Vaccines 2014 Net Sales to third parties $ millions % Europe 549 36 United States 516 34 Asia, Africa, Australasia 248 16 Canada and Latin America 224 14 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Total 1,537 100 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ $ millions % Established Markets* 1,112 72 Emerging Growth Markets* 425 28 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Total 1,537 100 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ * Emerging
Growth Markets comprise all markets other than the Established Markets of the US, Canada, Western Europe, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. Sales
of certain vaccines, including influenza and tick borne encephalitis vaccines, are subject to seasonal variation. Sales of the majority of our other products are not subject to
material changes in seasonal demand. Research and Development In 2014, the Vaccines Division expensed $0.5 billion (on a core basis $0.5 billion) in research and development, which
amounted to 36% of the division's net sales. The Vaccines Division expensed $0.5 billion (on a core basis $0.5 billion) and $0.5 billion (on a core basis $0.4 billion) in
research and development in 2013 and 2012 respectively. While
research and development costs for vaccines traditionally have not been as high as for pharmaceuticals, a robust clinical program including Phase I to Phase III must
be performed by the
manufacturer to obtain a license for commercialization. See "—Pharmaceuticals—Compounds in Development" and "—Pharmaceuticals—Research and Development."
At each step, there is a substantial risk that we will not achieve our goals. In such an event, we may decide or be required to abandon a product or program in which we have made a substantial
investment. Production The goal of our supply chain strategy is to produce and distribute high quality products efficiently. The manufacture of our products
is heavily regulated by governmental health authorities around the world, including the FDA. In addition to regulatory requirements, many of our products involve technically complex manufacturing
processes or require a supply of highly specialized raw materials. For some products and raw materials, we may also rely on a single source of supply. We
manufacture our vaccines products at facilities in Europe, the US and Asia. Our principal production facilities are located in Liverpool, UK; Marburg, Germany; Siena and Rosia, Italy; 96 Table of Contents Ankleshwar,
India; and Holly Springs, North Carolina. We continue to invest and upgrade our existing sites to ensure that previously initiated remediation efforts are completed and meet quality
standards. Each
year new seasonal influenza vaccines need to be produced in order to help induce protection against the current circulating strains of the virus, which can change from year to year.
Global surveillance of influenza viruses is conducted throughout the year by the World Health Organization (WHO) Influenza Surveillance Network, which provides information on currently circulating
strains and identifies the appropriate strains to be included in next season's influenza vaccine. Each year, the EMA and the US Centers for Disease Control then confirm the vaccine composition for the
coming season for the northern hemisphere, and the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration confirms the composition for the southern hemisphere. There can be no guarantee that the division will
succeed in producing and gaining approval of an updated influenza vaccine within the timeframes necessary to commercialize the vaccine for the applicable flu season. The
manufacture of our products is complex and heavily regulated, which means that supply is never guaranteed. Like our competitors, our Vaccines Division has faced significant
manufacturing issues. If we or our third-party suppliers fail to comply fully with regulations then there could be a product recall or other shutdown or disruption of our production activities. We
have implemented a global manufacturing strategy to maximize business continuity in case of such events or other unforeseen catastrophic events. However, there can be no guarantee that we will be able
to successfully manage such issues when they arise. Marketing and Sales Our main Vaccines marketing and sales organizations are based in Switzerland, Germany, UK, Italy and the US. We also have operations in
China, India, Latin America and most European countries. In the US, we market influenza, meningococcal, Japanese encephalitis and rabies vaccines through a network of wholesalers and distributors, as
well as directly to key customers. Direct sales efforts are focused toward public health and distributor channels, as well as toward non-traditional channels, such as employers, chain drug
headquarters and service providers. Competition The global market for products of the type sold by our Vaccines Division is highly competitive, and we compete against other major
international corporations with substantial financial and other resources. Competition within the industry is intense and extends across a wide range of commercial activities, including pricing,
product characteristics, customer service, sales and marketing, and research and development. There
is no guarantee that any product, even with patent protection, will remain successful if another company develops a new product offering significant improvements over existing
products. Regulation Our vaccines products are subject to essentially the same regulatory procedures as are the products of our Pharmaceuticals Division.
See "—Pharmaceuticals—Regulation." In the US, a company seeking approval of a vaccine submits a Biologics License Application (BLA) for the vaccine, rather than an NDA.
Subsequently, the BLA follows substantially the same path for approval as does an NDA. In addition, license applications for seasonal influenza vaccines must be submitted annually. 97 Table of Contents Intellectual Property We attach great importance to patents, trademarks, and know-how in order to protect our investment in research and development,
manufacturing and marketing. It is our policy to seek the broadest possible protection for significant product developments in all major markets. Among other things, patents may cover the product
itself, including its active substance and formulation. Patents may also cover the processes for manufacturing a product, including processes for manufacturing intermediate substances used in the
manufacture of the products. Patents may also cover particular uses of a product, such as its use to prevent a particular disease, or its dosage regimen. The
protection offered by such patents extends for varying periods depending on the legal life of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from
country to country,
depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage. We monitor our competitors and vigorously challenge infringements of our intellectual property. CONSUMER HEALTH Consumer Health is a leader in the research, development, manufacturing and marketing of a wide range of competitively differentiated
products that restore, maintain or improve the health and well-being of consumers. The business of Consumer Health is conducted by a number of affiliated companies throughout the world. In 2014,
Consumer Health consisted of the OTC (over-the-counter medicines) Division and the Animal Health Division. On
April 22, 2014, Novartis announced that it had reached definitive agreements with GSK and Lilly intended to transform our portfolio of businesses, including Consumer Health. As
part of a set of inter-conditional transactions with GSK, Novartis agreed to create a joint venture with GSK in consumer healthcare by combining our OTC Division with the GSK consumer healthcare
business, of which we would own 36.5% and have four of eleven seats on the board of the joint venture. We will also have customary minority rights and exit rights under a pre-defined, market-based
pricing mechanism. The transactions with GSK are subject to closing conditions and regulatory approval, and are expected to close in the first half of 2015. We also agreed to divest our Animal Health
Division to Lilly for approximately $5.4 billion, which was completed on January 1, 2015. Consumer
Health now consists only of the OTC Division. Prior
to the divestment of our Animal Health Division to Lilly, OTC and Animal Health each had its own research, development, manufacturing, distribution and selling capabilities.
However, neither division was material enough to the Group to be separately disclosed as a segment. As of December 31, 2014, the affiliates of Consumer Health employed 9,020 full-time
equivalent associates worldwide. Following the January 1, 2015 completion of the divestment of Animal Health, the affiliates of OTC employed 6,070 full-time equivalent associates worldwide. In
2014, the affiliates of Consumer Health achieved consolidated net sales of $4.3 billion, which represented 7% of the Group's total net sales. OTC
places considerable emphasis on the development of strong, consumer-oriented and trustworthy brands. To deliver accelerated sales growth and to achieve leadership positions in the
fields in which we compete, OTC gives voice to the consumer and helps consumers to determine their needs and desires. The success of our OTC Division depends upon its ability to anticipate and meet
the needs of consumers and health professionals worldwide. Our
OTC Division is a leader in offering products designed for self-care and prevention of common medical conditions and ailments to enhance people's overall health and well-being. The
business of OTC is conducted by a number of affiliated companies in more than 50 countries. The OTC business focuses on a group of strategic global brands in leading product categories that include
treatments for cough/cold/respiratory ailments (e.g., Theraflu and Otrivin ) and pain relief
(e.g., Excedrin and over-the-counter 98 Table of Contents Voltaren ), as well as products for digestive health (e.g., Benefiber and Prevacid24HR ), dermatology (e.g., Lamisil and Fenistil ), and smoking cessation ( Nicotinell ). Prior
to its January 1, 2015 divestment to Lilly, Animal Health offered products and services to save, prolong and improve animal lives, focusing on both companion and farm
animals (including cultivated fish). Principal Markets The principal markets for Consumer Health are the US and Europe. The following table sets forth the aggregate 2014 net sales of
Consumer Health by region: Consumer Health 2014 Net Sales to third parties $ millions % Europe 2,059 48 United States 940 22 Asia, Africa, Australasia 834 19 Canada and Latin America 446 11 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Total net sales 4,279 100 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ $ millions % Established Markets* 2,798 65 Emerging Growth Markets* 1,481 35 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Total net sales 4,279 100 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ * Emerging
Growth Markets comprise all markets other than the Established Markets of the US, Canada, Western Europe, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. Sales
of our OTC Division are marked by a high degree of seasonality, with our cough, cold and respiratory brands significantly affected by the timing and severity of the annual cold and
flu and allergy seasons. Sales of most of our other products are not subject to material changes in seasonal demand. Production The goal of our supply chain strategy is to produce and distribute high quality products efficiently. The manufacture of our products
is heavily regulated by governmental health authorities around the world, including the FDA. In addition to regulatory requirements, many of our products involve technically complex manufacturing
processes or require a supply of highly specialized raw materials. Products
for our OTC Division are produced by the division's own plants, strategic third-party suppliers and other Group plants (which are predominantly owned and operated by the
Pharmaceuticals Division). The primary OTC plants are located in Lincoln, Nebraska; Nyon, Switzerland; Humacao, Puerto Rico; and Jamshoro, Pakistan. We
generally obtain our raw materials, intermediates and active ingredients from suppliers around the world. The raw materials, intermediates and active ingredients we purchase are
generally subject to market price fluctuations. We seek to avoid these fluctuations, where possible, through the use of long-term supply contracts. We also proactively monitor markets and developments
that could have an adverse effect on the supply of essential materials. All raw materials we purchase must comply with our quality standards. 99 Table of Contents The
OTC facility located at Lincoln, Nebraska manufactures products in solid dose and powder form for the Excedrin and Theraflu OTC brands as well as Sentinel , an Animal Health brand. From 2011 until 2013, we suspended
operations and shipments from this facility in order to accelerate maintenance and other improvement activities at the site. During this process, production of certain products previously made at
Lincoln was out-sourced, while other products were discontinued. We also recalled certain OTC Division products that were produced at this facility. During 2013, we resumed commercial production and
shipping of Sentinel and Excedrin from the Lincoln facility. In July 2014, we resumed shipment of Theraflu to the US market from Lincoln. We have invested considerable resources to remediate issues at the Lincoln site, and during 2014, the facility
substantially returned to routine operational procedures. However, as of the date of this Form 20-F it is not possible to determine when the plant will resume full production. As a result of
the activities at Lincoln, Consumer Health experienced significant supply interruptions, and there can be no assurance that supply will not be interrupted again in the future as a result of unforeseen
circumstances. In
January 2015, we announced that we will close our manufacturing site located at Humacao, Puerto Rico in phases by early 2019. The Humacao facility currently manufactures and packages Gas-X and Ex-Lax products, and also packages certain other products including Prevacid , Habitrol , and Transderm Scop . The
manufacture of our products is complex and heavily regulated, which means that supply is never guaranteed. If we or our third-party suppliers fail to comply fully with regulations,
this could result in additional product recalls or other shutdowns or disruptions to our production activities. In addition, we may rely on a single source of supply for some of our products and raw
materials. We have implemented a global manufacturing strategy to maximize business continuity in case of business interruptions or other unforeseen catastrophic events. However, there can be no
guarantee that we will be able to successfully manage such issues when they arise. Marketing and Sales OTC aims to be a leading global participant in fulfilling the needs of patients and consumers for self-care. Strong leading brands and
products, innovation led by a worldwide research and development organization, and in-house marketing and sales organizations are key strengths in pursuing this objective. We engage in general public
relations activities, including media advertisements, brand websites and other direct advertisements of brands, to the extent permitted by law in each country. We distribute our products through
various channels such as pharmacies, food, drug and mass retail outlets. Competition The global market for products of the type sold by Consumer Health is highly competitive, and we compete against other major
international corporations with substantial financial and other resources. Competition within the industry is intense and extends across a wide range of commercial activities, including pricing,
product characteristics, customer service, sales and marketing, and research and development. Our branded OTC products compete against "store brand" products that are made with the same active
ingredients as ours, but which may be sold at a lower price. In addition, the recent trend toward consolidation in the industry may result in even more intense competition. Research and Development At OTC, our Research and Development organization pursues science-based, consumer benefit-driven innovation. The focus of our research
and development activities is primarily in the areas of pain relief and cough/cold/respiratory treatments, as well as potential new therapeutic categories for the business. The development of line
extensions to leverage the value of our brands is of high importance. These line extensions can take many forms, including more consumer-friendly packaging. OTC also works 100 Table of Contents closely
with the Pharmaceuticals Division to evaluate appropriate products that can be switched from prescription to OTC status. In
2014, Consumer Health expensed $0.3 billion (on a core basis $0.3 billion) in research and development, which amounted to 7% of the division's net sales. Consumer Health
expensed $0.3 billion (on a core basis $0.3 billion) and $0.3 billion (on a core basis $0.3 billion) in research and development in 2013 and 2012 respectively. Regulation The regulatory process for bringing a new OTC product to market consists of preparing and filing a detailed dossier with the
appropriate national or international registration authority and obtaining approval of the applicable health authority. See "—Pharmaceuticals—Regulation." OTC and health
authorities worldwide continue to evaluate the safety of marketed products and propose changes based on this ongoing monitoring. Dossier submissions can also be made to update safety and/or labeling
information throughout a product's lifecycle. In the US, in addition to the NDA process, which also is used to approve prescription pharmaceutical products, an OTC product may be sold if the FDA has
determined that the product's active ingredient is generally recognized as safe and effective. FDA makes this determination through a regulatory process known as the OTC Drug Review. In the OTC
Drug Review, the FDA has established, in a series of monographs, the conditions under which particular active ingredients may be recognized as safe and effective for OTC use. Pharmaceutical companies
can market products containing these active ingredients without the necessity of filing an NDA and going through its formal approval process, so long as the company complies with the terms of the
published monograph. Outside the US, countries have their own regulatory processes for approving or allowing the sale of pharmaceutical products, including prescription, OTC, and switching from
prescription to OTC status. These processes vary from country to country, but essentially are all built on the principle of requiring an assessment of product efficacy, quality and safety in the
context of the proposed population that will use the product, before any marketing activities can be undertaken. In addition, a process similar to the US monograph system exists in some countries,
such as Canada and Japan. Intellectual Property Our OTC Division is strongly brand-oriented. As a result, we consider our trademarks to be of utmost value. Enforceable trademarks
protect most of our brands in the majority of the markets where these brands are sold, and we vigorously protect these trademarks from infringement. Our most important trademarks are used in a number
of countries. Local variations of these international trademarks are employed where legal or linguistic considerations require the use of an alternative. See also
"—Alcon—Intellectual Property." Generally,
wherever possible our products are protected by patents. Among other things, patents may cover the products themselves, including the product's active substance and its
formulation. Patents may also cover the processes for manufacturing a product, including processes for manufacturing intermediate substances used in the manufacture of the products. Patents may also
cover particular uses of a product, such as its use to treat a particular disease, or its dosage regimen. It is our policy to seek the broadest possible protection for significant product developments
in all major markets. However,
our OTC Division primarily sells products which are not currently covered by patents. Some of these products have never been patent-protected and others have lost protection due
to patent expiry. 101 Table of Contents 4.C Organizational Structure See "