Item 5. Operating and
Financial Review and Prospects—5.A Operating Results—Results of Operations—Research and development." The
discovery and development of a new drug is a lengthy process, usually requiring approximately 10 to 15 years from the initial research to bringing a drug to market,
including approximately six to eight years from Phase I clinical trials to market entry. At each of these steps, there is a substantial risk that a compound will not meet the requirements to
progress further. In such an event, we may be required to abandon a compound in which we have made a substantial investment. We
manage our research and development expenditures across our entire portfolio in accordance with our strategic priorities. We make decisions about whether or not to proceed with
development projects on a project-by-project basis. These decisions are based on the project's potential to meet a significant unmet medical need or to improve patient outcomes, the strength of the
science underlying the project, and the potential of the project (subject to the risks inherent in pharmaceutical development) to generate significant positive financial results for the Company. Once
a management decision has been made to proceed with the development of a particular molecule, the level of research and development investment required will be driven by many factors, including the
medical indications for which it is being developed, the number of indications being pursued, whether the molecule is of a chemical or biological nature, the stage of development, and the level of
evidence necessary to demonstrate clinical efficacy and safety. Research program Our Research program is conducted by the Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research (NIBR), which is responsible for the discovery of
new medicines. We established NIBR in 2003. The principal goal of our research program is to discover new medicines for diseases with unmet medical need. To do this we focus our work in areas where we
have sufficient scientific understanding and believe we have the potential to change the practice of medicine. This requires the hiring and retention of the best talent, a focus on fundamental disease
mechanisms that are relevant across different disease areas, continuous improvement in technologies for drug discovery and potential therapies, close alliance with clinical colleagues, and the
establishment of appropriate external complementary alliances. At
NIBR's headquarters in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and at sites in Switzerland, Singapore, China and three other US locations, more than 6,000 scientists, physicians and business
professionals contribute to research into disease areas such as cardiovascular and metabolism disease, neuroscience, oncology, muscle disorders, ophthalmology, autoimmune diseases, and
gastrointestinal diseases. Research platforms such as the Center for Proteomic Chemistry are headquartered at the NIBR site in
Basel, Switzerland. In addition, the Novartis Institute for Tropical Diseases, the Friedrich Miescher Institute, and the Genomics 65 Table of Contents Institute
of the Novartis Research Foundation focus on basic genetic and genomic research as well as research into diseases of the developing world such as malaria, dengue and African sleeping
sickness. All
drug candidates are taken to the clinic via "proof-of-concept" trials to enable rapid testing of the fundamental efficacy of the drug while collecting basic information on
pharmacokinetics, safety and tolerability, and adhering to the guidance for early clinical testing set forth by health authorities. Following proof-of-concept, our Pharmaceuticals Division conducts
confirmatory trials on the drug candidates. In
2012, Novartis and the University of Pennsylvania (Penn) announced an exclusive global research and development collaboration to develop and commercialize targeted chimeric antigen
receptor (CAR) immunotherapies for the treatment of cancers. The research component of this collaboration focuses on accelerating the discovery and development of additional therapies using CAR
immunotherapy. In September 2014, as part of its alliance with Novartis, Penn announced plans for the construction of the Center for Advanced Cellular Therapeutics (CACT) on the Perelman School of
Medicine campus in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The CACT is planned to be a first of its kind research and development center established specifically to develop and manufacture adoptive T cell
immunotherapies under the research collaboration guided by scientists and clinicians from NIBR and Penn. Construction of the CACT is expected to be completed in 2016. In
February 2014, we acquired CoStim Pharmaceuticals Inc., a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based, privately held biotechnology company focused on harnessing the immune system to
eliminate immune-blocking signals from cancer. This acquisition enhanced our late discovery stage immunotherapy programs directed to several targets, including PD-1. In
January 2015, we announced collaboration and licensing agreements with Intellia Therapeutics for the discovery and development of new medicines using CRISPR genome editing technology
and Caribou Biosciences for the development of drug discovery tools. CRISPR, an acronym that stands for clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats, is an approach that allows scientists
to easily and precisely edit the genes of targeted cells. In a short period of time it has proven to be a powerful tool for creating very specific models of disease for use in drug discovery and has
potential for use as a therapeutic modality for treating disease at the genetic level by deleting, repairing or replacing the genes that cause disease. In
March 2015, we entered into a collaboration with Aduro Biotech focused on the discovery and development of next generation cancer immunotherapies targeting the STING signaling
pathway. STING is a signaling pathway that when activated is known to initiate broad innate and adaptive immune responses in tumors. Aduro's novel small molecule cyclic dinucleotides (CDNs) have
proven to generate an immune response in preclinical models that specifically attacks tumor cells. In addition, we launched a new research group dedicated to immuno-oncology. In
September 2015, we announced that NIBR's President Dr. Mark Fishman will retire when he reaches his contractual retirement age in March 2016. Dr. James E. Bradner, a
physician-scientist from Dana Farber Cancer Institute and Harvard Medical School has been named Dr. Fishman's successor. In
January 2016, we announced a collaboration and licensing agreement with Surface Oncology, which gives Novartis access to four pre-clinical programs in immuno-oncology. Development program The focus of our Development program is to determine the safety and efficacy of a potential new medicine in humans. As previously
described (see "—Compounds in Development"), we view the development process as generally consisting of an Exploratory phase where "proof of concept" is established, and a Confirmatory
phase where this concept is confirmed in large numbers of patients. Within
this paradigm, clinical trials of drug candidates generally proceed through the traditional three phases: I, II and III. In Phase I clinical trials, a drug is usually
tested with about 5 to 15 subjects. The 66 Table of Contents tests
study the drug's safety profile, including the safe dosage range. The studies also determine how a drug is absorbed, distributed, metabolized and excreted, and the duration of its action. In
Phase II clinical trials, the drug is tested in controlled studies of approximately 100 to 300 volunteer patients to assess the drug's efficacy and safety, and to establish the appropriate
therapeutic dose. In Phase III clinical trials, the drug is further tested in larger numbers of volunteer patients in clinics and hospitals. In each of these phases, physicians monitor
volunteer patients closely to assess the potential new drug's safety and efficacy. The vast amount of data that must be collected and evaluated makes clinical
testing the most time-consuming and expensive part of new drug development. The next stage in the drug development process is to seek registration for the new drug. See "—Regulation." At
each of these phases of clinical development, our activities are managed by our Innovation Management Board (IMB). The IMB is responsible for oversight over all major aspects of our
development portfolio. In particular, the IMB is responsible for the endorsement of proposals to commence the first clinical trials of a development compound, and of major project phase transitions
and milestones following a positive proof of concept outcome, including transitions to full development and the decision to submit a regulatory application to the health authorities. The IMB is also
responsible for project discontinuations, for the endorsement of overall development strategy and the endorsement of development project priorities. The IMB is chaired by the Head of Development of
our Pharmaceuticals Division and has representatives from Novartis senior management, as well as experts from a variety of fields among its core members and extended membership. Cell and Gene Therapies In 2014, Novartis Pharmaceuticals created a franchise focused on the development and commercialization of Cell and Gene Therapies. The
Cell and Gene Therapies franchise aims to develop a new approach to treating or potentially curing some patients suffering from a variety of life-threatening diseases, including blood-borne cancers,
sickle cell disease, thalassemias and other diseases of the blood by developing a portfolio of new treatments that replace, repopulate and/or reprogram cells, and potentially selectively regulate the
immune system. The franchise will initially focus on novel cell therapies and cell-based gene therapies including: Chimeric Antigen Receptor T-Cell technology in immuno-oncotherapy with CTL019,
Facilitated Cell Therapy Platform (FCRx) in renal transplantation with FCR001 and stem cell expansion and transplantation with HSC835. Diagnostics Recent advances in biology and bioinformatics have led to a much deeper understanding of the underlying genetic drivers of disease and
the molecular pathways cancer uses to progress. Novartis is developing new therapies that specifically target the mechanisms responsible for disease. To support these advances, Novartis is developing
innovative diagnostic tests that could potentially improve physicians' ability to administer the appropriate treatment to those patients who have the greatest potential to benefit from them. Our
Pharmaceuticals Division has two units that support our commitment to advancing precision medicine. Companion Diagnostics Our Companion Diagnostics (CDx) function works as an integrated part of the drug development process. CDx brings internal capabilities
and resources to bear in the development of new diagnostic tests to support our global program teams and efforts in various disease areas. Additionally, the CDx team forms strategic collaborations
with third parties to secure access to technologies and capabilities that fit the requirements of our drug development programs. The CDx unit develops tests to meet high regulatory standards for the
approval of companion diagnostics around the world. 67 Table of Contents Genoptix Medical Laboratory In 2011, Novartis acquired Genoptix Medical Laboratory, located in Carlsbad, California. This organization provides comprehensive
diagnostics and informatics services to community-based hematologists and oncologists in the US. As one of the largest hematopathology centers in the US, Genoptix offers comprehensive testing
solutions in hematology and solid tumor molecular profiling. Their mission is to create value for the patient and the healthcare system by transforming diagnostic information into actionable clinical
insights. Genoptix also provides services to support Novartis and third-party clinical trials. Alliances and acquisitions Our Pharmaceuticals Division enters into business development agreements with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and with
academic institutions in order to develop new products and access new markets. We license products that complement our current product line and are appropriate to our business strategy. Therapeutic
area strategies have been established to focus on alliances and acquisition activities for key disease areas and indications
that are expected to be growth drivers in the future. We review products and compounds we are considering licensing using the same criteria as we use for our own internally discovered drugs. Regulation The international pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated. Regulatory authorities around the world administer numerous laws and
regulations regarding the testing, approval, manufacturing, importing, labeling and marketing of drugs, and also review the safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products. Extensive controls exist on
the non-clinical and clinical development of pharmaceutical products. These regulatory requirements, and the implementation of them by local health authorities around the globe, are a major factor in
determining whether a substance can be developed into a marketable product, and the amount of time and expense associated with that development. Health
authorities, including those in the US, EU and Japan, have high standards of technical evaluation. The introduction of new pharmaceutical products generally entails a lengthy
approval process. In all major countries, products must be authorized or registered prior to marketing, and such authorization or registration must subsequently be maintained. In recent years, the
registration process has required increased testing and documentation for the approval of new drugs, with a corresponding increase in the expense of product introduction. To
register a pharmaceutical product, a registration dossier containing evidence establishing the safety, efficacy and quality of the product must be submitted to regulatory authorities.
Generally, a therapeutic product must be registered in each country in which it will be sold. In every country, the submission of an application to a regulatory authority does not guarantee that
approval to market the product will be granted. Although the criteria for the registration of therapeutic drugs are similar in most countries, the formal structure of the necessary registration
documents and the specific requirements, including risk tolerance, of the local health authorities can vary significantly from country to country. It is possible that a drug can be registered and
marketed in one country while the registration authority in another country may, prior to registration, request additional information from the pharmaceutical company or even reject the product. It is
also possible that a drug may be approved for different indications in different countries. The
registration process generally takes between six months and several years, depending on the country, the quality of the data submitted, the efficiency of the registration authority's
procedures and the nature of the product. Many countries provide for accelerated processing of registration applications for innovative products of particular therapeutic interest. In recent years,
intensive efforts have been made among the US, the EU and Japan to harmonize registration requirements in order to achieve shorter 68 Table of Contents development
and registration times for medical products. However, the requirement in many countries to negotiate selling prices or reimbursement levels with government regulators and other payors can
substantially extend the time until a product may finally be available to patients. The
following provides a summary of the regulatory processes in the principal markets served by Pharmaceuticals Division affiliates: United States In the US, applications for drug registration are submitted to and reviewed by the FDA. The FDA regulates the testing, manufacturing,
labeling and approval for marketing of pharmaceutical products intended for commercialization in the US. The FDA continues to monitor the safety of pharmaceutical products after they have been
approved for sale in the US market. The pharmaceutical development and registration process is typically intensive, lengthy and rigorous. When a pharmaceutical company has gathered data which it
believes sufficiently demonstrates a drug's safety, efficacy and quality, then the company may file a New Drug Application (NDA) or Biologics License Application (BLA), as applicable, for the
drug. The NDA or BLA must contain all the scientific information that has been gathered about the drug and typically includes information regarding the clinical experiences of patients tested in the
drug's clinical trials. A Supplemental New Drug Application (sNDA) or BLA amendment must be filed for new indications for a previously approved drug. Once
an application is submitted, the FDA assigns reviewers from its staff in biopharmaceutics, chemistry, clinical microbiology, pharmacology/toxicology, and statistics. After a
complete review, these content experts then provide written evaluations of the NDA or BLA. These recommendations are consolidated and are used by senior FDA staff in its final evaluation of the NDA or
BLA. Based on that final evaluation, the FDA then provides to the NDA or BLA's sponsor an approval, or a "complete response" letter if the NDA or BLA application is not approved. If not approved, the
letter will state the specific deficiencies in the NDA or BLA which need to be addressed. The sponsor must then submit an adequate response to the deficiencies in order to restart the review
procedure. Once
the FDA has approved an NDA, BLA, sNDA or BLA amendment, the company can make the new drug available for physicians to prescribe. The drug owner must submit periodic reports to the
FDA, including any cases of adverse reactions. For some medications, the FDA requires additional
post-approval studies (Phase IV) to evaluate long-term effects or to gather information on the use of the product under special conditions. Throughout
the life cycle of a product, the FDA also requires compliance with standards relating to good laboratory, clinical, manufacturing and promotional practices. European Union In the EU, there are three main procedures for application for authorization to market pharmaceutical products in the EU Member States,
the Centralized Procedure, the Mutual Recognition Procedure and the Decentralized Procedure. It is also possible to obtain a national authorization for products intended for commercialization in a
single EU member state only, or for additional indications for licensed products. Under
the Centralized Procedure, applications are made to the EMA for an authorization which is valid for the European Community. The Centralized Procedure is mandatory for all
biotechnology products and for new chemical entities in cancer, neurodegenerative disorders, diabetes and AIDS, autoimmune diseases or other immune dysfunctions and optional for other new chemical
entities or innovative medicinal products or in the interest of public health. When a pharmaceutical company has gathered data which it believes sufficiently demonstrates a drug's safety, efficacy and
quality, then the company may submit an application to the EMA. The EMA then receives and validates the application, and appoints a Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur to review it. The entire review cycle
must be completed 69 Table of Contents within
210 days, although there is a "clock stop" at day 120, to allow the company to respond to questions set forth in the Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur's Assessment Report. When the company's
complete response is received by the EMA, the clock restarts on day 121. If there are further aspects of the dossier requiring clarification, the EMA will then request an Oral Explanation on day 180,
in which case the sponsor must appear before the CHMP to provide the requested additional information. On day 210, the CHMP will then take a vote to recommend the approval or non-approval of the
application. The final decision under this Centralized Procedure is a European Community decision which is applicable to all Member States. This decision occurs on average 60 days after a
positive CHMP recommendation. Under
the Mutual Recognition Procedure (MRP), the company first obtains a marketing authorization from a single EU member state, called the Reference Member State (RMS). In the
Decentralized Procedure (DCP) the application is done simultaneously in selected or all Member States if a medicinal product has not yet been authorized in a Member State. During the DCP, the RMS
drafts an Assessment Report within 120 days. Within an additional 90 days the Concerned Member States (CMS) review the application and can issue objections or requests for additional
information. On Day 90, each CMS must be assured that the product is safe and effective, and that it will cause no risks to the public health. Once an agreement has been reached, each Member State
grants national marketing authorizations for the product. After
the Marketing Authorizations have been granted, the company must submit periodic safety reports to the EMA (if approval was granted under the Centralized Procedure) or to the
National Health Authorities (if approval was granted under the DCP or the MRP). In addition, several pharmacovigilance measures must be implemented and monitored including Adverse Event collection,
evaluation and expedited reporting and implementation, as well as update Risk Management Plans. For some medications, post approval studies (Phase IV) may be required to complement available
data with additional data to evaluate long term effects (called a Post Approval Safety Study, or PASS) or to gather additional efficacy data (called a Post Approval Efficacy Study, or PAES). European
Marketing Authorizations have an initial duration of five years. After this time, the Marketing Authorization may be renewed by the competent authority on the basis of
re-evaluation of the risk/benefit balance. Once renewed the Marketing Authorization is valid for an unlimited period. Any Marketing Authorization which is not followed within three years of its
granting by the actual placing on the market of the corresponding medicinal product ceases to be valid. Japan In Japan, applications for new products are made through the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA). Once an NDA is
submitted, a review team is formed consisting of specialized officials of the PMDA, including chemistry/manufacturing, non-clinical, clinical and biostatistics. While a team evaluation is carried out,
a data reliability survey and Good Clinical Practice/Good Laboratory Practice/Good Manufacturing Practice inspection are carried out by the Office of Conformity Audit and Office of GMP/GQP Inspection
of the PMDA. Team evaluation results are passed to the PMDA's external experts who then report back to the PMDA. After a further team evaluation, a report is provided to the Ministry of Health, Labor
and Welfare (MHLW), which makes a final determination for approval and refers this to the Council on Drugs and Foods Sanitation which then advises the MHLW on final approvability. Marketing and
distribution approvals require a review to determine whether or not the product in the application is suitable as a drug to be manufactured and distributed by a person who has obtained a manufacturing
and distribution business license for the type of drug concerned and confirmation that the product has been manufactured in a plant compliant with Good Manufacturing Practices. Once
the MHLW has approved the application, the company can make the new drug available for physicians to prescribe. After that, the MHLW lists its national health insurance price within
60 days (or 90 days) from the approval, and physicians can obtain reimbursement. For some medications, the MHLW requires additional post-approval studies (Phase IV) to evaluate
safety, effects and/or to gather information on the use of the product under special conditions. The MHLW also requires the drug's 70 Table of Contents sponsor
to submit periodic safety update reports. Within three months from the specified re-examination period, which is designated at the time of the approval of the application for the new product,
the company must submit a re-examination application to enable the drug's safety and efficacy to be reassessed against approved labeling by the PMDA. Price Controls In most of the markets where we operate, the prices of pharmaceutical products are subject to both direct and indirect price controls
and to drug reimbursement programs with varying price control mechanisms. Due to increasing political pressure and governmental budget constraints, we expect these mechanisms to continue to remain
robust—and to perhaps even be strengthened—and to have a negative influence on the prices we are able to charge for our products. Direct efforts to control prices United States. In the US, as a result of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA), the recurring focus on deficit reduction,
and public pressure on
elected officials based on
recent price increases by certain pharmaceutical manufacturers, there is a significant likelihood of continued actions to control prices. Specifically, one proposal that has been repeatedly advanced
would impose a government-mandated pricing formula on both patented and generic medications provided through the Medicare prescription drug benefit (Medicare Part D). In addition, the ACA
mandated the creation of a new entity, the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB), which has been granted unprecedented authority to implement broad actions to reduce future costs of the Medicare
program. This could include required prescription drug discounts or rebates, which could limit net prices for our products. The Medicare Trustees' Report from July 2015 predicted that the projected
5-year average growth in per capita Medicare program spending could exceed a specified target level as early as 2017. If the Chief Actuary for CMS determines that the projected 5-year average growth
rate exceeds the target, the IPAB would then develop savings proposals in 2018 based on a savings target set by the Chief Actuary, to be implemented in 2019. There is also a possibility that
government officials will continue to search for additional ways to reduce or control prices. Europe. In Europe, our operations are subject to significant price and marketing regulations. Many governments are introducing
healthcare reforms in a
further attempt to curb increasing healthcare costs. In the EU, governments influence the price of pharmaceutical products through their control of national healthcare systems that fund a large part
of the cost of such products to consumers. The downward pressure on healthcare costs in general in the EU, particularly with regard to prescription drugs, has become very intense. Increasingly strict
analyses are applied when evaluating the entry of new products, and, as a result, payors are more frequently limiting access to innovative medicines based on these strict cost-benefit analyses. In
addition, prices for marketed products are referenced within Member States and across Member State borders, including new EU Member States, further impacting individual EU Member State pricing. Japan. In Japan, the government generally introduces price cuts every other year, and the government additionally mandates price
decreases for specific
products. In 2014, the National Health Insurance price calculation method for new products and the price revision rule for existing products were reviewed, and the resulting new drug tariffs became
effective beginning April 2014. The Japanese government is currently undertaking a healthcare reform initiative with a goal of sustaining the universal coverage of the National Health Insurance
program, and is addressing the efficient use of drugs, including promotion of generic use. Meanwhile, the government tentatively initiated a premium system which basically maintains the price of
patented drugs for unmet medical needs in order to promote innovative new drug creation and the solution of the unapproved indication issue. The continuance of this system will be reviewed as a part
of price reforms in 2016. In addition, the MHLW has proposed extraordinary price cuts in 2016 for certain products the sales of which have increased substantially more than official forecasts. 71 Table of Contents Rest of World. Many other countries around the world are also taking steps to control prescription drug prices. As an example, China,
one of our most important
emerging growth markets, organized tendering in every province, with requested drug price reductions of up to 20% in 2015. Drug prices in China may further decline due to a stated national policy of
reducing healthcare costs, including recent strategic initiatives implemented at the province level specifically designed to reduce drug prices. China has also been monitoring drug pricing for
irregularities in the market. Although the ultimate impact of this monitoring on the regulatory and pricing framework is not yet clear, China is developing a new pricing framework in which price
reductions remain a consistent national priority. Regulations favoring generics and biosimilars In
response to rising healthcare costs, many governments and private medical care providers, such as Health Maintenance Organizations, have instituted reimbursement schemes that favor
the substitution of generic pharmaceuticals for more expensive brand-name pharmaceuticals. In the US, generic substitution statutes have been enacted by virtually all states and permit or require the
dispensing pharmacist to substitute a less expensive generic drug instead of an original patented drug. Other countries have similar laws, including numerous European countries. We expect that the
pressure for generic substitution will continue to increase. In addition, the US, EU and other jurisdictions are increasingly developing laws and regulations encouraging the development of biosimilar
versions of biologic drugs, which can also be expected to have an impact on pricing. Cross-Border Sales Price
controls in one country can also have an impact in other countries as a result of cross-border sales. In the EU, products which we have sold to customers in countries with
stringent price controls can in some instances legally be re-sold to customers in other EU countries with less stringent price controls at a lower price than the price at which the product is
otherwise available in the importing country. In North America, products which we have sold to customers in Canada, which has relatively stringent price controls, are sometimes re-sold into the US,
again at a lower price than the price at which the product is otherwise sold in the US. Such imports from Canada and other countries into the US are currently illegal. We
expect that pressures on pricing will continue worldwide, and will likely increase. Because of these pressures, there can be no certainty that, in every instance, we will be able to charge prices
for a product that, in a particular country or in the aggregate, would enable us to earn an adequate return on our investment in that product. Intellectual Property We attach great importance to patents, trademarks, copyrights and know-how, including research data, in order to protect our investment
in research and development, manufacturing and marketing. It is our policy to seek the broadest protection available under applicable laws for significant product developments in all major markets.
Among other things, patents may cover the products themselves, including the product's active ingredient and its formulation. Patents may cover processes for manufacturing a product, including
processes for manufacturing intermediate substances used in the manufacture of the products. Patents may also cover particular uses of a product, such as its use to treat a particular disease, or its
dosage regimen. In addition, patents may cover assays or tests for certain diseases or biomarkers, which will improve patient outcomes when administered certain drugs, as well as assays, research
tools and other techniques used to identify new drugs. The protection offered by such patents extends for varying periods depending on the grant and duration of patents in the various countries or
region. The protection afforded, which may vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage. Even though we may own, co-own or in-license patents protecting our
products, 72 Table of Contents and
conduct pre-launch freedom-to-operate analyses, a third party may nevertheless claim that one of our products infringes a third party patent for which we do not have a license. In
addition to patent protection, various countries offer data or marketing exclusivities for a prescribed period of time. Data exclusivity may be available which would preclude a
potential competitor from filing a regulatory application for a set period of time that relies on the sponsor's clinical trial data, or the regulatory authority from approving the application. The
data exclusivity period can vary depending upon the type of data included in the sponsor's application. When it is available, market exclusivity, unlike data exclusivity, precludes a competitor from
obtaining marketing approval for a product even if a competitor's application relies on its own data. Data exclusivity and other regulatory exclusivity periods generally run from the date a product is
approved, and so their expiration dates cannot be known with certainty until the product approval date is known. In
the US and other countries, pharmaceutical products are eligible for a patent term extension for patent periods lost during product development and regulatory review. The law
recognizes that product development and review by the FDA and other health authorities can take an extended period, and permits an extension of the patent term for a period related to the time taken
for the conduct of clinical trials and for the health authority's review. However, the length of this extension and the
patents to which it applies cannot be known in advance, but can only be determined after the product is approved. Patents,
patent term extensions and marketing exclusivities can be challenged through various proceedings that depend on the country. For example, patents in the US can be challenged in
the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) through various proceedings, including Inter Partes Review (IPR) proceedings. They may also be challenged through patent infringement litigation
under the Hatch-Waxman Act. See generally, "—Sandoz—Intellectual Property" In the EU, EU patents may be challenged through oppositions in the European Patent Office (EPO) or
national patents may be challenged in national courts or national patent offices. In Japan, patents may be challenged in the Japanese patent office and in national courts. United States Patents In the US, a patent issued for an application filed today will receive a term of 20 years from the application filing date,
subject to potential patent term adjustments for USPTO delay. A US pharmaceutical patent which claims a product, method of treatment using a product, or method of manufacturing a product, may also be
eligible for a patent term extension based on the time the FDA took to approve the product. This type of extension may only extend the patent term for a maximum of 5 years, and may not extend
the patent term beyond 14 years from regulatory approval. Only one patent may be extended for any product based on FDA delay. In
practice, however, it is not uncommon for significantly more than the 5 year maximum patent extension period to pass between the time that a patent application is filed for a
product and the time that the product is approved by the FDA. As a result, it is rarely the case that, at the time a product is approved by FDA, it will have the full 20 years of remaining
patent life. Rather, in our experience, it is not uncommon that, at the date of approval, a product will have from 13 to 16 years of patent life remaining, including all extensions available at
that time. Data and Market Exclusivity In addition to patent exclusivities, the FDA may provide data or market exclusivity for a new chemical entity or an "orphan drug," each
of which run in parallel to any patent protection. Regulatory data protection or exclusivity prevents a potential generic competitor from relying on clinical trial data which were generated by the
sponsor when establishing the safety and efficacy of its competing product. Market exclusivity prohibits any marketing of the same drug for the same indication. 73 Table of Contents • A new small-molecule active pharmaceutical ingredient shall have 5 years of regulatory data exclusivity, during which time a
competitor generally may not submit an application to the FDA based on a sponsor's clinical data. • Orphan drug exclusivity provides 7 years of market exclusivity for drugs designated by the FDA as "orphan drugs," meaning drugs
that treat rare diseases, as designated by the FDA. During this period, a potential competitor may not market the same drug for the same indication even if the competitor's application does not rely
on data from the sponsor. • A new biologic active pharmaceutical ingredient shall have 12 years of market exclusivity, during which time a competitor may
not market the same drug for the same indication. • The FDA may also request that a sponsor conduct pediatric studies, and in exchange will grant an additional 6-month period of
pediatric market exclusivity, if the FDA accepts the data, the sponsor makes a timely application for approval for pediatric treatment, and the sponsor has either a patent-based or regulatory-based
exclusivity period for the product which can be extended. European Community Patents Patent applications in Europe may be filed in the EPO or in a particular country in Europe. The EPO system permits a single application
to be granted for the EU, plus other non-EU countries, such as Switzerland and Turkey. When the EPO grants a patent, it is then validated in the countries that the patent owner designates. A patent
granted by the EPO or a European country office will expire no later than 21 years from the earliest patent application on which the patent is based. Pharmaceutical patents can also be granted
a further period of exclusivity under the Supplementary Protection Certificate (SPC) system. SPCs are designed to compensate the owner of the patent for the time it took to receive marketing
authorization by the European Health Authorities. An SPC may be granted to provide, in combination with the patent, up to 15 years of exclusivity from the date of the first European marketing
authorization. However, an SPC cannot last longer than 5 years. The SPC duration can additionally be extended by a further 6 months if the product is the subject of an agreed pediatric
investigation plan. The post-grant phase of patents, including the SPC system, is currently administered on a country-by-country basis under national laws which, while differing, are intended to, but
do not always, have the same effect. As
in the US, in practice, it is not uncommon for the granting of an SPC to not fully compensate the owner of a patent for the time it took to receive marketing authorization by the
European health authorities. Rather, since it can often take from 5 to 10 years to obtain a granted patent in Europe after the filing of the application, and since it can commonly take longer
than this to obtain a marketing authorization for a pharmaceutical product in Europe, it is not uncommon that a pharmaceutical product, at the date of approval, will have a patent lifetime of 10 to
15 years, including all extensions available at that time. Data and Market Exclusivity In addition to patent exclusivity, the EU also provides a system of regulatory data exclusivity for authorized human medicines, which
runs in parallel to any patent protection. The system for drugs being approved today is usually referred to as "8+2+1" because it provides: an initial period of 8 years of data exclusivity,
during which a competitor cannot rely on the relevant data; a further period of 2 years of market exclusivity, during which the data can be used to support applications for marketing
authorization, but the competitive product cannot be launched; and a possible 1-year extension of the market exclusivity period if, during the initial 8-year data exclusivity period, the sponsor
registered a new therapeutic indication with "significant clinical benefit." This system applies both to national and centralized authorizations. This system has been in force since 2005, therefore
some medicines remain covered by the previous system in which EU member states provided either 6 or 10 years of data exclusivity. 74 Table of Contents The
EU also has an orphan drug exclusivity system for medicines similar to the US system. If a medicine is designated as an "orphan drug," then it benefits from 10 years of market
exclusivity after it is authorized, during which time a similar medicine for the same indication will not receive marketing authorization. Japan In Japan, a patent can be issued for active pharmaceutical ingredients. Although methods of treatment, such as dosage and
administration, are not patentable in Japan, pharmaceutical compositions for a specific dosage or administration method are patentable. Processes to make a pharmaceutical composition are also
patentable. The patent term granted is generally 20 years from the filing date of the patent application on which the patent is based. A patent term extension can be granted for up to
5 years under the Japanese Patent Act to compensate for erosion against the patent term caused by the time needed to obtain marketing authorization from the MHLW. Japan also has an 8-year
regulatory data protection system called a "re-examination period" and a 10-year orphan drug exclusivity system. Typically,
it takes approximately 7 to 8 years to obtain marketing authorization in Japan. A patent application on a pharmaceutical substance is usually filed shortly before or at
the time when clinical testing begins. Regarding compound patents, it commonly takes approximately 4 to 5 years or more from the patent application filing date to the date that the patent is
ultimately granted. As a result, it is not uncommon for the effective term of patent protection for an active pharmaceutical ingredient in Japan to be approximately 10 to 15 years, if duly
extended. The
following are certain additional details regarding intellectual property protection for selected Pharmaceuticals Division products and compounds in development. Administrative
proceedings or litigation to obtain intellectual property, to enforce intellectual property or to resolve challenges to intellectual property are uncertain and unpredictable. In some circumstances a
competitor may be able to market a generic version of one of our products despite the existence of our intellectual property by, for example, designing around our intellectual property or marketing
the generic product for non-protected indications. Despite data exclusivity protections, a competitor could opt to incur the costs of conducting its own clinical trials and preparing its own
regulatory application, and avoid our data exclusivity protection altogether. There is also a risk that some countries may seek to impose limitations on the availability of patent protection for
pharmaceutical products, or on the extent to which such protections may be enforced. As a result, there can be no assurance that our intellectual property will protect our products or that we will be
able to avoid adverse effects from the loss of intellectual property protection in the future. For
each selected product or compound in development, we identify certain issued, unexpired patents by general subject matter and, in parentheses, years of expiry in, if relevant, the
US, EU and Japan that are owned, co-owned or exclusively in-licensed by Novartis and that relate to one or more forms of the product or methods of use. Novartis may own or control additional patents
relating to compound forms, formulations, processes, synthesis, purification and detection. For additional information regarding commercial arrangements with respect to these products, see
"—Key Marketed Products." Identification of an EU patent refers to national patents in EU countries and/or to the national patents that have been derived from a patent granted by the EPO.
We identify unexpired regulatory data protection periods and, in parentheses, years of expiry for selected products and compounds in development if the relevant marketing authorizations have been
authorized or granted. The term "RDP" refers to regulatory data protection, regulatory data exclusivity (which in the EU refers to the protections under "8+2+1" regulatory data exclusivity), and to
data re-examination protection systems. We also identify certain unexpired patent term extensions, SPCs and marketing exclusivities and, in parentheses, years of expiry if they are granted; their
subject matter scope may be limited, and is not specified. We designate them as "pending" if they have been applied for but not granted and years of expiry are estimable. Such pending applications may
or may not ultimately be granted. In the case of the EU, grant or authorization of a patent term extension, marketing exclusivity or data protection means grant or authorization in at least 75 Table of Contents one
country and possibly pending in others. Marketing exclusivities and patent term extensions include orphan drug exclusivity (ODE), pediatric exclusivity (PE), patent term extension (PTE) and SPC.
For
each selected product and compound in development, we indicate whether there is current generic competition for one or more product versions or approved indications in each of the major markets for
which intellectual property is identified. We also identify ongoing challenges to the disclosed intellectual property that have not been finally resolved without indicating the likelihood of success
in each individual case. Resolution of such challenges may include agreements under which Novartis grants licenses permitting marketing of generic versions of our products before expiration of the
relevant intellectual property. We disclose certain material terms of certain settlement agreements relating to certain selected products and compounds in development where they could have a material
adverse effect on our business. In other cases, certain settlement agreements may contain confidentiality obligations restricting what may be disclosed. Oncology • Gleevec/Glivec. US: Patent on polymorphic compound form (2019), PE (2019); patent on
GIST method of use (2021), PE (2022); patent on tablet formulation (2018). EU: Patent on compound (2013), SPC (2016), PE (2016); patent on polymorphic compound form (2018); patent on GIST method of
use (2021); patent on tablet formulation (2023). Japan: Patent on polymorphic compound form (2019); patent on GIST method of use (2021); patent on tablet formulation (2023). There
is currently no generic competition in the US. There is generic competition in Japan and some EU countries. In the US, Novartis has resolved patent litigation with certain generic manufacturers.
Novartis has licensed a subsidiary of Sun Pharmaceutical Industries to market a generic version of Gleevec in the US as of February 1, 2016.
Additional generic manufacturers have filed ANDAs challenging the US polymorphic compound form patent; the earliest automatic 30-month stay preventing FDA approval will expire in December
2016. Novartis is taking steps in some EU countries to enforce the EU compound patent, the EU polymorphic compound form patent and the EU GIST method of use patent against generic
manufacturers. The EU compound patent PE and the EU GIST method of use patent are being challenged in the patent offices and courts of several EU countries. • Afinitor/Votubia and Afinitor Disperz/Votubia dispersible tablets and Zortress/Certican . Afinitor/Votubia and Afinitor Disperz/Votubia dispersible tablets: US: Patent on compound (2014), PTE
(2019), PE (2020); patent on tablet formulation (2016), PE (2017); patent on dispersible tablet formulation (2022), PE (2023); patents on antioxidant (2019), PE (2020); patent on TSC/SEGA use (2022),
PE 2022); patent on breast cancer use (2022), PE (2022); patent on renal cell carcinoma use (2025), PE (2026); patent on pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor use (2028). EU: Patent on compound
(2013), SPC (2018); patent on tablet formulation (2016); patent on dispersible tablet formulation (2022); patent on antioxidant (2019); patent on breast cancer use (2022); patent on pancreatic
neuroendocrine tumor use (2026); ODE ( Votubia ) (2021). Japan: Patent on compound (2013), PTE (2018); patent on tablet formulation (2016); patent on
dispersible tablet formulation (2022); patent on antioxidant (2019); patent on breast cancer use (2022); patent on pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor use (2026); patent on renal cell carcinoma use
(2022); ODE (tuberous sclerosis) (2022); RDP (2018). There
is currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. In the US, generic manufacturers have filed ANDAs challenging several patents; the earliest automatic 30-month stay preventing FDA
approval will expire in October 2017. The US compound patent and antioxidant patents are being challenged in IPR proceedings in the USPTO. 76 Table of Contents Zortress/Certican: US: Patent on compound (2014), PTE (2019), PE (2020); patent on tablet formulation (2016), PE (2017); patent on dispersible tablet
formulation (2022), PE (2023); two patents on antioxidant (2019, 2019); patents on methods of use (2017, PE (2018)). EU: Patent on compound (2013), SPC (2018); patent on tablet formulation (2016);
patent on dispersible tablet formulation (2022); patent on antioxidant (2019). Japan: Patent on compound (2013), PTE (2018); patent on tablet formulation (2016); patent on dispersible tablet
formulation (2022); patent on antioxidant (2019). There
is currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. In the US, generic manufacturers have filed ANDAs challenging several patents; the earliest automatic 30-month stay preventing FDA
approval will expire in March 2017. The US compound patent and a method of use patent are being challenged in IPR proceedings in the USPTO. • Tasigna. US: Patent on compound (2023); patents on salt forms (2026, 2027, 2028);
patent on polymorph compound form (2026). EU: Patent on compound (2023); patent on salt form (2026); patent on polymorph compound form (2026); ODE (2017). Japan: Patent on compound (2023), PTE (2024);
patent on salt form (2026); patent on polymorph compound form (2026); RDP (2017). There is currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. The EU salt form patent and polymorph compound form
patent are being opposed in the EPO. • Sandostatin. Sandostatin SC: There is no patent protection in the US, EU or Japan.
There is generic competition in the US, EU and Japan. Sandostatin LAR : US: Patent on microparticles (2017). There is no patent protection in the EU or
Japan. There is currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. • Exjade and Jadenu. Exjade : US: Patent
on compound (2019); patent on method of use (2017). EU: Patent on compound (2017), SPC (2021); patent on tablet formulation (2023); ODE (2016). Japan: Patent on compound (2017), SPC (2021); RDP
(2016). There is currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. In the US, Novartis has resolved patent litigation with generic manufacturers relating to Exjade . Jadenu: The compound patents in the US, EU and Japan and the US method of use patent identified for Exjade also protect Jadenu . There is currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. In the US,
a generic manufacturer has filed an ANDA challenging the US compound patent; the earliest automatic 30-month stay preventing FDA approval will expire in May 2018. • Votrient. US: Patent on compound (2021), PTE (2023), ODE (2019). EU: Patent on
compound (2021), SPC (2025); RDP (2020). Japan: patent on compound (2021), PTE (2025); RDP (2020). There is currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. • Tafinlar and Mekinist. Tafinlar : US:
Patent on compound (2030); RDP (2018); ODE (2020). EU: RDP (2023). Japan: Patent on compound (2029). There is currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. Mekinist : US: Patent on
compound (2025), pending PTE (2027); patent on method of use (2025); patent on formulation (2032); RDP (2018); ODE (2020). EU:
Patent on compound and method of use (2025), SPC (2029); RDP (2025). Japan: Patent on compound (2025); patent on method of use (2025); patent on formulation (2031). There is currently no generic
competition in the US, EU or Japan. Use of Mekinist with Taflinar or Taflinar with Mekinist : US: Patent on use of Tafinlar and Mekinist (2030); RDP (2017); ODE 2021. EU: RDP (2025). Japan: Patent on use of Tafinlar and Mekinist (2030). There is currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. • Jakavi. EU: Patent on compound (2026), SPC (2027); patent on salt (2028); RDP (2023). Japan: Patent on compound (2026), PTE (2028),
pending PTE (2030); patent on salt (2028), PTE (2028), pending PTE (2030); patent on compositions for medical uses (2026), pending PTE (2027); RDP 77 Table of Contents (2022).
There is currently no generic competition in the EU or Japan. The EU salt patent is being opposed in the EPO. • Promacta/Revolade. US: Patent on compound (2021), PTE (2022), PE (2023); patent on
salt form (2025); patent on formulation (2027). EU: Patent on compound (2021), SPC (2025); patent on salt form (2023); patent on formulation (2027). Japan: Patent on compound (2021), PE (2025); patent
on salt form (2023); patent on formulation (2027). There is currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. • Farydak. US: Patent on compound (2021), pending PTE (2026); patent on method of use
(2026); patent on crystalline salt (2028); RDP (2020). EU: Patent on compound (2021), pending SPC (2026); patent on method of use (2026); RDP (2025). Japan: Patent on compound (2021), pending PTE
(2026); patent on method of use (2026); RDP (2023). There is currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. • Odomzo. US: Patent on compound (2029), pending PTE (2029); patent on salt form (2029);
RDP (2020). EU: Patent on compound (2027), pending SPC (2030); patent on salt form (2029); RDP (2025). Japan: Patent on compound (2027); patent on salt form (2029). There is currently no generic
competition in the US, EU or Japan. • Arzerra. US: Patent on compound (2031); RDP (2023). EU: Patent on compound (2023), SPC
(2025); RDP (2021). Japan: Patent on compound (2023), PTE (2025); patent on formulation (2028); RDP (2019). There is currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. Cardio-Metabolic • Galvus and Eucreas . EU: Patent on
compound (2019), SPC (2022); patent on combination (2021), SPC (2022); patent on Eucreas formulation (2026); RDP (2017). Japan: Patent on compound
(2019), PTE (2024), pending PTE (2024); patent on combination (2021); patent on Galvus formulation (2025), PTE (2025); patent on Eucreas formulation (2026),
 pending PTE (2028); Galvus RDP (2018); Eucreas RDP (2019). Galvus/Eucreas is not marketed in the US. There
is currently no generic competition
in the EU or Japan. The EU Eucreas formulation patent is being opposed in the EPO. • Entresto. US: Patents on combination (2023); patent on complex (2027); RDP (2020). EU:
Patent on combination (2023); patent on complex (2026); patent on formulation (2028); RDP (2025). Japan: Patent on combination (2023); patent on complex (2026); patent on formulation (2028). There is
currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. The EU complex patent and the EU formulation patent are being opposed in the EPO. Immunology and Dermatology • Neoral. There is no patent protection for Neoral in the US, EU or Japan. There is generic competition in the US, EU and
Japan. • Myfortic. US: Patent on formulation (2017), PTE (2018); patent on particle size
(2024). EU: Patent on formulation (2017), SPC (2017); patent on formulation (2022); patent on particle size (2024). There is generic competition in the US. There is currently no generic competition in
the EU. In the EU, Novartis has resolved patent litigation with a generic manufacturer. The EU formulation patent and particle size patent are being opposed in the EPO. • Xolair. US: Patent on compound (2018); patent on lyophilized formulation (2016), PTE
(2017); patents on syringe formulation (2021, 2024). EU: Patent on compound (2012), SPC (2017); patent on lyophilized formulation (2016); patents on syringe formulation (2021, 2024). Japan: Patent on
compound (2012), PTE (2017); patent on lyophilized formulation (2016); patents on syringe formulation (2021, 2024); RDP (2017). There is currently no generic competition in the US, EU or 78 Table of Contents Japan.
The EU syringe formulation patent and lyophilized formulation patent are being opposed in the EPO. • Cosentyx. US: Patent on compound (2027), pending PTE (2029); RDP (2027). EU: Patent on
compound (2025), pending SPC (2030), pending PE (2030); RDP (2026). Japan: Patent on compound (2025), PTE (2029); patent on method of use (2031), PTE (2032); RDP (2022). There is currently no generic
competition in the US, EU, or Japan. Retina • Lucentis. EU: Patent on compound (2018), SPC (2022); patent on method of use (2016).
Japan: Patent on compound (2018), PTE (AMD indication) (2019), PTE (other indications) (2023). There is currently no generic competition in the EU or Japan. Neuroscience • Gilenya. US: Patent on compound (2014), PTE (2019); patent on formulation (2026);
patent on dose (2027). EU: Patent on compound (2013), SPC (2018); RDP (2021); patent on formulation (2024), SPC (2026). There is currently no generic competition in the US or EU. In the US, generic
manufacturers have filed ANDAs challenging the US compound patent and formulation patent; the earliest automatic 30-month stays preventing FDA approval will expire in March 2018. Generic manufacturers
have filed ANDAs challenging the US dose patent. The US formulation patent is being challenged in an IPR proceeding in the USPTO. • Exelon/Exelon Patch. Exelon: There is no patent protection for Exelon capsules in the US, EU or Japan.
There is generic competition in the US, EU and Japan. Exelon
Patch : US: Patents on formulations (2019). EU: Patent on formulation (2019); patent on transdermal dosage regime (2026). Japan: Patent on formulation (2019); RDP (2019). There
is generic competition in the US and in most EU countries. There is currently no generic competition in Japan. We are taking steps in several countries to enforce our EU transdermal dosage regime
patent against generic competitors. The EU transdermal dosage regime patent is being opposed in the EPO and several national patents are being challenged in national courts. In the US, generic
manufacturers have filed ANDAs challenging the US formulation patents; the earliest automatic 30-month stays preventing FDA approval expires in 2017. The US formulation patents are being challenged in
an IPR proceeding in the USPTO. Established Medicines • Diovan and Co-Diovan/Diovan HCT.
Diovan : US: Patent on formulation (2017), PE (2017). There is generic competition in the US, EU and Japan. Co-Diovan/Diovan HCT :
US: Patent on formulation (2017), PE (2017). Japan: Patent on compound (2011), PTE for Co-Diovan (2016); patent on formulation (2017). In Japan,
Novartis has resolved patent litigation with a generic manufacturer. There is generic competition in the US and EU. There is currently no generic competition in Japan. • Exforge and Exforge HCT. Exforge : US:
Patent on Exforge combination (2019). EU: Patent on Exforge combination/ Exforge
HCT combination (2019); RDP (2017). There is generic competition in the US and Japan. There is currently no generic competition in the EU. The EU Exforge combination/ Exforge HCT combination patent is being challenged in the patent offices of some EU
countries. We are taking steps to enforce the EU Exforge combination/ Exforge HCT combination patent
against generic manufacturers seeking to market Exforge . Exforge HCT : US: Patent on Exforge HCT combination
(2023). EU: patent on Exforge combination/ Exforge
HCT combination (2019); RDP (2019). Japan: Patent on Exforge HCT combination (2023). There is generic 79 Table of Contents competition
in the US. There is currently no generic competition in the EU. Exforge HCT is not currently marketed in Japan. • Voltaren/Cataflam. There is no patent protection in the US, EU or Japan. There is
generic competition in the US, EU and Japan. • Ritalin LA/Focalin XR. US: Patent on drug-delivery formulation (2019). EU: Patent on
dose (2018); patent on drug-delivery formulations (2019). Japan: Patent on dose (2018); patent on drug-delivery formulation (2019). There is generic competition in the US for Ritalin LA and Focalin XR . There is currently no generic competition in the EU or Japan. The EU
formulation patent is being opposed in the EPO. Compounds in Development We provide the following information regarding our compounds in Phase III clinical development, if any, that have been submitted
for registration to the FDA or the EMA: As of the date of this 20-F, the only compounds that we have in Phase III clinical development that have been submitted for registration to the FDA or
the EMA are compounds that have previously been approved by FDA or EMA, and have been submitted for the approval of one or more additional indications. See above for intellectual property information
regarding our selected Pharmaceuticals Division products. ALCON Our Alcon Division is a leader in the research, development, manufacturing and marketing of eye care products worldwide, and its
products are available in more than 180 markets. In 2015, the Alcon Division had consolidated net sales of $9.8 billion representing 20% of total Group net sales. Alcon
offers an extensive breadth of products serving the full lifecycle of patient needs across eye diseases, vision conditions and refractive errors. To meet the needs of patients,
ophthalmologists, surgeons, optometrists, opticians and physician specialists, Alcon operates with three franchises: Surgical, Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals and Vision Care. Each franchise operates with
specialized sales forces and marketing support. To
accelerate growth, we are taking concerted action on two fronts. For the Surgical and Vision Care franchises, we have identified key actions as part of a growth plan. They include
steps to optimize innovation in intraocular lenses (IOLs) for cataract surgery, prioritizing and investing in the development of promising new products, and improving the effectiveness of our sales
force. In
addition, we plan to strengthen our ophthalmic medicines business by transferring Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals products from Alcon to our Pharmaceuticals Division, combining expertise
in pharmaceuticals development and marketing with the strong Alcon brand. Alcon's
dedication to research and development is important to our growth plans. As part of our efforts, the Alcon Division works together with the Novartis Institutes for BioMedical
Research (NIBR), our global pharmaceutical research organization. This collaboration allows our Alcon Division to leverage the resources of NIBR in an effort to discover and expand ophthalmic
pharmaceutical research targets and to develop chemical and biologic compounds for the potential treatment of diseases of the eye, with a particular focus on diseases such as glaucoma and macular
degeneration. In
July 2014, Alcon entered into an agreement with Verily (formerly Google Life Sciences) to license its "smart lens" technology with the potential to address ocular conditions. In
October 2014, Alcon acquired WaveTec Vision. The acquisition provided Alcon with the ORA System , the first commercialized intra-operative guidance
system for cataract surgeons implanting IOLs. Alcon has integrated the ORA System into its existing Cataract Refractive
Suite by Alcon. 80 Table of Contents Alcon Division Products Surgical Our Alcon Division's Surgical franchise is the market leader in global ophthalmic surgical product revenues, offering ophthalmic
surgical equipment, instruments, disposable products and intraocular lenses for surgical procedures that address cataracts, vitreoretinal conditions, glaucoma and refractive errors. Alcon's
Surgical portfolio includes the Cataract Refractive Suite by Alcon, a suite of equipment to help plan and perform some of the most
challenging steps of cataract surgery with automation and precision. It is comprised of the Centurion vision system phacoemulsification technology
platform; the LenSx laser, a femtosecond laser for increased precision and reproducibility for the corneal incision, capsulorhexis and lens
fragmentation steps of the procedure; the Verion image guided system, an ocular surgical planning, imaging and guidance technology; the ORA System , an
intra-operative guidance system for IOL implantation during cataract surgery; and the LuxOR
LX3 surgical microscope for greater visualization during surgery. The portfolio also includes Contoura vision, the latest vision
system in the Wavelight refractive suite portfolio for refractive procedures and LASIK treatments, the Constellation vision system for retinal operations,
and the Infiniti vision system to perform cataract
surgeries, which is the phacoemulsification platform introduced prior to the Centurion vision system. Alcon also offers the AcrySof family of intraocular
lenses (IOLs) to treat cataracts, including the AcrySof IQ , AcrySof IQ PanOptix , AcrySof IQ Toric and AcrySof IQ ReSTOR
Toric IOLs. In addition, Alcon provides advanced viscoelastics, surgical solutions, surgical packs and other disposable products for cataract and vitreoretinal surgery. Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals Our Alcon Division's Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals franchise develops and markets a broad range of pharmaceuticals to treat chronic and
acute conditions of the eye including glaucoma, elevated intraocular pressure (associated with glaucoma), eye infection and inflammation, eye allergies, dry eye and retinal diseases. Ophthalmic
Pharmaceuticals also oversees the line of professionally driven over-the-counter brands that include artificial tears and ocular vitamins. Product highlights within the Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals
portfolio include Ilevro ophthalmic suspension for the treatment of pain and inflammation associated with cataract surgery; Simbrinza suspension to lower
intraocular pressure as a fixed-dose combination; Azopt , Azarga , Travatan Z and DuoTrav , each ophthalmic
solutions for the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure associated with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension; Vigamox ophthalmic solution for
bacterial conjunctivitis; Pazeo and Pataday ophthalmic solutions for ocular itching associated with
allergic conjunctivitis; Nevanac ophthalmic suspension for eye pain and inflammation following cataract surgery and to reduce the risk of macular edema
associated with cataract surgery in diabetic patients; the Systane family of over-the-counter products for dry eye relief; and Jetrea intravitreal
injection for treating vitreomacular traction. Vision Care Our Alcon Division's Vision Care franchise develops and markets contact lenses and lens care products. Alcon's broad portfolio of
silicone hydrogel, daily disposables and color contact lenses includes our Air Optix , Dailies and Freshlook brands. Our Dailies product line includes Dailies
Total1 lenses, a first-of-its-kind water gradient contact lens. Our Air Optix monthly contact lens product line includes Air Optix Colors silicone hydrogel contact lenses. Our contact lens care solutions business includes the Opti-Free line of multi-purpose disinfecting solutions and drops, as well as the Clear Care and AOSept Plus hydrogen peroxide lens care solutions. 81 Table of Contents New Products Alcon received a number of approvals and launched a number of products in 2015,
including: • AcrySof IQ aspheric intraocular lens with UltraSert Pre-loaded Delivery System was approved in the US and EU to provide a
single-use system for cataract surgery. • AcrySof IQ PanOptix trifocal intraocular lens was launched in the EU for patients
seeking presbyopia-correction during cataract surgery. • AcrySof IQ ReSTOR multifocal +2.5D intraocular lens was approved in the US for
patients wanting near, intermediate and distance vision correction during cataract surgery. • Air Optix Colors contact lenses: silicone hydrogel, color cosmetic monthly contact
lenses were launched in Japan. • Air Optix Colors contact lenses in plus powers were launched in the US for patients
with hyperopia. • Air Optix with HydraGlyde contact
lenses received approval in the EU for longer-lasting surface wettability. • Clear Care Plus/AOSept Plus with HydraGlyde was launched in the US and EU to provide hydrogen
peroxide-based cleaning and disinfecting for contact lenses. • Contoura vision topography guided, refractive surgical system was launched in the US
for patients seeking myopic and astigmatic vision correction. • Dailies Total1 contact lenses with plus powers were launched in the US and EU for
patients with hyperopia seeking a daily disposable lens. • LuxOr ceiling-mounted ophthalmic microscope system was approved in the US for enhanced
visualization during cataract surgery. • ORA System with VerifEye+ was launched
in the US and EU for enhanced pre-operative planning during cataract surgery. • Pazeo Solution (olopatadine hydrochloride) for 24-hour ocular allergy itch relief was
approved and launched in the US. • Systane Hydration lubricant eye drops in unit-dose and multi-dose were launched in the
EU for the palliative treatment of dry eye. 82 Table of Contents Key Marketed Products The following tables set forth certain key marketed products in our Alcon Division. While we intend to sell our marketed products
throughout the world, not all products and indications are currently available in every country. Surgical Cataract AcrySof family of intraocular lenses includes but is not limited to: AcrySof IQ ReSTOR, AcrySof IQ PanOptix, AcrySof IQ Toric and AcrySof IQ ReSTOR Toric advanced technology intraocular lenses that correct cataracts and distance vision with presbyopia and/or astigmatism Cataract Refractive Suite by Alcon designed to streamline the cataract surgical procedure through surgical planning and execution Centurion vision system intelligent phacoemulsification technology platform with cataract removal capabilities Infiniti vision system with the OZil torsional hand piece for cataract procedures LenSx laser used for specific steps in the cataract surgical procedure LuxOR microscope used for ophthalmic surgical procedures ORA System intra-operative guidance system for intraocular lens implant during cataract surgery UltraSert pre-loaded delivery system for intraocular lenses that correct cataracts Verion imaged-guided system for use during cataract surgery Vitreoretinal Constellation vision system for vitreoretinal operations Ultravit vitrectomy probes 23+ , 25+ and 27+ vitrectomy packs Purepoint laser system and probes Finesse flex loop Grieshaber surgical instruments Edgeplus blade trocar cannula system Ispan gas, Perfluron, Silkon oil: Retina stabilizing adjuncts Refractive Allegretto Wave Eye-Q excimer laser for LASIK vision correction Contoura vision for LASIK vision correction in patients with myopia and astigmatism WaveLight FS200 laser for specific steps in LASIK surgical procedures WaveLight EX500 laser for LASIK vision correction Glaucoma Ex-press glaucoma filtration device In
addition, Alcon provides advanced viscoelastics, surgical solutions, surgical packs and other disposable products for cataract and vitreoretinal surgery. 83 Table of Contents Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals Glaucoma Simbrinza suspension to lower intraocular pressure without a beta blocker Izba, Travatan and Travatan Z ophthalmic solutions to lower intraocular pressure Azopt ophthalmic suspension to lower intraocular pressure DuoTrav ophthalmic solution to lower intraocular pressure (outside US markets) Azarga/Azorga ophthalmic suspension to lower intraocular pressure (outside US markets) Anti-Infectives Vigamox and Moxeza ophthalmic solution for treatment of bacterial conjunctivitis Anti-Inflammation Ilevro suspension to treat pain and inflammation following cataract surgery Nevanac ophthalmic suspension to treat pain and inflammation following cataract surgery, and to reduce the risk of macular edema associated with cataract surgery in diabetic
patients Durezol emulsion to treat pain and inflammation associated with eye surgery, and to treat endogenous anterior uveitis TobraDex and TobraDex ST ophthalmic suspensions, combination anti-infective/anti-inflammatory products Voltaren ophthalmic solution to treat post-operative inflammation after cataract surgery, and for temporary relief of pain and photophobia after refractive surgery Dry Eye The Systane family of over-the-counter dry eye products: Systane lubricant eye drops Systane Balance lubricant eye drops Systane Hydration lubricant eye drops Systane Ultra lubricant eye drops Systane gel drops Systane lid wipes Lubricants for eye dryness, discomfort or ocular fatigue: GenTeal lubricant eye drops Tears Naturale lubricant eye drops Allergy Pazeo, Patanol and Pataday ophthalmic solutions for ocular itching associated with allergic conjunctivitis Patanase nasal spray for seasonal nasal allergy symptoms Zaditor antihistamine eye drops for temporary relief of itchy eyes associated with eye allergies (over-the-counter in the US) Zaditen Ophtha an H1-antagonist to fight allergic conjunctivitis Livostin an H1-antagonist to fight allergic conjunctivitis (Canada only) Ear Infections Ciprodex * otic suspension to treat middle and outer ear infections 84 Table of Contents Ocular Nutrition ICaps eye vitamin dietary supplements provide essential dietary ingredients to support eye health Vitalux nutrient supplements to help patients with age-related macular degeneration maintain their vision (outside US markets) Retinal Jetrea (ocriplasmin) intravitreal injection for the treatment of vitreomacular traction, including macular hole Triesence suspension for visualization during vitrectomy * Ciprodex is a registered trademark of Bayer Intellectual Property GmbH. Vision Care Contact Lenses Air Optix family of silicone hydrogel contact lenses (including Air Optix Colors lenses) Dailies family of daily disposable contact lenses (including Dailies Total1 lenses) FreshLook family of color contact lenses Contact Lens Care Opti-Free PureMoist MPDS Opti-Free RepleniSH MPDS Opti-Free Express MPDS Clear Care Plus cleaning and disinfecting solution ( AOSept Plus outside of North America) Selected Development Projects Surgical Project/Product (1) Mechanism of action Potential indication Planned submission date/Current Phase AcrySof IQ ReSTOR Toric 2.5D IOL Multifocal, aspheric and cylinder correcting intraocular lens Cataractous lens replacement with or without presbyopia, and with astigmatism 2016 US/Advanced development AcrySof IQ ReSTOR Toric 3.0D IOL Multifocal, aspheric and cylinder correcting intraocular lens Cataractous lens replacement with or without presbyopia, and with astigmatism US/Submitted (2) AcrySof IQ Aspheric IOL with UltraSert Pre-loaded intraocular lens delivery device Cataractous lens replacement Japan/Submitted (3) (1) AcrySof IQ ReSTOR Toric 3.0D diopter range expansion IOL was terminated in July 2015, as
clinical data did not support submissions in the US or Japan. (2) Submitted
to the FDA in 2014. Additional information regarding clinical data has been requested by the FDA. (3) Submission
pending acceptance by regulatory authority. 85 Table of Contents Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals Project/Product Mechanism of action Potential indication Route of Administration Planned submission date/Current Phase EXE844b (finafloxacin) Anti-infective Otitis media-tympanostomy tube surgery Topical 2016 US/III Jetrea Ready-Diluted Injection (ocriplasmin) Alpha-2 antiplasmin reducer Retina (vitreomacular traction) Intravitreal injection 2017 Japan/III Ilevro (nepafenac 0.3%) Anti-inflammation Postsurgical macular edema in patients with diabetes Topical EU Submitted† 2018 US/III RTH258 (brolucizumab) Anti-VEGF single-chain antibody fragment Wet age-related macular degeneration Intravitreal injection ³ 2018/III † Submission
pending acceptance by regulatory authority. Vision Care Project/Product Mechanism of action Potential indication Planned submission date/Current Phase AOSept Plus / Clear Care Plus with HydraGlyde Disinfection and cleaning Contact lens care 2017 Japan/Advanced development Principal Markets The principal markets for our Alcon Division include the US, Canada and Latin America, Japan and Europe. The following table sets forth
the aggregate 2015 net sales of the Alcon Division by region: Alcon Division 2015 Net Sales to third parties $ millions % Europe 2,408 25 United States 4,275 44 Asia, Africa, Australasia 2,154 22 Canada and Latin America 975 9 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Total 9,812 100 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Of which in Established Markets* 7,423 76 Of which in Emerging Growth Markets* 2,389 24 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ * Emerging
Growth Markets comprise all markets other than the Established Markets of the US, Canada, Western Europe, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. Sales
of certain ophthalmic pharmaceutical products, including those for allergies, anti-inflammatory and dry eye, are subject to seasonal variation. Sales of the majority of our other
products are not subject to material changes in seasonal demand. 86 Table of Contents Research and Development In 2015, our Alcon Division expensed $0.9 billion (on a core basis $0.9 billion) in research and development, which
amounted to 9% of the Division's net sales. The Alcon Division expensed $0.9 billion (on a core basis $0.9 billion) and $1.0 billion (on a core basis $0.9 billion) in
research and development in 2014 and 2013, respectively. Core results exclude impairments, amortization and certain exceptional items. For additional information, see "