Item 5.A Operating Results—Factors Affecting Comparability of Year-On-Year Results of
Operations—Recent Significant Transactions—Acquisitions in 2011—Alcon full ownership and merger in 2011." At that time, Alcon's portfolio of generic ophthalmic
medicines sold through its Falcon business unit primarily in the US, was integrated into our Sandoz Division. Alcon has continued to manufacture the Falcon generics products and supply them to Sandoz.
See "—Sandoz." Alcon Division Products Surgical Our Alcon Division's Surgical business is the market leader in global ophthalmic surgical product revenues, according to Market Scope,
offering ophthalmic surgical equipment, instruments, disposable products and intraocular lenses for surgical procedures that address cataracts, vitreoretinal conditions, glaucoma and refractive
errors. Alcon's
Surgical portfolio includes the Infiniti vision system to perform cataract surgeries, the Constellation vision system for retinal operations, and the Wavelight refractive suite for refractive
procedures. Alcon also offers the AcrySof family of intraocular lenses (IOLs) to treat cataracts, including the AcrySof
IQ , AcrySof IQ ReSTOR, AcrySof IQ Toric and AcrySof IQ ReSTOR Toric IOLs. In
addition, 69 Table of Contents Alcon
provides advanced viscoelastics, surgical solutions, surgical packs and other disposable products for cataract and vitreoretinal surgery. The portfolio also includes the Cataract Refractive
Suite, a suite of equipment to help plan and perform some of the most challenging steps of cataract surgery with automation and precision. It is comprised of the Verion image guided system, an ocular
surgical planning, imaging and guidance technology; the Centurion vision system phacoemulsification technology platform; the LuxOR LX3 surgical microscope for greater visualization during surgery; as well as the LenSx laser, a femtosecond laser for increased precision and reproducibility for the corneal incision, capsulorhexis and lens fragmentation steps of the
procedure. Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals Our Alcon Division's Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals business combined Alcon's broad range of pharmaceuticals with selected ophthalmic
products (excluding Lucentis ) previously marketed by the Novartis Pharmaceuticals Division. The products treat chronic and acute conditions of the eye
including glaucoma, elevated intraocular pressure (associated with glaucoma), eye infection and inflammation, eye allergies, and dry eye. Our Alcon Division's Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals business also
oversees the line of professionally driven over-the-counter brands that include artificial tears and ocular vitamins. Product highlights within the Alcon Division's Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals
portfolio include Jetrea intravitreal injection for treating vitreomacular traction, including macular hole; Ilevro ophthalmic suspension for the treatment
of pain and inflammation associated with cataract surgery; Simbrinza suspension to lower intraocular pressure as a fixed-dose
combination; Travatan Z ophthalmic solution and DuoTrav ophthalmic solution for the treatment of
elevated intraocular pressure associated with glaucoma; Vigamox ophthalmic solution for bacterial conjunctivitis; Pataday ophthalmic solution for ocular
itching associated with allergic conjunctivitis; Nevanac ophthalmic suspension for eye pain and inflammation following cataract surgery, and to reduce the risk of macular edema associated with cataract surgery in diabetic patients; and the Systane family of
over-the-counter products for dry eye relief. Vision Care Our Alcon Division's Vision Care business combined the portfolio of contact lenses and lens care products that had been sold by our
former CIBA Vision Business Unit, with Alcon's contact lens care solution portfolio. Our contact lens care solutions business includes the Opti-Free line of multi-purpose disinfecting solutions, as well as the Clear Care and AOSept Plus hydrogen
peroxide lens care solutions. Alcon also offers a broad portfolio of silicone hydrogel, daily disposables and color contact lenses, including our Air
Optix , Dailies and Freshlook brands. Our Dailies business now includes Dailies Total1 lenses, a first-of-its-kind water gradient contact lens.
Through the integration of CIBA Vision products, Alcon is now one of the largest manufacturers of contact lenses and lens care products. New Products Alcon launched a number of significant products in 2013, and also received a number of key approvals,
including: • AcrySof IQ ReSTOR Multifocal Toric IOL —advanced technology
intraocular lenses to correct cataracts, as well as refractive errors like astigmatism for improved near and intermediate vision, launched in China. • Cataract Refractive Suite—suite of tools for use during cataract surgery launched in the US and EU. • Centurion vision system—Alcon's next-generation
phacoemulsification system for use during cataract surgery launched in the US and EU. • Air Optix Colors lenses—silicone hydrogel, color cosmetic
contact lenses received EMA approval for natural eye color enhancement. 70 Table of Contents • Dailies Aqua Comfort Plus Toric lenses—silicone hydrogel,
daily disposable contact lenses for improving refractive errors, such as astigmatism, received FDA approval. • Dailies Illuminate lenses—color contact lenses introduced a
new color, Light Brown, in Japan. • Dailies Total1 lenses—daily disposable, water gradient contact
lenses launched in the US, Switzerland, Canada, UK, Spain and Portugal, while also receiving approval in China. • Azorga (Brinzolamide 10mg/ml+timolol 5mg/ml)
suspension—received approval in Japan for the treatment of elevated intraocular pressure associated with glaucoma or ocular hypertension. • Ilevro (nepafenac ophthalmic suspension), 0.3%—launched in the
US, received EMA approval and launched in Europe, and received Health Canada approval for the once-daily treatment of pain and inflammation associated with cataract surgery. • Jetrea (ocriplasmin) intravitreal injection—the first
pharmacological treatment for vitreomacular traction, including macular hole, received EMA approval and launched in Germany, Benelux the Nordics, and the UK in the private market. The product also
launched in Canada after receiving a Notice of Compliance and approval from Health Canada. • Simbrinza (brinzolamide, 1.0%/Brimonidine tartrate 0.2%)
suspension—received FDA approval and launched in the US for treatment of elevated intraocular pressure associated with glaucoma. Key Marketed Products The following tables set forth certain key marketed products in our Alcon Division. While we intend to sell our marketed products
throughout the world, not all products and indications are currently available in every country. Surgical Cataract Acrysof family of intraocular lenses includes but is not limited to: Acrysof IQ ReSTOR, Acrysof IQ Toric and Acrysof IQ ReSTOR Toric advanced technology intraocular lenses that correct cataracts with presbyopia and/or astigmatism Cataract Refractive Suite designed to streamline the cataract surgical procedure through surgical planning and execution Centurion vision system intelligent phacoemulsification technology platform
with cataract removal capabilities Infiniti vision system with the OZil torsional hand piece for cataract procedures LenSx laser used for specific steps in the cataract surgical procedure LuxOR microscope used for ophthalmic surgical procedures Vitreoretinal Constellation vision system for vitreoretinal operations Constellation Ultravit vitrectomy probe Vitrectomy Probes in 23G, 25+ Purepoint laser system Grieshaber surgical instruments Edgeplus blade trocar cannula system 71 Table of Contents Refractive Allegretto Wave Eye-Q excimer laser for LASIK vision correction Wavelight
FS200 laser for specific steps in LASIK surgical procedures Wavelight EX500 laser for LASIK vision correction Acrysof Cachet phakic intraocular lens that corrects moderate to high myopia Glaucoma EX-PRESS glaucoma filtration device In
addition, Alcon provides advanced viscoelastics, surgical solutions, surgical packs and other disposable products for cataract and vitreoretinal surgery. Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals Glaucoma Simbrinza suspension to lower intraocular pressure without a beta blocker Travatan and Travatan
Z ophthalmic solutions to lower intraocular pressure Azopt ophthalmic suspension to lower intraocular pressure DuoTrav ophthalmic solution to lower intraocular pressure (outside US markets) Azarga/Azorga ophthalmic suspension to lower intraocular pressure (outside US markets) Nyogel eye gel for reduction of intraocular pressure Anti-Infectives Vigamox and Moxeza ophthalmic solution
for treatment of bacterial conjunctivitis Okacin ophthalmic solution for treatment of bacterial conjunctivitis (Turkey only) Anti-Inflammation Ilevro suspension to treat pain and inflammation following cataract
surgery Nevanac ophthalmic suspension to treat pain and inflammation following cataract surgery, and to reduce the risk of macular edema associated with cataract surgery in diabetic
patients Durezol emulsion to treat pain and inflammation associated with eye surgery, and to treat anterior uveitis TobraDex and TobraDex ST ophthalmic suspensions, combination anti-infective/anti-inflammatory products Voltaren Ophtha treatment of postoperative inflammation after cataract surgery, temporary relief of pain and photophobia after refractive surgery 72 Table of Contents Dry Eye The Systane family of over-the-counter dry eye products: Systane Balance lubricant eye drops Systane Ultra lubricant eye drops Systane lubricant eye drops Systane gel drops Systane lid wipes Lubricants for eye dryness, discomfort or ocular fatigue: GenTeal eye drops Viscotears liquid gel Oculotect eye drops (outside US markets) Hypotears lubricant eye drops Allergy Patanol and Pataday ophthalmic
solutions for ocular itching associated with allergic conjunctivitis Patanase nasal spray for seasonal nasal allergy symptoms Zaditor antihistamine
eye drops for temporary relief of itchy eyes associated with eye allergies (over-the-counter in the US) Zaditen Ophtha an H1-antagonist to fight allergic conjunctivitis Livostin an H1-antagonist to fight allergic conjunctivitis (Canada only) Ear Infections Ciprodex® * Otic suspension to treat middle and
outer ear infections Ocular Nutrition ICaps eye vitamin dietary supplements provide essential dietary ingredients to
support eye health Vitalux nutrient supplements help patients with age-related macular degeneration maintain their vision (outside US markets) Other Products Antikatarata supplementary treatment of lens opacities (Russia only) Retinal Jetrea (ocriplasmin) intravitreal injection for the treatment of vitreomacular
traction, including macular hole * CiproDex®
is a registered trademark of Bayer, AG. Vision Care Contact Lenses Air Optix family of silicone hydrogel contact lenses Dailies family of daily disposable contact lenses (including Dailies Total1 ) FreshLook family of color contact lenses Contact Lens Care Opti-Free PureMoist MPDS Opti-Free
RepleniSH MPDS Opti-Free Express MPDS Clear Care cleaning and disinfecting solution ( AOSept
Plus outside of North America) 73 Table of Contents Selected Development Projects Surgical Project/Product Mechanism of action Potential indication Planned submission date/Current Phase AcrySof IQ ReSTOR 2.5D Multifocal aspheric intraocular lens Presbyopia and cataractous lens replacement Submitted US AcrySof IQ ReSTOR Toric 2.5D Multifocal, aspheric and cylinder correcting intraocular lens Presbyopia and cataractous lens replacement with astigmatism correction 2014 US/Advanced development AcrySof IQ ReSTOR Toric 3.0D Multifocal, aspheric and cylinder correcting intraocular lens Presbyopia and cataractous lens replacement with astigmatism correction Submitted US Allegretto EX-500 laser Refractive correction Photorefractive keratotomy 2014 US/Advanced development LuxOR microscope Visualization Cataract surgery 2014/Advanced development Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals Project/Product Mechanism of action Potential indication Route of Administration Planned submission date/Current Phase EXE844 Anti-infective Otitis externa Topical 2014/III EXE844b Anti-infective Otic infections Topical 2015/II EXZ829 (olopatadine hydrochloride) Antihistamine and mast cell stabilization Allergic conjunctivitis Topical 2014/III GLT137 (travoprost) Prostaglandin analogue Glaucoma/ocular hypertension Topical Submitted Ilevro suspension (nepafenac) Anti- inflammatory Macular edema Topical 2015/III LFG316 Complement inhibition Geographic atrophy Intravitreal ³ 2017/II RTH258 Anti-VEGF Wet macular degeneration Intravitreal ³ 2016/II Simbrinza suspension (brinzolamide/brimonidine tartrate) Carbonic anhydrase inhibitor/alpha agonist Glaucoma/ocular hypertension Topical Submitted EU 74 Table of Contents Vision Care Project/Product Mechanism of action Potential indication Planned submission date/Current Phase Air Optix Aqua Colors Spherical correction with color enhancement Contact lens wear Submitted US CLM041 Presbyopia correcting contact lens Presbyopia correction Submitted LCE293 Disinfection and cleaning Contact lens care ³ 2014/Advanced development Principal Markets The principal markets for our Alcon Division include the US, Americas (except the US), Japan and Europe. The following table sets forth
the aggregate 2013 net sales of the Alcon Division by region: Alcon Division 2013 Net Sales to third parties $ millions % United States 4,179 40 Americas (except the United States) 1,108 10 Europe 2,831 27 Rest of the World 2,378 23 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Total 10,496 100 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ $ millions % Established Markets* 7,918 75 Emerging Growth Markets* 2,578 25 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Total 10,496 100 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ * Emerging
Growth Markets comprise all markets other than the Established Markets of the US, Canada, Western Europe, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. Sales
of certain ophthalmic pharmaceutical products, including those for allergies, anti-inflammatory and dry eye, are subject to seasonal variation. Sales of the majority of our other
products are not subject to material changes in seasonal demand. Research and Development In 2013, the Alcon Division expensed $1.0 billion (on a core basis $0.9 billion) in research and development, which
amounted to 10% of the Division's net sales. The Alcon Division expensed $1.0 billion (on a core basis $1.0 billion) and $0.9 billion (on a core basis $0.9 billion) in
research and development in 2012 and 2011, respectively. The
Alcon Division has more than 2,000 associates dedicated to research and development, working to address diseases and conditions that affect vision, such as cataracts, glaucoma,
retina diseases, dry eye, infection, ocular allergies and refractive error. Our Alcon Division invests $1 billion annually to drive research and new product development in eye care. Alcon's
pipeline strategy is built around a proof-of-concept qualification process, which quickly identifies opportunities that have the best chance for technical success and advances those projects, while
terminating others with a low probability of success. 75 Table of Contents The
Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research (NIBR) is the Novartis global pharmaceutical research organization that works to discover innovative medicines that treat disease and
improve human health. See "—Pharmaceuticals—Research and Development." For
Alcon's Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals business, NIBR engages in research activities in an effort to discover and expand ophthalmic research targets, and to develop chemical and biologic compounds for the
potential development in diseases of the eye, with a particular focus on diseases such as glaucoma and macular degeneration. The costs for these activities are allocated to Alcon. Research
and development activities for Alcon's surgical business are focused on expanding intraocular lens capabilities to improve refractive outcomes and on developing instruments for
cataract, vitreoretinal and corneal refractive surgeries. The focus for the Vision Care business is on the research and development of new lens materials, coatings and designs to improve patient
comfort, and on lens care solutions that provide the safety, disinfecting and cleaning power needed to help maintain ocular health. Production We manufacture our Alcon Division's pharmaceutical products at nine facilities in the United States, Belgium, France, Spain, Brazil,
Mexico, Canada and Singapore. Our Alcon Division's surgical equipment and other surgical medical devices are manufactured at twelve facilities in the United States, Belgium, Switzerland, Ireland,
Germany and Israel. Our Alcon Division's contact lens and certain lens care production facilities are in the US, Canada, Germany, Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia. The
goal of our supply chain strategy is to efficiently produce and distribute high quality products. The manufacture of our products is heavily regulated by governmental health
authorities around the world, including the FDA. In addition to regulatory requirements, many of our products involve technically complex manufacturing processes or require a supply of highly
specialized raw materials. For some products and raw materials, we may also rely on a single source of supply. The
manufacture of our products is complex and heavily regulated, which means that supply is never guaranteed. Like our competitors, our Alcon Division has faced manufacturing issues and
has received Warning Letters relating to such manufacturing issues. In particular, in December 2012, Alcon received an FDA Warning Letter following an inspection at the LenSx laser manufacturing site in
Aliso Viejo, California. Alcon responded in writing to the FDA, and in February 2013, FDA responded to Alcon
acknowledging that the corrective actions described in Alcon's written response appear to address the items identified in the Warning Letter. The FDA will verify these corrective actions during its
next scheduled inspection of the site. The items noted in the Warning Letter do not affect the safety or effectiveness of the LenSx laser, or impact
Alcon's ability to sell the product. If we or our third-party suppliers fail to comply fully with regulations then there could be a product recall or other shutdown or disruption of our production
activities. We have implemented a global manufacturing strategy to maximize business continuity in case of such events or other unforeseen catastrophic events. However, there can be no guarantee that
we will be able to successfully manage such issues when they arise. Marketing and Sales Our Alcon Division conducts sales and marketing activities around the world organized under five operating regions (US and Canada,
Europe/Middle East/Africa, Latin America/Caribbean, Asia and Japan). The Alcon Division's global commercial capability is organized around sales and marketing organizations dedicated to the Surgical,
Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals and Vision Care businesses. Most
of our global Alcon marketing efforts are supported by advertising in trade publications and by marketing and sales representatives attending regional and national medical
conferences. Marketing efforts are reinforced by targeted and timely promotional materials and direct mail to eye care practitioners in the office, hospital or surgery center setting. Technical
service after the sale is provided and an integrated customer relationship management system is in place in many markets. Where 76 Table of Contents applicable
in our Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals and Vision Care businesses, direct-to-consumer marketing campaigns are executed to promote selected products. While
our Alcon Division markets all of its products by calling on medical professionals, direct customers and distribution methods differ across business lines. Although physicians
write prescriptions, distributors, wholesalers, hospitals, government agencies and large retailers are the main direct customers for Alcon ophthalmic pharmaceutical products. Alcon surgical products
are sold directly to hospitals and ambulatory surgical centers, although Alcon sells through distributors in certain markets outside the US. In most countries, contact lenses are available only by
prescription. Our contact lenses can be purchased from eye care professionals, optical chains and large retailers, subject to country regulation. Lens care products can be found in major drugstores,
food, mass merchandising and optical retail chains globally, subject to country regulations. In addition, mail order and Internet sales of contact lenses are becoming increasingly important channels
in major markets worldwide. As
a result of the changes in healthcare economics, managed care organizations have become the largest group of payors for healthcare services in the US. In an effort to control
prescription drug costs, almost all managed care organizations use a formulary that lists specific drugs that can be prescribed and/or the amount of reimbursement for each drug. We have a dedicated
managed care sales team that actively seeks to optimize formulary positions for our products. Competition The eye care industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change and evolving industry requirements and standards.
Our Alcon Division typically competes with different companies across its three respective businesses—Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals, Surgical and Vision Care. Companies within this industry
compete on technological leadership and innovation, quality and efficacy of their products, relationships with eye care professionals and healthcare providers, breadth and depth of product offering
and pricing. The presence of these factors varies across our Alcon Division's product offerings, which provides a broad line of proprietary eye care products and competes in all major product
categories in the eye care market, with the exception of eyeglasses. Our principal competitors also sometimes form strategic alliances and enter into co-marketing agreements in an effort to better
compete with us. Regulation Our Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals products are subject to the same regulatory procedures as are the products of our Pharmaceuticals
Division. See "—Pharmaceuticals—Regulation." Our
Surgical and Vision Care products are regulated as medical devices in the US and the EU. These jurisdictions each have risk-based classification systems that determine the type of
information which must be provided to the local regulators in order to obtain the right to market a product. In the US, safety and effectiveness information for Class II and III devices must be
reviewed by the FDA. There are two review procedures: a Pre-Market Approval (PMA) and a Pre-Market Notification (510(k)) submission. Under a PMA, the manufacturer must submit to the FDA supporting
evidence sufficient to prove the safety and effectiveness of the device. The FDA review of a PMA usually takes 180 days from the date of filing of the application. Under Pre-Market Notification
(510(k)), the manufacturer submits notification to the FDA that it intends to commence marketing the product, with data that establishes the product as substantially equivalent to another product
already on the market. The FDA usually determines whether the device is substantially equivalent within 90 days. In
the EU, the CE marking is required for all medical devices sold. By affixing the CE marking, the manufacturer certifies that a product is in compliance with provisions of the EU's
Medical Device Directive. Most such products are subject to a self-certification process by the manufacturer, which requires the manufacturer to confirm that the product performs to appropriate
standards. This allows
the manufacturer to issue a Declaration of Conformity and to notify competent authorities in the EU that the 77 Table of Contents manufacturer
intends to market the product. In order to comply with European regulations, our Alcon Division maintains a full Quality Assurance system and is subject to routine auditing by a certified
third party (a "notified body") to ensure that this quality system is in compliance with the requirements of the EU's Medical Device Directive as well as the requirements of the ISO quality systems'
standard ISO 13485. Intellectual Property We attach great importance to patents, trademarks, copyrights and know-how in order to protect our investment in research and
development, manufacturing and marketing. It is our policy to seek the broadest possible protection for significant product developments in all major markets. Among other things, patents may cover the
products themselves, including the product's active substance and its formulation. Patents may also cover the processes for manufacturing a product, including processes for manufacturing intermediate
substances used in the manufacture of the products. Patents may also cover particular uses of a product, such as its use to treat a particular disease, or its dosage regimen. The
protection offered by such patents extends for varying periods depending on the legal life of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from
country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage. We monitor our competitors and vigorously challenge infringements of our intellectual property. See generally
"—Pharmaceuticals—Intellectual Property." Worldwide,
all of our major products are sold under trademarks that we consider in the aggregate to be important to our businesses as a whole. We consider trademark protection to be
particularly important in the protection of our investment in the sales and marketing of our Surgical, Ophthalmic Pharmaceuticals and Vision Care businesses. The scope and duration of trademark
protection varies widely throughout the world. In some countries, trademark protection continues only as long as the mark is used. Other countries require registration of trademarks and the payment of
registration fees. Trademark registrations are generally for fixed, but renewable, terms. We
rely on copyright protection in various jurisdictions to protect the exclusivity of the code for the software used in our surgical equipment. The scope of copyright protection for
computer software varies throughout the world, although it is generally for a fixed term which begins on the date of copyright registration. SANDOZ Our Sandoz Division is a leader in developing, manufacturing and marketing generic pharmaceutical products, follow-on biopharmaceutical
products and drug substances that are not protected by valid and enforceable third-party patents. As of December 31, 2013, affiliates of the Sandoz Division employed 26,905 full-time equivalent
associates worldwide, and sells products in more than 140 countries. In 2013, the Sandoz Division achieved consolidated net sales of $9.2 billion, representing 16% of the Group's total net
sales. The
Sandoz Division develops, manufactures, distributes and sells prescription medicines, as well as pharmaceutical and biotechnological active substances, which are not protected by
valid and enforceable third-party patents. Sandoz has activities in Retail Generics, Anti-Infectives and Biopharmaceuticals & Oncology Injectables. In Retail Generics, Sandoz develops,
manufactures and markets active ingredients and finished dosage forms of pharmaceuticals to third parties. Retail Generics includes the specialty areas of Dermatology, Respiratory and Ophthalmics. In
Anti-Infectives, Sandoz manufactures active pharmaceutical ingredients and intermediates—mainly antibiotics—for internal use by Retail Generics and for sale to third-party
customers. In Biopharmaceuticals, Sandoz develops, manufactures and markets protein- or other biotechnology-based products (known as biosimilars or follow-on biologics) and provides biotechnology
manufacturing services to other companies, and in Oncology Injectables, Sandoz develops, manufactures and markets cytotoxic products for the hospital market. 78 Table of Contents Sandoz has three strategic priorities: to differentiate Sandoz based on its extensive global reach and advanced technical expertise in the development,
manufacturing and marketing of differentiated generics and biosimilars, to be first-to-market as originators' substance patents expire or become unenforceable, and to be cost competitive by leveraging
economies of scale in production and development. According
to IMS Health, Sandoz is the second-largest company in worldwide generic sales and is the global leader in biosimilars, with three marketed medicines accounting for over half
of all biosimilars in the combined regions of North America, Europe, Japan and Australia. In addition, we have a pipeline of several biosimilar molecules including biosimilar rituximab (sold by Roche
under the brand names Rituxan®/MabThera®) and biosimilar etanercept (sold by Amgen and Pfizer under the brand name Enbrel®). In
2013, Sandoz launched 31 new products in the US—twice as many as in 2012—including first-to-market launches of candesartan cilexetil tablets (AstraZeneca's
Atacand®) and metronidazole 1% topical gel (Galderma Labs' Metrogel®) as well as authorized generics of Merck's temozolomide (Temodar®) and Celgene's azacitidine
(Vidaza®). Key
product launches in various European countries include montelukast (Merck's Singulair®), sildenafil (Pfizer's Viagra®), memantine (Lundbeck's
Ebixa®/Merz Pharmaceuticals' Axura®), escitalopram (Lundbeck's Cipralex®), methylphenidate (Janssen-Cilag's Concerta®), mometasone (Merck's
Nasonex®), and diclofenac (an authorized generic version of our Pharmaceuticals Division's Voltaren ). In
Biopharmaceuticals, Sandoz continued to strengthen its global leadership in biosimilars, and to drive its contract manufacturing base business. All three Sandoz biosimilar products
continue to occupy the number one biosimilar position in terms of market share in their respective markets. According to IMS data, recombinant growth hormone Omnitrope was the fastest growing hGH
treatment globally by volume. Omnitrope , which is now marketed in
over 40 countries, was also among Sandoz's top three products in terms of sales. In 2013, Sandoz also introduced an innovative device that provides patients with a simple and secure way to inject Omnitrope . Anemia medicine Binocrit continued to demonstrate strong growth in several European countries
as a short-acting erythropoietin stimulating agent (ESA). According to IMS, Sandoz G-CSF biosimilar, Zarzio, became the first biosimilar to overtake its
reference product (Amgen's Neupogen®), as well as market leader (Chugai's Granocyte®), and is now the most prescribed daily G-CSF by volume in Europe and the number one daily
G-CSF biosimilar globally. Sandoz
made significant progress on its biosimilar pipeline in 2013, with the start of Phase III clinical trials for biosimilar etanercept (Amgen's Enbrel®) and
biosimilar adalimumab (AbbVie's Humira®). Sandoz now has six molecules in Phase III trials, including a biosimilar version of the originator compound rituximab (Roche's
Rituxan®/MabThera®), which is currently in a Phase III clinical trial for the treatment of follicular lymphoma, and a Phase II trial for rheumatoid arthritis.
Some of the other molecules undergoing Phase III testing are biosimilar versions of pegfilgrastim (Amgen's Neulasta®), filgrastim for US registration (Amgen's Neupogen®)
and epoetin alfa (Janssen's Procrit®). Sandoz
received its first European approvals in Denmark in December 2013 and in other countries including Germany and Sweden in January 2014 for its AirFluSal
Forspiro respiratory inhaler for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease patients, which offers the proven combination of salmeterol (a long-acting inhaled
beta 2 -agonist) and fluticasone (an inhaled corticosteroid) in an innovative new inhalation device. The product's safety, efficacy and equivalence have been proven in multiple clinical
trials. These approvals of AirFluSal Forspiro are a key element of Sandoz's strategy to introduce differentiated generic medicines. In
2013, Sandoz continued to accelerate its efforts to build a leading, sustainable and lasting presence across Sub-Saharan Africa, where it is already the number one provider of
generics medicine across French West Africa. A strong product portfolio, including anti-infectives, tuberculosis treatments and maternal and child health products, support the objective to expand on
the continent and address the 79 Table of Contents needs
of African patients. In 2013, Sandoz opened offices in Senegal (regional office for West Africa), Kenya, Ethiopia, Nigeria, Ghana, and Zambia. The Division also continued its ongoing work
through several corporate responsibility projects, including efforts to develop "Health Shops" in Zambia in collaboration with the Zambian Ministry of Health to improve access to essential medicines
in rural areas and a collaboration with Ethiopian authorities to set up a regional bioequivalence laboratory in Ethiopia. Sandoz is developing plans to expand its production capacity in Sub-Saharan
Africa to address a growing demand for high-quality drugs. New Products Sandoz launched a number of important products in various countries in 2013,
including: • Nystatin-Triamcin cream (Bristol Myers Squibb's Mycolog®-II) • Montelukast (Merck's Singulair®) • Candesartan cilexetil tablets (AstraZeneca's Atacand®) • Sildenafil (Pfizer's Viagra®) • Zoledronic acid (authorized generic version of our Pharmaceuticals Division's Zometa ) • Clindamycin in 5% dextrose (Pfizer's Cleocin Phosphate® in Dextrose 5%) • Telmisartan (Boehringer Ingelheims Micardis®) • Capecitabine (Roche's Xeloda®) • Temozolomide (Merck's Temodar®) • Methylphenidate (Janssen's Concerta®) • Memantine (Lundbeck's Ebixa®/Merz Pharmaceuticals' Axura®) • Pioglitazone/Metformin tablets (Takeda Pharmaceuticals' Actoplus Met®) • Metronidazole 1% topical gel (Galderma Lab's Metrogel®) • Azacitidine for injection (Celgene's Vidaza®) Key Marketed Products The following tables describe key marketed products for Sandoz (availability varies by market): Retail Generics Product Originator Drug Description Amoxicillin/clavulanic acid Augmentin® Anti-infective Enoxaparin sodium injection Lovenox® Anti-coagulant Acetylcysteine Fluimicil® Respiratory system Fentanyl Duragesic® Analgesic Omeprazole Prilosec® Ulcer and heartburn treatment Linex (lactobacillus) n/a Dietary supplement Tacrolimus Prograf® Transplantation Sumatriptan Imitrex®, Imigran® Migraine headaches Atorvastatin Lipitor® Blood cholesterol reduction Diclofenac Voltaren Analgesic 80 Table of Contents Anti-Infectives Active Ingredients Description Oral and sterile penicillins Anti-infectives Oral and sterile cephalosporins Anti-infectives Clavulanic acid and mixtures with clavulanic acid ß-lactam inhibitors Classical and semisynthetic erythromycins Anti-infectives Intermediates Description Various cephalosporin intermediates Anti-infectives Erythromycin base Anti-infectives Various crude compounds produced by fermentation Cyclosporine, ascomysine, rapamycine, mycophenolic acid, etc. Biopharmaceuticals Product Originator Drug Description Omnitrope Somatropin® Recombinant human growth hormone Binocrit and Epoetin alfa Hexal Eprex®/Erypo® Recombinant protein used for anemia Zarzio and Filgrastim Hexal Neupogen® Recombinant protein used in oncology Oncology Injectables Product Originator Drug Description Leuprorelin Lupron®, Eligard® Prostate cancer Docetaxel Taxotere® Breast, ovarian and non-small cell lung cancer Methotrexate Folex®, Rheumatrex® Arthritis; breast, lung, cervix and ovarian cancer, and others Azacitidine Vidaza® Bone marrow cancer, leukemia Paclitaxel Taxol® Breast, lung and ovarian cancer, Kaposi sarcoma Gemcitabine Gemzar® Bladder, pancreas, lung, ovarian, and breast cancer Etoposide Etopophos®, Vepesid® Lung, ovarian, and testicular cancer Oxaliplatin Eloxatin® Colorectal and colon cancer Irinotecan Camptosar® Colon and Rectal cancer Doxorubicin Doxil®, Adriamycin® Leukemia, breast, bone, lung and brain cancer, many types of carcinoma and soft tissue sarcomas 81 Table of Contents Biosimilars in Phase III Development The following table describes Sandoz's biosimilar projects that are in Phase III development: Project/product Common name Mechanism of action Potential indication/ indications Therapeutic areas Route of administration EP2006 filgrastim Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor Chemotherapy-induced neutropenia; mobilization of peripheral blood progenitor cells and others (same as originator) Oncology Subcutaneous and intravenous GP2013 rituximab Anti-CD20 antibody Non-Hodgkin lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, rheumatoid arthritis, granulomatosis with polyangiitis (also known as Wegener's granulomatosis), and microscopic polyangiitis and others (same as originator) Oncology and Immunology Intravenous GP2015 etanercept TNF- a inhibitor Arthritidies (rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis), plaque psoriasis and others (same as originator) Immunology Subcutaneous GP2017 adalimumab TNF- a inhibitor Arthritidies (rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis), plaque psoriasis and others (same as originator) Immunology Subcutaneous HX575* epoetin alfa Erythropoiesis-stimulating agent Chronic kidney disease, chemotherapy-induced anemia and others (same as originator) Oncology and Nephrology Subcutaneous and intravenous HX575 s.c.** epoetin alfa Erythropoiesis-stimulating agent Chronic kidney disease Oncology and Nephrology Subcutaneous LA-EP2006 pegfilgrastim Pegylated granulocyte colony-stimulating factor Chemotherapy-induced neutropenia and others (same as originator) Oncology Subcutaneous * Planned
submission for US. ** Planned
submission for EU (extension nephrology). Approved as Binocrit since 2007. 82 Table of Contents Principal Markets The two largest generics markets in the world—the US and Europe—are the principal markets for Sandoz, although
Sandoz sells products in more than 140 countries. The following table sets forth the aggregate 2013 net sales of Sandoz by region: Sandoz 2013 Net Sales to third parties $ millions % United States 2,821 31 Americas (except the United States) 603 7 Europe 4,596 50 Rest of the World 1,139 12 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Total 9,159 100 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ $ millions % Established Markets* 6,625 72 Emerging Growth Markets* 2,534 28 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Total 9,159 100 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ * Emerging
Growth Markets comprise all markets other than the Established Markets of the US, Canada, Western Europe, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. Many
Sandoz products are used for chronic conditions that require patients to consume the product over long periods of time, from months to years. Sales of our anti-infective products
are subject to seasonal variation. Sales of the vast majority of our other products are not subject to material changes in seasonal demand. Production The goal of our supply chain strategy is to produce and distribute high-quality products efficiently. The manufacture of our products
is heavily regulated by governmental health authorities around the world, including the FDA. In addition to regulatory requirements, many of our products involve technically complex manufacturing
processes or require a supply of highly specialized raw materials. We
manufacture and package our Sandoz products at 45 manufacturing sites across 19 countries, supplying more than 140 countries globally. Among these, our principal production facilities
are located in Barleben, Germany; Kundl and Unterach, Austria; Menges and Ljubljana, Slovenia; Broomfield, Colorado; Wilson, North Carolina; Stryków, Poland; Kalwe and
Mahad, India; Boucherville, Canada; Cambé, Brazil; Gebze and Syntex, Turkey; and Hicksville and Melville, New York. Active
pharmaceutical ingredients are manufactured in our own facilities or purchased from third-party suppliers. We maintain state-of-the-art and cost-competitive processes within our
own production network. Those processes include fermentation, chemical syntheses and precipitation processes, such as sterile processing. Many follow-on biologics are manufactured using recombinant
DNA derived technology, by which a gene is introduced into a host cell, which then produces a human protein. This manufacturing process requires sophisticated technical expertise. We are constantly
working to improve current, and to develop new, manufacturing processes. Where
possible, our policy is to maintain multiple supply sources so that the business is not dependent on a single or limited number of suppliers, and competitive material sourcing can
be assured. 83 Table of Contents However,
our ability to do so may at times be limited by regulatory or other requirements. We monitor market developments that could have an adverse effect on the supply of essential active
pharmaceutical ingredients. All active pharmaceutical ingredients we purchase must comply with high quality standards. We
obtain agricultural, chemical and other raw materials from suppliers around the world. The raw materials we purchase are generally subject to market price fluctuations. We seek to
avoid these fluctuations, where possible, through the use of long-term supply contracts. We also proactively monitor markets and developments that could have an adverse effect on the supply of
essential materials. All raw materials we purchase must comply with our quality standards. For some products and raw materials, we may also rely on a single source of supply. In
November 2011, we received a Warning Letter from the FDA with respect to three of our Sandoz Division's facilities—in Broomfield, Colorado; Wilson, North Carolina; and
Boucherville, Canada. The letter followed inspections at all three sites in the course of 2011, and raised concerns regarding these facilities' compliance with FDA cGMP regulations. The FDA
observations in the letter related primarily to general documentation, validation and investigation practices. It stated that until the FDA confirms that the deficiencies have been corrected, the FDA
can recommend that any pending applications or supplements listing Novartis affiliates as a drug manufacturer not be approved. In addition, the FDA may refuse requests to issue export certificates to
our Sandoz US affiliate, or import certificates to our Sandoz Canada affiliate. The letter further states that other federal agencies may take the Warning Letter into account when considering the
award of contracts. In
May 2013 we received a Warning Letter from the FDA concerning the oncology injectables manufacturing facility in Unterach, Austria. The letter contained two observations which
followed an FDA inspection at the site in October 2012, and are related to historical visual inspection practices for products manufactured at the site. We
are collaborating with the FDA to correct all concerns raised in the Warning Letters, and to ensure that our products are safe and effective and meet the highest quality standards.
Inspections conducted in 2013 at all three North American facilities have confirmed our progress on the committed actions. During the fourth quarter of 2012, the FDA formally notified Sandoz that the
compliance status for the Broomfield, Colorado site was upgraded. In January 2014, the FDA formally notified Sandoz that the compliance status for the Boucherville, Canada site was upgraded. Work
continues on closing out committed actions across the sites. Our
Sandoz Division has experienced significant supply interruptions in the past, and there can be no assurance that supply will not be interrupted again in the future as a result of
unforeseen circumstances. The manufacture of our products is complex and heavily regulated, making supply never an absolute certainty. If we or our third-party suppliers fail to comply fully with
regulations or other unforeseen challenges occur, then there could be a product recall or other shutdown or disruption of our production activities. We have implemented a global manufacturing strategy
to maximize business continuity in case of business interruptions or other unforeseen catastrophic events. However, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to successfully manage such issues
and maintain continuous supply if such issues arise. Marketing and Sales Sandoz sells a broad portfolio of generic pharmaceutical products to wholesalers, pharmacies, hospitals and other healthcare outlets.
Sandoz adapts its marketing and sales approach to local decision making processes, depending on the structure of the market in each country. In
response to rising healthcare costs, many governments and private medical care providers, such as health maintenance organizations, have instituted reimbursement schemes that favor
the substitution of bioequivalent generic products for patented pharmaceutical products. In the US, statutes have been enacted by virtually all states that permit or require pharmacists to substitute
a less expensive generic product for the brand-name version of a drug that has been prescribed to a patient. Generic use is growing 84 Table of Contents in
Europe, but penetration rates in many EU countries (as a percentage of volume) remain well below those in the US. Legislative or regulatory changes can have a significant impact on our business in
a country. In Germany, for example, the generic market is in transition and healthcare reforms have increasingly shifted decision making from physicians to insurance funds. Our
Anti-Infectives business supplies Retail Generics and the pharmaceutical industry worldwide with active pharmaceutical ingredients and intermediates, mainly in the field of
antibiotics. Our
Biopharmaceuticals business operates in an emerging business environment. Regulatory pathways for approving biosimilar products are either relatively new or still in development, and
policies have not yet been fully defined or implemented for the automatic substitution and reimbursement of biosimilars in many markets, including the US. As a result, in many of these markets,
including the US, our biosimilar products are marketed as branded competitors to the originator products. Competition The market for generic products is characterized by increasing demand for high-quality pharmaceuticals that can be marketed at lower
costs due to comparatively minimal initial research and development investments. Increasing pressure on healthcare expenditures and numerous patent and data exclusivity period expirations have created
a favorable market environment for the generics industry. This positive market trend, however, brings increased competition among the companies selling generic pharmaceutical products, leading to
ongoing price pressure on generic pharmaceuticals. In
addition, research-based pharmaceutical companies have responded to increased competition from generic products by licensing their patented products to generic companies (the
so-called "authorized generic"). By doing so, research-based pharmaceutical companies participate in the conversion of their patented product once generic conversion begins. Consequently, generic
companies that were not in a position to compete on a specific product may enter the generic market using the innovator's product. In the US, the authorized generic is not subject to the US
Hatch-Waxman Act rules regarding exclusivity (see "—Regulation"). The company that launches an authorized generic typically launches its product at the same time as the generic exclusivity
holder. While this may serve as a business opportunity to Sandoz when our Pharmaceuticals Division's products lose patent protection, this tends to reduce the value of the exclusivity for the company
that invested in creating the first generic medicine to compete with the originator product. Furthermore, certain research-based companies continually seek new ways to protect their market franchise
and to decrease the impact of generic competition. For example, some research-based pharmaceutical companies have reacted to generic competition by decreasing the prices of their patented product, or
engaging in other tactics to preserve the sales of their branded products, thus potentially limiting the profit that the generic companies can earn on the competing generic product. Development and Registration Before a generic pharmaceutical may be marketed, intensive technical as well as clinical development work must be performed to
demonstrate, in bio-availability studies, the bio-equivalency of the generic product to the reference product. Nevertheless, research and
development costs associated with generic pharmaceuticals generally are much lower than those of the originator pharmaceuticals, as no clinical trials on dose finding and efficacy must be performed by
the generic company. As a result, pharmaceutical products for which the patent and data exclusivity period has expired can be offered for sale at prices often much lower than those of products
protected by patents and data exclusivity, which must recoup substantial basic research and development costs through higher prices over the life of the product's patent and data exclusivity period. For
biosimilar products, the regulatory pathways for approving such products are still in development, or pending final implementation, in many countries outside Europe. However, at
least for certain 85 Table of Contents biopharmaceutical
products, a certain number of carefully targeted clinical trials in patients to determine safety and efficacy do appear to be required. Sandoz has successfully registered and
launched the first biosimilar (or biosimilar type) product in Europe, the US, Canada, Japan, Taiwan, Australia and several Latin American countries, as well as two additional products in Europe. Currently,
the affiliates of the Sandoz Division employ more than 2,600 Development and Registration staff who explore alternative routes for the manufacture of known compounds and
develop innovative dosage forms of well-established medicines. These associates are based worldwide, including major facilities in Holzkirchen and Rudolstadt, Germany; Kundl, Schaftenau and Unterach,
Austria; Ljubljana and Menges, Slovenia; Boucherville, Canada; and East Hanover, New Jersey. In 2013, Sandoz expensed $0.8 billion (on a core basis $0.8 billion) in
product development, which amounted to 9% of the division's net sales. Sandoz expensed $0.7 billion (on a core basis $0.7 billion, as a result, in part, of a decrease of a contingent
consideration liability related to a business combination) and $0.6 billion (on a core basis $0.7 billion) in 2012 and 2011 respectively. Regulation The Hatch-Waxman Act in the US (and similar legislation in the EU and in other countries) eliminated the requirement that generic
pharmaceutical manufacturers repeat the extensive clinical trials required for originator products, so long as the generic version could be shown in bioavailability studies to be of identical quality
and purity, and to be therapeutically equivalent to the reference product. In
the US, the decision whether a generic pharmaceutical is bioequivalent to the original patented product is made by the FDA based on an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) filed by
the generic product's manufacturer. The process typically takes nearly two years from the filing of the ANDA until FDA approval. However, delays can occur if issues arise regarding the interpretation
of bioequivalence study data, labeling requirements for the generic product, or qualifying the supply of active ingredients. In addition, the Hatch-Waxman Act requires a generic manufacturer to
certify in certain situations that the generic product does not infringe on any current applicable patents on the product held by the innovator, or to certify that such patents are invalid or the
product is non-infringing. This certification often results in a patent infringement lawsuit being brought by the patent holder against the generic company. In the event of such a lawsuit, the
Hatch-Waxman Act imposes an automatic 30-month delay in the approval of the generic product in order to allow the parties to resolve the intellectual property issues. For generic applicants who are
the first to file their ANDA containing a certification claiming non-infringement or patent invalidity, the Hatch-Waxman Act provides those applicants with 180 days of marketing exclusivity to
recoup the expense of challenging the innovator patents. However, generic applicants must launch their products within certain time frames or risk losing the marketing exclusivity that they had gained
by being a first-to-file applicant. In
the EU, decisions on the granting of a marketing authorization are made either by the EMA under the Centralized Procedure, or by a single Member State under the national or
decentralized procedure. See "—Pharmaceuticals—Regulation—European Union." Companies may submit Abridged Applications for approval of a generic medicinal product
based upon its "essential similarity" to a medicinal product authorized and marketed in the EU following the expiration of the product's data exclusivity period. In such cases, the generic company is
able to submit its Abridged Application based on the data submitted by the medicine's innovator, without the need to conduct extensive Phase III clinical trials of its own. For all products
that received a marketing authorization in the EU after late 2005, the Abridged Application can be submitted throughout the EU. However, the data submitted by the innovator in support of its
application for a marketing authorization for the reference product will be protected for ten years after the first grant of marketing authorization in all Member States, and can be extended for an
additional year if a further innovative indication has been authorized for that product, based on pre-clinical and clinical trials filed by the innovator that show a significant clinical benefit in
comparison to the existing therapies. 86 Table of Contents Intellectual Property We take all reasonable steps to ensure that our generic products do not infringe valid intellectual property rights held by others.
Nevertheless, originating companies commonly
assert patent and other intellectual property rights in an effort to delay or prevent the launch of competing generic products. As a result, we can become involved in significant litigation regarding
our generic products. If we are unsuccessful in defending these suits, we could be subject to injunctions preventing us from selling our generic products and to damages, which may be substantial. Wherever
possible, our generic products are protected by our own patents. Among other things, patents may cover the products themselves, including the product's formulation, or the
processes for manufacturing a product. Patents also may cover particular uses of a product, such as its use to treat a particular disease or its dosage regimen. We seek the broadest possible
protection for significant product developments in all major markets. VACCINES AND DIAGNOSTICS Vaccines and Diagnostics consists of two activities: Vaccines and Diagnostics. Following the January 9, 2014 completion of the
divestment of our blood transfusion diagnostics unit to Grifols S.A., for approximately $1.7 billion in cash, the segment now consists only of Vaccines. Vaccines researches, develops,
manufactures, distributes and sells human vaccines worldwide. Its products include meningococcal, influenza, pediatric, adult and travel vaccines. Diagnostics researched, developed, distributed and
sold blood testing and molecular diagnostics products. As of December 31, 2013, the Vaccines and Diagnostics Division employed 6,997 full-time equivalent associates worldwide in 34 countries.
In 2013, the Vaccines and Diagnostics Division had consolidated net sales of $2.0 billion representing 3% of total Group net sales. The
current product portfolio of our Vaccines and Diagnostics Division includes more than 15 marketed products. In addition, the division's portfolio of development projects includes
more than 15 potential new products in various stages of clinical development. The
Novartis meningococcal franchise is expected to be a cornerstone of future growth for the division. Meningococcal disease causes approximately 50,000 deaths a year globally. Because
the vast majority of infections are caused by five serogroups—A, B, C, W-135 and Y—and the distribution of strains varies greatly over time and location, we are working to
deliver vaccines with broad coverage and the potential to protect all age groups at risk. In
January 2013, Bexsero , the Novartis Meningococcal Group B Vaccine (rDNA, component, adsorbed) received EU approval, following a
positive opinion from the CHMP in November 2012. With this approval Bexsero became the first broad coverage vaccine to help prevent a leading cause of
bacterial meningitis and septicemia in Europe. Global incidence of invasive meningococcal Group B disease (MenB) is estimated to be between 20,000 and 80,000 cases per year, with an approximate 10%
fatality rate. In the UK, MenB is the cause of the majority (approximately 55%) of all bacterial meningitis and
septicemia, and the cause of approximately 96% of such cases in infants. Bexsero received regulatory approval in Australia in August 2013 and has also
been submitted for approval to health authorities in certain other countries. We are working with health authorities to provide access to Bexsero as
soon as possible. In
July 2013, the UK Joint Commission on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI) released its interim recommendation regarding Bexsero , which
advised against the inclusion of Bexsero in the country's National Immunisation Programme (NIP) based on cost effectiveness concerns. After multiple
stakeholder responses to the interim recommendation, the JCVI issued a statement in October 2013, confirming that it would conduct further analyses before making a final recommendation on the
inclusion of Bexsero in the NIP. 87 Table of Contents Menveo (MenACWY-CRM), a quadrivalent conjugate vaccine for the prevention of invasive meningococcal disease caused by the A, C, Y and
W-135 serogroups of the bacteria, was approved in 2010 in the US for use in individuals 11-55 years old and in the EU for individuals 11 years and older. In 2011, Menveo gained approval for
use in individuals 2-10 years old in the US, and in 2012 gained approval in the EU for individuals 2 years and
older. In 2013, the FDA expanded the approval of Menveo for the prevention of meningococcal disease in infants and toddlers from 2 months of age.
With this expanded indication, pediatricians in the US can now offer a single vaccine to help protect infants as young as two months of age, children and adolescents against four of the five most
common serogroups that cause meningococcal disease. Influenza
vaccines are an important franchise of the division. Today, we are among the world's largest producers of influenza vaccines. Influenza vaccination is one of the most effective
public health interventions, sparing millions of people from complications, including death, from this infectious disease. In September 2013, Novartis began shipping Flucelvax, the first cell-culture
derived influenza vaccine approved in the US, to help protect adults 18 years and older against seasonal
influenza, to retailers and physicians in the US. Cell-culture technology marks the most significant advance in influenza vaccine manufacturing in the US in more than 40 years, and is an
alternative to traditional egg-based production. Flucelvax does not contain any preservatives, such as thimerosal, or antibiotics. In
2013, Novartis announced that it would deliver more than 30 million doses of its seasonal influenza vaccines Fluvirin and Flucelvax to US customers
for the 2013/2014 season. These doses were shipped in time for the start of public vaccination programs. Early arrival of
seasonal influenza vaccines ensures that healthcare professionals are equipped to provide the earliest possible vaccination against influenza. Young
children and older adults are among the most vulnerable to influenza. Fluad , our adjuvanted seasonal influenza vaccine, has been
approved for more than a decade in Europe to enhance the immune response in older adults, helping to overcome their naturally occurring immune vulnerability and enabling effective protection against
influenza. Novartis
has been awarded various contracts by the US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) including a (pre)pandemic preparedness contract and an Advanced Development and
Manufacturing (ADM) Center contract. Under the terms of the ADM contract, our production facility in Holly Springs, North Carolina will provide late-stage development and manufacturing expertise and
capabilities to support HHS-driven projects, including development of new biodefense agents and rapid manufacturing response in the event of a public health emergency. The (pre)pandemic preparedness
contract was used to support activities initiated by Novartis to develop a new vaccine for H7N9, a strain of avian influenza that emerged in China in early 2013. In addition, Novartis remains
dedicated to working with the World Health Organization and other stakeholders to support global pandemic preparedness, including affordable and equitable access to pandemic vaccines for developing
countries. In
2012, Novartis informed the WHO and other public health partners that it would cease oral polio vaccine (OPV) manufacturing by 2013. Novartis did continue to produce and
deliver oral polio vaccines to UNICEF, PAHO and individual countries in 2013, and supply commitments for 2013 were fulfilled as contracted. Novartis has been proud to have provided a significant
proportion of the global supply of OPV for more than 20 years and is a longtime supporter of the Global Polio Eradication Initiative. Novartis will continue to support efforts to eradicate
polio and other key global immunization initiatives. In
2011, Novartis Vaccines completed the acquisition of an 85% stake in the vaccines company Zhejiang Tianyuan Bio-Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Zhejiang Tianyuan offers
marketed vaccine products in China. We collaborate with Tianyuan on strengthening our existing product portfolio and expanding our innovation capabilities. This acquisition is also expected to
facilitate the introduction of additional Novartis vaccines into China where there continues to be tens of thousands of new cases of vaccine-preventable diseases each year. 88 Table of Contents Vaccines and Diagnostics Division Products The summary and the tables that follow describe key marketed products and potential products in development in our Vaccines and
Diagnostics Division. Subject to required regulatory approvals and, in certain instances, contractual limitations, we intend to sell our marketed products throughout the world. However, our Vaccines
and Diagnostics Division products are not currently available in every country. Regarding our products in development, these products and indications are in various stages of development throughout
the world. For some products, the development process is ahead in the US; for others, development in one or more other countries or regions is ahead of that in the US. Due to the uncertainties
associated with the development process, and due to regulatory restrictions in some countries, it may not be possible to obtain regulatory approval for any or all of the new products referred to in
this Form 20-F. See "—Regulation" for further information on the approval process. Vaccines Key Marketed Products Product Indication Influenza Vaccines Agrippal A surface antigen, inactivated, seasonal influenza vaccine for adults and children above six months of age. Fluad A surface antigen, inactivated, seasonal influenza vaccine containing the proprietary MF59 adjuvant for the elderly Fluvirin A surface antigen, inactivated, seasonal influenza vaccine for adults and children four years of age and up Optaflu (EU) Cell culture-based, surface antigen, inactivated, influenza vaccine for adults 18 years of age and up Flucelvax (US) Cell culture-based surface antigen, inactivated, seasonal flu influenza vaccine indicated for those aged 18 years and older Meningococcal Vaccines Bexsero Meningococcal Group B Vaccine [rDNA component adsorbed] Menjugate Meningococcal C vaccine for children 2 months of age and up Menveo Meningococcal A, C, W-135 and Y vaccine for children, adolescents and adults between 2 months and 55 years of age Travel Vaccines Encepur Children/ Encepur Adults Tick-borne encephalitis vaccine for children 1-11 years of age and for adults 12+ years of age Ixiaro (1) Prophylactic vaccine against Japanese encephalitis virus Rabipur/Rabavert Vaccine for rabies, which can be used before or after exposure (typically animal bites) in all age groups Pediatric Vaccines Quinvaxem (2) Fully liquid pentavalent vaccine combining antigens for protection against five childhood diseases: diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (whooping cough), hepatitis B and Haemophilus influenzae type b for
children above 6 weeks of age (1) In
collaboration with Valneva. (2) In
collaboration with Crucell. 89 Table of Contents Vaccines Key Products in Development Project/product Common name Vaccine Type Planned submission dates/Current phase Acellular Pertussis combination Tdap vaccine Pediatric ³ 2015/I Bexsero US Meningococcal B vaccine Meningitis ³ 2015/II C. difficile (1) C. difficile vaccine Hospital Infections ³ 2015/I Fluad US Seasonal influenza vaccine Seasonal Influenza 2014/III Flucelvax pediatric US Seasonal influenza vaccine Seasonal Influenza ³ 2015/III Flucelvax QIV Seasonal influenza vaccine Seasonal Influenza ³ 2015/III Group B streptococcus Group B streptococcus vaccine Maternal ³ 2015/II H5N1 flu cell culture vaccine (2) Pandemic influenza vaccine Pandemic ³ 2015/II H7N9 (2) H7N9 vaccine Pandemic Influenza ³ 2015/Not applicable Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) (3) HIV vaccine HIV ³ 2015/I MenABCWY Meningococcal A, B, C, W and Y vaccine Meningitis ³ 2015/II Menjugate liquid Meningococcal C vaccine Meningitis 2013/Submission P. aeruginosa (1) P. aeruginosa vaccine Hospital Infections ³ 2015/II Quadrivalent influenza vaccine— pediatric adjuvanted Seasonal influenza vaccine Seasonal Influenza ³ 2015/III S. aureus S. aureus vaccine Hospital Infections ³ 2015/I (1) Collaboration
with Valneva. (2) Collaboration
with United States Department of Health and Human Services. (3) Collaboration
with United States National Institutes of Health. 90 Table of Contents Principal Markets The principal markets for our Vaccines and Diagnostics Division include the US and Europe. The following table sets forth the aggregate
2013 net sales of the Vaccines and Diagnostics Division by region: Vaccines and Diagnostics 2013 Net Sales to third parties $ millions % United States 821 41 Americas (except the United States) 184 9 Europe 654 33 Rest of the World 328 17 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Total 1,987 100 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ $ millions % Established Markets* 1,512 76 Emerging Growth Markets* 475 24 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Total 1,987 100 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ * Emerging
Growth Markets comprise all markets other than the Established Markets of the US, Canada, Western Europe, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. Sales
of certain vaccines, including influenza and tick borne encephalitis vaccines, are subject to seasonal variation. Sales of the majority of our other products are not subject to
material changes in seasonal demand. Research and Development In 2013, the Vaccines and Diagnostics Division expensed $0.5 billion (on a core basis $0.5 billion) in research and
development, which amounted to 24% of the division's net sales. The Vaccines and Diagnostics Division expensed $0.5 billion (on a core basis $0.4 billion) and $0.5 billion (on a
core basis $0.5 billion) in research and development in 2012 and 2011 respectively. While
research and development costs for vaccines traditionally have not been as high as for pharmaceuticals, a robust clinical program including Phase I to Phase III must
be performed by the manufacturer to obtain a license for commercialization. See
"—Pharmaceuticals—Compounds in Development" and "—Pharmaceuticals—Research and Development." At each step, there is a substantial risk that we will not
achieve our goals. In such an event, we may decide or be required to abandon a product or program in which we have made a substantial investment. Production The goal of our supply chain strategy is to produce and distribute high quality products efficiently. The manufacture of our products
is heavily regulated by governmental health authorities around the world, including the FDA. In addition to regulatory requirements, many of our products involve technically complex manufacturing
processes or require a supply of highly specialized raw materials. For some products and raw materials, we may also rely on a single source of supply. We
manufacture our vaccines products at facilities in Europe, the US and Asia. Our principal production facilities are located in Liverpool, UK; Marburg, Germany; Siena and Rosia, Italy; 91 Table of Contents Ankleshwar,
India; and Holly Springs, North Carolina. We continue to invest and upgrade our existing sites to ensure that previously initiated remediation efforts are completed and meet quality
standards. Each
year new seasonal influenza vaccines need to be produced in order to help induce protection against the current circulating strains of the virus, which can change from year to year.
Global surveillance of influenza viruses is conducted throughout the year by the World Health Organization (WHO) Influenza Surveillance Network, which provides information on currently circulating
strains and identifies the appropriate strains to be included in next season's influenza vaccine. Each year, the EMA and the US Centers for Disease Control then confirm the vaccine composition for the
coming season for the northern hemisphere and the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration for the southern hemisphere. There can be no guarantee that the division will succeed in producing and
gaining approval of an updated influenza vaccine within the timeframes necessary to commercialize the vaccine for the applicable flu season. The
manufacture of our products is complex and heavily regulated, which means that supply is never guaranteed. Like our competitors, our Vaccines and Diagnostics Division has faced
significant manufacturing issues. If we or our third-party suppliers fail to comply fully with regulations then there could be a product recall or other shutdown or disruption of our production
activities. We have implemented a global manufacturing strategy to maximize business continuity in case of such events or other unforeseen catastrophic events. However, there can be no guarantee that
we will be able to successfully manage such issues when they arise. Marketing and Sales Our main Vaccines marketing and sales organizations are based in Switzerland, Germany, UK, Italy and the US. We are also seeking to
expand operations in China, India, Europe and Latin America. In the US, we market influenza, meningococcal, Japanese encephalitis and rabies vaccines through a network of wholesalers and distributors
as well as direct to key customers. Direct sales efforts are focused on public health and distributor channels, and on non-traditional channels, such as employers, chain drug headquarters and service
providers. Competition The global market for products of the type sold by our Vaccines and Diagnostics Division is highly competitive, and we compete against
other major international corporations with substantial financial and other resources. Competition within the industry is intense and extends across a wide range of commercial activities, including
pricing, product characteristics, customer service, sales and marketing, and research and development. There
is no guarantee that any product, even with patent protection, will remain successful if another company develops a new product offering significant improvements over existing
products. Regulation Our vaccines products are subject to essentially the same regulatory procedures as are the products of our Pharmaceuticals Division.
See "—Pharmaceuticals—Regulation." In the US, a company seeking approval of a vaccine submits a Biologics License Application (BLA) for the vaccine, rather than an NDA.
Subsequently, the BLA follows substantially the same path for approval as does an NDA. In addition, license applications for seasonal flu vaccines must be submitted annually. Intellectual Property We attach great importance to patents, trademarks, and know-how in order to protect our investment in research and development,
manufacturing and marketing. It is our policy to seek the broadest possible protection for significant product developments in all major markets. Among other things, patents may cover the products
themselves, including the product's active substance and its formulation. Patents may also cover the processes for manufacturing a product, including processes for manufacturing intermediate
substances used in the manufacture of the products. Patents may also cover particular uses of a product, such as its use to prevent a particular disease, or its dosage regimen. 92 Table of Contents The protection offered by such patents extends for varying periods depending on the legal life of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which
may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage. We monitor our competitors and vigorously challenge infringements of our intellectual property. CONSUMER HEALTH Consumer Health is a leader in the research, development, manufacturing and marketing of a wide range of competitively differentiated
products that restore, maintain or improve the health and well-being of consumers, as well as pets and livestock. The business of Consumer Health is conducted by a number of affiliated companies
throughout the world. Consumer Health consists of the following two divisions: • OTC (over-the-counter medicines) • Animal Health Each
division has its own research, development, manufacturing, distribution and selling capabilities. However, neither division is material enough to the Group to be separately
disclosed as a segment. As of December 31, 2013, the affiliates of Consumer Health employed 9,213 full-time equivalent associates worldwide. In 2013, the affiliates of Consumer Health achieved
consolidated net sales of $4.1 billion, which represented 7% of the Group's total net sales. The
divisions of Consumer Health place considerable emphasis on the development of strong, consumer-oriented and trustworthy brands. To deliver accelerated sales growth and to achieve
leadership positions in the fields in which we compete, the divisions of Consumer Health seek to give voice to the consumer and to determine the needs and desires of consumers. In
the dynamic world of consumer healthcare, consumers are becoming more knowledgeable about health and the benefits of self-medication. The success of each division depends upon its
ability to anticipate and meet the needs of consumers and health professionals worldwide. The
following is a description of the two Consumer Health divisions: • OTC (over-the-counter medicines) is a leader in offering products designed for self-care and prevention of common medical
conditions and ailments to enhance people's overall health and well-being. The business of OTC is conducted by a number of affiliated companies in more than 50 countries. The OTC business focuses on a
group of strategic global brands in leading product categories that include treatments for cough/cold/respiratory ailments (e.g., Theraflu and Otrivin ) and pain relief (e.g., Excedrin and Voltaren ), as well as products for digestive health (e.g., Benefiber and Prevacid24HR ), dermatology (e.g., Lamisil and Fenistil ), and smoking cessation ( Nicotinell ). • Animal Health offers products and services to save, prolong and improve animal lives, focusing on both companion and farm
animals (including cultivated fish). The business of Animal Health is conducted by affiliated companies in approximately 40 countries. Animal Health has a dedicated research and development team that
benefits from synergies with other Novartis businesses, most notably research in the Pharmaceuticals Division. Key products for companion animals include Atopica (atopic dermatitis management), Deramaxx and Onsior (pain relief), Fortekor (heart failure in dogs, chronic renal insufficiency in cats),
and Sentinel / Milbemax / Interceptor (intestinal parasite
control and heartworm prevention), while leading farm animal products include the therapeutic anti-infective Denagard , an effective broad-spectrum
antimicrobial used to treat and control bacteria in swine, CLiK, an effective insect growth regulator used to control blowfly strike in sheep, cattle
vaccines used to prevent respiratory and reproductive diseases in beef and dairy cattle, and Zolvix , a sheep drench representing the first new sheep
anthelmintic class in 25 years. Aquaculture products include vaccines and treatments mainly used in salmon farming. 93 Table of Contents Principal Markets The principal markets for Consumer Health are the US and Europe. The following table sets forth the aggregate 2013 net sales of
Consumer Health by region: Consumer Health 2013 Net Sales to third parties $ millions % United States 847 21 Americas (except the United States) 420 10 Europe 2,004 49 Rest of the World 793 20 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Total net sales 4,064 100 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ $ millions % Established Markets* 2,636 65 Emerging Growth Markets* 1,428 35 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Total net sales 4,064 100 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ * Emerging
Growth Markets comprise all markets other than the Established Markets of the US, Canada, Western Europe, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. Sales
of our OTC Division are marked by a high degree of seasonality, with our cough, cold and respiratory brands significantly affected by the timing and severity of the annual cold and
flu and allergy seasons. Sales of our Animal Health Division's livestock segment can also fluctuate seasonally, and can be significantly affected by climatic and economic conditions, or by changing
health or reproduction rates of animal populations. Sales of most of our other products are not subject to material changes in seasonal demand. Production The goal of our supply chain strategy is to produce and distribute high quality products efficiently. The manufacture of our products
is heavily regulated by governmental health authorities around the world, including the FDA. In addition to regulatory requirements, many of our products involve technically complex manufacturing
processes or require a supply of highly specialized raw materials. For some products and raw materials, we may also rely on a single source of supply. OTC:    Products
for our OTC Division are produced by the division's own plants, strategic third-party suppliers and other Group plants (which are predominantly owned and
operated by the Pharmaceuticals Division). The primary OTC plants are located in Lincoln, Nebraska; Nyon, Switzerland; Humacao, Puerto Rico; and Jamshoro, Pakistan. Animal
Health:    Approximately 80% of our production volume is manufactured by third parties and Novartis affiliates in other divisions. Animal Health has production
facilities of its own located around the world, with main sites in Wusi Farm, China; Dundee, UK; Larchwood, Iowa; Charlottetown, Canada; and Huningue, France. While
production practices may vary by division, we generally obtain our raw materials, intermediates and active ingredients from suppliers around the world. The raw materials,
intermediates and active ingredients we purchase are generally subject to market price fluctuations. We seek to avoid these fluctuations, where possible, through the use of long-term supply contracts.
We also proactively monitor 94 Table of Contents markets
and developments that could have an adverse effect on the supply of essential materials. All raw materials we purchase must comply with our quality standards. In
December 2011, we suspended operations and shipments from the OTC Division facility located at Lincoln, Nebraska, which also produces certain products for our Animal Health Division.
This action was taken to accelerate maintenance and other improvement activities at the site. Subsequently, in 2012 and 2013, we recalled certain OTC Division products that were produced at the
Lincoln facility. We made significant progress in 2012 and 2013 in the remediation of quality issues at Lincoln, and have out-sourced the production of certain Lincoln products, while discontinuing
others. We resumed commercial production of the Animal Health product Sentinel at the Lincoln facility in 2013, and the product was re-launched to the
US veterinary market in April 2013. In November 2013, we also resumed shipment of the OTC product Excedrin to the US market from Lincoln following the
FDA's October 2013 inspection of the site which resulted in no Form 483 observations. However, as of the date of this Form 20-F, it is not possible to determine when the plant will
resume full operations. As a result of the manufacturing issues at Lincoln, we have suffered and may continue to suffer significant losses in sales and market share. In addition, we have been required
to expend considerable resources on the remediation of the issues at this site. Should we fail to complete the planned improvements at the site in agreement with FDA in a timely manner, then we may
suffer significant additional losses in sales and drainage of resources, and we could be subject to legal action without further notice. As
a result of the activities at Lincoln, Consumer Health has experienced, and continues to experience, significant supply interruptions, and there can be no assurance that supply will
not be interrupted
again in the future as a result of unforeseen circumstances. The manufacture of our products is complex and heavily regulated, which means that supply is never guaranteed. If we or our third-party
suppliers fail to comply fully with regulations then there could be another product recall or other shutdown or disruption of our production activities. We have implemented a global manufacturing
strategy to maximize business continuity in case of business interruptions or other unforeseen catastrophic events. However, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to successfully manage such
issues when they arise. Marketing and Sales OTC:    OTC aims to be a leading global participant in fulfilling the needs of patients and consumers for self-care. Strong
leading brands and products, innovation led by a worldwide research and development organization, and in-house marketing and sales organizations are key strengths in pursuing this objective. We engage
in general public relations activities, including media advertisements, brand websites and other direct advertisements of brands, to the extent permitted by law in each country. We distribute our
products through various channels such as pharmacies, food, drug and mass retail outlets. Animal
Health:    Animal Health's products are mostly prescription-only treatments for both farm and companion animals. The major distribution channel is veterinarians, either
directly or through wholesalers of veterinary products. Primary marketing efforts are targeted at veterinarians using such marketing tools as targeted personal selling, printed materials, direct mail,
advertisements, articles in the veterinary specialty press, and conferences and educational events for veterinarians. In addition, we engage in general public relations activities and media
advertising, including brand websites and other direct advertisements of brands, to the extent permitted by law in each country. Competition The global market for products of the type sold by Consumer Health is highly competitive, and we compete against other major
international corporations with substantial financial and other resources. Competition within the industry is intense and extends across a wide range of commercial activities, including pricing,
product characteristics, customer service, sales and marketing, and research and development. Particularly in the US, our branded OTC products compete against "store brand" products 95 Table of Contents that
are made with the same active ingredients as ours. These products do not carry our trusted brand names, but they also do not carry the burden of the expensive advertising and marketing which
helped to establish a demand for the product. As a result, the store brands may be sold at lower prices. In recent years, consumers have increasingly begun to purchase store brand OTC products instead
of branded products. Research and Development OTC:    At OTC, the focus of research and development activities is primarily on pain relief and cough/cold/respiratory
treatments, as well as potential new therapeutic categories for the business. OTC also works closely with the Pharmaceuticals Division to evaluate appropriate products that can be switched from
prescription to OTC status. The development of line extensions to leverage brand equities is also of high importance. These extensions can take many forms, including new flavors, new galenical forms
and more consumer-friendly packaging. Animal
Health:    Novartis Animal Health has dedicated research and development facilities in Switzerland, North America and Australia. The main focus for research is
identification of potential new parasiticides and therapeutics in key areas of internal medicine. In addition, in the US and Canada, we devote resources to the quest for new pharmaceuticals and
vaccines for farm animals and cultivated fish. Also, our researchers exploit synergy with other Novartis businesses and collaborate with external partners to develop veterinary therapeutics and
vaccines. Drug delivery projects, some in collaboration with external partners, concentrate on key treatment areas and aim to improve efficacy and ease of use. In
2013, Consumer Health expensed $0.3 billion (on a core basis $0.3 billion) in research and development, which amounted to 8% of the division's net sales. Consumer Health
expensed $0.3 billion (on a core basis $0.3 billion) and $0.3 billion (on a core basis $0.3 billion) in research and development in 2012 and 2011 respectively. Regulation OTC:    For OTC products, the regulatory process for bringing a new product to market consists of preparing and filing a
detailed dossier with the appropriate national or international registration authority and obtaining approval of the applicable health authority. See
"—Pharmaceuticals—Regulation." OTC and health authorities worldwide continue to evaluate the safety of marketed products and propose changes based on this ongoing monitoring.
Dossier submissions can also be made to update safety and/or labeling information throughout a product's lifecycle. In the US, in addition to the NDA process, which also is used to approve
prescription pharmaceutical products, an OTC product may be sold if the FDA has determined that the product's active ingredient is generally recognized as safe and effective. FDA makes this
determination through a regulatory process known as the OTC Drug Review. In the OTC Drug Review, the FDA has established, in a series of monographs, the conditions under which particular active
ingredients may be recognized as safe and effective for OTC use. Pharmaceutical companies can market products containing these active ingredients without the necessity of filing an NDA and going
through its formal approval process, so long as the company complies with the terms of the published monograph. Outside the US, countries have their own regulatory processes for approving or allowing
the sale of pharmaceutical products, including prescription, OTC, and switching from prescription to OTC status. These processes vary from country to country, but essentially are all built on the
principle of requiring an assessment of product efficacy, quality and safety before any marketing activities can be undertaken. In addition, a process similar to the US monograph system exists in some
countries, such as Canada and Japan. Animal
Health:    The registration procedures for animal medicines are similar to those for human medicines. An animal drug application for product registration must be
accompanied by extensive data on target animal and user safety, environmental fate and toxicology, efficacy in laboratory and clinical studies, information on manufacturing, quality control and
labeling as well as on residues and food safety if 96 Table of Contents applied
to food-producing animals. In the US, animal health products are generally regulated by the FDA's Center for Veterinary Medicine. Certain product categories are regulated by the Environmental
Protection Agency, and vaccines are under the control of the US Department of Agriculture. In the EU, veterinary medicinal products need marketing authorization from the competent authority of a
member-state (national authorization) or from the EU Commission (community authorization) following either the Centralized Procedure, Mutual Recognition Procedure or the Decentralized Procedure. See
"—Pharmaceuticals—Regulation." Intellectual Property Our Consumer Health divisions are strongly brand-oriented. As a result, we consider our trademarks to be of utmost value. Enforceable
trademarks protect most of our brands in the majority of the markets where these brands are sold, and we vigorously protect these trademarks from infringement. Our most important trademarks are used
in a number of countries. Local variations of these international trademarks are employed where legal or linguistic considerations require the use of an alternative. See also
"—Alcon—Intellectual Property." Wherever
possible our products are protected by patents. Among other things, patents may cover the products themselves, including the product's active substance and its formulation.
Patents may also cover the processes for manufacturing a product, including processes for manufacturing intermediate substances used in the manufacture of the products. Patents may also cover
particular uses of a product, such as its use to treat a particular disease, or its dosage regimen. It is our policy to seek the broadest possible protection for significant product developments in
all major markets. Our
Consumer Health divisions also sell products which are not currently covered by patents. Some of these products have never been patent-protected and others have lost protection due
to patent expiry. 4.C Organizational Structure See "