Item 5.A Operating results—Factors affecting comparability of year-on-year results of operations.” 28 4.B Business overview Overview As a leading global medicines company, we use innovative science and digital technologies to create transformative treatments in areas of great medical need. In our quest to find new medicines, we consistently rank among the world’s top companies investing in research and development. Novartis products reach more than 800 million people globally and we are finding innovative ways to expand access to our latest treatments. Our purpose is to reimagine medicine to improve and extend people’s lives. Our vision is to be a trusted leader in changing the practice of medicine. Our strategy is to focus Novartis as a leading medicines company powered by advanced therapy platforms and data science. In 2018, Novartis achieved net sales of USD 51.9 billion, while net income amounted to USD 12.6 billion. Headquartered in Basel, Switzerland, our Group companies employed 125,000 full-time equivalent associates as of December 31, 2018. Our products are sold in approximately 155 countries around the world. The Group comprises three global operating divisions: • Innovative Medicines: innovative patent-protected prescription medicines • Sandoz: generic pharmaceuticals and biosimilars • Alcon: surgical and vision care products In June 2018, we announced that we plan to spin off Alcon into a separately-traded standalone company.  As two distinct publicly traded companies, we believe Novartis and Alcon will be better positioned to capitalize on significant growth opportunities and focus resources on their respective businesses and strategic priorities. Our divisions are supported by the following cross-divisional organizational units: the Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research, Global Drug Development, Novartis Technical Operations and Novartis Business Services.  The financial results of these organizational units are included in the results of the divisions for which their work is performed. As part of the planned spin-off of Alcon, efforts are being undertaken to prepare for the separation of Alcon from Novartis and to enable Alcon to operate as a standalone public company. As part of these efforts, Alcon has formed, and will continue to form, its own support functions, including its own service organization. The Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research (NIBR) is the innovation engine of Novartis, which conducts drug discovery research and early clinical development trials for our Innovative Medicines Division and also collaborates with our Sandoz Division. Approximately 6 000 full-time equivalent scientists and associates at NIBR are working to discover new medicines for various diseases at sites located in the US, Switzerland and China. For more information about NIBR, see “—Innovative Medicines—Research and development—Research program” below. Our Global Drug Development (GDD) organization oversees all drug development activities for our Innovative Medicines Division and the biosimilars portfolio of our Sandoz Division. The development of products for the Surgical and Vision Care franchises within our Alcon Division and of small-molecule generics for our Sandoz Division is not included in GDD. GDD works collaboratively with NIBR, Innovative Medicines and Sandoz to execute our overall pipeline strategy and takes an enterprise approach to pipeline portfolio management. GDD incorporates centralized global functions such as Regulatory Affairs and Global Development Operations, as well as Global Development units aligned with our business franchises. GDD includes approximately 11 000 full-time equivalent associates worldwide. Novartis Technical Operations (NTO) was established to centralize management of our manufacturing operations and supply chain across our Innovative Medicines and Sandoz Divisions, with a goal of further improving efficiency. Manufacturing for Alcon’s Surgical and Vision Care franchises continues to be managed by our Alcon Division. NTO is expected to optimize capacity planning and adherence to quality standards, and to lower costs through simplification, standardization and external spend optimization. Centralization is also expected to improve our ability to develop next-generation technologies, implement continuous manufacturing and share best practices across divisions. NTO includes approximately 25 200 full-time equivalent associates and 64 manufacturing sites across our Innovative Medicines and Sandoz Divisions. Novartis Business Services (NBS), our shared services organization, delivers integrated solutions to all Novartis divisions and units worldwide. NBS seeks to drive efficiency and effectiveness across Novartis by simplifying and standardizing services across six service domains: human resources, real estate and facility services, procurement, information technology, commercial and medical support activities, and financial reporting and accounting operations. NBS has approximately 10 500 full-time equivalent associates in more than 30 countries. NBS works to leverage the full scale of Novartis to create value across the Company and to free up resources to invest in innovation and our product pipeline. NBS continues to transfer the delivery of selected services to its five Global Service Centers in Dublin, Ireland; Hyderabad, India; Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; Mexico City, Mexico; and Prague, Czech Republic. As of January 1, 2019, Novartis Internal Audit, Business Practices Office and Global Security were combined into one function called Novartis Business Assurance & Advisory (NBAA). 29 Innovative Medicines Division Our Innovative Medicines Division researches, develops, manufactures, distributes and sells patented prescription medicines to enhance health outcomes for patients and healthcare providers. Innovative Medicines is organized into two global business units: Novartis Oncology and Novartis Pharmaceuticals. Novartis Pharmaceuticals consists of the global business franchises Ophthalmology; Neuroscience; Immunology, Hepatology and Dermatology; Respiratory; Cardio-Metabolic; and Established Medicines. Sandoz Division Our Sandoz Division develops, manufactures, distributes and sells prescription medicines as well as pharmaceutical active substances that are not protected by valid and enforceable third-party patents. Sandoz is organized globally into three franchises: Retail Generics, Anti-Infectives and Biopharmaceuticals. In Retail Generics, Sandoz develops, manufactures and markets active ingredients and finished dosage forms of pharmaceuticals to third parties. Retail Generics includes the areas of cardiovascular, central nervous system, dermatology, gastrointestinal and hormonal therapies, metabolism, oncology, ophthalmics, pain, and respiratory, as well as finished dosage form anti-infectives sold to third parties. In Anti-Infectives, Sandoz manufactures and supplies active pharmaceutical ingredients and intermediates – mainly antibiotics – for internal use by Retail Generics and for sale to third-party customers. In Biopharmaceuticals, Sandoz develops, manufactures and markets protein- or other biotechnology-based products, including biosimilars, and provides biotechnology manufacturing services to other companies. Alcon Division Our Alcon Division, a global leader in eye care, researches, develops, manufactures, distributes and sells eye care products. Alcon is organized into two global business franchises: Surgical and Vision Care. Surgical researches, develops, manufactures, distributes and sells ophthalmic products for cataract surgery, vitreoretinal surgery, refractive laser surgery and glaucoma surgery. The Surgical portfolio also includes implantables, consumables and surgical equipment required for these procedures and supports the end-to-end procedure needs of the ophthalmic surgeon. Vision Care researches, develops, manufactures, distributes and sells daily disposable, reusable, and color-enhancing contact lenses and a comprehensive portfolio of ocular health products, including products for dry eye, contact lens care and ocular allergies, as well as ocular vitamins and redness relievers. Alcon also provides services, training, education and technical support for both the Surgical and Vision Care businesses. Effective January 1, 2018, we transferred our over the counter ophthalmic products and certain surgical diagnostic products (2017 sales of USD 747 million) from the Innovative Medicines Division to the Alcon Division. Our prescription Ophthalmic medicines business remains with the Innovative Medicines Division. In compliance with IFRS, beginning with our first-quarter 2018 results, Novartis updated its segment financial information to reflect this transfer, both for the current and prior years, to aid comparability of year on year results. Corporate activities We separately report the results of Corporate activities. The financial results of our Corporate activities include the costs of the Group headquarters and those of corporate coordination functions in major countries. In addition, Corporate includes other items of income and expense that are not attributable to specific segments, such as certain revenues from intellectual property rights and certain expenses related to post-employment benefits, environmental remediation liabilities, charitable activities, donations and sponsorships. Corporate responsibility We are taking steps to continue to build trust with key stakeholders and society. We aim to hold ourselves to the highest ethical standards, be part of the solution on pricing and access to medicines, help tackle global health challenges, and be a responsible citizen wherever we operate. Holding ourselves to the highest ethical standards We continue to embed a principles based approach to compliance through the new Professional Practices Policy (P3), which in 2018 replaced separate divisional compliance policies. We believe this approach will help ensure that employees act in the best interest of patients, physicians and Novartis. Since 2016, we have adjusted the ratio of fixed to variable total compensation for our sales force to help ensure that the target variable component is a maximum of 35% of total compensation, on a country average basis. To receive any form of variable compensation, each employee, including the sales force, must perform to a minimum standard with regard to our Values and Behaviors, which include acting with integrity. For our sales force, in particular, 20% of target variable pay is based on demonstration of our Values and Behaviors. We are in the process of implementing these standards in every country in which Novartis operates. Ultimately, no sales representative will receive the variable compensation unless he or she meets expectations with respect to Values and Behaviors. In 2018, we assessed the rollout of the new incentive system with positive results. Across divisions, there was a 54% reduction in the number of reported complaints of fraud or professional practices in the sales force in 2018 compared to 2017. Despite this progress, we are still facing questions about our business practices. Following the issue with Essential Consultants, when our political consultancy practices came into question, we took steps to improve oversight and help prevent similar matters in the future. We have strengthened the relevant contracting and due diligence processes to help ensure more ownership and 30 transparency at a senior management level. For example, before Novartis engages political consultants, we will secure an independent due diligence report from an external partner. In addition, we continue to strengthen our Integrity & Compliance (I&C) function. In 2018, we combined our risk management and compliance functions in a single organization to help enable more effective risk management and mitigation efforts. We created the role of Chief Ethics, Risk and Compliance Officer to head the combined organization, and we elevated this role to the Executive Committee of Novartis (ECN). To help monitor and enforce our integrity standards, we added more than 100 people to the I&C function in recent years. The expanded team has increased the number of country visits to share learnings from across the organization, reaching about 220 in 2018. We also harmonized our I&C risk assessment and monitoring process and control activities into a single, continuous process supported by an online tool. We continue to evolve our reporting and data analytics to provide centralized and aggregated data across the risk functions to identify trends and help improve risk mitigation. For instance, in the last two years, we have seen a positive trend in generally effective internal compliance audits. At the same time, our whistleblower hotline continues to receive reports of suspected cases where employees may have failed to follow our ethical guidelines. However, the proportion of substantiated allegations related to ethics and compliance matters remains stable. We believe these are indications that our efforts are starting to pay off. We also started to employ data analytics for better monitoring and risk prevention. For example, in the US and China, the team leverages big data to monitor various aspects of engagement with healthcare professionals. Being part of the solution on pricing and access Our medications reach more than 800 million people worldwide every year, but billions more still lack access to essential medicines and healthcare. We are making a fundamental shift in the way we do business and are reimagining how to expand access to critical healthcare innovations. We launched the Novartis Access Principles, embarking on a journey to systematically integrate access strategies into how we research, develop and deliver our new medicines globally. These strategies include adopting innovative pricing and access models, refocusing research and development based on society’s healthcare needs, and supporting approaches to strengthen healthcare systems. We made significant progress in setting up our internal systems and training our internal teams on our new business standards. The ECN reviewed plans for key brands in launch phase to assess access strategies targeting underserved populations. For example, Aimovig, our innovative medicine for the treatment of migraine, is supported by programs designed to help accelerate access both before and after reimbursement, as well as to speed up introduction and access in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). We are also co-creating employer-based access schemes in selected markets, including Russia and Mexico. We aim to price our medicines responsibly, based on the value they deliver to patients, healthcare systems and society. In the US we recently implemented guidelines for limiting average net price increases across our portfolio to the healthcare inflation rate, and we publish average price increases annually in the Novartis in Society US report. In addition, we take local affordability into account when pricing our medicines. In LMICs, for instance, we introduced more affordable local brands of many innovative therapies, such as our heart failure treatment Entresto , to help speed up and improve access where there is inadequate healthcare coverage or reimbursement. Through our continued efforts and an impactful access strategy, the number of patients reached with Entresto in LMICs grew two-and-a-half-fold in the last 12 months. Overall, we have launched more than 60 local brands across more than 30 developing markets, reaching more than 220 000 additional patients to date. In addition, we are now able to reduce the time lag between availability of medicines in higher- and lower-income countries. For example, the first Entresto local brand was launched within 12 months of the launch in the European Union. We plan to further expand these strategies. Through our Novartis Social Business (NSB) group, we continue to pursue unique social business models, such as the Novartis Access and Healthy Family programs, to help expand access to healthcare in lower-income countries. Novartis Access, which offers a portfolio of 15 medicines to governments, nongovernmental organizations and other institutional customers for USD 1 per treatment, per month, delivered almost 2.3 million monthly treatments to five countries in 2018, and Healthy Family reached 7.8 million people with health education initiatives. Since January, NSB has adapted its product and price offering in six African and Asian countries, expanding reach to patients across all income levels. Novartis does not file or enforce patents in least developed countries or low-income countries. In late 2018, we reviewed our approach to patent filing in LMICs in an effort to better align it with the local socio-economic circumstances that exist in many of these countries. As a result, effective 2019, we decided to stop filing patent applications in nine LMICs, where Novartis had previously filed. In addition, in the remaining LMICs, we will aim to restrict patent filings to those patent applications covering new molecules or new chemical entities. Novartis is also a founding member of the Patent Information Initiative for Medicines (Pat-INFORMED), a unique public online resource launched in September 2018 that provides basic patent information for medicines of participating companies, and that aims to help procurement agencies around the world better understand patent status to help inform procurement decisions. As of December, Novartis has listed patent information for all of our small-molecule medicines, which goes significantly beyond Pat-INFORMED’s near-term goal of capturing information for medicines in a more limited number of disease areas. We regularly review our early- and late-stage development programs to identify further opportunities for adapting our existing medicines to address unmet patient needs in countries with a high disease burden. In 2018, 31 14 project proposals were endorsed to move forward. They include the development of a child-friendly formulation of hydroxyurea for treatment of sickle cell disease in Africa; the use of Entresto in heart failure related to Chagas disease; a project to identify potential differences in the pharmacokinetics of drugs in African patients, where such data is lacking; and the creation of a new Coartem formulation to treat infants below 5 kilograms of body weight. Tackling global health challenges Novartis has a long history of helping tackle some of the biggest global health challenges, particularly leprosy and malaria. The Novartis Foundation helped found the Global Partnership for Zero Leprosy in 2018. It brings together international organizations and national leprosy programs, with support from the World Health Organization, to accelerate progress toward eliminating the disease. The Novartis Foundation and Microsoft are partnering to develop a proof-of-concept digital health tool, enabled by artificial intelligence, and a Leprosy Intelligent Image Atlas – in collaboration with local investigators from the Oswaldo Cruz Foundation in Brazil – to aid in the early detection of leprosy. The launch of the first public version of the atlas is planned for 2019. In April, we renewed our commitment to malaria elimination, pledging USD 100 million to research and develop next-generation antimalarials over the next five years. In addition, we will help expand access to antimalarials formulated for children, and we plan to implement programs to strengthen healthcare systems in four sub-Saharan countries. We also launched efforts in other areas where we believe we can have significant impact. In October, in Latin America, we kicked off our partnership with the World Heart Federation to develop a roadmap for addressing Chagas disease, the second most common cause of chronic heart failure in Latin America. In Ghana, we kicked off a collaboration with the government and local partners to establish our commitment to sickle cell disease (SCD) in Africa. This collaboration aims to support the development of treatment guidelines; strengthen the healthcare system by establishing centers of excellence to advance newborn screening and train scientists; accelerate registration and launch of hydroxyurea for the treatment of SCD; and integrate the needs of patients into our drug development strategy. We plan to launch our commitment in 2019 and to also expand our efforts to other countries in sub-Saharan Africa. Being a responsible citizen Building trust with society requires doing business responsibly wherever we operate. This includes minimizing our environmental impact, managing risk in our supply chain, respecting human rights and being transparent. We have adopted a more ambitious 2030 environmental sustainability strategy, aiming for carbon neutrality, plastic neutrality and water sustainability. We have already taken steps to mitigate our exposure to environmental risk, completing a series of comprehensive supplier audits and taking relevant actions. For example, in the Hyderabad area of India, we are severing ties with six suppliers that failed to comply with our Supplier Code, and we are working with nine suppliers to improve their performance in critical areas such as operational efficiency, waste management, and use of natural resources. These suppliers share our values for environmental stewardship and employee health and safety. In October, our Third-Party Risk Management program went live in Mexico. The program is to be rolled out globally in 2019 in a phased regional approach, beginning in the Americas (including the US) and followed by Asia-Pacific and Europe later in the year. After completing human rights impact assessments in our own operations in Egypt, Turkey, China and Malaysia, we have established that we have strong policies and solid processes to identify and manage potential human rights risks. We have also identified common risk areas that require additional follow up action in 2019. For example, we need more regular and broader engagement and consultation with external stakeholders at a local level – including representatives from patient groups, local communities, health authorities and third-party partners – to gain a better understanding of issues; to help ensure that formal grievance mechanisms and processes are in place for communities living close to our manufacturing operations; and, in some markets, to address risks associated with our outsourced workforce. For additional information, see “—