Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and
Prospects—5.A Operating Results—Results of Operations—2015 Compared to 2014—Innovative Medicines—Research and development." Research program Our research program is conducted by the Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research (NIBR), which is responsible for the discovery of new
medicines. We established NIBR in 2002. The principal goal of our research program is to discover new medicines for diseases with unmet medical need. To do this, we focus our work in areas where we
have sufficient scientific understanding and believe we have the potential to change the practice of medicine. This requires the hiring and retention of the best talent, a focus on fundamental disease
mechanisms that are relevant across different disease areas, continuous improvement in technologies for drug discovery and potential therapies, close alliances with clinical colleagues, and the
establishment of appropriate external complementary alliances. At
NIBR sites in Basel, Switzerland, Cambridge, Massachusetts, and three other US locations, Singapore and China, more than 6,000 scientists, physicians and business professionals
contribute to research into disease areas such as cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, neuroscience, oncology, muscle disorders, ophthalmology, autoimmune diseases, and respiratory diseases.
Research platforms such as the Center for Proteomic Chemistry are headquartered at the NIBR site in Basel, Switzerland. In addition, the Novartis Institute for Tropical Diseases, the Friedrich
Miescher Institute, and the Genomics Institute of the Novartis Research Foundation focus on basic genetic and genomic research as well as research into diseases of the developing world such as
malaria, dengue and African sleeping sickness. All
drug candidates are taken to the clinic via "proof-of-concept" trials to enable an early assessment of the safety and efficacy of the drug while collecting basic information on
pharmacokinetics and tolerability, and adhering to the guidance for early clinical testing set forth by health authorities. Following proof-of-concept, our Global Drug Development unit conducts
confirmatory trials on the drug candidates. In
March 2016, Dr. Mark Fishman, President of NIBR, reached his contractual retirement age and retired. Dr. James E. Bradner, a physician-scientist from Dana Farber Cancer
Institute and Harvard Medical School succeeded Dr. Fishman in that role. In
October 2016, we announced a new strategic plan for research that includes the creation of a unified early discovery research group based in Basel, Switzerland and Cambridge,
Massachusetts, the creation of two centers of excellence for bio-therapeutic research in Basel, Switzerland and Cambridge, Massachusetts, the creation of an enterprise wide pharmacokinetics sciences
group and growth of our respiratory diseases research group. As part of this plan, the Novartis Institute for Tropical Diseases (NITD) will move research programs and operations from Singapore to
Emeryville, California, where it will be co-located with our infectious diseases research team. We also plan to complete the exit of all internal non-human primate research. These changes will result
in the 57 Table of Contents closure
of a biologics group in Shanghai, China and a team focused on non-human primate research in Fort Worth, Texas. We also plan to close ESBATech, a biologics group in Schlieren, Switzerland,
subject to all appropriate consultation. Development program Effective July 1, 2016, we established a Global Drug Development (GDD) organization to oversee drug development activities for our
Innovative Medicines Division. GDD works collaboratively with NIBR to execute our overall pipeline strategy and takes an enterprise approach to pipeline portfolio management. The new GDD organization
includes centralized global functions such as Regulatory Affairs and Global Development Operations, and Global Development units aligned with our business franchises. GDD was created to improve
resource allocation, technology implementation and process standardization to further increase innovation. GDD includes approximately 10,000 associates worldwide. Under
our Global Drug Development unit, the focus of our development program is to determine the safety and efficacy of a potential new medicine in humans. The
traditional model of development comprises three phases, which are defined as follows: Phase I: These are the first clinical trials of a new compound, generally performed in a small number of healthy human volunteers,
to assess the drug's safety profile, including the safe dosage range. These trials also determine how a drug is absorbed, distributed, metabolized and excreted, and the duration of its action. Phase II: Clinical studies performed with patients who have the target disease, with the aim of continuing the Phase I safety
assessment in a larger group, assessing the efficacy of the drug in the patient population, and determining the appropriate doses for further evaluation. Phase III: Large-scale clinical studies with several hundred to several thousand patients, which are conducted to establish the
safety and efficacy of the drug in specific indications for regulatory approval. Phase III trials may also be used to compare a new drug against a current standard of care to evaluate the
overall benefit-risk relationship of the new medicine. In
each of these phases, physicians monitor volunteer patients closely to assess the potential new drug's safety and efficacy. Though
we use this traditional model as a platform, we have tailored the development process to be simpler, more flexible and efficient. We view the development process as generally
consisting of Exploratory Development where "proof of concept" is established, and Confirmatory Development where this concept is confirmed in large numbers of patients. Exploratory Development
consists of clinical "proof of concept" (PoC) studies, which are small clinical trials (typically 5-15 patients) that combine elements of traditional Phase I/II testing. These customized trials
are designed to give early insights into issues such as safety, efficacy and toxicity for a drug in a given indication and are conducted by NIBR. Once a positive proof of concept has been established,
the drug moves to the Confirmatory Development stage and becomes the responsibility of GDD. Confirmatory Development has elements of traditional Phase II/III testing and includes trials aimed
at confirming the safety and efficacy of the drug in the given indication leading up to submission of a dossier to health authorities for approval. Like traditional Phase III testing, this
stage can also include trials which compare the drug to the current standard of care for the disease, in order to evaluate the drug's overall risk/benefit profile. The
vast amount of data that must be collected and evaluated makes clinical testing the most time-consuming and expensive part of new drug development. The next stage in the drug
development process is to seek registration for the new drug. For more information, see "—Regulation." At
each phase of clinical development, our activities are managed by our Innovation Management Board (IMB). The IMB is responsible for oversight over all major aspects of our development
portfolio and oversees our drug development budget. In particular, the IMB is responsible for the endorsement of proposals to commence the first clinical trials of a development compound, and of major
project phase transitions and milestones following a positive proof of concept outcome, including transitions to full development and the decision to submit a regulatory application to the health
authorities. The IMB is also responsible for project discontinuations, for the endorsement of overall development strategy and the endorsement of development project priorities. The 58 Table of Contents IMB
is chaired by our Global Head of Drug Development and Chief Medical Officer and has representatives from Novartis senior management, as well as experts from a variety of fields among its core
members and extended membership. Alliances and acquisitions Our Innovative Medicines Division enters into business development agreements with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and with
academic institutions in order to develop new products and access new markets. We license products that complement our current product line and are appropriate to our business strategy. Therapeutic
area strategies have been established to focus on alliances and acquisition activities for key disease areas and indications that are expected to be growth drivers in the future. We review products
and compounds we are considering licensing using the same criteria as we use for our own internally discovered drugs. In
January 2017, we entered into a collaboration and option agreement with Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Ionis), and its affiliate Akcea Therapeutics, Inc. (Akcea),
to license two investigational treatments with the potential to significantly reduce cardiovascular risk in patients suffering from high levels of lipoproteins known as Lp(a) and ApoCIII. The two
investigational antisense therapies developed by Ionis—called AKCEA-APO(a)-L Rx and AKCEA-APOCIII-L Rx —have the potential to lower both lipoproteins up to
90% and significantly reduce cardiovascular risk in high-risk patient populations. In addition, Novartis entered into a stock purchase agreement with Ionis and Akcea. This transaction is subject to
customary closing conditions, including regulatory approval. In
December 2016, we entered into a definitive agreement for the acquisition of Encore Vision, Inc., a privately-held company focused on the development of UNR844 (formerly EV06),
an investigational, first-in-class potentially disease modifying topical treatment for presbyopia. This acquisition was completed on January 20, 2017. In
December 2016, we signed an exclusive option, collaboration and license agreement with Conatus Pharmaceuticals Inc., for the global rights to emricasan, an investigational,
first-in-class, oral, pan-caspase inhibitor for the treatment of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) with advanced fibrosis and cirrhosis of the liver. Upon exercise of the option, Novartis will
obtain an exclusive, worldwide license to develop and commercialize products containing emricasan. The exercise of the option is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approval. In
December 2016, we entered into a definitive agreement for the acquisition of Ziarco Group Limited, a privately held company focused on the development of novel treatments in
dermatology including ZPL389, a once-daily oral H 4 receptor antagonist in development for atopic dermatitis. This acquisition was completed on January 20, 2017. In
November 2016, we acquired Selexys Pharmaceuticals Corporation and SEG101 (crizanlizumab, formerly SelG1), an anti-P-selectin antibody being investigated in the reduction of
vaso-occlusive pain crises in patients with sickle cell disease. In
June 2016, we announced a collaboration and licensing agreement with Xencor for the development of bispecific antibodies for treating cancer. We plan to collaborate with Xencor to
co-develop their two bispecific T cell engaging antibodies targeting CD3xCD123 and CD3xCD20 for the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia and B-cell malignancies. As part of the agreement,
Novartis also receives the right to develop four additional bispecific antibodies and to use other Xencor proprietary antibody engineering technology for up to ten additional biotherapeutic programs
across the Novartis research and development portfolio. In
January 2016, we announced a collaboration and licensing agreement with Surface Oncology, which gives Novartis access to four pre-clinical programs in immuno-oncology. These programs
target regulatory T cell populations, inhibitory cytokines, and immunosuppressive metabolites in the tumor microenvironment. In
March 2015, we entered into a collaboration with Aduro Biotech focused on the discovery and development of next generation cancer immunotherapies targeting the STING signaling
pathway. STING is a signaling pathway that when activated is known to initiate broad innate and adaptive immune responses in tumors. Aduro's novel small molecule cyclic dinucleotides (CDNs) have
proven to generate an immune response in preclinical models that specifically attacks tumor cells. 59 Table of Contents In
January 2015, we announced collaboration and licensing agreements with Intellia Therapeutics for the discovery and development of new medicines using CRISPR genome editing technology
and Caribou Biosciences for the development of drug discovery tools. CRISPR, an acronym that stands for clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats, is an approach that allows scientists
to easily and precisely edit the genes of targeted cells. In a short period of time it has proven to be a powerful tool for creating very specific models of disease for use in drug discovery and has
potential for use as a therapeutic modality for treating disease at the genetic level by deleting, repairing or replacing the genes that cause disease. In
February 2014, we acquired CoStim Pharmaceuticals Inc., a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based, privately held biotechnology company focused on harnessing the immune system to
eliminate immune-blocking signals from cancer. This acquisition enhanced our late discovery stage immunotherapy programs directed to several targets, including PD-1. In
2012, Novartis and the University of Pennsylvania (Penn) announced an exclusive global research and development collaboration to develop and commercialize targeted chimeric antigen
receptor (CAR) immunotherapies for the treatment of cancers. The research component of this collaboration focuses on accelerating the discovery and development of additional therapies using CAR
immunotherapy. In September 2014, as part of its alliance with Novartis, Penn announced plans for the construction of the Center for Advanced Cellular Therapeutics (CACT) on the Perelman School of
Medicine campus in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The CACT opened in February 2016 and is a first of its kind research and development center established specifically to develop and manufacture adoptive
T cell immunotherapies under the research collaboration guided by scientists and clinicians from NIBR and Penn. Regulation The international pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated. Regulatory authorities around the world administer numerous laws and regulations
regarding the testing, approval, manufacturing, importing, labeling and marketing of drugs, and also review the safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products. Extensive controls exist on the
non-clinical and clinical development of pharmaceutical products. These regulatory requirements, and the implementation of them by local health authorities around the globe, are a major factor in
determining whether a substance can be developed into a marketable product, and the amount of time and expense associated with that development. Health
authorities, including those in the US, EU and Japan, have high standards of technical evaluation. The introduction of new pharmaceutical products generally entails a lengthy
approval process. Products must be authorized or registered prior to marketing, and such authorization or registration must subsequently be maintained. In recent years, the registration process has
required increased testing and documentation for the approval of new drugs, with a corresponding increase in the expense of product introduction. To
register a pharmaceutical product, a registration dossier containing evidence establishing the safety, efficacy and quality of the product must be submitted to regulatory authorities.
Generally, a therapeutic product must be registered in each country in which it will be sold. In every country, the submission of an application to a regulatory authority does not guarantee that
approval to market the product will be granted. Although the criteria for the registration of therapeutic drugs are similar in most countries, the formal structure of the necessary registration
documents and the specific requirements, including risk tolerance, of the local health authorities can vary significantly from country to country. It is possible that a drug can be registered and
marketed in one country while the registration authority in another country may, prior to registration, request additional information from the pharmaceutical company or even reject the product. It is
also possible that a drug may be approved for different indications in different countries. The
registration process generally takes between six months and several years, depending on the country, the quality of the data submitted, the efficiency of the registration authority's
procedures and the nature of the product. Many countries provide for accelerated processing of registration applications for innovative products of particular therapeutic interest. In recent years,
efforts have been made among the US, the EU and Japan to harmonize registration requirements in order to achieve shorter development and registration times for medical products. However, the
requirement in many countries to negotiate selling prices or reimbursement levels with government regulators and other payors can substantially extend the time until a product may finally be available
to patients. 60 Table of Contents The following provides a summary of the regulatory processes in the principal markets served by Innovative Medicines Division affiliates: United States In the US, applications for drug registration are submitted to and reviewed by the FDA. The FDA regulates the testing, manufacturing, labeling
and approval for marketing of pharmaceutical products intended for commercialization in the US. The FDA continues to monitor the safety of pharmaceutical products after they have been approved for
sale in the US market. The pharmaceutical development and registration process is typically intensive, lengthy and rigorous. When a pharmaceutical company has gathered data which it believes
sufficiently demonstrates a drug's safety, efficacy and quality,
then the company may file a New Drug Application (NDA) or Biologics License Application (BLA), as applicable, for the drug. The NDA or BLA must contain all the scientific information that has
been gathered about the drug and typically includes information regarding the clinical experiences of patients tested in the drug's clinical trials. A Supplemental New Drug Application (sNDA) or BLA
amendment must be filed for new indications for a previously approved drug. Once
an application is submitted, the FDA assigns reviewers from its staff in biopharmaceutics, chemistry, clinical microbiology, pharmacology/toxicology, and statistics. After a
complete review, these content experts then provide written evaluations of the NDA or BLA. These recommendations are consolidated and are used by senior FDA staff in its final evaluation of the NDA or
BLA. Based on that final evaluation, the FDA then provides to the NDA or BLA's sponsor an approval, or a "complete response" letter if the NDA or BLA application is not approved. If not approved, the
letter will state the specific deficiencies in the NDA or BLA which need to be addressed. The sponsor must then submit an adequate response to the deficiencies in order to restart the review
procedure. Once
the FDA has approved an NDA, BLA, sNDA or BLA amendment, the company can make the new drug available for physicians to prescribe. The drug owner must submit periodic reports to the
FDA, including any cases of adverse reactions. For some medications, the FDA requires additional post-approval studies (Phase IV) to evaluate long-term effects or to gather information on the
use of the product under special conditions. Throughout
the life cycle of a product, the FDA also requires compliance with standards relating to good laboratory, clinical, manufacturing and promotional practices. European Union In the EU, there are three main procedures for application for authorization to market pharmaceutical products in the EU Member States, the
Centralized Procedure, the Mutual Recognition Procedure and the Decentralized Procedure. It is also possible to obtain a national authorization for products intended for commercialization in a single
EU member state only, or for additional indications for licensed products. Under
the Centralized Procedure, applications are made to the EMA for an authorization which is valid for the European Community. The Centralized Procedure is mandatory for all
biotechnology products and for new chemical entities in cancer, neurodegenerative disorders, diabetes and AIDS, autoimmune diseases or other immune dysfunctions and optional for other new chemical
entities or innovative medicinal products or in the interest of public health. When a pharmaceutical company has gathered data which it believes sufficiently demonstrates a drug's safety, efficacy and
quality, then the company may submit an application to the EMA. The EMA then receives and validates the application, and appoints a Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur to review it. The entire review cycle
must be completed within 210 days, although there is a "clock stop" at day 120, to allow the company to respond to questions set forth in the Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur's Assessment Report.
When the company's complete response is received by the EMA, the clock restarts on day 121. If there are further aspects of the dossier requiring clarification, the EMA will then
request an Oral Explanation on day 180, in which case the sponsor must appear before the CHMP to provide the requested additional information. On day 210, the CHMP will then take a vote to recommend
the approval or non-approval of the application. The final decision under this Centralized Procedure is a European Community decision which is applicable to all Member States. This decision occurs on
average 60 days after a positive CHMP recommendation. Under
the Mutual Recognition Procedure (MRP), the company first obtains a marketing authorization from a single EU member state, called the Reference Member State (RMS). In the
Decentralized Procedure (DCP) 61 Table of Contents the
application is done simultaneously in selected or all Member States if a medicinal product has not yet been authorized in a Member State. During the DCP, the RMS drafts an Assessment Report within
120 days. Within an additional 90 days the Concerned Member States (CMS) review the application and can issue objections or requests for additional information. On Day 90, each CMS must
be assured that the product is safe and effective, and that it will cause no risks to the public health. Once an agreement has been reached, each Member State grants national marketing authorizations
for the product. After
the Marketing Authorizations have been granted, the company must submit periodic safety reports to the EMA (if approval was granted under the Centralized Procedure) or to the
National Health Authorities (if approval was granted under the DCP or the MRP). In addition, several pharmacovigilance measures must be implemented and monitored including Adverse Event collection,
evaluation and expedited reporting and implementation, as well as update Risk Management Plans. For some medications, post approval studies (Phase IV) may be required to complement available
data with additional data to evaluate long term effects (called a Post Approval Safety Study, or PASS) or to gather additional efficacy data (called a Post Approval Efficacy Study, or PAES). European
Marketing Authorizations have an initial duration of five years. After this time, the Marketing Authorization may be renewed by the competent authority on the basis of
re-evaluation of the risk/benefit balance. Once renewed the Marketing Authorization is valid for an unlimited period. Any Marketing Authorization which is not followed within three years of its
granting by the actual placing on the market of the corresponding medicinal product ceases to be valid. Japan In Japan, applications for new products are made through the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA). Once an NDA is submitted, a
review team is formed consisting of specialized officials of the PMDA, including chemistry/manufacturing, non-clinical, clinical and biostatistics. While a team evaluation is carried out, a data
reliability survey and Good Clinical Practice/Good Laboratory Practice/Good Manufacturing Practice inspection are carried out by the Office of Conformity Audit and
Office of GMP/GQP Inspection of the PMDA. Team evaluation results are passed to the PMDA's external experts who then report back to the PMDA. After a further team evaluation, a report is provided to
the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW), which makes a final determination for approval and refers this to the Council on Drugs and Foods Sanitation which then advises the MHLW on final
approvability. Marketing and distribution approvals require a review to determine whether or not the product in the application is suitable as a drug to be manufactured and distributed by a person who
has obtained a manufacturing and distribution business license for the type of drug concerned and confirmation that the product has been manufactured in a plant compliant with Good Manufacturing
Practices. Once
the MHLW has approved the application, the company can make the new drug available for physicians to prescribe. After that, the MHLW lists its national health insurance price within
60 days (or 90 days) from the approval, and physicians can obtain reimbursement. For some medications, the MHLW requires additional post-approval studies (Phase IV) to evaluate
safety, effects and/or to gather information on the use of the product under special conditions. The MHLW also requires the drug's sponsor to submit periodic safety update reports. Within three months
from the specified re-examination period, which is designated at the time of the approval of the application for the new product, the company must submit a re-examination application to enable the
drug's safety and efficacy to be reassessed against approved labeling by the PMDA. Price Controls In most of the markets where we operate, the prices of pharmaceutical products are subject to both direct and indirect price controls and to
drug reimbursement programs with varying price control mechanisms. Due to increasing political pressure and governmental budget constraints, we expect these mechanisms to continue to remain
robust—and to potentially even be strengthened—and to have a negative influence on the prices we are able to charge for our products. Direct efforts to control prices United States. In the US, as a result of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA), the recurring focus on deficit
reduction, and public pressure on elected
officials based on recent price increases 62 Table of Contents by
certain pharmaceutical manufacturers, there is a significant likelihood of continued actions to control prices. Specifically, one proposal that has been repeatedly advanced would impose a
government-mandated pricing formula on both patented and generic medications provided through the Medicare prescription drug benefit (Medicare Part D). In addition, the ACA mandated the
creation of a new entity, the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB), which has been granted unprecedented authority to implement broad actions to reduce future costs of the Medicare program. This
could include required prospective prescription drug discounts or rebates, which could limit net prices for our products. The Medicare Trustees' Report from June 2016 predicted that the projected
5-year average growth in per capita Medicare program spending is likely to exceed a specified target level in 2017. If the Chief Actuary for CMS determines that the projected 5-year average growth
rate exceeds the target, the IPAB would then develop savings proposals in 2018 based on a savings target set by the Chief Actuary, to be implemented in 2019. There is also a possibility that
government officials will continue to search for additional ways to reduce or control prices, including state legislation mandating drug price controls, which could include limits on annual price
increases or maximum price levels. Europe. In Europe, our operations are subject to significant price and marketing regulations. Many governments are introducing
healthcare reforms in a further attempt
to curb increasing healthcare costs. In the EU, governments influence the price of pharmaceutical products through their control of national healthcare systems that fund a large part of the cost of
such products to consumers. The downward pressure on healthcare costs in general in the EU, particularly with regard to prescription drugs, has become very intense. Increasingly strict analyses are
applied when evaluating the entry of new products, and, as a result, access to innovative medicines is limited based on strict cost-benefit assessments. In addition, prices for marketed products are
referenced within Member States and across Member State borders, including new EU Member States, further impacting individual EU Member State pricing. Japan. In 2016, the National Health Insurance price calculation method for new products and the price revision rule for existing
products were reviewed, and the
resulting new drug tariffs became effective beginning April 2016. In addition, the MHLW implemented extraordinary price cuts in 2016 for certain products the sales of which have increased more than
100 billion Japanese Yen (one and one half times more than official forecasts). The Japanese government is currently undertaking a healthcare reform initiative with a goal of sustaining the
universal coverage of the National Health Insurance program, and is addressing the efficient use of drugs, including promotion of generic use. Meanwhile, the government tentatively initiated a premium
system which basically maintains the price of patented drugs for unmet medical needs in order to promote innovative new drug creation and the solution of the unapproved indication issue. The
continuance of this system will be reviewed as a part of price reforms in 2018. In December 2016, the Japanese government announced basic reform principles for fundamental reforms of the drug pricing
system in 2018. These include an increase in the frequency of price cuts from every other year to annually, beginning after the next regular price revision scheduled for April 2018. The government's
practice of mandating additional price decreases for specific products will continue. Rest of World. Many other countries around the world are also taking steps to control prescription drug prices. For example, in 2016,
China, one of our most important
emerging growth markets, organized national price negotiations for certain products directly linked to local drug reimbursement without further bidding, which will apply nationwide both in public and
military hospitals, with drug price reductions of more than 50% in some cases. Drug prices in China may further decline due to a stated national policy of reducing healthcare costs, including
continued strategic initiatives specifically designed to reduce drug prices. In addition, the Colombian government has taken steps to unilaterally reduce the price of Glivec by up to 43% through a local
procedural mechanism called a Declaration of Public Interest. While the government's use of this exceptional
mechanism as a tool to control the price of a prescription drug and to generally manage its healthcare budget is unprecedented, and we are contesting its appropriateness with respect to Glivec in
Colombia, its use could become more widespread if upheld in this case, potentially leading to a more systemic impact on drug pricing. Regulations favoring generics and biosimilars In
response to rising healthcare costs, many governments and private medical care providers, such as Health Maintenance Organizations, have instituted reimbursement schemes that favor
the substitution of 63 Table of Contents generic
pharmaceuticals for more expensive brand-name pharmaceuticals. In the US, generic substitution statutes have been enacted by virtually all states and permit or require the dispensing
pharmacist to substitute a less expensive generic drug instead of an original patented drug. Other countries have similar laws, including numerous European countries. We expect that the pressure for
generic substitution will continue to increase. In addition, the US, EU and other jurisdictions are increasingly developing laws and regulations encouraging the development of biosimilar versions of
biologic drugs, which can also be expected to have an impact on pricing. Cross-Border Sales Price
controls in one country can also have an impact in other countries as a result of cross-border sales. In the EU, products which we have sold to customers in countries with
stringent price controls can in some instances legally be re-sold to customers in other EU countries with less stringent price controls at a lower price than the price at which the product is
otherwise available in the importing country. In North America, products which we have sold to customers in Canada, which has relatively stringent price controls, are sometimes re-sold into the US,
again at a lower price than the price at which the product is otherwise sold in the US. Such imports from Canada and other countries into the US are currently illegal. Given the increased focus on
pharmaceutical prices in the US, members of the US Congress continue to explore legislation to allow the safe importation of pharmaceutical products into the US from select countries, including
Canada. We
expect that pressures on pricing will continue worldwide, and will likely increase. Because of these pressures, there can be no certainty that, in every instance, we will be able to charge prices
for a product that, in a particular country or in the aggregate, would enable us to earn an adequate return on our investment in that product. Intellectual Property We attach great importance to intellectual property including patents, trademarks, copyrights, know-how and research data in order to protect
our investment in research and development, manufacturing and marketing. In general, we seek intellectual property protection under applicable laws for significant product developments in major
markets. Among other things, patents may cover the products themselves, including the product's active ingredient(s) and its formulation. Patents may cover processes for manufacturing a product,
including processes for manufacturing intermediate substances used in the manufacture of the product. Patents may also cover particular uses of a product, such as its use to treat a particular
disease, or its dosage regimen. In addition, patents may cover assays or tests for certain diseases or biomarkers, which will improve patient outcomes when administered certain drugs, as well as
assays, research tools and other techniques used to identify new drugs. The protection offered by such patents extends for varying periods depending on the grant and duration of patents in the various
countries or region. The protection afforded, which may vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage. In
addition to patent protection, various countries offer data or marketing exclusivities for a prescribed period of time. Data exclusivity may be available which would preclude a
potential competitor from filing a regulatory application for a set period of time that relies on the sponsor's clinical trial data, or the regulatory authority from approving the application. The
data exclusivity period can vary depending upon the type of data included in the sponsor's application. When it is available, market exclusivity, unlike data exclusivity,
precludes a competitor from obtaining marketing approval for a product even if a competitor's application relies on its own data. Data exclusivity and other regulatory exclusivity periods generally
run from the date a product is approved, and so their expiration dates cannot be known with certainty until the product approval date is known. In
the US and other countries, pharmaceutical products are eligible for a patent term extension for patent periods lost during product development and regulatory review. The law
recognizes that product development and review by the FDA and other health authorities can take an extended period, and permits an extension of the patent term for a period related to the time taken
for the conduct of clinical trials and for the health authority's review. However, the length of this extension and the patents to which it applies cannot be known in advance, but can only be
determined after the product is approved. 64 Table of Contents United States Patents In the US, a patent issued for an application filed today will receive a term of 20 years from the application filing date, subject to
potential patent term adjustments for delays in patent issuance based upon certain delays in prosecution by the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). A US pharmaceutical patent which
claims a product, method of treatment using a product, or method of manufacturing a product, may also be eligible for a patent term extension based on the time the FDA took to approve the product.
This type of extension may only extend the patent term for a maximum of 5 years, and may not extend the patent term beyond 14 years from regulatory approval. Only one patent may be
extended for any product based on FDA delay. In
practice, however, it is not uncommon for significantly more than the 5 year maximum patent extension period to pass between the time that a patent application is filed for a
product and the time that the product is approved by the FDA. As a result, it is rarely the case that, at the time a product is approved by FDA, it will have the full 20 years of remaining
patent life. Rather, in our experience, it is not uncommon that, at the date of approval, a product will have from 13 to 16 years of patent life remaining, including all extensions available at
that time. Data and Market Exclusivity In addition to patent exclusivities, the FDA may provide data or market exclusivity for a new chemical entity or an "orphan drug," each of which
run in parallel to any patent protection. Regulatory data protection or exclusivity prevents a potential generic competitor from relying on clinical trial data which were generated by the sponsor when
establishing the safety and efficacy of its competing product. Market exclusivity prohibits any marketing of the same drug for the same indication. • A new small-molecule active pharmaceutical ingredient shall have 5 years of regulatory data exclusivity, during which time a competitor
generally may not submit an application to the FDA based on a sponsor's clinical data. • Orphan drug exclusivity provides 7 years of market exclusivity for drugs designated by the FDA as "orphan drugs," meaning drugs that
treat rare diseases, as designated by the FDA. During this period, a potential competitor may not market the same drug for the same indication even if the competitor's application does not rely on
data from the sponsor. • A new biologic active pharmaceutical ingredient shall have 12 years of market exclusivity, during which time a competitor may not market
the same drug for the same indication. • The FDA may also request that a sponsor conduct pediatric studies, and in exchange will grant an additional 6-month period of pediatric market
exclusivity, if the FDA accepts the data, the sponsor makes a timely application for approval for pediatric treatment, and the sponsor has either a patent-based or regulatory-based exclusivity period
for the product which can be extended. European Community Patents Patent applications in Europe may be filed in the European Patent Office (EPO) or in a particular country in Europe. The EPO system permits a
single application to be granted for the EU, plus other non-EU countries, such as Switzerland and Turkey. When the EPO grants a patent, it is then validated in the countries that the patent owner
designates. The term of a patent granted by the EPO or a European country office is generally 20 years from the filing date of the patent application on which the patent is based, subject to
potential patent term extensions and adjustments. Pharmaceutical patents can be granted a further period of exclusivity under the Supplementary Protection Certificate (SPC) system. SPCs are designed
to compensate the owner of the patent for the time it took to receive marketing authorization by the European Health Authorities. An SPC may be granted to provide, in combination with the patent, up
to 15 years of exclusivity from the date of the first European marketing authorization. However, an SPC cannot last longer than 5 years. The SPC duration can additionally be extended by
a further Pediatric Extension of 6 months if the product is the subject of an agreed pediatric investigation plan. The post-grant phase of patents, including the SPC system, is currently
administered 65 Table of Contents on
a country-by-country basis under national laws which, while differing, are intended to, but do not always, have the same effect. In
practice, as in the US, it is not uncommon for patent term extensions to not fully compensate the owner of a patent for the time it took to develop the product and receive marketing
authorization by the European health authorities. Accordingly, it is not uncommon that a pharmaceutical product, at the date of approval, will have a patent lifetime of 10 to 15 years,
including extensions available at that time. Data and Market Exclusivity In addition to patent exclusivity, the EU also provides a system of regulatory data exclusivity for authorized human medicines, which runs in
parallel to any patent protection. The system for drugs being approved today is usually referred to as "8+2+1" because it provides: an initial period of 8 years of data exclusivity, during
which a competitor cannot rely on the relevant data; a further period of 2 years of market exclusivity, during which the data can be used to support applications for marketing authorization,
but the competitive product cannot be launched; and a possible 1-year extension of the market exclusivity period if, during the initial 8-year data exclusivity period, the sponsor registered a new
therapeutic indication with
"significant clinical benefit." This system applies both to national and centralized authorizations. This system has been in force since 2005, therefore some medicines remain covered by the previous
system in which EU member states provided either 6 or 10 years of data exclusivity. The
EU also has an orphan drug exclusivity system for medicines similar to the US system. If a medicine is designated as an "orphan drug," then it benefits from 10 years of market
exclusivity after it is authorized, during which time a similar medicine for the same indication will not receive marketing authorization. Under certain circumstances, this exclusivity can be extended
with a 2-year Pediatric Extension. Japan Patents In Japan, a patent can be issued for active pharmaceutical ingredients. Although methods of treatment, such as dosage and administration, are
not patentable in Japan, pharmaceutical compositions for a specific dosage or administration method are patentable. Processes to make a pharmaceutical composition are also patentable. The patent term
granted is generally 20 years from the filing date of the patent application on which the patent is based, subject to potential patent term extensions and adjustments. A patent term extension
can be granted for up to 5 years under the Japanese Patent Act to compensate for erosion against the patent term caused by the time needed to obtain marketing authorization from the MHLW. As in
the US and EU, patent term extensions in Japan may not fully compensate for the time necessary to develop a product and obtain a marketing authorization. As a result, it is not uncommon for the
effective term of patent protection for an active pharmaceutical ingredient in Japan to be approximately 10 to 15 years, including available extensions. Data and Market Exclusivity Japan also has a regulatory data protection system called a "re-examination period" of 8 years for new chemical entities and
4-6 years for new indications and formulations and a 10 year orphan drug exclusivity system. Third Party Patents and Challenges to Intellectual Property Third parties can challenge our patents, patent term extensions and marketing exclusivities through various proceedings. For example, patents in
the US can be challenged in the USPTO through various proceedings, including Inter Partes Review (IPR) proceedings. They may also be challenged through patent infringement litigation under the
Hatch-Waxman Act. See generally, "—Sandoz—Intellectual Property" In the EU, EU patents may be challenged through oppositions in the EPO or national patents may be challenged in
national courts or national patent offices. In Japan, patents may be challenged in the Japanese patent office and in national courts. The outcomes of such challenges can be difficult to predict. In
addition to directly challenging our intellectual property rights, in some circumstances a competitor may be able to market a generic version of one of our products by, for example,
designing around our intellectual property or marketing the generic product for non-protected indications. Despite data exclusivity protections, a 66 Table of Contents competitor
could opt to incur the costs of conducting its own clinical trials and preparing its own regulatory application, and avoid our data exclusivity protection altogether. There is a risk that
some countries may seek to impose limitations on the availability of patent protection for pharmaceutical products, or on the extent to which such protections may be enforced. Also, even though we may
own, co-own or in-license patents protecting our products, and conduct pre-launch freedom-to-operate analyses, a third party may nevertheless claim that one of our products infringes a third party
patent for which we do not have a license. As
a result, there can be no assurance that our intellectual property will protect our products or that we will be able to avoid adverse effects from the loss of intellectual property
protection or from third party patents in the future. Intellectual Property Protection for Certain Key Marketed Products and Compounds in Development We present below certain additional details regarding intellectual property protection for certain Innovative Medicines Division products and
compounds in development. For each product and compound in development below, we identify issued, unexpired patents by general subject matter and, in parentheses, years of expiry in, if relevant, the
US, EU and Japan that are owned, co-owned or exclusively in-licensed by Novartis and that relate to the product or to the method of its use as it is currently approved
and marketed or, in the case of a compound in development, as it is currently filed with the FDA and/or the EMA for approval. Novartis may own or control additional patents relating to compound forms,
methods of use, formulations, processes, synthesis, purification and detection. Identification of an EU patent refers to national patents in EU countries and/or to the national patents that have been
derived from a patent granted by the EPO. We
identify unexpired regulatory data protection periods and, in parentheses, years of expiry for the products and compounds in development below if the relevant marketing authorizations
have been authorized or granted. The term "RDP" refers to regulatory data protection, regulatory data exclusivity (which in the EU refers to the protections under "8+2+1" regulatory data exclusivity),
and to data re-examination protection systems. We identify certain unexpired patent term extensions, SPCs and marketing exclusivities and, in parentheses, years of expiry if they are granted; their
subject matter scope may be limited, and is not specified. We designate them as "pending" if they have been applied for but not granted and years of expiry are estimable. Such pending applications may
or may not ultimately be granted. In the case of the EU, grant or authorization of a patent, patent term extension, marketing exclusivity or data protection means grant or authorization in at least
one country and possibly pending in others. Marketing exclusivities and patent term extensions include orphan drug exclusivity (ODE), pediatric exclusivity (PE), patent term extension (PTE) and SPC. For
each product below, we indicate whether there is current generic competition, which in the case of products containing biologics refers to biosimilar competition, for one or more
product versions in one or more approved indications in each of the major markets for which intellectual property is disclosed. We identify ongoing challenges to the disclosed intellectual property
that have not been finally resolved. Challenges identified as being in administrative entities, such as national patent offices, include judicial appeals from decisions of those entities. Resolution
of challenges to the disclosed intellectual property, which in the EU may involve intellectual property of one or more EU countries, may include settlement agreements under which Novartis permits or
does not permit future launch of generic versions of our products before expiration of that intellectual property. We identify certain material terms of such settlement agreements where they could
have a material adverse effect on our business. In other cases, such settlement agreements may contain confidentiality obligations restricting what may be disclosed. For
additional information regarding commercial arrangements with respect to these products, see "—Key Marketed Products." Novartis Oncology Business Unit Oncology • Gleevec/Glivec. US: Patent on polymorphic compound form (2019), PE (2019); patent on GIST
method of use (2021), PE (2022); patent on tablet formulation (2018). EU: Patent on polymorphic compound form (2018); patent on GIST method of use (2021); patent on tablet formulation (2023). Japan:
Patent on polymorphic compound form (2019); patent on GIST method of use (2021); patent on tablet formulation (2023). 67 Table of Contents There
is generic competition in the US, EU and Japan. In the US, Novartis has resolved patent litigation with certain generic manufacturers. An additional generic manufacturer has filed an ANDA
challenging the US polymorphic compound form patent; the automatic 30-month stay preventing FDA approval will expire in March 2018. Novartis is taking steps in some EU countries to enforce the
polymorphic compound form patent and the GIST method of use patent. The EU GIST method of use patent and polymorphic compound patent are being challenged in the patent offices and courts of several EU
countries. • Tasigna. US: Patent on compound (2023); patents on salt forms (2026, 2027, 2028); patent on
polymorph compound form (2026). EU: Patent on compound (2023); patent on salt form (2026); patent on polymorph compound form (2026); ODE (2017). Japan: Patent on compound (2023), PTE (2024); patent on
salt form (2026); patent on polymorph compound form (2026). There is currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. The EU salt form patent and polymorph compound form patent are being
opposed in the EPO. • Sandostatin SC and Sandostatin LAR. Sandostatin SC: There is no patent protection in the US, EU or Japan. There is generic competition in the US, EU and Japan. Sandostatin LAR : There is no patent protection in the US, EU or Japan. There is currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. • Afinitor/Votubia and Afinitor Disperz/Votubia dispersible tablets. US: Patent on compound (2014), PTE (2019), PE (2020); patent on dispersible tablet formulation (2022), PE (2023); patent on antioxidant (2019); patent on antioxidant (2019), PE
(2020); patent on TSC/SEGA use (2022), PE (2022); patent on breast cancer use (2022), PE (2022); patent on renal cell carcinoma use (2025), PE (2026); patent on pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor use
(2028); RDP for NET of gastrointestinal or lung origin (2019), PE 2019; ODE for TSC/SEGA use (2017), PE (2018); ODE for pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors use (2018), PE (2018); ODE for TSC/renal
angiomyolipoma (2019), PE (2019). EU: Patent on compound (2013), SPC (2018), PE (2019); patent on dispersible tablet formulation (2022); patent on antioxidant (2019); patent on breast cancer use
(2022); patent on pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor use (2026); ODE ( Votubia ) (2021). Japan: Patent on compound (2013), PTE (2018); patent on dispersible
tablet formulation (2022); patent on antioxidant (2019); patent on breast cancer use (2022); patent on pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor use (2026); patent on renal cell carcinoma use (2022); ODE
(tuberous sclerosis) (2022); RDP (2018). There
is currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. In the US, generic manufacturers have filed ANDAs challenging several patents; the earliest automatic 30-month stay preventing FDA
approval will expire in April 2018. The US compound patent is being challenged in IPR proceedings in the USPTO. • Exjade and Jadenu. Exjade : US: Patent on compound (2019); patent on method of use (2017). EU: Patent on compound (2017), SPC (2021); patent on tablet formulation (2023).
Japan: Patent on compound (2017), SPC (2021). There is currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. In the US, Novartis has resolved patent litigation with generic manufacturers relating
to Exjade . Jadenu : The compound patents in the US, EU and Japan and the US method of use patent identified for Exjade also protect Jadenu . There is currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. In the US,
generic manufacturers have filed ANDAs challenging the US compound patent; the earliest automatic 30-month stay preventing FDA approval will expire in May 2018. • Votrient. US: Patent on compound (2021), PTE (2023), ODE (2019). EU: Patent on compound (2021),
SPC (2025); RDP (2020). Japan: patent on compound (2021), PTE (2025); RDP (2020). There is currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. • Tafinlar and Mekinist. Tafinlar : US: Patent on compound (2030); RDP (2018); ODE (2020). EU: RDP (2023). Japan: Patent on compound (2029). There is currently no generic
competition in the US, EU or Japan. Mekinist : US: Patent on compound (2025), pending PTE (2027); patent on method of use (2025); patent on formulation (2032); RDP (2018); ODE (2020). EU:
Patent on compound and method of use (2025), 68 Table of Contents SPC
(2029); RDP (2025). Japan: Patent on compound (2025); patent on method of use (2025); patent on formulation (2031). There is currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. Use
of Mekinist with Taflinar or Taflinar with Mekinist : US:
Patent on use of Tafinlar and Mekinist (2030); RDP (2017); ODE 2021. EU: RDP (2025). Japan: Patent on use of Tafinlar and Mekinist (2030).
There is currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. • Promacta/Revolade. US: Patent on compound (2021), PTE (2022), PE (2023); patent on salt form
(2025); patent on formulation (2027). EU: Patent on compound (2021), SPC (2025); patent on salt form (2023); patent on formulation (2027); RDP (2020). Japan: Patent on compound (2021), PTE (2025);
patent on salt form (2023); patent on formulation (2027); RDP (2018). There is currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. The EU formulation patent is being opposed in the EPO. • Jakavi. EU: Patent on compound (2026), SPC (2027); patent on salt (2028); RDP (2023). Japan:
Patent on compound (2026), PTE (2028), PTE (2030); patent on salt (2028), PTE (2028), PTE (2030); patent on compositions for medical uses (2026), PTE (2027); RDP (2022). There is currently no generic
competition in the EU or Japan. The EU salt patent is being opposed in the EPO. Novartis Pharmaceuticals Business Unit Ophthalmology • Lucentis. EU: Patent on compound (2018), SPC (2022). Japan: Patent on compound (2018), PTE (AMD
indication) (2019), PTE (other indications) (2023). There is currently no generic competition in the EU or Japan. • Duotrav, Travatan and Travatan Z. Duotrav. EU: Patent on methods of use (2014), SPC (2016), PE (2017); two patents on formulations (2029). Japan: Patent on methods of use (2014), PTE
(2018); two patents on formulations (2029). Duotrav is not marketed in the US. There is currently no generic competition in the EU or Japan. In the EU,
the formulation patents are being opposed in the EPO. Travatan. EU: Patent on method of use (2014), SPC (2016), PE (2017); two patents on formulations (2029). Travatan is not marketed in the US or Japan. There is
generic competition in some EU countries. In the EU, the formulation patents are being opposed in
the EPO. Travatan Z. US: Three patents on formulations (2027(2), 2029). Japan: Patent on formulation (2027). Travatan
Z is not marketed in the EU. There is currently no generic competition in the US or Japan. In the US, Novartis has resolved patent litigation with certain generic
manufacturers. • Systane Ultra, Systane Original , Systane
Balance and Systane Hydration. Systane Ultra. US: Three patents on formulation (2017, 2018, 2028). EU: Two patents on formulation (2017, 2018). Japan: Three patents on formulation
(2017, 2018, 2029). There is currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. Systane Original. US: Patent on formulation (2018). EU: Patent on formulation (2018). Japan: Patent on formulation (2018). There is currently no generic
competition in the US, EU or Japan. Systane Balance. US: Patent on formulation (2018). EU: Two patents on formulation (2018, 2030). Japan: Two patents on formulation (2018, 2030). There is
currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. Systane Hydration. US: Two patents on formulation (2018, 2024). EU: Two patents on formulation (2018, 2024). Japan: Two patents on formulation (2018,
2024). There is currently no generic in the US, EU or Japan. • Patanol, Pataday and Pazeo. Patanol. EU: Patent on method of use (2016), SPC (2017). Japan: Patent on method of use (2016), PTE (2021). There is generic competition in the US and
some EU countries. There is currently no generic 69 Table of Contents competition
in Japan. The Japanese method of use patent is being challenged in the Japanese Patent Office. Pataday. US: Patent on formulation (2022), PE (2022); patent on formulation (2023), PE (2024). Pataday is not marketed in the EU or Japan. There is currently no generic competition in the US. In the US, Novartis has resolved patent litigation with certain generic manufacturers. In the US, an additional
generic manufacturer has filed an ANDA challenging the formulation patents; the automatic 30-month stay preventing FDA approval will expire in April 2019. Pazeo. US: Patent on formulation (2032); New Product Exclusivity, PE (2018). Pazeo is not marketed in
the EU or Japan. There is currently no generic competition in the US. In the US, generic manufacturers have filed ANDAs challenging the formulation patent; the earliest automatic 30-month stay
preventing FDA approval will expire in May 2018. Neuroscience • Gilenya. US: Patent on compound (2014), PTE (2019); patent on formulation (2026); patent on
dose (2027). EU: Patent on compound (2013), SPC (2018); RDP (2021); patent on formulation (2024), SPC (2026). There is currently no generic competition in the US or EU. In the US, certain generic
manufacturers have filed ANDAs challenging the US compound patent and formulation patent; the earliest automatic 30-month stays preventing FDA approval will expire in March 2018. The US formulation
patent is being challenged in an IPR proceeding in the USPTO. Immunology and Dermatology • Cosentyx. US: Patent on compound (2027), pending PTE (2029); RDP (2027). EU: Patent on compound
(2025), pending SPC (2030), pending PE (2030); RDP (2026). Japan: Patent on compound (2025), PTE (2029); patent on method of use (2031), PTE (2032); RDP (2022). There is currently no generic
competition in the US, EU, or Japan. • Neoral. There is no patent protection for Neoral in the US, EU or Japan. There is generic competition
in the US, EU and Japan. • Zortress/Certican. US: Patent on compound (2014), PTE (2019), PE (2020); patent on dispersible
tablet formulation (2022), PE (2023); patent on antioxidant (2019); patent on antioxidant (2019), PE (2020); patent on methods of use (2017), PE (2018); patent on methods of use (2017), PE (2018). EU:
Patent on compound (2013), SPC (2018), PE (2019); two patents on methods of use (2017); patent on dispersible tablet formulation (2022); patent on antioxidant (2019). Japan: Patent on compound (2013),
PTE (2018); patent on dispersible tablet formulation (2022); patent on antioxidant (2019). There
is currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. In the US, generic manufacturers have filed ANDAs challenging several patents; the earliest automatic 30-month stay preventing FDA
approval will expire in March 2017. The US compound patent is being challenged in IPR proceedings in the USPTO. • Myfortic. US: Patent on formulation (2017), PTE (2018); patent on particle size (2024). EU:
Patent on formulation (2017), SPC (2017); patent on formulation (2022); patent on particle size (2024). There is generic competition in the US. There is currently no generic competition in the EU. In
the EU, Novartis has resolved patent litigation with certain generic manufacturers. The EU formulation patent and particle size patent are being opposed in the EPO. • Xolair. US: Patent on compound (2018); patent on lyophilized formulation (2016), PTE (2017);
patents on syringe formulation (2021, 2024). EU: Patent on compound (2012), SPC (2017); patents on syringe formulation (2021, 2024). Japan: Patent on compound (2012), PTE (2017); patents on syringe
formulation (2021, 2024). There is currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. The EU syringe formulation patent (2021) is being opposed in the EPO. 70 Table of Contents Respiratory • Xolair. The information set forth in the IP paragraph for Xolair under the "Immunology and
Dermatology" heading also applies to Xolair for respiratory indications. • Ultibro Breezhaler/Utibron Neohaler, Onbrez Breezhaler/Arcapta Neohaler and Seebri Breezhaler/Neohaler. Ultibro Breezhaler/Utibron Neohaler. US: Patent on compound (2020), PTE (2025); three patents on methods of use (2021); patent on device (2025); RDP
(2018). EU: Patent on compound (2020), SPC (2024); patent on device (2025); patent on method of use (2021), SPC (2026); RDP (2023). Japan: Patent on compound (2020), PTE (2025); patent on device
(2025); patent on method of use (2021); RDP (2019). There is currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. Onbrez Breezhaler/Arcapta Neohaler. US: Patent on compound (2020), PTE (2025); patent on device (2025). EU: Patent on compound (2020), SPC (2024);
patent on device (2025); RDP (2019). Japan: Patent on compound (2020), PTE (2025); patent on device (2025); RDP (2019). There is currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. Seebri Breezhaler/Neohaler. US: Patent on device (2025); three patents on uses (2021); RDP (2018). EU: Patent on formulation (2027); patent on device
(2025); patent on use (2021), SPC (2026); RDP (2022). Japan: four patents on formulations (2025 (2), 2026 (2)); patent on device (2027); patent on use (2021); RDP (2020). There is
currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. Cardio-Metabolic • Galvus and Eucreas . EU: Patent on compound
(2019), SPC (2022); patent on combination (2021), SPC (2022); patent on Eucreas formulation (2026); RDP (2017). Japan: Patent on compound (2019), PTE
(2024), pending PTE (2024); patent on combination (2021); patent on Galvus formulation (2025), PTE (2025); patent on Eucreas formulation (2026), pending
PTE (2028); Galvus RDP (2018); Eucreas RDP (2019). Galvus/Eucreas is not marketed in the US. There is
currently no generic competition
in the EU or Japan. The EU Eucreas formulation patent is being opposed in the EPO. • Entresto. US: Patents on combination (2023); patents on complex (2026,
2027); RDP (2020). EU: Patent on combination (2023), SPC (2028); patent on complex (2026), SPC (2030); patents on formulation (2028 (2)); RDP (2025). Japan: Patent on combination (2023); patent
on complex (2026); patent on formulation (2028). There is currently no generic competition in the US, EU or Japan. The EU complex patent and the EU formulation patent are being opposed in the EPO. Established Medicines • Diovan and Co-Diovan/Diovan HCT. Diovan : US:
Patent on formulation (2017), PE (2017). There is generic competition in the US, EU and Japan. Co-Diovan/Diovan HCT : US: Patent on formulation (2017),
PE (2017). Japan: Patent on formulation (2017). There is generic competition in the US, EU and Japan. • Exforge and Exforge HCT. Exforge : US: Patent on Exforge combination (2019). EU: Patent on Exforge combination/ Exforge HCT combination (2019), SPC (2021). There is generic competition in the US, EU and Japan. The
EU Exforge combination/ Exforge HCT combination patent is being challenged in the EPO and in the patent
offices of some EU countries. In the EU, Novartis has resolved patent litigation with certain generic manufacturers. We are taking steps to enforce the EU Exforge combination/ Exforge HCT combination patent against generic manufacturers. Exforge HCT : US: Patent on Exforge HCT combination (2023). EU: patent on Exforge combination/ Exforge HCT combination (2019), SPC (2021); RDP (2019). Japan: Patent on Exforge HCT combination (2023). There is generic competition in the US. There is currently no
generic competition in the EU. Exforge HCT is not currently marketed in Japan. The EU Exforge combination/ Exforge HCT combination patent is being challenged in the EPO and in the patent offices of some EU countries. • Voltaren/Cataflam. There is no patent protection in the US, EU or Japan. There is generic
competition in the US, EU and Japan. 71 Table of Contents • Exelon and Exelon Patch. Exelon : There is no patent protection for Exelon capsules in the US, EU or Japan. There is generic
competition in the US, EU and Japan. Exelon Patch : US: Patents on formulations (2019). EU: Patent on formulation (2019); patent on transdermal dosage regime (2026). Japan: Patent on
formulation (2019); RDP (2019). There is generic competition in the US and in most EU countries. There is currently no generic competition in Japan. We are taking steps in several countries to enforce
our EU transdermal dosage regime patent against generic competitors. In the EU, we have resolved patent litigation with certain generic manufacturers. The EU transdermal dosage regime patent is being
opposed in the EPO and several national patents are being challenged in national courts. In the US, Novartis has resolved patent litigation with certain generic manufacturers. The US formulation
patents are being challenged in an IPR proceeding in the USPTO. • Ritalin LA/Focalin XR. US: Patent on drug-delivery formulation (2019). EU: Patent on dose
(2018); patent on drug-delivery formulations (2019). Japan: Patent on dose (2018); patent on drug-delivery formulation (2019). There is generic competition in the US for Ritalin LA and Focalin XR . There is currently no generic competition in the EU or Japan. The EU
formulation patent is being opposed in the EPO. Compounds in Development We provide the following information for non-marketed compounds in development that have been filed with the FDA and/or the EMA for registration
but have not yet been approved by either agency for any indication. • LEE011. US: Three patents on compound (2028, 2030, 2031); two patents on methods of use (2029); patent on salt (2031). EU: Patent on compound
(2029); patent on methods of use (2029). Japan: Two patents on compound (2027, 2029); two patents on methods of use (2027, 2029). • PKC412. US: Three patents on methods of use (2022, 2024, 2030). EU: Two patents on methods of use (2022, 2024); patent on formulation (2020).
Japan: Two patents on methods of use (2022, 2024); patent on formulation (2020). SANDOZ Our Sandoz Division is a global leader in generic pharmaceuticals and biosimilars and sells products in more than 150 countries. In 2016, the
Sandoz Division achieved consolidated net sales of $10.1 billion, representing 21% of the Group's total net sales. Sandoz develops, manufactures and markets finished dosage form medicines as
well as intermediary products including active pharmaceutical ingredients. Sandoz
is organized globally in three franchises: Retail Generics, Anti-Infectives, and Biopharmaceuticals. In Retail Generics, Sandoz develops, manufactures and markets active
ingredients and finished dosage forms of pharmaceuticals to third parties. Retail Generics includes the areas of dermatology, respiratory, oncology and
ophthalmics, cardiovascular, metabolism, central nervous system, pain, gastrointestinal and hormonal therapies, as well as finished dosage form anti-infectives sold to third parties. In
Anti-Infectives, Sandoz manufactures and supplies active pharmaceutical ingredients and intermediates—mainly antibiotics—for internal use by Retail Generics and for sale to
third-party customers. In Biopharmaceuticals, Sandoz develops, manufactures and markets protein- or other biotechnology-based products, including biosimilars, and provides biotechnology manufacturing
services to other companies. Sandoz
products reached more than 500 million patients worldwide in 2016 and Sandoz strategy is to further increase patient access by driving sustainable and profitable growth.
Sandoz executes on its divisional strategy by focusing on several key priorities, including investing in key markets and therapeutic areas, increasing the performance of its small-molecule Development
and Regulatory organization and maximizing opportunities in biosimilars. Sandoz focuses on products that add more value for patients, payors and healthcare professionals than standard generics. Examples
of marketed products in the Sandoz portfolio include multiple sclerosis treatment Glatopa (glatiramer acetate injection) 20mg/mL,
respiratory inhaler therapy AirFluSal Forspiro (fluticasone salmeterol), and pain medication fentanyl, which is delivered using a transdermal patch. 72 Table of Contents Sandoz also has a strong and continued strategic focus on biosimilars, which it began developing in 1996 and today sells in more than 60 countries. Sandoz is the
market leader in biosimilars and all three of its biosimilars continue to demonstrate strong growth in their respective
categories— Omnitrope , a human growth hormone; Binocrit, an erythropoiesis-stimulating agent
used to treat anemia; and filgrastim for neutropenia under the brand names Zarzio outside the US and Zarxio in the US. The
FDA approved biosimilar Erelzi (etanercept-szzs) to treat multiple inflammatory diseases. A confirmatory clinical safety and efficacy
study demonstrated that Erelzi is equivalent to reference product Enbrel®. The biosimilar launch is pending litigation with Amgen, the
manufacturer of Enbrel®. Our
biosimilar Binocrit (epoetin alfa) was approved in the EU for a new route of administration, based on data from a study in
pre-dialysis and dialysis patients with anemia associated with chronic kidney disease. Filings were accepted in the EU in 2016 for our pegfilgrastim and rituximab biosimilars. We plan to make
regulatory filings for adalimumab in the US and EU, rituximab in the US, and infliximab in the EU in 2017. We received a complete response letter for pegfilgrastim from the from FDA in June 2016, and
plan to submit additional data for pegfilgrastim to the FDA in 2018. According
to IMS Health, Sandoz holds the global number one position in sales of biosimilars and of generic anti-infectives, ophthalmics and transplantation medicines. In addition,
Sandoz holds leading global positions in key therapeutic areas such as generic injectables, dermatology, respiratory, cardiovascular, metabolism, central nervous system, pain and gastrointestinal. In
2016, key product launches in the US included amphetamine salts extended release (Shire's Adderall XR®), linezolid solution for infusion/injection (Pfizer's
Zyvox®), mometasone furoate (Merck & Co. Inc.'s Nasonex® nasal spray), and oxiconazole nitrate ( Oxistat ). In
2016, key product launches in various European countries included imatinib mesylate ( Glivec ), ACC solution for injection, buprenorphine 4 and 7 day
transdermal therapeutic system, matrix patch (Mundipharma's BuTrans®,
Norspan®), calcipotriol bethametasone ointment (Leo Pharma's Dovobet®), fluticasone salmeterol powder dose inhaler (GSK's Seretide®) and linezolid film coated
tablet (Pfizer's Zyvoxid®). Following
an internal reorganization announced on January 27, 2016, nineteen mature products were transferred from our Innovative Medicines Division (formerly named the
Pharmaceuticals Division) to the Retail Generics franchise of Sandoz. In compliance with IFRS, Novartis updated its segment financial information to reflect these transfers, both for the current and
prior years, to aid comparability of year-on-year results. As a result, all comparisons of divisional results from 2016, 2015 and 2014 in this Form 20-F reflect this new divisional structure. Effective
as of April 1, 2016, operational control for the Novartis Malaria Initiative was transferred from our Innovative Medicines Division to Sandoz. In addition, Sandoz has
assumed operational responsibility for Novartis Access, launched in September 2015, which comprises an initial portfolio of fifteen medicines to treat chronic diseases in low and middle income
countries. The portfolio, the majority of which are Sandoz medicines, addresses cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, respiratory illnesses and breast cancer, and is offered to governments,
non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and other public-sector health providers for one US dollar per treatment, per month. The existing Sandoz tuberculosis business, as well as Novartis Social
Business, which includes the Arogya Parivar "Healthy Families" initiative, is also operationally managed by the same unit, under the Sandoz Global Commercial Operations function. New Products Sandoz launched a number of important products in various countries in 2016, including: • ACC solution for injection • Amphetamine salts extended release (Shire's Adderall XR®) • Buprenorphine 4 and 7 day transdermal therapeutic system, matrix patch (Mundipharma's BuTrans®, Norspan®) • Calcipotriol bethametasone ointment (Leo Pharma's Dovobet®) • Esomeprazole MUT (Astra Zeneca's Nexium®) 73 Table of Contents • Fluticasone salmeterol powder dose inhaler (GSK's Seretide®) • Linezolid solution for infusion/injection (Pfizer's Zyvox®)/ Linezolid film coated tablet (Pfizer's Zyvoxid®) • Mometasone furoate (Merck & Co. Inc.'s Nasonex® nasal spray) • Oxiconazole nitrate ( Oxistat ) Key Marketed Products Sandoz markets approximately 1000 molecules in countries around the world. The following are some of the Sandoz key marketed products in each of
its franchises (availability varies by market): Retail Generics Product Originator Drug Description Amoxicillin/clavulanic acid Augmentin® Antibiotic Zoledronic acid Aclasta Osteoporosis treatment Potassium Klor-Con® Hypokalemia treatment Fentanyl various Pain treatment Cyclophosmamide Endoxan® Breast, ovarian and non-small cell cancer treatment Levothyroxine sodium Synthroid®; Levoxyl® Hypothyroidism treatment Anti-Infectives Active Ingredients Description Oral and sterile penicillins Anti-infectives Oral and sterile cephalosporins Anti-infectives Clavulanic acid and mixtures with clavulanic acid ß-lactam inhibitors Classical and semisynthetic erythromycins Anti-infectives Intermediates Description Various cephalosporin intermediates Anti-infectives Erythromycin base Anti-infectives Various crude compounds produced by fermentation Cyclosporine, ascomysine, rapamycine, mycophenolic acid, etc. Biopharmaceuticals Product Originator Drug Description Binocrit and Epoetin alfa Hexal Eprex®/Erypo® Recombinant protein used for anemia Omnitrope Genotropin® Recombinant human growth hormone Zarzio , Zarxio and Filgrastim Hexal Neupogen® Recombinant protein used in oncology Glatopa Copaxone® 20 mg Multiple sclerosis treatment 74 Table of Contents Biosimilars in Phase III Development and Registration The following table describes Sandoz biosimilar projects that are in Phase III clinical trials (including filing preparation) and
registration: Project/product Common name Mechanism of action Potential indication/ indications Therapeutic areas Route of administration Current phase GP1111 infliximab TNF- a inhibitor Inflammatory bowel disease, rheumatoid arthritis and plaque psoriasis (same as originator) Immunology Intravenous EU: III GP2013 rituximab Anti-CD20 antibody Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, rheumatoid arthritis, granulomatosis with polyangiitis, and microscopic polyangiitis (same as originator) Oncology and Immunology Intravenous EU: Registration US: III GP2015 etanercept TNF- a inhibitor Arthritides (rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis), plaque psoriasis and others (same as originator) Immunology Subcutaneous EU: Registration US: Approved GP2017 adalimumab TNF- a inhibitor Arthritides (rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis), plaque psoriasis and others (same as originator) Immunology Subcutaneous III HX575 epoetin alfa Erythropoiesis-stimulating agent Anemia in chronic kidney disease, chemotherapy-induced anemia and others (same as originator) Oncology and Nephrology Subcutaneous and intravenous US: III LA-EP2006 pegfilgrastim Pegylated granulocyte colony-stimulating factor Chemotherapy-induced neutropenia and others (same as originator) Oncology Subcutaneous III (1)(2) (1) Withdrawal
of EU filing in January 2017 with planned re-filing in 2017. (2) Resubmission
planned for 2018 to address FDA complete response letter. Principal Markets The two largest generics markets in the world—the US and Europe—are the principal markets for Sandoz. The following
table sets forth the aggregate 2016 net sales of Sandoz by region: Sandoz 2016 Net Sales to third parties $ millions % Europe 4,354 43 United States 3,708 37 Asia, Africa, Australasia 1,418 14 Canada and Latin America 664 6 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Total 10,144 100 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Of which in Established Markets* 7,580 75 Of which in Emerging Growth Markets* 2,564 25 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ * Emerging
Growth Markets comprise all markets other than the Established Markets of the US, Canada, Western Europe, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. Many
Sandoz products are used for chronic conditions that require patients to consume the product over long periods of time, from months to years. Sales of our anti-infective products
are subject to seasonal variation. Sales of the vast majority of our other products are not subject to material changes in seasonal demand. Production The primary goal of our manufacturing and supply chain management program is to ensure the uninterrupted, timely and cost-effective supply of
products that meet all product specifications and
quality standards. The manufacture of our products is heavily regulated by governmental health authorities around the world, including the FDA and EMA. In addition to regulatory requirements, many of
our products involve technically complex manufacturing processes or require a supply of highly specialized raw materials. 75 Table of Contents We
manufacture our products at facilities worldwide. See also "—