Y 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Welcome to the Ericsson Analyst and Media Conference Call for the Fourth Quarter Report, To
view visual aids for this call, please log on to www.ericsson.com/press or
www.ericsson.com/investors. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, replay will be available one
hour after today's conference. `Peter Nyquist, Vice President Investor Relations will now open the call.
`Peter Nyquist, Vice President Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. And hello everyone and welcome to this Q4 call or year-end call. With me
here today, I have our CEO, `Borje Ekholm, President & Chief Executive Officer; and our CFO, `Carl Mellander, Chief Financial Officer. Before we start the call, I
would like to make this statement. During the call today, we will be making forward-looking
statements. These statements are based on our current expectations and certain planning
assumptions, which are subject to risk and uncertainties. The press release -- or the actual result
may differ materially due to factors mentioned in today's press release and discussed in this
conference. So, we encourage you all to read about these risks and uncertainties in our earnings
report as well as in our annual report.
With those words, I would like to start this call by handing over the word to our CEO, Borje
Ekholm. Please, Borje.
`Borje Ekholm, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Peter. So good morning, everyone, and thank you all for joining us today. Before I go
into the year-end performance in greater detail, I would like to recognize our people. And a
company is always about the people and I think 2020 more than ever. We as a company migrated
to work remotely in March last year and our people really stepped up and delivered to all our
customers with minimal to actually no disruptions. We have also seen some good progress in our
business for quite some time. But with the financial performance for 2020, we can now say thatengagement and commitment from all of our people. We have now reached a return on capital
employed at 17%, which is above the cost of capital. So, we can now focus our attention on
growth as a key value driver of course while maintaining financial discipline.
But let me now go through some overall conclusions of our performance during 2020. The
increased R&D has made our portfolio very competitive and cost efficient and this has allowed us
to gain market share in many markets and we actually see market share gains from all
competitors today. We exceeded our year-end financial targets for 2020 as well as our targets
for 2022 about two years early. We have delivered a strong free cash flow before M&A and
actually if we look at our history, we see that this is the strongest free cash flow we have ever had
as a company. We also completed the acquisition of Cradlepoint during Q4 and that's an
important step, as you all know, for establishing our enterprise offering especially targeting the
rapidly growing demand for Wireless WANs. In addition, we started to invest in increasing our
resiliency and flexibility of our supply chain and we really started that several years ago.
We did that for other reasons so no crystal ball on predicting a pandemic, but that have been
critical in managing our customer commitments during 2020 and we've been able to do that
despite working from home and in the middle of a pandemic. The health and well-being of our
people has been at the front and center in how we have made decisions during 2020. So, one
example is that we decided very early on to migrate to remote working. Across the year, about
80% of our workforce have operated virtually. Of course the impact and the toll on our people
cannot be ignored from working remotely, but we are doing as a company what we can to
support those of us who are most affected by the pandemic. In addition, we took a decision in
early March not to apply for any government pandemic related support programs as we wanted
to make sure that we drive the business out of its fundamentals and take the right decisions for
the long-term future of the business not impacted by any government support programs.
With our performance and solid long-term outlook, the Board of Ericsson has decided to
recommend the shareholders to increase the dividend to SEK2 per share and that's an increase
of (foreign language) or SEK0.50 I should say I guess in English. So before going into each market
area, just wanted to make some overall comments about the market. It's now clear that 5G is
increasingly gaining momentum around the world and we are seeing front runner countries to
rapidly build out the 5G networks as it is a platform to digitalize their economies. But I think it's
even more encouraging to see that operators who have built out a good coverage are seeing an
increasing ARPU and thus a reversal of the decline over the last few years. For front runners, 5G
can be a source of additional revenues as well as to establish the operator as a market leader.
This is actually not surprising as it was very similar to what happened when 4G was rolled out
where front runners saw higher ARPU, greater market share, and lower churn.
We have also seen many wins in -- across the market areas for our private networks for
enterprises, which actually start to strengthen our enterprise presence. So, some comments on
each market area. We saw strong growth for the Northeast Asia market area. This was naturally
driven by China that is now the largest 5G market in the world with clearly more than 100 million
subscribers, but we also saw gains in many of the other markets in the market area. Continued
strong momentum in 5G drove a good performance in North America. This was partly offset by
downward pressure of the loss of a managed services contract due to the operator consolidation
earlier in 2020. We have seen market share gains in the US, but we have also seen break-in deals
in Canada that will support long-term growth for us. In Southeast Asia, Oceania, and India; we saw
growth driven by several countries, but the most noticeable Australia and India.
Europe and Latin America had a bit of a mixed picture. We saw overall a positive growth in the
market area, but -- and that was driven by the growth in Europe, which was partly offset by adecline in Latin America. Europe -- the growth in Europe was driven by market share gains and
Latin America, the decline really caused by the macroeconomic uncertainty due to the pandemic.
We also see that we so far have had limited 5G rollouts in Europe and we are a bit concerned
that Europe is falling behind the front runners in China, Australia, North America, and the Middle
East. Finally in Africa, we saw -- in the market area Africa and Middle East, we saw sales declines
that was really in Africa related to effects of the COVID-19 and the macroeconomic uncertainties
and in the Middle East due to timing of customer investment decisions actually in 2019 that ended
2019 on a strong note. However, we see increasing traction from our efforts to increase market
share in the market area and we expect that to be visible in the next few years.
Moving on to the business segments. For Networks, sales grew organically by 20% driven by 5G
rollouts and market share gains. Gross margin was 43.5% in Q4, up from 41.1% year before. For
the whole 2020 operating margin was 19%, which is well ahead of our targets of 15% to 17%. I
would say Networks performance reflect our increasing technology leadership and strong 5G
portfolio. (technical difficulty) grew to 41% from 38.1% from the year before. From 2017 at the start
of our turnaround to today if you do a like-for-like comparison, our gross margin has increased
from 29% to 42%. The turnaround -- we continue to execute on the turnaround plan and our
operating income for Q4 was positive and that actually is the best result we have seen to date,
which we view as an indication that our turnaround is on track. Our Cloud native 5G core portfolio
has a very high win ratio and will start to generate revenues in the next 12 to 18 months ahead.
So far, we've only seen R&D costs with this new portfolio so we are encouraged by the traction
we have and expect to see revenues coming here during the -- gradually during the year. Sales in
Managed Services continued to decline, which is this year a result of the US -- or the consolidation
in the US market, but also some contract exits in Europe. However, gross margin grew to 17.7%
from 15.8% a year earlier and full-year operating margin ended at 8.1% ahead of our range of 5%
to 8%. We continue to invest in R&D in Managed Services to drive automation and AI that will help
our portfolio to grow in the future. Emerging Business & Other sales grew in enterprise offerings
such as the IoT platforms complemented by the acquisition of Cradlepoint that was announced in
Q3 and closed in Q4. Gross margin improved to 33.8% driven by operational leverage from
growth and lower costs.
Cradlepoint's underlying business developed in line with plans and we continue to be
encouraged by the customer reception and see good long-term growth opportunities. However,
reported sales and cost for Cradlepoint are impacted by purchase price allocations and we have
also said that that will have a negative effect on operating income with about 1 percentage point
in 2021 mostly coming from amortizations, but also from investments in growing the business until
we start to see earnings improve.
With that, I give the word over to Carl.
`Carl Mellander, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Borje. And good morning, good afternoon, everyone, here from Stockholm. And let's
then start to look at the P&L for the full year 2020. And here you see that with an organic FX
adjusted growth of 5% year-over-year, net sales reached SEK232.4 billion, which is then within the
target range of -- excuse me, between SEK230 billion and SEK240 billion and mainly driven by
continued high demand for our 5G portfolio in the Networks business that grew by 10%.
Especially the hardware revenue grew strongly and this is a welcome result of the growing
footprint that we see currently. Northeast Asia grew by 30% FX adjusted and North America as
well as Southeast Asia, Oceania, and India also contributed to the growth in the year. Gross
margin as you see improved 310 basis points year-over-year to 40.6% and good to say that wehave improvements in all segments and thereby also clearly beating the gross margin ambition
range we set up in 2017.
Operating income SEK29.1 billion as you see excluding restructuring. An improvement of SEK7
billion or 32% over last year and this is if we adjust for the SEK10.7 billion charge related to SEC
and DOJ in '19. So, this operating income then leads to an operating margin of 12.5%. And this
means we reached and exceeded the 2020 target of operating margin over 10% that Borje said
and again the main contributor to the improvement here we see is again the Networks side of
the business with a 19% operating margin for the fiscal year. An absolute key metric for --
obviously for me, but for all of us in the Company is the free cash flow before M&A and this came
out at SEK22.3 billion. This is a level we have not seen before. And earnings per share we also
listed out this here diluted came out at SEK5.26. Also that's a level that we haven't seen at least
during the last 10 years, perhaps longer.
Return on capital employed for the full year was 17%, that's an increase from 6.7%. Both these
numbers include the cash position. But if we -- and this might be more appropriate actually if we
exclude the cash, the return on capital employed would even have been at 32% in the full year.
But let's have a closer look at Q4, next slide please here. So in the fourth quarter, net sales
reached the SEK69.6 billion. This is an organic growth of 13% again driven by Networks that grew
20% based on this continued high demand for the 5G portfolio. The largest growth, as Borje saw
before, in Northeast Asia but also North America contributing with double-digit growth and
actually in Southeast Asia, Oceania, and India. Gross margin here 350 basis points improvement
to 40.6% also for the quarter. And again also looking at the quarter, encouraging to see that all
segments improved year-over-year with the main contribution from Networks.
Operating income then SEK11 billion excluding restructuring and an operating margin 15.8%. Again
repeating myself, but Networks also here the main driver with 21.5% operating margin that
Networks segment delivered. But I also want to special mention here again of Digital Services
that actually delivered the best operating income to-date, a profit of SEK0.5 billion. Cash flow
SEK12.8 billion. We'll come back to that a bit later. But let's have a look at the trend on gross
margin and if we take this slide here, and you can really see the result of execution of the
focused strategy here in this graph. You see here the gross margin development over the years
in distinct quarters, but also rolling. And we have said this many times, but of course it is really the
increased R&D investments that has been the main driver here for technology and cost
leadership and also competitive advantage and gross margin improvement.
So, here if we break this down a little bit. Networks gross margin improved 200 basis points
following even better operational leverage. Digital Services improved during the year 420 bps to
42% with more software sales. Managed Services improved, efficiency achievements
improvement of 310 bps here. And lastly, Emerging Business & Other with a gross margin that
improved actually 840 basis points to 28%. And Cradlepoint contributes here and maybe a just a
side note. Being somewhat personally involved in Cradlepoint as well, I was quite impressed by
the Cradlepoint leadership and now we are full speed with excellence collaborations with other
parts of Ericsson also to create value. Okay. Let's look at SG&A and R&D. R&D came out at
SEK10.5 billion. It's a slight decrease year-over-year mainly following positive FX and here of
course we have added now Cradlepoint since November.
So two months of Cradlepoint both in R&D and also in SG&A, which is next here. That came out
SEK7.4 billion. As you see, that's a reduction of SEK0.8 billion year-over-year and this reduction is
mainly explained by less traveling, less trials cost, and other external spend; but also some
provision release. We have a provision release for customer financing and also some FX support
that support this number. And all of this more than offset then the added SG&A from theacquired Cradlepoint. We also show impairment losses on trade receivables here just to illustrate
that that can really swing between quarters. In Q4, we had a positive impact SEK0.3 billion and
this follows collection of high risk receivables from customers. As you see last quarter, this
number was a negative SEK0.2 billion and this is really to illustrate that this item will fluctuate over
quarters based on our updated risk assessments and changes in exposure collection from high
risk receivables and so on.
Let's move over to cash flow and the financial position. As mentioned then, free cash flow before
M&A in the quarter was SEK12.8 billion and it's really a result of a combination here. Of course
increased profit levels, but also then in combination with working capital efficiency. Working capital
days now is down to 65 days from 75 days a year-ago. And I must say I believe we have rather
impressive focus now among the colleagues across market areas, business areas on cash flow
generation. So, this brought full-year cash flow before M&A to SEK22.3 billion. And as I think we
mentioned several times already on this call although free cash flow definitions may have
changed over time, this seems to be the strongest or is the strongest cash flow in the history of
the Company. So this led to a net cash at the end of the year then SEK41.9 billion, up from
SEK34.5 billion and gross cash landed rather flat at SEK72 billion and this in spite of acquisitions,
dividends, pension trust contributions, and loan repayments during the year.
We continue to execute here on our capital structure strategy for flexibility and resilience as we
described before. And in that context of -- I'd like to highlight that we were of course very
pleased with the rating upgrade we got in November from Standard & Poor's to investment
grade BBB-, stable outlook. And the key trigger for the upgrade in rating was really free cash flow
in turn result of growth, reduced cost, and improved capital efficiency. So, now we have
investment grade ratings both from Standard & Poor's and Fitch. Borje mentioned the Board's
dividend proposal already. Just to add that this means SEK6.7 billion to be paid out then in two
equal installments just like 2020 in April and October, respectively. Okay. I will round off now with
just a few words on planning assumptions and I'm just going to highlight a few of them. But as
usual, please refer to the report for the full set. First of all on the market we operate in then, we
usually fight Dell'Oro and we will do that now as well.
Dell'Oro expects the RAN market to grow by 3% in '21, up from 2% previously with China up 4%,
North America 2%, and Europe up 3%. And regarding topline then, historically Q1 is our weakest
sales quarter and if we look at the last three years, normal seasonality or average seasonality has
been minus 24% from Q4 to Q1. And this Q1 we expect that the seasonal effect might be
somewhat less pronounced due to the 5G investments and rollouts that are ongoing. ITR
importantly as you know from the press release in December with ongoing renewal negotiations
and other factors that we mentioned in the release, we may see an impact on operating income
by between SEK1 billion and SEK1.5 billion per quarter. For Q1 specifically, we expect that impact to
be at the higher end of this range. Networks segment, we expect a similar mix Q1 to Q4. OpEx
typically decrease from Q1 to -- Q4 to Q1 due to seasonality and I want to point out again with
large variations between the years. Also want to remind about the FX rule of thumb. And then
finally, a reminder that we expect Cradlepoint, as Borje mentioned, to negatively impact Group
operating margin in '21 and 2022 by around 1 percentage points.
With that, thank you so much. And back to you our CEO, Mr. `Borje Ekholm, President & Chief Executive Officer.
`Borje Ekholm, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mr. `Carl Mellander, Chief Financial Officer. We are proud of our performance during 2020, but I would also
say we're not happy at all as we see a lot of improvement areas in the business. And we run the
business focusing on driving the long-term margin improvements and growth and we really seethe targets for 2022 as a milestone simply on the way to reaching the long-term targets of 15%
to 18% EBITDA margin. 2021 will however be an investment year with investments that will
underpin our long-term growth as well as our long-term margins and this includes such areas as
IPR, Cradlepoint, but also continued investment in the business. And as we have gone through
already, in December we announced that we have important IPR negotiations and renewals
ongoing that will impact or that will defer revenues for a period of time. But we see that we still
focusing on maximizing the long-term value of our portfolio can actually significantly improve our
IPR revenues.
We will also continue to invest in R&D to broaden the product portfolio and maintaining a strong
customer offering, but also driving a further improved cost position. We do note that Cradlepoint
will have a negative effect in 2021 primarily due to amortizations, but also investments in growth.
And we also see that in order to further strengthen our platform, we continue to increase our
investments in compliance, but also security. What we have also seen during the last few years
that the value of increased footprint is clearly paying off in expanded gross margin and that's
something we intend to do to capitalize on our very competitive portfolio and the current market
conditions. The effects from COVID and continued geopolitical uncertainty, they of course remain.
We believe we are well positioned to manage any potential effects with improved flexibility and
resiliency in our operation and we continue to invest for further improving the flexibility and
resiliency.
5G is now a reality and we are a global leader with 127 contracts as well as 79 live networks. Our
continued presence in the largest fastest growing markets around the world are critical to
support technology leadership and are supporting our long-term financial targets. I want to also
say that from an industry point of view, it's critical that we hold together the global standard and
not fragment that because the global standard have actually allowed the world to connect 8
billion subscriber on to one uniform standard. We are increasingly seeing that many countries are
accelerating the investments in the 5G network as they see the innovation on top of the network
can easily create value that's 5 times to 10 times the network investments and allow them to
transform and digitalize their companies to leverage this new platform. We hope that Europe will
see this value as well before we fall too far behind the more aggressive countries and front
runner countries.
We are committed to the target for 2022. But as we have said, we see 2021 as an investment
year that creates a very strong platform for future growth and for reaching the long-term targets
of 15% to 18% EBITDA margin. We are confident in our ability to do so based on a strong
underlying performance and resilience in the business built during the turnaround and visible in
the financial performance for 2020.
Thank you again for listening in. And with that, I hand back to Peter for all your questions.
`Peter Nyquist, Vice President Investor Relations `
Thank you, Borje. So operator, we can now open for the Q&A session and we will continue that till
around 10 o'clock Central European Time. So please, operator.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, at this time we will begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator
Instructions) As always, please limit yourself to one question at a time and please keep your
questions at a broad level. Detailed information is provided in our report and Ericsson's InvestorRelations and Media Relations team will be happy to take additional questions and discuss further
details with you after the call.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President Investor Relations `
Thank you, operator. So, the first question we will have here from `Alexander Peterc, Analyst, Societe Generale Corporate and Investment Banking from Societe
Generale. So Alexander, please.
Q - `Alexander Peterc, Analyst, Societe Generale Corporate and Investment Banking `
Yes. Good morning. I hope you can hear me well.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President Investor Relations `
Yes, you're perfect.
Q - `Alexander Peterc, Analyst, Societe Generale Corporate and Investment Banking `
Great. Thank you. So, I just have one question on your '22 targets and then a very quick follow-up
if I may so. The first question is given the strong Networks margin that you have now, can you
explain why we should more cautiously model '22 obviously at midpoint of your targeted margin
that's 200 basis points below what you achieved in 2020? So, if you could tell us what will drag
this margin down. Do you have strong market share ambitions and if you could quantify them or
are you enjoying particular tailwinds now that will disappear and if you'd quantify that as well? And
then the quick follow-up would be just on IPR. I see a lot of disparity in how we model this so
maybe a good kind of a guidance on how many quarters we should take the missing IPR out of
your bottom line and that would achieve a more consistent consensus for 2021 in particular.
Maybe you would like to give us a bit firmer guidance understanding that that can change as and
when litigations resolve. Thanks very much.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President & Chief Executive Officer `
If we comment on target for 2022, we run the Company not focused on 2022. but much rather
on the long term. So, we have a clean result for Q4. There's not really any specific tailwinds in any
way. So it's not that we think that is going to change. It's just that we see that we will continue to
invest in the business in order to drive the long-term margin target of 15% to 18%. That's what we
are focused on. So, 2022 is merely a milestone on that journey and we have not spent a lot of
time looking through the details of 2022. So, view that only as a stepping stone to a much higher
margin target. And on the IPR, I appreciate your question and I understand the difficulty, but I
would encourage you to think how long is a rope. It's very unclear when you look at just that pile.
So, it's very hard for us to say how many quarters this will go on. We have given you the guidance
that it's about SEK1 billion to SEK1.5 billion per quarter and we will update you as we move along
on that journey. But rest assured, our focus is again not on closing a deal specific quarter, but
much rather on maximizing the net present value of our patent portfolio and that's what we will
focus on not on an individual quarter.
Q - `Alexander Peterc, Analyst, Societe Generale Corporate and Investment Banking `
Thank you very much.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President Investor Relations `
Thank you, Alexander. We will move to the next question, `Daniel Djurberg, Analyst, Handelsbanken Capital Markets from Handelsbanken.
So please, Daniel.Q - `Daniel Djurberg, Analyst, Handelsbanken Capital Markets `
Thank you very much and big congratulation for this very strong report. I have a question on your
near-term planning assumptions. You expect less visible seasonality quarter-on-quarter on back
of the strong 5G momentum. I was wondering if we should expect this when it comes also to the
North American market. If you can comment on that would be great. Thank you.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President & Chief Executive Officer `
North America -- thanks Daniel. The momentum continues in North America. It's been strong
throughout this year and now of course we also see maybe for a bit more long term that C band
auctions have been completed as you know and that will lead to investments in that spectrum
band as well, but that's more towards the end of the year. Short term we see that the
momentum will continue in North America and we are a big part of the roll outs, as you know, for
the Tier 1 stack. So, that will continue.
Q - `Daniel Djurberg, Analyst, Handelsbanken Capital Markets `
Perfect. Thank you so much. I will go back to the queue.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President Investor Relations `
Okay. Do that, Daniel. Thank you. And we will move to the next question, which is from Alex Duval
from Goldman Sachs. Hi Alex.
Q - `Alexander Duval, Analyst, Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. `
Yes. Good morning, everyone, and congrats on the robust results. I had a couple of quick
questions. Firstly, you've talked about market share gains from all competitors. I wondered to
what extent can that continue this year and what are the key functions or attributes of your
product that are allowing this? In the past you've talked about ease of rollout and things like
dynamic spectrum sharing. I wondered if you could talk about what will be the key factors and the
extent to which you can maintain or extend your lead as presumably others will want to catch up.
Also it looks like North America and China have been key drivers of growth this year. As we go
into 2021, it seems like you're talking about market growth for the European market. I wondered
what you're seeing in Europe that gives you that confidence given your comment just now that
there could be a risk that Europe could be lagging behind others. What are telcos saying to you
and to what extent do you see 5G helping to underpin the digital economy in Europe? Many
thanks.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. If we start with the market share gains, I would say what we see now is the deployments --
our deployments in the field. Where we can make comparisons, we clearly have a very strong
performance which I think is the key driver why we see this attractiveness for our customers. The
other thing is we have invested over the past few years in improving our call it cost -- TCL cost so
the total cost of ownership for our customers and that of course is an important aspect when
they look at our product compared to competitors. And of course we have over the last few
years shown that we deliver on the roadmap commitments we have made, which made the
customers also appreciate the roadmap we show, but also of course our ability to execute on
that. So, I would say we are seeing this -- all these gains now happening in several markets
around the world and I think it shows the investments we made for a long time in R&D and we
increased in 2017.If you look at Europe, why we -- you hear us be a bit more upbeat is really that we see the market
share gains. It's more driven by the market share gains than the general market growth for our
outlook in Europe. What we're hoping for is of course that we will start to see some more 5G
rollouts on a bigger scale in Europe during 2021, but that would further underpin growth in
Europe. So, most of what we're seeing so far is really attributable to share gains and of course
share gains that you cannot expect to continue forever, right. So, it is really important that we
start to see the market come back to an underlying growth for the long term. But we think the
migration to 5G is inevitable. It's attractive for the consumer, it kind of generates value for the
end user, but it also addresses the cost position from growing data traffic in the networks. So, this
is a migration that will happen, it's more -- and we see that in all other markets. So, we believe it's
likely to happen in Europe as well.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President Investor Relations `
Okay, Alex.
Q - `Alexander Duval, Analyst, Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. `
Many thanks.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President Investor Relations `
Thank you. And then we move to the next question, which comes from `Sebastien Sztabowicz, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux
from Kepler Cheuvreux. Hi Sebastien.
Q - `Sebastien Sztabowicz, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Yes. Hello and thanks for taking the question. One question in China, could you please make an
update on this market? Do you have any 5G tender ongoing there and if yes, when do you
expect the result from those 5G tenders? And a quick one on the component shortage that is
affecting the semiconductor industry. Have you seen any impact so far and how do you see the
situation evolving for your specific supply chain and sourcing? Thank you.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President & Chief Executive Officer `
So, your second question was about the supply chain development on the environment?
Q - `Sebastien Sztabowicz, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Component shortage that are affecting the industry.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Component shortage. Yes. What -- if we start in China, there are continuous ongoing tenders
there. So far we've seen some -- we read the press like everyone else so we see what goes on
there. But in addition, we've possibly seen some hesitation and uncertainties among our
customers. But so far no significant impact at all. We continue to drive the business forward and
we believe our customers would like us in the network and we see that kind of overall moving
along in a quite good way. And as I said before, China is aggressively rolling out 5G so we are --
it's an important market for us to be present in for more from a technology leadership point of
view than possibly the volume.
But we are continuing to invest and see no reason to not do that. If we look at the supply chain,
you're right, the semiconductor market is rather tight. But you may also remember that we tookdecisions already in 2018 to in a way deconstrict our -- whatever you want to call it, remove as
much restrictions in our supply chain and actually create more supply chain flexibility. So, we are
not seeing any effect now. We can continue to supply our customers with what they demand and
if the current conditions continue for years, of course we are going to have issues as well. But
right now we feel very comfortable about our delivery capabilities.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President Investor Relations `
Okay, Sebastien? Thank you. We will move to the next question, which comes from `Peter Robert, Analyst, Swedish Television
at Swedish television. So please, Peter. Can you hear me?
Q - `Peter Robert, Analyst, Swedish Television `
Yes. Thank you very much. Mr. `Borje Ekholm, President & Chief Executive Officer, I would like to ask you about China. You are gaining
market share there and you are widening scope there on the two year. But what happened after
20th of October last year when the Swedish authorities decided to close out and why?
A - `Borje Ekholm, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. As we said, we continue to see a demand in China. We read the press like you do, but we
continue to invest in the business and we have so far not see any material effects on the
business.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President Investor Relations `
Okay Peter?
Q - `Peter Robert, Analyst, Swedish Television `
Yes. But are you -- can I do another question?
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President Investor Relations `
Sure. Go ahead.
Q - `Peter Robert, Analyst, Swedish Television `
Yes. Have you taken any other steps in China because of what happened in Sweden?
A - `Borje Ekholm, President & Chief Executive Officer `
We are continuing -- what we have done and we just went through that is that we have invested
in flexibility and resiliency in our business. That's something we have continued to do during 2020
and that allows us to be flexible to manage different type of implications that we can see in the
business being this question, being other questions. So, that is something we are continuously
doing. But otherwise our business continues and we are continuing to invest in the business like
we always have.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President Investor Relations `
Okay. Peter.
Q - `Peter Robert, Analyst, Swedish Television `
Okay. Thank you.A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President Investor Relations `
Thank you. We move to the next question and the next question is from `Achal Sultania, Analyst, Credit Suisse at Credit
Suisse. Hello Achal, can you hear us?
Q - `Achal Sultania, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Yes, hi. Good morning, everyone. Thanks for the question.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President Investor Relations `
Good morning.
Q - `Achal Sultania, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Good morning. Couple of questions. First on the competitive landscape. When we think about
Huawei getting restricted from a number of countries, ZTE still falling behind on 5G, what is the
situation when it comes to telco operators trying to find alternative suppliers be it Samsung?
Have you seen Samsung -- when you go for these 5G bids in Europe, are you seeing Samsung
coming up as a credible competitor in the long term? And then secondly on the Open RAN
situation, obviously there has been a lot of talk about Open RAN especially in Europe, a number
of telcos have come together and formed an alliance. So, how well positioned Ericsson is in that
OpenWorld environment -- Open RAN environment in the future and how should we think about
the change in your business model if and when Open RAN starts to get massively adopted?
Thank you.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President & Chief Executive Officer `
On your first question, I think it's fair from our point of view where we're focusing on Ericsson,
we're focusing on that business and you know the -- how the market looks and how our customer
looks at different vendors, I think that's a question better asked to them than to us. So, that is I
think little bit hard for me to address. What I can say is that it continues to be a competitive
market around the world and we've seen some vendors be aggressive on price, driving price
discussions, et cetera. But I think overall it's no change compared to how it's been in 2018, '19,
and 2020. So, that kind of is a general call it background to the whole industry. So, I think you can
rest assured that the market will continue to be competitive going forward, I know the discussion
on Open RAN and you all know that we have also championed and pioneered increased
openness and across the industry collaboration as a way to speed up innovation. So for us where
we are involved in Open RAN, we are one of the key contributors in the work in that forum.
But at the same time we see right now that speed to market as well as price performance, for
instance the integrated solutions will continue to be a majority of the network deployment for the
coming years. And this is in reality driven by the two large areas in North America as well as in
China where they are pushing ahead on deploying 5G now. So the discussion when kind of Open
RAN is and that architecture is going to be truly competitive, I think it's a bit hard to address right
now. But it's not a near-term question. We don't see it really ready for prime time except for
some low performance applications or segments in the market. I think you said here the
discussion to be especially are in Europe, should be -- shouldn't we drive forward on 5G networks
now otherwise if we don't do that, we expose the whole industry in Europe to fall behind due to
the disruption that actually happened in the consumer market on 4G that will now happen in the
enterprise market with 5G. And I think that's a more healthy debate to be had in Europe, what
can we do to speed up that deployment?Q - `Achal Sultania, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Thanks. Thanks, Borje.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President Investor Relations `
Thanks, Achal. Then we move to the next question and the next question is from Johanna
Ahlqvist from SEB. Good morning, Johanna.
Q - `Johanna Ahlqvist, Analyst, SEB `
Good morning. Two questions if I may. The first one tag along on previous questions on
competition. But do you see -- I mean two of your competitors, they are struggling a bit on the
product side. So, do you see any irrational pricing behavior in the market as of now due to that?
And the second question relates to OpEx, which was quite low in the quarter as you say partly
related to less traveling due to the pandemic. But when do you -- when you plan for 2021 on your
OpEx, do you assume some sort of traveling resuming and things going back to normal that
OpEx will come up a bit leaving all patent disputes and FX aside or how should we look upon
OpEx in 2021? Thank you.
A - `Carl Mellander, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Johanna. When it comes to OpEx going forward, what we can say in general and you
know we don't really guide specifically on individual lines and so on in the P&L. But if you look at
2021 OpEx, we don't expect any massive moves compared with 2020. But of course we have
talked about a certain number of items that Cradlepoint of course is added. We only have two
months of Cradlepoint in 2020 and of course the full-year '21. And then we have talked about
litigation costs so in relation to the IPR negotiation or renewals and so on. So, there are certain
items like that. But overall I would say 2020 is probably a fairly good guide for 2021 as well. When
traveling will resume and to what extent, very hard to say. I guess that's something everyone in
the world thinks about. I suppose a reasonable estimate is that we will not go back to pre-COVID
travel levels, but it's likely to increase a bit from 2020 whenever we can say that we are out of
the pandemic.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Well, we can even say on travel that some parts of the world have traveled as normal also this
last quarter. So, don't think travel has gone to zero. No it's not and of course we are still rolling
out networks in the world and some countries definitely have come out of that situation and so
on so there has been travel, but of course on a very different level than pre-COVID. If you look at
the question on competition, the -- I would say the pricing environment is not that different. It's
been the same pretty much throughout 2020. So, we've been able to work in that environment
and still as you have seen increase gross margins. So there are some what I would label
aggressive and possibly rational pricing behaviors in the market, but that's been throughout the
year. So, it's nothing that has really changed in the end of the year, it's been there. I don't know
what to say. We've been able to work in that environment thanks to a competitive product
portfolio, but also a very good cost position that we achieved by investing in R&D again to drive
down the cost of the products. So, I feel -- I don't expect any dramatic changes in the market
behavior going forward, but it of course has elements of aggressiveness, but that it always has.
Q - `Johanna Ahlqvist, Analyst, SEB `
Thank you.A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President Investor Relations `
Thank you, Johanna. We'll move to the next one and the next question is from `Predrag Savinovic, Analyst, WorldWide Asset Management
at Carnegie. Predrag, can you hear us?
Q - `Predrag Savinovic, Analyst, WorldWide Asset Management `
I can hear you. Good morning to all and thank you for taking my questions. Again on the market
share gains here, you mentioned you'll take some from all competitors. Could you elaborate a bit
on the regions where you see the highest share gains and also if you can mention something on
order inquiries overall, which has not yet led to an order win so to speak as of the beginning of
this year as well? And the follow-up on another discussion on the software part, I see it's 22% in
2020, up 1% from last year and has risen steadily. Can you talk about what you expect here in the
coming five years? Is 30% realistic here? Thank you.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President & Chief Executive Officer `
If we start with the latter part, one of our strategies have been to increase the software content
so that is actually one of our focus areas. So, we continue to do that and where that is going to
take us at the end of the day except that is going to be an increasing portion as you have seen in
the past and that will continue to increase. We are consistently working on that and that is one of
the key parts which allows us to say that our target for long-term margin is going to be 15% to
18%. That will be underpinned by growing software content. Yes, market share gains and it's
actually -- it's clear that we see market share gains in Europe. That is what has allowed us to get
back to growth in Europe. The underlying market we don't see really growing. So, Europe is a
clear market share gain. We have also seen strong gains in North America where we have -- it is a
part of the strong growth profile we've seen in the US and we have share gains there with a
couple of operators in both the US as well as Canada.
We also and it's well publicized we have a market share gain in China as well. So, we have a larger
share of 5G than we had of 4G so that is also driving our growth. We are seeing increased market
share as well in Australia. We are seeing it in other parts of Asia as well. So the market share
gains, it's not that it's really isolated to one market or one segment. It's actually across the board.
What makes us comfortable is also that we're seeing or we're comfortable with believing at least
that we can strengthen our business is what we see on the -- what I would say will the pre-order
i.e. discussions with customers on deployment plans, chances to win additional market share. So,
we see actually a very robust development there and that makes us believe that we have a very
strong position right now and we want to capitalize on that. But don't leave the question thinking
that we're -- it's an isolated market share gain that drove all of this. No, it's actually much more
widespread.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President Investor Relations `
Okay. Predrag. We'll move to `Fredrik Lithell, Analyst, Danske Bank at Danske Bank. Fredrik, can you hear me? Hi, Fredrik.
you disappeared. Then we'll move to the next one, `Frank Meyer, Analyst, DNB at DNB. Hello, Frank. Good
morning.
Q - `Frank Meyer, Analyst, DNB `
Good morning. So, I think most of my questions have been partially answered at least. So -- but if
you could help me a little bit about how to think about kind of gross margins for 2021. Are you -- I
think you indicated that you are comfortable in general with your ability to meet price pressure for
instance in North America and elsewhere with -- due to your investments in R&D that allows youto continue to reduce hardware cost and so on. Do you expect that to continue this year? And the
second point or question relating to this is whether or not you expect a similar commodity mix
and business mix this year as you had in 2020? Thank you.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Good, okay. Thanks, Frank. So on the gross margin side, of course there are as usual puts and
takes and you mentioned some of them yourself including constantly taking out cost out of the
portfolio and that will continue. That's relentless of course in R&D to accomplish that. And you
have seen the historical development of gross margin, it's really supported to a very large extent
by the fact that we are cost -- have a cost structure that is more and more competitive and that
will continue, of course. And then we have flagged for certain things that will impact next year,
including the IPR of course, which is also impacting gross margin. So, we have to take that into
account. But otherwise I think we are proud of the gross margin development so far and we will
certainly fight to continue in this direction as well in 2021 and beyond.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President Investor Relations `
Thanks. Frank. (multiple speakers) We'll move to the last question.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President & Chief Executive Officer `
What's the second?
A - `Carl Mellander, Chief Financial Officer `
Commodity mix for the full-year 2021, that was the question, right?
A - `Borje Ekholm, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I think what we saw in the fourth quarter when it comes to commodity mix is also that the
hardware portion was large and that's as I think I said before, that's actually very good sign
because it's an evidence or a result of gaining footprint and that we expect to continue now as
5G deployments continue. So at least in the beginning or the first half or so of 2021, we will see
large hardware volumes being delivered and that's a good thing. And then coming back perhaps
to the last question there on software of course, that's the overall ambition to continue to
increase the software share in our offering and that goes both for Networks and Digital Services
business as well as Emerging Business & Other of course.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President Investor Relations `
Okay. Then thank you Frank. We'll then move to the last question for this session that is then we
have `Fredrik Lithell, Analyst, Danske Bank back here, Danske Bank. Fredrik, can you hear us now?
Q - `Fredrik Lithell, Analyst, Danske Bank `
Yes, I can hear you clearly. I hope you can hear me as well?
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President Investor Relations `
Perfect.
Q - `Fredrik Lithell, Analyst, Danske Bank `Yes. Just a follow-up on the market share gains. Sorry for pushing one more of those questions.
But outside of Europe and North America where it is probably saw that some operators are also
leaning more towards you and maybe Nokia instead of the Chinese, can you see market share
gains in more neutral aspects or sort of on technology aspects and total cost of ownership in
other regions. Would be interesting to hear sort of where you stand towards maybe your
toughest competitor. Thank you.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. As I said, we see market share gains across the board, right. It's not isolated to
individual countries where there have been restrictions. So I would say when you look, there are a
number of countries around the world where we have strengthened our position and that makes
us see that we gained that footprint based on the technology we can offer and it's still a
competitive market so it's no way granted that everything will go to us. But we can see that we
are having a disproportionate win ratio. So, that's why I feel very comfortable about our
competitiveness of the portfolio not only from a product feature and roadmap point of view, but
also from a cost point of view and that's equally important in a competitive market. So, you see
our market share gains that may not be visible in numbers yet; but it is in Africa, it's in Asia, it's in
Latin America as well.
Q - `Fredrik Lithell, Analyst, Danske Bank `
Okay. That's very clear. Thank you very much for that.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President Investor Relations `
Thank you. Fredrik. So, thank you for all good questions today. But before we close the call, I know
that Borje wants to have some final remarks. So please, Borje.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Well, wanting, Peter, is different from you telling me that I have to. So, I just want to end by saying
we are proud of the delivery of a solid 2020. We're not happy. That's because we see a lot of
improvement areas and we are continuing to invest in those improvement areas. So, we are
committed on the target for 2022 as a milestone to reaching the long-term EBITDA margin target
of 15% to 18% where we're really investing and spending the effort to make sure that we deliver.
With that, thank you all for listening in and wish you a great rest of the Friday and a happy
weekend.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President Investor Relations `
Thank you.
A - `Carl Mellander, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you all.
Operator
This now concludes our conference call. Thank you all for attending. You may now disconnect your
lines.