Y 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
Hi, everyone, and welcome to the Fourth Quarter and Full Year Result of Ericsson 2022. Before
starting, I just want to say that we have some issues with the streaming of this conference call, so
we are focusing on the audio right now. So everyone joining on audio, you will be able to listen in
now. We might have some issues with the streaming.
With that said, I will also welcome our CEO, `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer; and our CFO, `Carl Mellander, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Head of Group Function. As usual,
we will have a presentation, and then we will have a question-and-answer session. In order to ask
questions, you will need to join the conference by audio, as I said, and detail for that is to be
found on our press release or on ericsson.com. But before handing over to Borje and Carl, I
would like to say the following. During today's presentation, we will be making forward-looking
statements. These statements are based on our current expectations and certain planning
assumptions, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. The actual results may differ materially
due to factors mentioned in today's press release and discussed in this conference call. We
would like to encourage you to read about these risks and uncertainties in the earnings report
itself as well as in the annual report.
With that said, I would like to hand over to our CEO, `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer. So please, Borje.
`Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Peter, and good morning, everyone and thank you all for joining us. So today, we're
excited to present another quarter of good progress towards our strategic and financial goals
that we have outlined to you at our Capital Market Day about a month ago. From a financial
perspective, 2022 was one of our best years in the company's history. With our fourth quarter
results, we're on track to deliver on our long-term EBITDA target of 15% to 18% by 2024. Target
achievement is supported by cost savings, growth in our IPR revenues, portfolio changes, and
that includes, of course, reaching breakeven on Cloud Software and Services, but also to exit
some loss-making businesses, and we are executing on these initiatives.
We made significant progress, despite macroeconomic headwinds during the quarter. I am trulyconfidence in our long-term development. As we also said during our Capital Markets Day last
month, we expect and plan for overall mobile networks market to be flattish in the next two
years. And Dell'Oro now predicts a slight growth outside of China. But as we also said during the
Capital Markets Day, we expect 2023 to be rather choppy with near-term uncertainties and
macroeconomic headwinds that will likely impact operator CapEx. So as expected, during Q4,
we've seen some operators slowing the pace of network investments and that includes
frontrunner customers in many markets. We expect operators to continue to sweat asset in
response to the macroeconomic headwinds.
In addition, we expect the operators to adjust inventory levels as supply situation eases. These
trends started to impact Networks in Q4, and as we expected, it impacted sales in North
America. We expect and plan for these trends to continue during the first half of 2023, and after
that, we believe the inventory adjustment cycle is starting to get through and development
normalizes again. But in addition to this, longer-term growth in data will drive network investments
and data growth remains at very high levels. And that will return mobile networks market into
more of the flattish development that we're predicting over a number of years.
Looking ahead, it's important to remember that we're still in the early stages of the 5G rollout.
And actually of the cycle of widespread Enterprise digitalization. To address the near-term
outlook, we're taking several actions. Most notably, we're taking cost savings initiatives that we
expect to take full effect by the end of 2023 and with the impact starting to show during Q2 of
2023. In Cloud Software and Services, we're executing on our revised strategy, and of course,
there are seasonality in that business. But we expect to see a plan for breakeven of operating
profit for full year of 2023, and with gradual improvements in profitability thereafter towards
much more attractive levels.
We as a company are at the epicenter of a very powerful trend and that's really that anything that
can go wireless will go wireless. And we are investing to retain our leadership in 5G, but we're
also working to shape the future industry structure and how the industry will expose, monetize
and consume advanced network features that 5G networks can provide. And this will allow us to
transform into a platform company. Going forward, our Enterprise business will be a major driver
of our long-term growth and profitability. I would already now like to thank all my colleagues for
their efforts at delivering on our long-term plans and create long-term stakeholder value. Our
achievements would not be possible without them, but let me now go through some highlights
for 2022.
With our fourth quarter results and what we have executed on during the quarter, we're on track
to deliver on our long-term EBITDA target of 15% to 18% by 2024. As we conclude the year, we
have established a clear leadership position in mobile networks and we've taken important steps
towards building a high-growth Enterprise business. Based on technology leadership, we have
increased our market share in RAN from about 33% in '17 to 39% excluding Mainland China, and
we've established a global leadership position in 5G Core. Our strategy is extending our
leadership in mobile networks and expand into the Enterprise segment with the objective to
maximize value across all stakeholders. The Vonage acquisition, which we completed during last
year, gives us the foundation to transform Ericsson into a platform company and executing on this
strategy remains a top priority for us.
In 2022, organic sales grew by 3%, driven by a 4% increase in Networks and 16% in Enterprise.
EBIT margin excluding restructuring charges was 10.1%. However, if we exclude Vonage and the
previously announced charges during the year, EBIT margin was 12.9%, reaching our 2022 target
of 12% to 14%, as we said and we committed to when we announced Vonage acquisition. We
remain fully committed to continue building a culture of accountability and integrity, and wecontinue to invest heavily in those areas. We recognize that we can only be a true industry leader
if we're both technology leader, but also leader in how we conduct our business. As you saw
during the quarter, we took the decision to extend our monitorship. This is the right decision to
take to ensure that integrity is fully embedded into our culture. I'm convinced that a best-in-class
compliance program will give our company a competitive advantage and establish us as a true
industry leaders.
Let me go through some key events during the quarter. In December, we announced the signing
of a multiyear IPR agreement. This contract is of strategic importance to our 5G licensing
program. This positive outcome positions us well to capture further 5G license agreements. And
that's, of course, among previously unlicensed handset manufacturers, but it's also a new area
such as consumer electronics and IoT. Based on this, we expect significant IPR revenue growth
over the coming 18 to 24 months as we said at our Capital Markets Day. Group organic sales
grew by 1% year-over-year, of which IPR revenues contributed by 5 percentage points. And we
saw an EBITDA of SEK9.3 billion, corresponding to a margin of 10.8%. During the quarter, we have
the strong focus on breaking the curve on the inventory development and we executed on that,
and we were able to significantly lower our inventory levels. This contributed to cash flow before
M&A of SEK16.9 billion.
In the quarter, our Networks business grew in India on the back of significant market share gains.
As we said at Q3 as well as our Capital Markets Day, the growth from share gains in several
markets could not fully compensate for reduced operator spending and inventory reduction in
other markets, including North America. As is always the case and we've said in the past, market
share gains results in higher service revenues from large rollout or highest share of service
revenues as a result of large rollout contracts. These contracts are profit accretive, however, they
are initially margin dilutive. And of course, these contracts are important for us and we took them
consciously because it's strengthening our strategic market position and build the scale to be
competitive long term.
Gross margin came in at 44.6%, which is mainly due to the change in business mix. And we
expect gross margin to be 40% to 42% in Q1 of this year due to the change in business mix. In
Cloud Software and Services, we saw sales growth in North America, mainly from 5G Core
contracts, but this was offset or was more than offset by declines in other market areas. The
performance in this segment has clearly not been satisfactory historically, and at our Capital
Markets Day, we introduced an updated and revised strategy to turn the segment around, which
included priorities to limit subscale software development, accelerating automation to lower
deployment and maintenance costs, and changing focus from market share gains to profitability
as well as realizing cost synergies from combining the two prior segments.
So in the quarter, we started to execute on this strategy and that included to exit some subscale
businesses, and we're confident that the business is on path to reaching operating profit
breakeven for the full year of 2023. In parallel, in our core mobile infrastructure business, we're
continuing to execute on our Enterprise strategy. This is organized around two pillars, each
leveraging our strength in mobile networks. First, Enterprise Wireless Solutions focused on
capturing the multi-billion dollar enterprise market opportunity -- sorry -- for 5G -- need to get
some water. So first of all, Enterprise Wireless Solutions focus -- so Enterprise Wireless Solutions,
it's focused on capturing the multi-billion dollar Enterprise market opportunity for 5G optimized
networking and security solutions. And the second pillar is the Global Communication Platform
business, where we will be able to monetize 5G in new ways by transforming how network
features such as speed, latency are globally exposed consumed and paid for.During Q4, sales in the Enterprise segment represented 8% of total sales. Enterprise is a growth
engine for Ericsson and we continue to finetune our portfolio to maximize profitability. And this
included an agreement to divest our loss-making IoT business. After this divestiture, our
emerging technology area is expected to be profitable. We are investing in building up go to --
strong go-to-market organization for Enterprises, and we're investing to broaden our product
offerings as well as bringing network APIs to the market markets. These investments are a
foundation for profitable growth after 2023, but they will weigh clearly on profits in the coming
year. In the quarter, we also announced the SEK2.3 billion provision related to a potential
resolution with the U.S. authorities regarding the previously-announced deferred prosecution
agreement breaches or breach notices. The provision also includes cost associated with the
extension of the compliance monitorship that we announced in December.
While we're now in a position to make a sufficiently reliable estimate of the financial penalty, we
have not yet reached a resolution with the DOJ and discussions are ongoing. Separately and with
respect to the past matters described in the company's 2019 Iraq investigation report, we
continue to thoroughly investigate the facts in full cooperation with the DOJ and the SEC to
determine if there is any merit to the allegations. But it's not appropriate for me to comment
further as this is an ongoing investigation at this point in time. We continue to focus on building a
culture of ethics and integrity throughout our business and our company, and that includes the
Board and remains a top priority for Ericsson. I will now share a little more detail about the
development in our market areas.
So this high-level summary slide highlights how sales increased significantly market areas,
Southeast Asia, Oceania and India. In Europe and Latin America, sales remained stable. We saw a
decline in other market areas as operator CapEx were reduced due to macroeconomic
pressures, but also from operator slowdown or rollout plans. And in addition, we've seen supply
chain easings that enable some operators to optimize their inventories. Digging a little bit deeper
into this, I'd like to highlight a couple of things. As you can see in market areas, Southeast Asia,
Oceania and India, sales increased by 21%. Of course, as you're aware this was primarily driven by
5G market share gains in India, which of course we're extremely happy with. We did though
experience a slowdown of investment in certain other countries in Southeast Asia, which
negatively impacted sales.
In market area Northeast Asia sales declined after the elevated 5G investment levels we've seen
for the first three quarters of the year. In market area North America we saw a 7% decline year-
over-year. And as stated in our Q3 report as well as at our Capital Markets Day, we have during
the year seen accelerated CapEx investments, but we have also seen customers holding
relatively large inventories. During Q4, our operator customers guided around reducing the
CapEx investments. This is further compounded by their need to optimize inventories as supply
constraints actually eases. Market area out there primarily includes IPR revenues, IPR licensing
revenues and a major part of our segment Enterprises. And growth here year was mainly driven
by the acquisition of Vonage, impacting the quarter by SEK4.1 billion and the retroactive part of
the IPR licensing revenues for unlicensed periods.
With that, I'd like to give the word to Carl, our CFO.
`Carl Mellander, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Head of Group Function `
Thank you, Borje. And I'm glad your voice recovered as well. I'll try to do the same here. But -- so
good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining the call. I wanted to start by coming back to
some of the one-offs that we have recorded in the quarter. First of all, of course, we landed this
major IPR agreement, which meant retractive revenue from the expiry of that agreement, whichwas in early January 2022. And all of that revenue was recorded in the fourth quarter, which
brought IPR as a total up to SEK6 billion of revenue in Q4.
Second of all, we agreed with a buyer or acquirer of -- to divest our IoT business. And we took a
related charge there of SEK1 billion in the quarter related to that and that impacts the Enterprise
segment. Then in Cloud Software and Services, we decided also per the strategy that we have in
turning around this business, we decided to exit certain subscale businesses. And here we also
recorded a charge in the fourth quarter amounting to SEK0.8 billion. And then finally, also Borje
mentioned, last week we announced that we were now in a position to reliably estimate the
financial penalty from the DOJ regarding DPA breaches, and hence, we made a provision then
amounting to SEK2.3 billion in the quarter for that including the extended monitorship cost.
I also wanted to reiterate around what we see happening in the market and the market shift. So
in the Q3 report, the call back then, but also even more at this Capital Markets Day in New York in
December, we discussed this mix shift that we expected to start in the fourth quarter, but also
continue into the first half of 2023. And we really see and I'm reiterating a bit what Borje
explained, but I think it's valid point here that some CSPs in, especially frontrunner markets, are
now taking down their CapEx, in some cases from record levels previously, and some are also
adjusting down their inventory levels. At the same time, of course, we ramp up in other markets
where we have gained significant market share, which often comes with a large services share in
big rollout projects. And altogether, we expected this to impact both top line, but also gross
margin in the Networks. And this came through as anticipated in the Q4 numbers.
But with this overall intro, I'd like to dive into the numbers a bit more than for the quarter to start
with and then a bit later into the full year. But in Q4, we reached sales of SEK86 billion, which is
actually the highest sales for Ericsson in a single quarter ever. And the organic growth here as you
see is 1%, supported by catch-up IPR revenue, which drove growth by about 5 percentage points,
if you look at the total IPR revenue. And we saw Southeast Asia, Oceania and India grow, and you
saw the market area slide that Borje presented before. This is a result of those market share
gains that we talked about. Europe and Latin America flat and the other three market areas
declined notably then in North America as expected.
Gross income, excluding restructuring charges grew by SEK4.6 billion year-over-year to SEK35.7
billion. Of course, supported also again by the IPR revenue growth of SEK6 billion from SEK2.4
billion in Q4 last year, but also the addition of Vonage into the Ericsson family. But the margin and
gross margin, of course, again excluding restructuring charges, while supported by IPR declined
still by 200 basis points then to 41.5% year-over-year, primarily due to the business mix shift that
we talk about in the Networks, but also related to these previously announced charges for
contract portfolio exits in Cloud and Cloud Software and Services.
R&D increased. You know that investment in technology leadership is absolutely key for Ericsson,
increased to SEK13.2 billion. The FX effect year-over-year is approximately 45% of that increase,
so quite big impact from FX. But other than FX, the increase is really a result of the decision or
decisions we make to invest in our 5G portfolio and offering across the company, but also
includes investments in Enterprise Wireless Solutions as well to enhance the offering there and
bring 5G into that, not least, but also the addition of Vonage, of course.
Other operating income, just to highlight that was negative SEK2.8 billion. And there is where you
find provisions and charges related to DOJ monitorship and IoT. So all in all, EBITDA then, again,
excluding restructuring charges declined by 27% to SEK9.3 billion. That corresponds to a margin
of 10.8%. Again, as a result of the charges of around in total SEK4 billion, but also increased
expenses then not at least in the Enterprise side, which in turn comes from bringing Vonage a fullquarter into our business. Obviously, they were not part of Ericsson in Q4 2021 So from that
overall view on the group, let's look at the segments. Here we can start with Networks where Q4
organic sales grew by 1%, supported by IPR, of course, again. And the double-digits growth that
we saw in market areas, Southeast Asia, Oceania and India.
Gross income in Networks, excluding restructuring increased, primarily driven by retroactive IPR
licensing revenue. And the gross margin then a similar pattern on the group level, of course,
decreased to, in this case, 44.6%, caused by again this business mix shift that we talked about
and that we had anticipated and mentioned at the CMD, not least. EBIT came out at SEK12.5
billion. This is an EBIT margin of 21.4%. Then moving over to Cloud Software and Services.
Organically, we grew by 2% here. North America grew, as Borje said, while sales in other market
areas were down and that has mainly to do with the timing of project milestones and similar, but
also some contract de-scoping in the managed services part of that business.
Gross income increased following the higher sales volume. But again, of course, negatively
impacted by the charges that we have talked about several times already. EBIT in Cloud Software
and Services, SEK0.7 billion, stable EBIT margin of 3.4%, again, impacted by one-off charges.
Finally, then Enterprise on the right side here. The total share of total Ericsson sales at Enterprise
stands for now is 80% in the quarter. We saw strong growth here in several parts of this business.
Organically, we grew by 15%, of course, reported much more to 65%, but that obviously has to
do with the addition of Vonage contributing with SEK4.1 billion in sales in the quarter. Gross
income increased by SEK2.1 billion to SEK2.9 billion in total, and that's again driven mainly by the
Vonage acquisition. That leads to an EBITDA level in Enterprise, excluding restructuring of
negative SEK1.7 billion. You can compare that with SEK0.6 billion the previous year, mainly due to
the charges related to the IoT divestment that we talk about, but also growing investments in
R&D and SG&A, not least in Enterprise Wireless Solutions.
That's about the quarter. And now if we zoom out and look at -- excuse me, 2022 full-year
numbers instead. Sales of SEK271.5 billion, which is up close to SEK40 billion year-over-year, if we
look at the reported numbers, not considering currency in this case. But if we do adjust for
comparable units and the currency growth was 3% year-over-year for the full year. Gross margin,
excluding restructuring declined to 41.8%, impacted again by the same items. I will not repeat all
of those again. And here you can also see the R&D expense increase is about SEK5.3 billion in
increased R&D, and 1/3 of that is FX movement related. In Networks, where we add investment is
really in the cloud run area, but also in what we call Ericsson silicon or our ASICs. Also Enterprise
saw an increase in R&D. So EBIT margin here, as you can see the numbers here. But excluding the
one-offs and the non-organic or the Vonage acquisition, we came out at 12.9% in EBIT margin,
again, within the range for 2022, the target range that we had put up earlier of 12% to 14%.
Gross margin is a metric that many follow in our industry, and let's look at that here. You can see
the gross margin development from Q1 2020. And we decided to start this graph there, but of
course, earlier we have shown also development from 2016, 2017 when gross margins were at
30%, and we remember that time as well. Now we have surpassed 40% since some time. And
now on a rolling four-quarter basis, gross margin is 41.80%. So the improvement you can see in
the blue line here from 2020 is really driven by the investments in technology leadership and
competitiveness. And as you know, the improvement you see there in the blue line is really also
accompanied by market share gains over the same period.
Now we see a certain decline in gross margin and it comes as a result of, of course, inflationary
pressure and this business mix shift that we talk about in the Networks. And specifically in the
fourth quarter, and I mentioned this already, we saw that this shift, as expected, impacted our
gross margin. When it comes to inflation, I would say that we have managed well to offset that inthe quarter with commercial initiatives like product substitution. Of course, without inflation, you
could say that this, call it, operational leverage coming out of technology leadership as well would
have contributed to a stronger gross margin. But in this quarter now, we have managed to offset
that inflation.
So aside from those effects that I talked about, of course, we again had these one-off charges
that we should not forget when we look at this to better understand the underlying business and
the one-off charges here affecting gross margin amounted to 0.6 percentage points on group
level. So from there, let's move into how our earnings have converted into cash flow. And of
course, as you know, free cash flow before M&A is a key metric for us. We came out at SEK16.9
billion in the quarter and SEK22.2 billion for the full year, which is 8.2% of net sales. As you know,
we have a long-term target of 9% to 12% of net sales. So we came in just below that range now
for the full-year 2022. But there I think we should remember that this was a year with significant
global challenges when it comes to supply chain. And of course, that has impacted our working
capital.
And I think it's in this context we should see the year-over-year development of free cash flow.
2021 was a very strong cash flow quarter for us where free cash flow before M&A reached even
14% of net sales. So that creates a bit of a tough comparison when we look at '22. But we can
also see this over the two years. And then in average, we have generated free cash flow of
SEK27 billion between the two years on average per year. So what happened in the quarter was
that now as the supply chain situation globally is easing up, we were able to reduce the inventory
just as we said would happen, exactly that happened as well. So that's good, both in component,
but also in project inventory. And so this improvement in inventory, together with very strong cash
collection, including the collection from the IPR licensee, where we have the new agreement,
delivered a positive contribution from working capital, and therefore, generated a strong free
cash flow in the quarter.
I can add also that, of course, there is an impact from currency between quarters and over the
years. But if we look at reported numbers, this cash flow of SEK16.9 billion is actually the highest
that we have delivered at least during the last seven years in Ericsson's history. We continue with
the focus on working capital, of course. It's a big important drive in our company, and we continue
that with full force. I said before, though, the large rollout projects that we are happy to have won
tend to build up working capital initially at least, and that's normal and expected as an effect of
winning a business of that nature so that we believe will continue. However, the inventory side
should still continue down.
So on the back of the strong cash flow then, we managed to increase the net cash position by
SEK10 billion, now it's a bit more than SEK23 billion of net cash. And this is after having paid out,
of course, the second dividend installment of SEK4.2 billion, gross cash now SEK50.2 billion. And
then the proposed dividend from the Board of Directors at SEK2.70 per share corresponds to
total amount of SEK9 billion and is proposed to be paid out in two installments, just like previous
years as well. Now before I hand back to you, Borje, I just wanted to present a couple of key data
points for the future. So my last piece for today here covering the outlook for the first quarter and
also the full-year 2023 to some extent. So first some specific comments regarding first quarter
then starting with top line. And we look at average seasonality for Networks and the Cloud
Software and Services.
For Networks, this is minus 23% on average historical numbers. And for Cloud Software and
Services, this is minus 35%. I'm talking now about the delta, the difference between Q4 and Q1.
And for Networks then, we expect that the seasonal decline, Q4 to Q1, will be more pronounced
in Q1, even when adjusting then for the retractive IPR licensing revenue in Q4. And for CloudSoftware and Services, we expect normal seasonality to play out in the first quarter when
adjusting for the retroactive IPR again. So next when it comes to gross margin for Networks, we
are specific now in the guidance for the first quarter where we say that given this change in
business mix resulting from market share gains and what we have explained now and earlier, we
expect to see a range of gross margin in Networks between 40% and 42% in the first quarter.
And then when it comes to operating expenses in Q1, there is a typical decrease in our company,
if you look at historic averages by SEK3.3 billion from Q4 to Q1. I believe this is a good indication
also this time. And just so I have said that, of course, there might be large variations between the
quarters. Then amortization of intangibles expected to be around SEK0.9 billion per quarter for
the Ericsson Group in 2023, of which SEK0.8 billion in the Enterprise segment. And lastly, for Q1,
we expect EBITDA for the group to be somewhat lower than EBITDA last year same period, but
then with an improvement during the rest of the year as a result of declining margins in Networks
that we guide for due to the changing business mix.
So that concludes this part, and I hand back to you, Borje.
`Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Carl. So to sum up, we took several important steps during the quarter in achieving
our strategic and financial goals during the last quarter. And in a choppy world, I would say we
focus on manage what we can manage. And this includes, of course, saving costs of SEK9 billion
that will have full effect by yearend of 2023. And we expect to start seeing the reduced cost to
come through during the second quarter of 2023. We're also executing on the plan for Cloud
Software and Services that will allow us to improve profitability and reach breakeven for the full-
year 2023. We see great traction in our expansion into Enterprise, and we'll continue to invest in
broadening our product portfolio and build a strong Enterprise go-to-market organization. These
investments will create a strong platform for profitable growth going forward, while weighing, of
course, on the costs in 2023. And we expect to be able to showcase what we can do with the
global communication platform during the coming quarters. So I encourage you to stay tuned for
Barcelona this year.
Our basic premise for our business is basically that anything that can go wireless will go wireless.
I'm truly excited about Ericsson's future as we continue to execute on our strategy. As we go
forward, the investments in and growth from our Enterprise business will be a major driver of
Ericsson's long-term growth and profitability. And we remain committed to reaching the lower
end of our long-term EBITDA target of 15% to 18% by 2024. I would like to thank everyone, each
and every one of our customers, partners and employees. This has truly been a team effort.
Thank you. Finally, I would like to welcome all of you to our Annual General Meeting at the end of
March. And as you have seen and Carl described, the Board is suggesting a dividend of SEK2.70
per share, split into parts as it was past year.
And with that, I would like to conclude this part of the presentation and hand back to you, Peter.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Borje. As we're a little bit late, I will give you actually five minutes extra for Q&A. So we'llwho we have on the first part of the question. I would like to welcome `Andrew Gardiner, Citi to ask
the first question. Hi, Andrew from Citi.
Q - `Andrew Gardiner, Citi `
Good morning, Peter. Thanks very much for taking the question. So really my question comes
then to the unusual approach you're now taking or at least unusual for you guys in terms of giving
near-term guidance, right? So you've been quite quantified in terms of what you're telling us in 1Q
for margins in particular. I think to many of us on the call, that's going to be quite appreciated. It's
been a long time, decade since Ericsson has done that. And hopefully, it helps us find a floor in
terms of our estimate revisions here given the near-term challenges. But of course, for that to be
a floor, the estimates need to be conservative enough. I was just hoping you can give us a better
sense as to how much you have risk-adjusted those 1Q targets, so worst-case type modeling to
give us conviction that this indeed is hopefully the final cut in terms of the estimate. Can you give
us some color around how you set those near-term targets? Thank you.
A - `Carl Mellander, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Head of Group Function `
Should I start Borje? Thanks for the question, Andrew. I would say we wouldn't express it in this
way if we weren't -- if we didn't have the confidence about it. And as we provide a range also
40% to 42%, we think that different scenarios can be covered in there. And with the visibility we
have now on customer demand, on project rollouts, on our own cost situation, et cetera, in cost
of sales, we deem that this is the level where we expect to land in the quarter. So we have
confidence then.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
I think that's -- we recognize, Andrew, the repeated questions about near-term guidance. So we
felt this may be the right thing to do. So we took that step. So it was really to help. But we've
been, I would say, as Carl described, trying to be providing you with the best estimates we can
do. At the same time, there are, of course, always developments, but this is based on an
assumption of the inventory adjustments in Networks. And I think that's important to remember,
we're taking a rather conservative look on that. What we feel is conservative today. So I feel very
good about the estimates that we provide you.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Borje. Thanks, Andrew.
Q - `Andrew Gardiner, Citi `
That's helpful and perhaps just -- I just have a quick specific follow-up. In terms of the first quarter
EBITDA guidance of it to be quite somewhat below last year, just so that we're getting the
reference point correct. I mean you are referring to the SEK5 billion of EBITDA reported in Q1 '22.
There's no -- there are sort of one-offs or things that we should be aware of? Or is it just below
SEK5 billion is what you're guiding to?
A - `Carl Mellander, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Head of Group Function `
Yes, that's correct. Nothing specific around one-offs or anything like that to comment on.
Q - `Andrew Gardiner, Citi `
Thank you.A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Andrew. That was the first question. So we are now ready to go ahead with the second
question, and that is from `Aleksander Peterc, Societe Generale from Societe Generale. Hello, Aleksander?
Q - `Aleksander Peterc, Societe Generale
Yes. Hello. Good morning and thank you for taking my question. I hope you can hear me well.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
Q - `Aleksander Peterc, Societe Generale
Great. Yes. So I'd just like to come back a little bit on margins again following up on Andrew's
question earlier. So can you give us a sense of whether margins will bottom out in the first quarter
of the year, that 40% to 42% range? Or should we model broadly speaking, a similar range for
the second quarter because you said these pressures will persist and then we'll see an
improvement? And then just broadly speaking, do you think that Networks can longer term return
to a 44% to 46% gross margin range, which you saw in previous quarters towards that an
artificially high level of gross margins as a result of a particularly favorable business mix, which is
not expected to prevail in the longer term just in broad terms. Thank you very much.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, I can start on that. It's -- as we have said, the first half is really where we'll see the sizable
inventory adjustments that impacting primarily frontrunner markets and there are frontrunner
markets around the world. So we think that those effects are going to be there for the first two
quarters. And from there, you'll start to see an improved market environment during the second
part. And the reason why we believe the market will improve is actually the underlying traffic
growth. So that gives us the comfort, and this is what we've seen, by the way, in previous swings
you've had in CapEx. So when you've had those big adjustments, operators can sweat assets for
a couple of quarters, but it cannot be done for much more because simply traffic grows fast
underneath. So that's why we're -- what we are seeing is a gradual improvement in the second
part of the year. So that's the way we try to model it.
Q - `Aleksander Peterc, Societe Generale
Thank you very much. And just a quick follow-up. Can I just ask you, can you give us an annual run
rate of IPR and our quarterly run rate now that your main deals have been renegotiated? Could
you provide us with an estimate at this stage? Thank you.
A - `Carl Mellander, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Head of Group Function `
Yes. So current portfolio is around SEK9 billion. We -- as you know, we ended up with 10.4% now
during 2022. What we have also said, as you know, and we expanded on that at Capital Markets
Day is that we expect IPR to grow significantly. There are more device players in the ecosystem
that are currently unlicensed, especially for 5G. So we're targeting those now on the back of the
large agreements that we have just signed. But there's also other growth opportunity there,
consumer electronics, IoT, as we have mentioned before. So we believe that we cannot talk
exactly about the timing because this is about negotiations, obviously, with the licensees, but we
expect it to grow over time.A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Carl.
Q - `Aleksander Peterc, Societe Generale
Thank you very much.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Aleksander. So we are now ready to go further in the Q&A queue. So the next
question I have here is from `Andreas Joelsson, Deutsche Bank at Danske. Hi, Andreas.
Q - `Andreas Joelsson, Deutsche Bank `
Hi and good morning. A question on Vonage, please. If you could elaborate a little bit how the
business model is actually working. Is it a subscription-based model? Is it a license-based models
for getting sort of access to the APIs? Or how does that work really? Thanks.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, if you look at the current model in Vonage, you have both on a subscription-based model,
that's the UCaaS, CaaS solutions, but you also have a transaction model on the CPaaS. Over time,
as we launch now the new part, call it, the network APIs, there are still more work to be done on
the business model. So right now, the focus is to make sure that we technically solve the issues
and that we can actually present those type of network APIs on the CPaaS platform. And that's
why I said, you'll see announcements during the year. And hopefully, we can start to display also
the business model that we intend to see there. But so far, we need to continue the work we're
doing together with our operator partners to be able to launch those APIs and show them to the
market. So stay tuned for announcements on that, Andreas.
Q - `Andreas Joelsson, Deutsche Bank `
Perfect. Thanks.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Andreas. Thanks for that question. So we will move further with the next question. And I'll
have the next question from `Sebastien Sztabowicz, Kepler Cheuvreux from Kepler Cheuvreux. Hello, Sebastien.
Q - `Sebastien Sztabowicz, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Yes. Yes. Hello, everyone, and thanks for taking my question. I've got one question on the mix
because Dell'Oro, I know this RAN market in the U.S. declining in the mid-single-digit range in the
coming year. So the scale effect will play negatively there. But do you see any room for any
capacity upgrade cycle building up in some advanced markets and including the U.S.? So how do
you see your mix shifting in the coming years with the capacity upgrades and maybe some
rollouts in emerging markets? And the second one is on the RAN market specifically. It is gradually
slowing, a little bit declining right now. Have you seen any change in the competitive landscape or
the pricing conditions in the RAN market today or not so far? Thank you.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `If we start with the overall RAN market. And as we said at the Capital Markets Day, we expect a
flattish, call it, mobile network market as well as RAN market over the next few years. That has
not changed. And I would say Dell'Oro is now forecasting slight growth outside of China and a
slight decline if you include China, then we see this inventory adjustment happening now that I
think we have to expect to work its way through the system. When everyone normalizes
inventories, we do the same thing. That's why we also are able to reduce inventory. So you see
this in the supply chain. I think those will, as we see it now, work its way through the next few
quarters, one, two quarters, so Q1, Q2. Then after that, what will drive the cycle in the U.S., but it
applies also to other frontrunner markets. It's two things in reality. One is the underlying traffic
growth that we're seeing already. That continues at very healthy levels. So we expect to see a,
call it, normalization of the RAN market also in frontrunner markets, and that's why you reached
the overall flattish market.
The other part, which I think is very interesting is new applications. We're starting to see some
come through. First use case probably is fixed wireless access and fixed wireless access today
may be used in midband. But over time, that's probably going to migrate over to millimeter wave
and provide also support for the market. So when you look at these shifts that we are seeing, you
will see these type of individual years have negative or positive numbers. But over time, we
expect this more flattish market. So that will start to help the mix again as you move forward
beyond 2023. Pricing environment, we are in a competitive industry. This is why we're focused on
leading on technology. And when we lead on technology, we help our customers both improve
performance in the network, but also lower the OpEx. And what we see is that we can win those
deals at attractive gross margins. And that's why you see us, even though we're fairly
substantially changing the business mix in the company achieving compared to historic levels, a
very attractive gross margin. So I feel quite good about our competitive position and that's
ultimately the driver of the gross margin you can realize.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Borje. Thanks, Sebastien.
Q - `Sebastien Sztabowicz, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We will then move to the last question of this session today. And the last question I
have from `Terence Tsui, Morgan Stanley at Morgan Stanley. Hello, Terence.
Q - `Terence Tsui, Morgan Stanley `
Yes. Thank you. Good morning, everyone. A question on Networks as well, please, and just
around the strong growth in India. Can you just give us maybe a flavor of the margin profile in
India versus the other regions? And maybe give us an idea of how your profitability should evolve
as revenues start to pick up in the region? And then a real quick follow-up just on a topic that we
haven't asked on the all so far, just around the provision you made for the DOJ. Just wondering,
are there any updates on the investigations being conducted by the other authorities? And shall
we expect maybe a single settlement that covers all of the investigations in the future? Thank
you.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `If we start with the provision, yes, we set aside the provision for the bridge notices. And that was
because we could, as we say, provide a reliable estimate of the financial consequences. Besides
that, we have, as you know, not reached any agreement with them or with anybody else. So that's
why I -- at this point in time, there are ongoing investigations and discussions. So we cannot
update you in any shape and form right now.
Q - `Terence Tsui, Morgan Stanley `
India?
A - `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
India. We will not comment on individual markets and our margin profiles there. But what I can say
is that when you look at the guidance, we've given for Q1 on gross margin in Networks, and you
can there see that we expect a decline in the U.S. quite substantial as well as a growth in new
market share contracts. That is not only India, it's other market share contracts as well. And you
still see a longer-term healthy gross margin. If you compare to what we had five years ago, it's
still a very healthy gross margin. So we have factored in a lot of those swings. But the most
important one here, when we talk about mix is actually the -- that when we take a market share
gain, the contract by nature has a lot more service content than a normal continuous business.
And when that happens, we have lower margin. They're all positive margins, but it will dilute gross
margin, but that's all factored into the 40% to 42% gross margin.
Q - Analyst
Thank you very much.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks Terence. That was our last question. I see that I still have some questions in the queue. IR
is clearly open, you can call in and ask a question to us. `Carl Mellander, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Head of Group Function will be in London on
Tuesday, meeting some of you, both the sell side and the buy side. So that's another opportunity.
And as Borje said, we have the event in Barcelona coming up, and I know that a lot of you are
traveling down there as well to meet with us. So those are opportunities near term to meet the
management.
With that said, I would like to conclude this call. And thank you all for dialing in and asking
questions. Thank you.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Carl Mellander, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Head of Group Function `
Thank you.