Y 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
Hello, everyone, and welcome to Ericsson's Fourth Quarter and Full Year Result of 2023. With me
today, I have as usual our CEO, `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer; and our CFO, `Carl Mellander, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer. And we will end this
presentation as normal with Q&A. And in order to ask questions, you will need to join the
conference by phone. Details can be found on today's press release or on our website,
ericsson.com/investors. Please be also advised that this conference is recorded.
But before handing over to Borje, I would like to read the following. During today's presentation,
we will be making forward-looking statements. These statements are based on our current
expectation and certain planning assumptions, which are subject to risk and uncertainties. The
actual result may differ materially due to factors mentioned in today's press release and
discussed in this conference call. We encourage you all to read about these risk and uncertainties
in an earnings report today as well as in the annual report.
With that said, I would like to hand over the word to Borje, so please Borje.
`Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Peter and good morning everyone, thanks for joining us today. So in 2023, we navigated a
difficult mobile networks market marked by persistent headwinds and an unprecedented
slowdown in the North American market, which really saw customers reducing CapEx significantly.
With the rapid growth in India, we saw a dramatic change in business mix, but overall, the total
mobile networks market really fell in size. Notwithstanding these challenges, we continue to
execute on our strategy and I'm pleased to say that we concluded 2023 with a solid quarter and
we succeeded in generating an EBITA of SEK21.4 billion for the full year. Through our strong focus
on gross margin that we've had for many years, as you know, we generated almost 40% gross
margin for the year. While our actions to improve performance are paying off, we're not satisfied
with our profitability, so we have clearly much more work to do.
As we look ahead, 2024 will be a difficult year and market conditions will prevail and so wecautious and the investment pace normalizes in India. With that in mind, we remain laser-focused
on managing what's in our control. We're consistently driving operational efficiency, while keeping
the investments critical to our future growth intact. We remain firmly committed to our long-term
goals of 15% to 18% EBITA and 9% to 12% free cash flow, and we are seeking to maximize the
value for all our stakeholders. Let me now walk you through some of the key takeaways from the
past year and how our strategy is critical to the industry's long-term success. So next slide,
please.
As expected, 2023 was a difficult year for the mobile network market with an overall decline
combined with a dramatic change in market mix. Group sales declined organically by 10%, driven
by an overall decrease of 15% in networks with North America being down by almost 50%. We
worked relentlessly to strengthen our performance and cost management. We recognized
already in more than a year ago the need to take costs out. And during 2023, we've
implemented efficiency improvement including reducing internal and external headcount by more
than 9,000. And this has actually enabled us to deliver against our cost savings target of SEK12
billion gross out. About half of that came into effect in 2023 and the remainder will come during
2024. Because of our efforts that we've done the past few years and the importance we place
on gross margin, we were able to deliver a gross margin of 39.6% and an EBITA margin of 8.1%
for the year.
I would say given an almost unprecedented market environment with volume declines as well as
business mix change, I think this was a very solid performance by the team here. Across our
business areas, we also took critical steps in building a stronger, more profitable Ericsson. In
mobile networks, we continue to extend our technology leadership. Our leading technology
empowers customers to build high performance, differentiated and programmable networks,
while also leading the shift to open cloud-native networks. The contract with AT&T is a key proof
point, demonstrating how our technology is leveraged to advance the network architecture of the
future and deliver a reduced total cost of ownership for our customers. This deal will create
significant value both for our customer and for Ericsson, and we expect it to start to ramp up in
the second half of 2024.
In Cloud Software and Services, we executed on the turnaround plan, and we're happy to have
reached that target. So for the full year, we delivered an EBITA of SEK1.7 billion. I really want to
thank the full team for their efforts. From now on, we'll continue to increase commercial discipline,
automation and delivery efficiency, focusing on long-term profitability. In Enterprise Wireless
Solutions, we continue to build out offerings, including the acquisition of Ericom, and we further
strengthen our position in private networks. During Q4, we saw slower growth due to macro
headwinds. And through our global network platform, we continue to work with front-runner
customers to reshape the industry by transforming the network into a platform for innovation. In
parallel, we've continued to drive our cultural transformation as we focus on building a culture of
integrity and strengthening our governance, risk management and compliance. All this initiatives,
of course, come with the short-term cost, but I will say they're essential to our long-term
competitiveness and success.
As I said, going forward, we expect the RAN market outside of China to decline further as our
customers remain cautious and the investment pace normalizes in India. However, we expect our
market share in North America to be helped by the AT&T contract in the second half of 2024. It's
important to note that looking historically, large declines in the mobile network market are
followed by a rebound, so operators can sweat the assets up to a point, but eventually will need
to invest to manage the data traffic growth, cost, energy usage, and of course, network quality
and give the customer experience that the customer demands. And that is actually something wenormalized levels. However, the timing is very difficult to predict. Ultimately, this will be in the
hands of our customers and the investments will vary by customer and by market and their
competitive position. We also see a somewhat slower growth in enterprise due as well to
macroeconomic headwinds.
So again, with that outlook, we will continue to prudently manage our balance sheet, while
keeping sight of investments critical to our long-term strategy. So as we focus on driving
fundamental improvements to our cost structure and we expect to take additional actions,
including reducing headcount as we pare back some investment areas and focus our portfolio
where we really can win. As you saw today as well, the Board has proposed a dividend of SEK2.70
per share, corresponding to a total amount of SEK9 billion. This is proposed to be paid out in two
equal installments as in previous years. While recognizing the near-term challenges, I would say
this is a testament to the confidence the Board has in the longer-term outlook for us as a
company. But let me now take a step back to put our achievements in the perspective of our
strategy. So next slide please.
While the mobile network market is challenged, it actually provides real value to the economies
around the world, from regular communication for consumers to advanced digitalization for
enterprises and society. But the problem is that the return on capital has been stagnant and many
operators today fight to earn cost of capital. I think to change this, there are two things we can
do. We can passively wait for market just to improve or regulation to change or we try to address
the issue head-on by changing how networks are consumed and monetized. As you know, we've
chosen the latter route. We're actively working to reshape the industry by transforming the
network into an innovation platform, leveraging cellular connectivity in new areas. So let me
expand on that. First, we're leading the way by building high performance and differentiated
networks, which will be needed to digitalize enterprises. By horizontalizing the architecture, we're
allowing our customers to prioritize investments in different parts of the network at different clock
cycles.
This is important as it not only offers our customers advanced network architectures, but it also
allows for a lower cost of ownership. Second, with Enterprise Wireless Solutions, we extend the
use of cellular connectivity through private 5G networks and Wireless WAN. And third, by
developing a global network platform, we enable the exposure, consumption and payment of
network APIs, which extends the market beyond consumers to enterprises as well as developers.
We are changing the monetization model of the industry, and this is a shift that, of course, will
take some time. But we are encouraged by the progress we've made with the partnership with
DT to offer network APIs to developers and enterprises. But we're also seeing very strong
progress with front-runner customers. We're confident this will create a more profitable and
sustainable future for our industry and our company. So Ericsson has a clear leadership position
today with leading offerings. With our strategy and the actions we're taking, we ensure that we
will continue to be well positioned when the market improves.
Before handing over the word to Carl, I would like also just to comment on the announcement of
our new CFO, Lars Sandstrom. Lars will be joining us from Getinge and comes with an extensive
experience and knowledge from a variety of financial and management roles. Lars will join us 1st
of April, and we have also appointed Peter's successor as Head of IR, Daniel Morris, who joins us
from Vodafone's IR team, with a solid experience also as a sell-side analyst. So I would now just
like to say a big thank you to both Carl and Peter for their time at Ericsson for the time at Ericsson.
It's truly been a privilege to work with both of you. Thank you, both.
And now, maybe for the last time, Carl, it's time for you to go through the numbers.`Carl Mellander, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks a lot, Borje. Thanks for your kind words and a very good morning to everyone. So I will
address some of the key items around the financials here today and also some comments on the
outlook going forward. So if you go to the next slide and look at Q4 to start with. And I would just
paraphrase a bit, Borje, here, the challenging market we saw in telecom and this market mix shift,
they were really dominant factors throughout 2023. And reported full-year net sales in U.S. were
down by SEK35 billion year-over-year, but India grew by over SEK20 billion. So you see clearly
how powerful this shift was during the year 2023. And the impact of this on both profits and cash
flow is clearly visible. We have communicated around that many times. Of course, however, partly
countered with the cost-out efforts that -- and the achievements that we have done and
efficiency improvements across the company.
But looking at Q4 then as a solid result despite the current market conditions and the execution
during this quarter, I believe, demonstrates stronger increased resilience in our company and a
good team effort. So group sales declined by 17% organically to SEK71.9 billion in the fourth
quarter, partly the decline is due to the retroactive IPR revenue we had in the fourth quarter '22.
But I would say the primary driver here was the continued drop in North America where sales
decreased by 43% year-over-year in the quarter. India, meanwhile, there the 5G rollout
continued, but the pace slowed, so we are up in sales in India by 10% year-over-year in Q4, but
we dropped 40% sequentially, as we see now the Indian market starting to normalize the
investment levels following this unprecedented rollout pace that we have seen earlier in the year.
Gross margin then, 41.1%, including restructuring charges. That is slightly down year-over-year. But
interestingly, if we adjust for this large retroactive IPR revenue in the fourth quarter '22, it's
actually an improvement in gross margin. And how did that come about? Well, gross margin in the
fourth quarter was supported by a high share of software, thanks to the efforts in that area, but
also the market mix. I would also call out the cost reductions across the mobile networks
business, and one more factor to mention here, the lower variable pay accruals that we have
seen, which is also impacting OpEx positively in Q4. So in Networks, we achieved gross margin of
43.2% excluding restructuring, that's exceeding the 39% to 41% range that we had guided for.
And it's really a result of the activities I mentioned to improve the sales mix with a higher share of
software.
Further down in the P&L and EBITA, excluding restructuring declined somewhat to SEK8.2 billion
versus SEK9.3 billion in 2022. I mentioned already the retroactive IPR revenue, which plays into the
year-over-year comparison. But we also had lost Q4 several provisions moving in the opposite
direction as we disclosed at the time. So if we look at year-over-year delta, the underlying reason
is really lower sales and a changed mix in the Networks. Cloud Software and Services continue
the positive trend, delivered an EBITA of SEK2 billion in the quarter, driven by a couple of things,
of course, operational improvement, but we see it in gross margin, but also in a reduced OpEx.
And that resulted in a full year EBITA SEK1.7 billion as Borje mentioned, which is meeting, I would
say, with the margin our at least breakeven ambition that we communicated earlier.
Enterprise then grew by 7% organically with a stable EBITA loss year-over-year. We had a negative
impact in the quarter from some inventory write-offs in the Enterprise Wireless Solutions area.
Cash flow then, we delivered SEK12.5 billion of free cash flow before M&A in the fourth quarter
and that's really ending the year on a strong note. We have strong cash collection and we
released working capital from conclusion of large deployment projects as we had expected and
talked about many times. Then on cost out, to reiterate here, we have now achieved the
committed run rate savings of SEK12 billion, half of which impacted the P&L in 2023 already and
the remainder to impact in 2024. And here I just want to note that, of course, the SEK12 billion aregross savings and meanwhile, of course, as all other companies and organizations we still have a
cost inflation going on, not least from annual salary increases that kick in. And we are likely to
return in 2024 to more normalized variable pay accruals from very low levels in 2023.
Restructuring provisions came to SEK1.5 billion in the fourth quarter and that brings the total to
SEK6.5 billion versus the previously communicated SEK7 billion of restructuring in 2023. If we
move on to the next slide and look at the full year in numbers, reported sales then decreased to
SEK263.4 billion compared to SEK271.5 billion previous year. That's a decrease by 10% organically
following the weak RAN market discussed many times. IPR licensing revenues is a positive, we
grew to SEK11.1 billion versus the SEK10.4 billion we recorded the previous year. And we see that
as a result of new 5G license renewals during the year, partly offset by some expiring
agreements. Gross margin then excluding restructuring declined in the full year to 39.6% versus
41.8% in '22 as Borje mentioned earlier in the introduction, again, driven by operators' CapEx
reductions and the market mix as we have described many times before.
If you look at Cloud Software and Services on gross margin and we reached 36% up from 33%, a
bit more in 2022. That's encouraging, and of course, we continue to drive improvements in that
segment. Looking at the parts of OpEx, R&D increased about a SEK1 billion to SEK48.2 billion and
that's impacted by negative currency effect of SEK0.9 billion, and you see that the mobile
networks business that's then the segment Networks and Cloud Software and Services was
slightly down in R&D. We do increase in Enterprise and we also have the impact of course of the
full-year consolidation of Vonage now in the numbers. Turning to SG&A excluding restructuring
SEK38 billion, also negative currency effect here, SEK0.7 billion in this case. Same story, we
decreased in the Mobile Networks part, but increased in Enterprise. And this has mainly to do with
investments in go-to-market activities in Enterprise Wireless Solutions.
Also here, of course, we have an impact from the full-year consolidation of Vonage. So that leads
us then to an EBITA of SEK21.4 billion excluding restructuring in the full year, that's at 8.1% margin.
Obviously, not a level we can be satisfied with in absolute terms. But again, I would like to say it
illustrates the strength and resiliency in our company and our operations considering how
extremely challenged the market has been in 2023. And still we deliver more than SEK20 billion
EBITA. Free cash flow before M&A was SEK1.1 billion negative for the full year. And as you will
remember, we flagged at the outset for this, we would see a negative cash flow in 2023. It's due
to the same business mix shift that we talked about on the P&L towards big rollout projects and
those projects have a longer order-to-cash cycle than the normal business mix. So now what we
saw in the fourth quarter and we will continue to see is that we move out of the intense rollout
phase in those projects, and therefore, we see a positive effect on working capital reduction and
therefore free cash flow generation.
Some data points going forward if we move to the next one and for the first quarter. So as Borje
said, we do expect the current market situation to prevail into 2024. The AT&T contract will start
to ramp up during the second half and we're expecting a gross margin here in the Networks
segment to land within the range of 39% to 41%. There is a change in the mix from Q4 to Q1 and
that is the reason for our guidance here, 39% to 41% with less software. Cloud Software and
Services, we'll continue to invest here. We have strategic investments in the 5G portfolio. We're
doing that for competitiveness and resilience and we expect that to remain into Q1. And please
remember also when it comes to Cloud Software and Services, the nature of that business is
such that results will fluctuate between individual quarters. So we should not expect a linear
development from quarter-to-quarter there.
Then in the Enterprise segment we expect some seasonality, negatively impacting sales from Q4
to Q1 with the maintained profitability level. I want to comment also on OpEx and reiterate thatthe Q4 levels were low, partly due to these low accruals for variable pay given the lower target
fulfillment in the year. And we expect this to revert to more normal accrual levels in the first
quarter. And some other factors play in as well, including annual salary increases, but also the
investments that I mentioned in Cloud Software and Services and Enterprise. So we would not
expect OpEx in Q1 to come down as much as the average in the last couple of years. So I would
recommend being cautious when you model this part. Lastly, I just want to mention on capital
allocation, the strategy remains. We keep prioritizing organic investments in technology
leadership and building an enterprise go-to-market organization. When it comes to M&A, we are
prudent. We may do opportunistic tuck-in acquisitions that would complement our offerings.
And then we are targeting a stable to progressive dividend over time and there obviously the
Board considers the earnings, the business outlook, our financial position and opportunities. We
continue to aim for the for a gradual return to our target on free cash flow. As you know, it's 9%
to 12% of net sales. And following this as you saw the Board recommends a stable dividend of
SEK2.70 for the year. Then maybe on a more personal note, I'd like to thank you everyone on the
call here for all the great interactions over the years. This is my last of 30 earnings calls as the
CFO for Ericsson. It's been a privilege. I look back at an absolutely incredible experience, fantastic
people in our company and around us. I'm very pleased to have my successor now Lars
Sandstrom named today to leave the CFO baton in his hands, feels very good, very good
experienced hands as I am about to embark on my next exciting chapter in life.
And I also want to say I'm very happy to announce, which Borje did recently or previously, Daniel
Morris as the new Head of Investor Relations, which is a great addition to the team as well. And
finally, I want to say a big thanks to Peter. You have been running the IR ship with a steady hand
for the last 10 years in Ericsson. And thanks for being such a dedicated companion and friend
here as we have navigated through the waters here, and I really wish you best of luck in the next
chapter, Peter. Thank you for that.
And with that, back to you, Borje.
`Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Carl. Yes, 2023 was a challenging year. And we said that in the end of 2022, calling it
choppy. It was a historically weak market and we expect current market uncertainty to continue
into 2024. But ultimately, we expect the market to recover to more normalized levels, but that will
be over time. But it will be also based on operators' need to invest, to manage the rapid data
traffic growth, and also to continue the migration to 5G standalone. Capacity will be needed to
manage customer expectations to give the quality of service that will be needed or demanded
from the consumer. However, as we have said many times, it's really up to our customers to
determine the cadence of investments and really not up for us to predict when the market will
turn. So in that environment, we remain laser-focused on executing on our strategy to strengthen
our leadership in mobile networks, grow our Enterprise business, and drive a cultural
transformation.
We're relentlessly focused on managing elements that's in our control, that includes, of course,
the cost side, as well as operational efficiency. The steps we're taking are designed to help us
navigate the near term, allowing us to prudently invest in technology leadership for long-term
success and it's all about ensuring that we're really well positioned when the market ultimately
improves and recovers. Our goal is to make Ericsson a more profitable company based on the
leading position in mobile infrastructure and the high growth Enterprise platform business. We
remain firmly committed to our long-term EBITA margin target of 15% to 18% and also our cash
flow targets. So 2023 was a challenging year, but we took many critical steps in our strategyexecution and we continue doing so in 2024. Finally, I'd just like to say thank you to all my
colleagues for their hard work in spite of really difficult markets, severe headwinds and
challenges. A big thank you to the team.
With that, I think it's time to move over to Q&A, Peter.
Questions And Answers
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
(Question And Answer)
Yes, it is. And thank you, Borje, and thank you, Carl, and thank you both for the kind words. So
let's return to the process. So it's time for the Q&A session. (Operator Instructions) So let's see
here who we have on the first question.
I think the first question comes from `Alexander Peterc, Societe Generale at Societe Generale. Good morning,
Alexander.
Q - `Alexander Peterc, Societe Generale `
Yes, good morning, good morning all. And thank you very much for taking our questions. Thank
you, Carl, for your 30 quarters of reports and great work done there. Thank you so much. My first
question would be on the impact of the North American open RAN win on your margins,
especially in the earlier stages. And the question here is, should we expect the initial margin
pressure that you usually call, so footprint acquisition costs in this case, or should this not be the
case because you don't get the benefit of the vendor lock-in over the long run in this contract? So
that would be the first one. And the second one, just on India, you saw the shortfall in the fourth
quarter, the roughly $4 billion of sales that didn't materialize in Q4. Is that materializing in the first
half and is that going to help your top line in the first half at all? Thank you.
A - `Carl Mellander, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Alexander.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
You can take those.
A - `Carl Mellander, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, I can take. So when it comes to India, yes, so we really saw the peak now in the third quarter
and the volumes came down in the fourth quarter. That is true. Nothing specific to talk about
delays over quarters, if that's your question. It's more importantly, I would say, we've seen an
incredible speed in India during 2023. 2024, we expect to be still a higher market, larger market
than it was prior to 2023, but of course, compared to '23 coming down quite a lot. So that's what
we have to understand. When it comes to the AT&T contract and Borje you can continue on that
one as well. But I just want to say, I mean obviously, we don't talk about margins in specific
contracts. We are extremely pleased with the confidence that AT&T has showed us. It will
increase our market share in the North American market. And of course, North America is such a
key market for us, given our market share, which is already strong and now increasing with this
contract as well. We will start to see meaningful revenue in the second half of that contract and I
think that--A - `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
That you summarized it well.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Alexander.
Q - `Alexander Peterc, Societe Generale `
Thank you very much. Thank you.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you. So let's move further in the Q&A question. We will move to the next question, which
comes from `Erik Lindholm-Rojestal, SEB Enskilda at the bank SEB. Good morning, Erik.
Q - `Erik Lindholm-Rojestal, SEB Enskilda `
Yes. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for taking my questions. So Dell'Oro is expecting a 17%
recovery here in North America in 2024. But you have quite cautious short-term commentary
here. Can you talk a bit how -- a bit how a bit about how you expected recovery to look if you
think a recovery will materialize and if it's sort of more tilted towards H2? And then perhaps the
second question, can you talk a bit about the sort of normalization here in free cash flow into
2024. Do you expect the working capital build-up that you saw in 2023 to fully normalize in '24?
Thank you.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Should I start with the market maybe?
A - `Carl Mellander, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, okay.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
And I think the -- what we are trying to do and it's a great question, we ask ourselves the same
one, right? What we have said is we're rather taking a planning perspective that the current
market conditions will prevail. I -- we see a challenging market for 2024 that allows us to plan
accordingly, focus on taking costs out where appropriate, making sure we're disciplined in our
investments and really pare back some of the investment areas we've had. So we're trying to use
this environment to be really prepared on the cost side to be as lean as possible. At the same
time, we want to make sure that we invest in technology leadership because I think from my
perspective, it's all about being well-positioned when the market recovers.
And that is -- and we've said that so many times, it really depends on how the customer looks at
their own cadence of investment. Some of them are going to show, and we see that, for
example, in early 5G markets where 5G investments start to come back and that's why you've
seen growth there for a couple of quarters now. But when that will happen on a more global
basis, it's ultimately in the hands of the customers. But when it happens, we want to be really
well-positioned to take advantage of that turnaround and that recovery.
A - `Carl Mellander, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `Thanks, Borje. If I take your cash flow question then, Erik. So we are going for the 9% to 12% free
cash flow metric that we have or target. Just as with the EBITA target, we are not saying when
we're not committing to a certain time period, but we have extreme cash flow focus in the
company. And if you look at the fundamentals, we built up inventory due to the component
shortage situation earlier. Of course, that is trading out more and more as we deliver to
customers. And secondly, we had a market mix shift from the U.S. and other markets, front-runner
markets with shorter cycles to the longer cycles in India. Assuming that, that mix swings back to
some extent and we already saw it in the fourth quarter with India coming down, then we will
release working capital and that's, of course, benefiting our free cash flow. So we are going for
this with a determination as usual and aiming for the long-term 9% to 12%.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
I think only adding the other area that actually affects working capital is, we call it geopolitical
resiliency. So we have tried to diversify our supply chain in total and that's been rather costly
exercise, but it's allowed us to actually ship also when we had supply disturbances. I would say for
other reasons than geopolitics, but it's kind of the whole notion that we need to have a
geopolitical resiliency has actually impacted working capital. Those increases will not happen,
we've kind of built it in now, so we are in a much more stable position. But that, of course, has
been a bit of a burden on cash flow.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Borje. And thanks, Erik, for those two questions. We will then move to the next question.
And then we have the question from Francois Bouvignies from UBS. Good morning, Francois.
Q - `Francois-Xavier Bouvignies, UBS `
Good morning, everyone. And so I have two quick question. The first one is on the software mix
that impacted the quarter. Obviously, a good impact on margins. And I was looking at your
reporting, you said that you had 38% of revenues from hardware, 22% in 2023, which indeed is
higher than the last three years of reports where hardware was more than 40% of revenues. So it
seems that 2023 was a bit more favorable in terms of mix software versus hardware versus the
last three years. But then I was looking back, like beyond or before the last three years, so the
last 10 years and I was surprised to see that the hardware percentage and software percentage
is actually in line with what you reported in 2023.
And I was always thinking that your business would be more software and service intensive as we
move forward because you always said that software and it's more important in the coming
technologies. So how should we think about the mix in 2024, is -- or maybe even longer term
because I don't see much a change in the last 10 years. And that would be very interesting to
know, how we should think about that or any fundamentals behind? And the second one --
second question, if I may, is on Vonage. I mean, you mentioned this contract loss that impacted
the quarter. Can you provide a bit more color about what's going on here? How can you reassure
about the offering of the Vonage because 2 percentage growth is well below what you expected
originally? So I was wondering if there's anything you can provide in terms of color here? Thank
you.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
I think on the -- if we start a bit on the software mix, so what you see, depending on where you
are in the cycle, you will have more hardware sales, and thereby, less software. And that's really
what you see in 2023. It was a rather sharp reduction in hardware volumes. That's actuallyimpacting the mix more than kind of any structural change. But that has been the case in almost
all or it has been the case in previous cycles as well. So you see this shifting over time depending
on where you are on rollouts. And remember it's still only one in three or maybe one in four even
sites that are upgraded to 5G mid-band and that's actually ultimately going to require hardware.
So it's a bit tricky to put exactly a number, but with what you're going to see with the separation
of hardware and software going forward, you will see the hardware portion come down. It's not
going to be a -- happen from one quarter to the next or a year to the next, but this is over a
period of time as the new technology stack will be implemented making us more focused
towards the software side basically. So I would say that longer term, the portion of software is
going to increase and the portion of hardware is going to decrease for that reason more than
anything else.
A - `Carl Mellander, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
And I complement that also, of course, as you said, Borje, in build-out phases, of course,
hardware grows as well. And that is, of course, a good thing because that has to do with building
footprint with the operators, shipping our hardware, installing it in the field. And then, of course,
software comes on top of that installed base. So we are also happy, of course, with high
hardware sales in these phases. So no question. And also I would say, over the years, the margin
delta between software and hardware has also been reduced because now we have a very
competitive hardware portfolio as well, we should also mention that.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. We should say that.
Q - `Francois-Xavier Bouvignies, UBS `
And that's actually (Multiple Speakers)
A - `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
A lot of the investments we did in R&D, if you go back a few years was actually to make sure we
had a very or less sensitivity to the mix between hardware and software. So -- and that's why
when the increased hardware portion that you saw the last few years actually could still generate
a very solid gross profit.
Exactly.
Q - `Francois-Xavier Bouvignies, UBS `
And on 2024, directionally -- directionally 2024, is it, what visibility do you have? Is it like more
hardware or more software year based on your activity and orders?
A - `Carl Mellander, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I would say the longer term trend is towards more software, as Borje said, given how
networks will be built and so on. 2024, we'll have to see how it plays out, but maybe to mention
one aspect that could play in, and that's the inventory buffering we saw in North America. And as
you know, that's one of the reasons why we have shipped less hardware also in 2023 is that the
carriers in the U.S. have depleted their buffer inventory of radio equipment. Now we have
reached, of course, a level which we believe is the normalized inventory level. So that could bode
well for additional hardware deliveries.A - `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
But I think it's fair to say that the volume decline we see is quite a lot in hardware side, of course.
A - `Carl Mellander, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
And then you had a question, Francois, about the development in Vonage. Maybe the Vonage, it's
-- the mentioned contract is actually a very low-margin contract. So from a profitability point-of-
view, less impact. Thanks.
Q - `Francois-Xavier Bouvignies, UBS `
Any reason why, I mean, a contract loss? I mean just give colors and do you still expect to grow
double-digit percentage after this normalization of contract loss or?
A - `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
No. Our -- I mean we have to come back on thinking about what is the rationale behind Vonage.
What is it we are trying to do? Of course, we have an existing business that we need to run,
which is the CPaaS, UCaaS, CCaaS business. That needs to develop as well and -- but we also
have said that we want to prioritize higher margin product offerings within that suite. But the real
strategic area that we're actually working on is to develop the market for network APIs, and with
the ability to expose the capabilities of the network in a new way. That is where we're 100%
focused on, while trying to maintain the existing business. This was one where, of course, it had
an impact on the sales number, but we didn't feel it was strategic for us, and therefore, that isn't
-- was not a critical contract for the success of the business, but it did impact top line.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Borje.
Q - `Francois-Xavier Bouvignies, UBS `
Thank you very much.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
And thanks, Francois for those questions. So we'll move further in the Q&A session. And we have
the next question from `Andreas Joelsson, Carnegie at Carnegie. Good morning Andreas.
Q - `Andreas Joelsson, Carnegie `
Good morning, everyone, and thank you for taking my question. Just a follow-up on the overall
market and maybe a little bit more long term. We all know 5G importance for society as such and
so on, but why do you feel or what is your view on why especially the U.S. operators are a little bit
more cautious now? What do they need to see in order to become a little bit more positive in
putting investments into this? And secondly, on the AT&T contract, also more long-term beyond
2024, how do you see that ramping up? And if you could say something about the visibility you
have in that particular contract over time? Thanks.A - `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
If we start with the market without singling out any operators because they're our customers, we
work very closely with them. But if you look at mobile infrastructure, what is a bit unique with the
mobile infrastructure is that it's not a cut-off point you have it or you don't have it. It's actually a
degrading quality. And as that allows you in a way as an operator to pare back investments for a
period of time, traffic continues to grow, the underlying traffic growth 20%, 30% faster
sometimes when you have fixed wireless access. So the -- in a way that the capacity demand
continues, then you can say, okay, I can degrade performance a bit. I can actually -- I may not
need the capacity short-term, so you can save investments, but ultimately you need the capacity.
So what will then be the trigger for that? It will probably be competition offering a better service,
it may be a front-runner in the market that actually drives the others, therefore, to invest, it may
be new type of use cases that come up that demands more bandwidth, whether that is XR
applications, whether it's new type of streaming services, new type of social media, I don't know.
But we know when you get those new type of use cases into the network, it actually drives the
need to invest. And lastly I would say, for the world to really benefit from 5G, we need to migrate
to 5G standalone. And there are, if you look across the world, very few 5G standalone networks
built out. Really where it's a front-runner is China. In China, you start to see enterprise applications
coming on top of the 5G network that we are not seeing in the rest of the world yet, for the
simple reason the infrastructure is not built out.
So when you look at this, when will it exactly be? I don't know, to be honest. It's in the hands of
the customers when they make the strategic decision to say, okay, we need this to offer the
services, to offer the capabilities, to generate new type of revenues for the network. And I think
that's going to come, the ultimate recovery will come, but it's just in the hands of the customers.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
And your second question around AT&T long term, how that would be developed?
A - `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
No, I think we will have to come back to that. We have signed the agreement we have very
pleased with that. And we are now starting to ramp up the preparation for that. It will be visible in
the second half, but exactly how it plays out I would probably rather report when it happens on
that. But it's a breakthrough contract, it's historic in nature also from a strategic point-of-view. But
we have -- we can say we have great visibility that it's going to take some time to ramp up the
contract that's going to happen, as Carl said, in the second half of this year, but then we have
visibility on how that's going to look like going forward. But let's come back to that.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Borje and Carl.
Q - `Andreas Joelsson, Carnegie `
Perfect. Thank you.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
Yes. And we lost him, so we move to the next question.Probably hang up.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
Good morning. `Joseph Zhou, Barclays from Barclays. How are you today?
Q - `Joseph Zhou, Barclays `
Hi good morning, everyone. Thank you for taking my questions. And thank you, Carl and Peter.
Best of luck to your future endeavors.
A - `Carl Mellander, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you.
Q - `Joseph Zhou, Barclays `
I have two questions and I'll go one at a time. And the first one is really on India. And what is your
expected normalized revenue level in '24 and going forward? And is this sensible to assume it
goes back to, say, the 2022 level plus your market share gain with Jio for 5G? Or do you see
some structural uplift in the overall market size? That's my first question.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Carl?
A - `Carl Mellander, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, it's, of course, in the hands of the operators how much they invest. But I think it's fair to
assume that a normalized level is higher than pre-5G. 2023 was a record year and it's coming
down, as we said, in 2024. But we would still expect a higher volume than the 2022 levels. Again,
it's up to operators how much they want to invest, obviously.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
And your second question, Joseph?
Q - `Joseph Zhou, Barclays `
Yes. The second question is about the ramp-up for AT&T. And shall we expect any revenue from
AT&T in the first half of '24 any kind of material level? And also just regarding that, do you need
to really hire in North America to execute the contract? Because obviously you had a savings
program where you had a huge headcount reduction in North America last year. And do you need
to hire some of those people back for the new contract?
A - `Carl Mellander, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
We will -- we don't expect material revenue in the first half, so that's why I really point that out.
That is to be expected in the second half. Resources rehiring in North America elsewhere, Borje,
you want to take that?A - `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
We have also changed the structure, so we have less service engineers basically in-house, so we
will rely more on third party for that. So I don't expect material re-hirings to deliver on this
contract.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Borje.
Q - `Joseph Zhou, Barclays `
Thank you.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Joseph.
Q - `Joseph Zhou, Barclays `
Thanks.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
We will move to the next question. And the next question is from `Jakob Bluestone, Exane BNP Paribas at BNP Paribas
Exane. Good morning, Jacob.
Q - `Jakob Bluestone, Exane BNP Paribas `
Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. Two, please. Firstly, on the AT&T contract, we
heard from Nokia that price was a big part of the reason that lost the contract. I'd just be
interested to hear from your point-of-view, to what extent do you see these types of O-RAN
contracts as being deflationary overall? And then just secondly, staying with the AT&T contract,
you mentioned rightly that it's a historic contract. I'm just interested in hearing, are you seeing
more demand for these types of contracts since you announced it? So is there any sort of read
across to other contract wins? Thank you.
A - `Carl Mellander, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Borje?
A - `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
It's always interested when competitors apparently know everything, so you can question how
much they know sometimes, to be honest. But if you look at the contract like the one we're
talking about, I think it's -- where -- how does this actually work? It's all about looking at the total
CapEx, OpEx envelope and actually optimizing that total cost. So you make sure that you can
invest in technology in order to actually increase the portion of that cost envelope that goes into
revenue generating equipment and that is what this is all about. So it's about then putting a
technology in place that allows a much more efficient, call it, rollout and operation of that network
and that's what we're doing together with AT&T. So the substantial benefit here is actually that it
allows within the CapEx envelope a faster rollout. But that is really created by leveraging new
technology. So we're putting new energy savings features in place, multi-band radios in place,
standardized sites in place, et cetera.All of those contribute to make as much of the capital go into productive equipment as humanly
possible. That's really our competitive advantage and that's why that contract is so important.
Then that's the reality and that's the fact. That's why it's value creating for us, but it's also value
creating for our customers. So this is a way, I think, for the future that's going to show to be more
interesting. I think it's hard to say. I mean, we have a lot of interest to look at similar type of
solutions for the future, but that's we'll see. It's too early to say that that's going to be a lot of
contracts coming, but we're seeing a great interest in exploring similar type of solutions for the
simple reason that it actually reduces the non-strategic spend. And you know think about normal
network, right? It's kind of a lot that goes into, I call it, concrete and towers, right? But the reality
is, it's in passive equipment, it's in truck rolls going back and forth to sites, it's in energies, costs,
et cetera.
All of that we like to put into active equipment instead and that's what we're doing in this
contract. I think it's a model for the future and can create a big potential for us.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Borje. And thanks, Jakob. We'll move to the next question, which comes from Sandeep
Deshpande at JPMorgan. Good morning, Sandeep.
Q - `Sandeep Deshpande, JP Morgan `
Good morning. My question, I mean, in your forward looking statements, you've given the
guidance of Dell'Oro for the full year. And Dell'Oro seems to have growth for the U.S. market this
year in FY '24. Is that your view on the U.S. market given where the starting point is at this point?
And if that is not, would there not be further risk to the top line into '24?
A - `Carl Mellander, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So we do believe that there is a good chance that North American investments will start, but
we are careful in saying here that it's in the hands of the operators. We don't want to be precise
in putting any commitments for that out there. We also see Dell'Oro's expectation that North
America, coming from a record high level in 2022 down to a probably unsustainably low level of
investment in '23, increases -- grows again in 2024. And we believe that that's a reasonable
expectation.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, I would just echo that. But I think what we're trying to do is also to make sure that we plan for
a challenging market. I think that's the prudent way to plan our costs on our side to make sure
that we're as lean as possible. And then when the market recovers, we have our technology
investments, so we are at the leading edge there, combined with a very efficient cost structure
because when that recovery comes, whether that's in the beginning of '24, the end of '24, in '25,
but we're at least well positioned when it comes. And that's really what we're here to do because
then we can succeed longer term.
Q - `Sandeep Deshpande, JP Morgan `
Thank you.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Borje. So we are moving now to the last question for this session. And that one is from
`Sebastien Sztabowicz, Kepler Chevreux from Kepler Chevreux. Good morning, Sebastien.Q - `Sebastien Sztabowicz, Kepler Chevreux `
Yes. Hello, everyone, and thank you, Peter, for taking my question. On the gross margin in
networks, you've seen a quite nice step up, thanks to positive mix in Q4. How do we assume we
should think about the gross margin in networks moving into 2024? What are the good syntax for
the coming quarters there? And the second one on the Cloud Software and Services, you have
strongly recovered in the fourth quarter. We know there is a strong seasonality in this business.
But looking at 2024 and beyond, where do you see your EBITA margin moving in Cloud Software
and Services? Do you have any indication of the trend there? Thank you.
A - `Carl Mellander, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Sebastien. Well, as you know, we haven't issued any particular profitability guidance
for Cloud Software and Services. We are on a turnaround journey. I think 2023 shows significant
progress there and we delivered SEK1.7 billion EBITA for the full year. We continue there with
actions. It's about commercial discipline. It's about automating to take cost out of service delivery
basically, and also ensuring that we exit from subscale parts of the portfolio, if any, and manage
the portfolio in an as optimized way as possible. So that will continue. Then, of course, we keep
on investing in this business. It's a long term, very promising area. Borje mentioned before the
need for operators to come into 5G core as well as standalone. Of course, and that sits in this
segment. So I think that gives a good opportunity for the future as well, as that starts to happen
as a strong trend.
Then you asked about the network's growth margin. Yes, good outcome in the fourth quarter. As
you saw, we are guiding for the first quarter between 39% and 41%. How the rest of the year
plays out has a lot to do with the big macro picture that we talk about, namely, how will markets
behave now. And we are cautious there. We talk about the continued challenges. Depending on
the previous question, what happens in North America, of course, we will see different outcomes
on the gross margin as well, and then top line in the network. So I think that's probably what we
can say at this stage. Anything to add?
A - `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
I think it's also fair to say that what we -- you know our focus on gross margin, it's been one of the
key drivers because what I think it does a couple of things. It keeps us focused on commercial
discipline. But at the same time, it drives our product development because if we can invest in
technology that drives down our costs to deliver and serve customers. It helps the gross profit. So
for us, the gross margin has been critical and that's something that we have invested quite a lot
in the last few years and we continue to do.
Then exactly how, as Carl said, the gross margin develops, depends on that mix between
products and mix between markets and mix between different parts of the company. So I -- in the
same way as trying to predict the future, it's easy to have an opinion. It's just hard to be right. I
think what we need to do here is to really plan for how do we put ourselves in the best possible
position when we have a more, call it, rational or more normal market environment that we
expect will come. So it's all about putting ourselves at the best possible competitive position at
that point in time.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Borje. Thanks, Carl, and thanks, Sebastien. And thank you all and this will actually conclude
my 31st and last earnings call here at Ericsson. And it has been sort of 10 fantastic years here atEricsson, especially you Borje and Carl and the whole IR team, but also interacting with everybody
following Ericsson, it has been a true privilege. So again, a really big thank you to you all.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Carl Mellander, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Peter Nyquist, Vice President, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks all.