Y 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Daniel Morris, Head of Investor Relations `
Hello everyone, and welcome to the presentation of Ericsson's Fourth Quarter 2024 Results.
With me here in the studio today are `Borje Ekholm, President and Chief Executive Officer, our President and CEO; and `Lars Sandstrom, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer,
our Chief Financial Officer. As usual, we'll have a short presentation followed by Q&A, and in
order to ask a question, you'll need to join the conference by phone. Details can be found in
today's earnings release and on the Investor Relations website.
Please be advised that today's call is being recorded, and that today's presentation may include
forward-looking statements. These statements are based on our current expectations and
certain planning assumptions, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. The actual result may
differ clearly due to factors mentioned in today's press release and discussed in this conference
call. We encourage you to read about these risks and uncertainties in our earnings report, as well
as in our annual report.
I'll now hand over the call to Borje and to Lars for their introductory comments.
`Borje Ekholm, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well thank you Daniel, and welcome everyone. And first of all, of course, thank you for joining us
today.
So we delivered a solid Q4 result, and we made good progress against our strategic priorities in
the 2024 overall. Momentum around programmable networks and new ways to monetize them
continue to build up. I'd like to start by focusing my comments today really on two key areas. First,
the progress against our strategic initiatives. And second, how we position the business to
succeed across varying market conditions.
Beginning with our strategy that aims to build the networks of the future through programmable
networks and open API architectures. This will enable our service provider customers to deliverdifferentiated performance and new applications and new cases to monetize.
The contract, and you remember that we signed with AT&T last year really paved the way for our
newest agreement with MasOrange which we signed during the quarter. I would say our
agreement with MasOrange was really the first open programmable network in Europe. It's a key
milestone for us and the European telecoms industry. With this agreement, Ericsson and
MasOrange will collaborate to lay the foundation for open programmable infrastructure that will
drive technological advances and growth moving forward. It will allow differentiated connectivity.
And why is differentiated connectivity so important? Well, if you think about the whole radio stack
and we are serving a massive number of different applications, we're serving anything from
mobile broadband, fixed wireless access, mission critical communication, but also AI glass or AI
driven new applications. We have AR, VR glasses. All of them will require differentiated
connectivity. And here, programmable connectivity plays a very important role. That's why that's a
key focus for us. But besides that, we also launched a number of enhancements to our portfolio,
including more sustainable massive MIMO radio with more than 25% energy savings and new
RAN software capabilities that significantly boost performance and programmability.
On the Enterprise side, the joint venture we announced in September with 12 leading service
providers to aggregate and sell network APIs represent a key milestone in redefining the
telecom industry by creating the supply of network APIs across several continents. And we
continue to see the momentum building for network APIs. And during the fourth quarter, we also
announced the name for the new venture, Aduna. And you can expect many more
announcements to come in the future here.
In Enterprise Wireless Solutions, our strategic ambition is to further build out the go-to-market
engine. Last year, we combined the activities under the Ericsson brand and announced a new
Enterprise 5G portfolio, including neutral host solutions to enable full indoor connectivity. Overall,
we saw very good traction in the new portfolio in Q4. So as you can see, we are not standing still.
We're taking actions to execute on our strategy to ensure that Ericsson remains well-positioned
for the future, while also laying the foundation to change the overall trajectory of the RAN market.
Second, I'd like to provide some comments on the overall RAN market and how we're preparing
ourselves for different market conditions. And you've seen that's been critical. In 2024, the overall
market continued to be quite challenging, and I would say continued to decline during the year.
However, today, we're starting to see some very positive indications, and we have further
reasons to believe that the overall market is starting to stabilize.
And you saw in Q4, sales returned to growth for the first time in eight quarters, increasing by 2%.
We continued strong growth in North America as well as growth in Europe. Growth in data and
new applications, that's what's going to drive the market over the medium to long-term. But,
ultimately, and we've said this so many times before, the near-term market recovery is in the
hands of our customers, but our confidence in a stabilizing market is growing, driven by positive
customer discussions and interactions, and that we see a return to our largest markets, the U.S.
as well as Europe.
So I think the frontrunner experience we have with the U.S. market can give us comfort that we're
starting to see a change in sentiment. But regardless of the market conditions, we need to
structurally improve our business through rigorous cost management, of course, but also
improving our working capital and the capital we tie up in the business. That will strengthen our
cash flow and balance sheet. So for example, during the past few, well, year and years, actually,
we have taken a lot of actions to structurally take out costs, and you can see the results in ourgross margin increasing by more than 500 bps to 44.9%. Market mix, IPR licensing revenue, of
course, and the focus on the profitable segments in Enterprise all contributed as well.
In 2024, total headcount internal and external fell by 9,400 or 8%. So it's just not in our gross
margin where we're structurally improving the profitability. We're actually taking OpEx out as well.
And as you've all seen, the fourth quarter included significantly higher bonus provisions than last
year and clearly above normalized levels during the quarter. So underlying OpEx developed well
and fell down or fell.
Adjusted EBITA margin increased by 300 bps to 11%. We're not yet where we want to be here,
but we're making progress towards our long-term goal. Going forward, we're going to continue
to strengthen our business and focus on operational excellence and we remain committed to our
long-term EBITA margin target.
Over the past 18 months, we have implemented actions to structurally lower our working capital.
Together with a change in business mix following the completion of the large rollout project in
India that we had in 2023, we generated free cash flow of SEK40 billion during 2024. And that
puts us in a very strong financial position.
Turning to capital allocation.
Our first priority is to invest in R&D to maintain and grow our technology leadership across
networks, enterprise solutions, and network APIs. Alongside R&D, we prioritize a strong balance
sheet and attractive shareholder returns. I would also say that we actually have a very well-
positioned portfolio today. So we see possibility to do some smaller add-ons, bolt-ons, could be
geographic, could be technology-wise, but what we have positions us really well to organically
develop the business and we're very satisfied with where we are.
So today, you saw the Board proposing a dividend of SEK2.85 per share, corresponding to a total
amount of SEK9.5 billion. I would say this is a testament to the confidence the Board has in our
strategy as well as the longer term.
So as you can see, it was a strong end to the year, but now let me comment more specifically on
some of the market developments we saw in Q4.
In North America, sales increased by 54%. In Networks, sales increased by 70%. Of course, driven
by the rollout of our AT&T contract, but also strong year-end hardware demand and significant
software traction with other large customers. Sales in Europe and Latin America increased by 2%.
The strength in Europe in particular benefited from the market share gains and strong deliveries.
Sales decreased in all other regions, specifically Latin America continues to be a market with
intense competition and lower customer network investments. In Southeast Asia, Oceania and
India, sales decreased primarily due to lower network sales in India after a record year, 2023.
Sales in Northeast Asia as well as Middle East and Africa also slowed. This was really due to
investment levels slowing down following the recent 5G build-out in the front-runner markets, as
well as some macro pressures from, in Africa that we're all aware of.
At the same time, we had good customer success in all of these regions in the quarter. So for
example, we announced a multi-year contract extension for 4G and 5G RAN with Bharti. We also
had a contract with a nationwide 5G deployment for VNPT in Vietnam.
With that, I would like to hand over to Lars to go through the financial details.
`Lars Sandstrom, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `All right. Thank you, Borje.
Let me start by giving you some additional points on the group before discussing the segments
more in detail.
Net sales in Q4 amounted to SEK72.9 billion and organic sales were up 2%. North America growth
was strong for the third quarter in a row and we also had slight growth in Europe for the second
quarter in a row. The other markets declined, particularly India, where investments levels have
normalized after a peak in 2023.
Adjusted gross margin was 46.3% in Q4, an increase from 41.1% in the prior year here. Margin
improved with supply chain efficiency, the focus on commercial discipline and a favorable market
mix.
OpEx in the quarter was SEK23.8 billion up by SEK1.7 billion compared to the prior year, mainly
because bonus accruals were above target levels in '24, having been below in last year. The cost
of activities continued to deliver savings. These balanced out salary increases and part of the
higher bonuses.
Adjusted EBITA increased to SEK10.2 billion with a margin of 14.1%, marking a significant expansion
year-on-year.
Cash flow was strong at SEK15.8 billion. The improvements came from improved profitability and
lower working capital.
Let's move on to the results for the full-year.
Net sales amounted to SEK247.9 billion and organic sales declined by 5%. Very strong growth in
North America was offset by organic sales declines in all the other market areas. The sales
decline, which gave a significant volume impact on gross income, was more than offset by an
increase in gross margin. Adjusted gross margin was 44.9%, an increase from 39.6% in 2023.
Margin improved with a favorable market mix, cost reduction initiatives, including supply chain
efficiency, as well as higher IPR licensing revenues and the focus on more profitable market
segments in Enterprise. The result on gross income was an increase of SEK7 billion to SEK111.4
billion.
Reported OpEx was up by SEK15.2 billion compared to the prior year, mainly because of the
intangible asset impairment of SEK14.1 billion. Excluding impairments, total OpEx was SEK88.4
billion, which is an increase of SEK1.9 billion. This is mainly because the higher bonus accrual levels
compared to 2023.
R&D investments continued to maintain technology leadership, for example, to accelerate
delivery of some 5G features and to further improve operational resilience. Excluding
restructuring, impairments and the discontinuation of capitalization of development expenses in
Enterprise impacts R&D increased by around SEK1 billion in the year. SG&A costs, excluding
restructuring and impairments, also increased slightly, primarily in segment Enterprise, with
investments to improve operational effectiveness.
Adjusted EBITA increased to SEK27.2 billion. The margin was 11%, marking an almost 3 percentage
point expansion year-on-year.
And net income for the full-year was SEK0.4 billion compared to minus SEK26.1 billion in 2023. Net
income in '23 was impacted by the impairment of goodwill of SEK31.9 billion and in '24 by a non-cash impairment charge of SEK15.3 billion. The effective tax rate for 2024 was 28%, excluding the
impairment charges.
Cash flow was very strong at SEK40 billion. The improvements came from improved profitability
and working capital resulting from a favorable market mix, customer payments and efficient
supply chain management. I'll cover this more in detail later.
Let's comment on IPR licensing.
Q4 marked the fourth quarter in a row that a new IPR agreement was signed. This means at the
end of 2024 most of the top 10 smartphone vendors were licensed for 5G. IPR licensing
revenues increased to SEK14 billion in 2024, including retroactive revenue of around SEK1 billion
from just over SEK11 billion in 2023. We are at a record run rate of SEK13 billion in recurring IPR
revenue going into 2025. There are further growth opportunities with a few additional 5G
agreements remaining and the potential to expand in additional licensing areas such as
automotive and IoT.
With that, let's move to the financial trends.
While the market conditions have clearly been challenging, we have been seeing a stabilization of
sales in Q4, rolling 12-month sales bottomed at Q3 '24. The gross margin trend shows that the
focus on growing the patent portfolio, the improved utilization of supply chain and cost actions
are paying off. The more favorable market mix has also contributed. We have seen a favorable
development of EBITA, which ended up the year at SEK27.2 billion, up by 27% compared to the
prior year. The lower level of sales in the first three quarters compared to the previous year and
increased operating expenses moderated EBITA margin improvement.
Let's move to the segments.
In Networks, organic sales increased by 5% year-on-year. North America grew 70% from very low
levels last year, with contract wins and a strong year-end software demand contributing. Sales in
Europe grew slightly. In the other markets, customers continue to be cautious with their
investments, and the largest decline was in India, where the investment level have now
normalized after a peak in '23. Networks adjusted gross margin was 49.1%, with a favorable
market mix or business mix. Cost actions and operational leverage in the supply chain all
contributed. IPR revenues increased and benefited from a further licensing agreement and
contributed to the gross margin improvement.
Networks adjusted EBITA increased to SEK10.1 billion from SEK7.4 billion in the prior year, and
adjusted EBITA margin was 21.6% in Q4, and 17.5% for '24 overall. EBITA improved due to higher
sales and improved gross margins, partly offset by higher OpEx affected by the aforementioned
higher bonus accruals and investments in R&D.
In segment Cloud Software and Services, organic sales were stable, with sales growth in North
America offset by sales declines in the other market areas. Adjusted gross margin was 39%,
improving from the prior year and benefiting from the delivery performance and higher software
sales. The strategy execution, with focus on commercial discipline and accelerated automation, is
paying off. The improvement in gross margin was offset by higher bonus accruals, reflecting an
above target outcome in '24, which resulted in EBITA margin of 9.3% in Q4 and 3.2% for 2024.
In Enterprise, sales declined by 7%. Enterprise Wireless Solutions grew by 19%, with strong growth
in private 5G and neutral host solutions. Sales in Global Communications Platform declined 17%,impacted by the decision to reduce activity in some countries and focus on more profitable
market and product segments.
Adjusted gross margin increased to 54.3%, and adjusted gross income increased by SEK0.3
billion year-on-year, despite the sales decline. The adjusted EBITA loss was minus SEK1.2 billion,
with a decrease year-on-year, mainly reflecting non-recurring impacts, in part related to the exit
of certain businesses, as well as increased investments to improve operational effectiveness. The
focus on improving the financial performance in the current portfolio continues at the same time
as we also invest for the future.
Turning to free cash flow, which was SEK15.8 billion before M&A in the quarter, and SEK40 billion
for the year. We delivered a cash flow margin of 16% to net sales for the year, well above our 9%
to 12% target. The increase in cash flow compared to '23 is due to the earnings growth and very
strong working capital, as I mentioned before. Working capital benefited from the structural
actions we have taken to improve supply chain, cash efficiency, and for market mix, particularly
between India and the U.S. On top of this, strong collections and customer prepayments also
contributed, and this means working capital is now at historically low levels, and we expect this to
partially reverse in 2025. Net cash increased sequentially by SEK12.3 billion to SEK37.8 billion, and
return on capital employed in '24 was 2.5%. This includes an over 7 percentage point impact from
the impairments.
Next, I will cover the outlook.
Turning first to sales.
For Networks, Q4 continued the strong trend from Q3, so the 2024 exit rate is high. Despite this,
we still expect Networks Q1 to be broadly similar to the average three-year seasonality. We
expect Cloud Software and Services to be similar as well. In Enterprise, sales will continue to be
impacted by near term by the decision to focus on profitable markets and products.
And next, turning to profitability and Networks gross margin. For Q1, the Networks gross margin is
expected to be in the range of 47% to 49%, with some initial impact from the timing of swaps in
North America, but still benefiting from a positive market mix. And with still significant revenue
declines in some markets, restructuring is expected to remain elevated in 2025, as we continue
to adjust the operating model and focus on operational excellence.
With that, I hand back to you, Borje.
`Borje Ekholm, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Lars.
So, the global RAN market continued to be challenged in 2024, but I would say we were well
prepared for this as we took actions early to adjust our business for more realistic levels of
demand. North America returned to growth in Q2, and we saw a stronger end of the year
broadly, as our Networks revenue returned to growth in Q4.
Looking ahead, we see further signs of the RAN market stabilizing. Our recent customer
discussions indicate an accelerating interest around our programmable networks. And in many
markets, there is a need to invest to keep network performance at a competitive level. It's
encouraging, but we recognize that the exact timing of the investments that will be made, of
course, those decisions are in the hands of our customers. We will continue to execute on our
strategy to capitalize on the evolving market dynamics. This strategy is focused on building theincreased monetization opportunities for our mobile operator customers through new use cases
including exposing network capabilities through network APIs.
In addition we remain focused on the things we can impact and that's of course how we run our
business including cost and working capital management and naturally strengthening our product
portfolio as well. This way we ensure Ericsson continues to be well-positioned to create value for
its stakeholders when the market fully recovers. Our goal is to make Ericsson a more profitable
company based on the leading position in mobile infrastructure and to develop new use cases
and monetization opportunities. This will change the trajectory of Ericsson but also the telecom
market that I would say the last decades have actually flattened out and by changing these
dynamics we're into a situation where we'll see further investments in the network. So to sum up
in 2024 we took several critical steps in our strategy and we'll continue doing so in 2025.
So on that note I actually want to thank all my colleagues in the company for all their hard work.
Thank you team.
With that I think it's time for Q&A, Daniel.
Questions And Answers
A - `Daniel Morris, Head of Investor Relations `
(Question And Answer)
Super thanks, Borje. We'll move on to the Q&A now. (Operator Instructions)
Operator, if I can ask you to open the line please.
Super. So our first question this morning is going to come from `Andrew Gardiner, Citi at Citi. Andrew
please go ahead.
Q - `Andrew Gardiner, Citi `
Thank you Daniel. Can you hear me?
A - `Daniel Morris, Head of Investor Relations `
We do yes, please.
Q - `Andrew Gardiner, Citi `
Good morning guys. Thanks very much for taking the call.
I had one on the dynamics in the North American market. If I go back to the commentary you
were making at the time of third quarter you had a good result then but you were expecting the
sequential trend into 4Q was perhaps going to be a little softer seasonally off that stronger 3Q.
As it turns out this morning you're showing us very good trends in the U.S. in particular you're
obviously highlighting the share gains. Lars you briefly just mentioned swap outs as well. So I was
interested in a bit more detail in terms of what's happening in the market. What indeed drove
that upside relative to your earlier expectations. Was it more share gain under the new contract?
Was it, sort of, the broader market coming back? Inventory replenishment? A little bit around that
would be really helpful.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President and Chief Executive Officer `I can take that. Thanks, Andrew, for the question.
It's a good question. And what we have seen and that's why you see us talk more optimistically
and confidently about the market starting to recover. We actually have seen the investment levels
coming up in North America. Part of it is, of course, to replenish from a very low inventory level
that we've seen in the industry. And part of it is, of course, driven by, call it the traffic growth and
the need for connectivity. So I feel that we saw a little bit broader base of purchases in Q4 than
we maybe expected when Q4 began.
A - `Daniel Morris, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Andrew.
Moving to the next question, please. The next question is going to come from the line of Francois
Bouvignies from UBS. Francois, your line should now be open. Please go ahead.
Q - `Francois-Xavier Bouvignies, UBS `
Hi, thank you very much for taking my question.
I have a question maybe more on the geopolitical side of things. We have seen, of course, Trump
getting into elections and talking about tariff potential. And I was wondering, your -- given your
high exposure to North America, where your production is globally? Because when I look at your
annual report on 20-F, I know you don't manufacture yourself, but you have like a significant
portion of your revenue that's still in-house on the testing and assembly, which seems to be in
China. But correct me if I'm wrong. And I mean outsourcing is done through EMS, which I assume
is mostly in Asia. So it seems that mostly your supply chain is coming from Asia. And I was
wondering, how should we factor the potential of tariff over time in your business? If you can help
on that, and how does it change your strategy, maybe doing more in local North America? That
would be very helpful. Thank you.
A - `Lars Sandstrom, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Borje, I can start.
Now, if you look at our supply chain, as you mentioned, we have production today in North
America, so where we are Made in America, for America. We have in Latin America, we have in
Europe, we have in Asia, we have in India, so we have pretty broad-based production capacity
that we are utilizing. And we have the opportunity to move production between the different
sites, both in our internal, but also with the external manufacturing sites that we have. So that is,
it's not something that we do easily. It depends a little bit on the product mix et cetera of course
but we have this opportunity to work with the supply chain, depending on what kind of decisions
that we will see ahead of us. Having said that of course tariffs could have an impact going into
2025 but I think we're all waiting a little bit to what is going to happen there but we are working
on that continuously, trying to balance and utilize the system we have.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And as you know we built a factory in the U.S. I would just add that. We commissioned it, I think
2019 or 2020 it's a few years ago. In reality preparing for a different geopolitical situation and I
think the whole world is moving from a cost-optimized supply chain to a resilience, you need to
factor in resilience in the supply chain and that's why we built up the U.S. factory and we're
increasing the -- we're investing to increase that capacity in North America as well and then we'llall have to see just like Lars said how will this look in reality and then adjust as much as possible.
So I think we just have to see with that question.
A - `Lars Sandstrom, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
I think also worth mentioning on tariff it's, we -- normally it's not the general tariffs it can be
different, there can be exemptions et cetera and we have seen that in the past where critical
products for a market has been exempted from tariffs et cetera. So it's too early to say what's
going to happen but of course we are working and following this closely.
Q - `Francois-Xavier Bouvignies, UBS `
Okay. Thank you. Can I have a follow-up or should I go to the queue?
A - `Daniel Morris, Head of Investor Relations `
If it's very brief we can take it.
Q - `Francois-Xavier Bouvignies, UBS `
Yes, I mean just on the software dynamics side you ended the year with a good software mix
based on your comments. I was just wondering if you think that's going to continue in '25 or early
'25? That's it. Thank you.
A - `Lars Sandstrom, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
I think when it comes to single quarter and especially the fourth quarter we tend to have higher
software mix in this year as well and we maybe even a little bit exaggerated in the quarter. So to
see it as a trend is maybe too early to talk about.
A - `Daniel Morris, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks Francois.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President and Chief Executive Officer `
But I think we should add there the industry if you think both actually happening when we
horizontalize the network, which as you know that's what we are -- have been working on that's
the whole basis for the contract win in the U.S. as well as in Europe. It's an increasing amount of
software that structurally is going to come then Q4 is as Lars said but structurally we are going to
go into a situation of more software as opposed to hardware.
A - `Daniel Morris, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Borje. We're moving now to the next question. So `Simon Granath, ABG Sundal Collier from ABG, your line
should now be open. Do you hear us Simon?
Q - `Simon Granath, ABG Sundal Collier `
Yes, I do. Good morning and thank you for the presentation.
I'd like to expand a bit on the traffic growth here, because you do acknowledge in your latest
mobility report that it's continuously decelerating here and one could potentially argue that this is
weighting on the demand for your products. Nonetheless data traffic is still growing and you doalso expect it to continue but is it fair to assume that this shift is making you put even greater
emphasis on margins over the longer term particularly if this trend continues? Thank you.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks Simon.
It's a very good question. Data traffic growth will be what's underlying the demand for our
products. Once you build out coverage, it's truly only data traffic growth and its right as you say it
is gradually declining a bit and that's fair. I would say though we, what we are expecting to see
and that actually it's a different question a bit, but when you start to think about future
applications. So far we come from a world where it's been mobile broadband to the consumer.
That's been demanding one type of traffic. What we see now in the future is actually a wide
range of applications coming up. It's anything from AR, VR glasses, but I would single out one
trend that's actually going to be very big for the traffic and start to impact network investments
and it's the whole AI.
So far AI has been mostly on the training side and that's fine but we're starting to see that
coming into applications in enterprises. I'm sure they're going to be consumer applications. They
may well be more voice controlled so you're using voice as the -- as call it the operating system.
In that world we see also a changing requirement on the network. So the network needs to be
prepared for the AI traffic. It's going to require more uplinks, going to require different
performance of the network. That actually I think may be more important in the next few years as
a traffic definition.
So yes, overall traffic is probably going to continue to taper down, but I think the demands
coming from the new applications that run on top will actually materially impact the way you need
to invest in the network. That also needs of course to impact the way you get monetized for the
network and that's why I think we're very excited about, where we are on the demand for
network equipment but also the ability to monetize that through network APIs. I think they all are
starting to come together making us a critical component in how AI will be deployed.
So I think, we should -- when we think about the future there is actually one -- I mean, if you only
look at consumer mobile broadband, you can get a bit negative. But I actually think we need to
look at the other side, which is starting to happen at a very different pace. I wouldn't rule out
that's actually what we see starting to happen in North America, why we actually get the demand
picking up there, because the data traffic is per se growing at about the same rate as before. But
the nature of the traffic is starting to change. And I think that's what should bring us excitement.
On the focus anyway, I think we need to have a very strong focus on operational excellence. And
for me, that -- if we focus on operational excellence, we can actually say, okay, if the additional
exciting data traffic growth takes 12 months, 24 months or 36 months to be meaningful, at least
we have a very solid core business. So the focus on the margin is actually something we are not
going to drop. So we need to have that as well but the other part is equally important.
A - `Daniel Morris, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks for the question.
Q - `Simon Granath, ABG Sundal Collier `
Thank you so much. May I have a smaller follow-up?A - `Daniel Morris, Head of Investor Relations `
Simon I think we better just move on. Just because we have quite a long queue. But thank you for
the question. Feel free to join for a follow-up at the back of the queue.
If we can move on now to the next question `Sebastien Sztabowicz, Kepler Cheuvreux from Kepler Cheuvreux. Your
line is now open Sebastien.
Q - `Sebastien Sztabowicz, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Yes, hello and thanks for taking my question. One question regarding the mix for the coming
quarters. How do you see the mix evolving? And specifically attached to that, do you see any kind
of opportunity linked to 5G Advanced going forward. It seems that the U.S. operators are
potentially preparing for more rollout of 5G Advanced. Is it something that could politically affect
your mix in the coming quarters? Thank you.
A - `Lars Sandstrom, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
I'll first start with the mix from a geographical perspective. We will -- we have had quite good
growth in U.S. as you know in North America. The growth rate such will come down as we more
come into stabilized rollout et cetera. Still a bit of support but of course with the very high growth
rate you have seen in the past quarters will come down. And then, if there are and coming
stabilizing in the markets, some recovery in some regions that could have somewhat of a
negative market mix but also on the rollout mix as such within North America. So that is what we
are trying to highlight here.
And I think when it comes to the 5G Advanced rollout, I think I'll leave that one.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, I think it's a very good question. We are starting to see some traction on 5G Advanced. So
we are in very good discussions. So I think that's the next step, that's going to again give you the
high performance networks that you are going to need for the future type of traffic. So we are
quite excited about that but it's -- I would say if it impacts the next few quarters I think that's too
much to say but we are rather encouraged by the traction we see.
Q - `Sebastien Sztabowicz, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Daniel Morris, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks for the question Sebastien.
Moving on to the next question please. Next question is coming from `Daniel Djurberg, Handelsbanken at
Handelsbanken. Daniel please go ahead.
Q - `Daniel Djurberg, Handelsbanken `
Thank you, Daniel, and good morning. Yes, a question on capital allocation and obviously also
broad question but the net cash increased some SEK12.3 billion, you have a gross cash of SEK76
billion until Q3, net SEK38 billion. And you will have Iconectiv adding some SEK10 billion, SEK11
billion to this. And you propose some SEK9.4 billion in dividends hence, you will have a huge cash
pile, also after that dividend. So the comment on the question is really, how you think of thecapital allocation, the cash you need for the operation and the potential for any, extra dividend
buyback or also or if you expect to do another, quite lofty acquisition or anything else that we
should bear in mind. Thank you.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President and Chief Executive Officer `
When it comes. Yes, Lars.
A - `Lars Sandstrom, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President and Chief Executive Officer `
When it comes to capital allocation, I think as you know, our focus is, first priority is to ensure solid
R&D so we can continue. We are long term, we are in technology leadership and we need to
ensure that we continue to invest to maintain our technology leadership. So that is key for us. Yes,
we're coming out with a good net cash position, but you can also argue, it's coming back to more
historical levels. When it comes to M&A, I think, what we are looking at is where possibility could
be is when it comes to bolt-ons within the product portfolio or some if there are geographical
expansion, et cetera, but not any major investments in that area.
And then going forward, we have -- the Board has proposed an increase of dividend to show
gradual improvements in, or increases in the dividend capacity and then going forward, I think
that will probably be a question more coming into the coming years, when it comes to further
dividend or allocation to the shareholders.
A - `Lars Sandstrom, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
And I think Daniel, I also want to take maybe another attack on this. And as I said, we -- I think we
can organically develop our portfolio, we have a strong position on the mobile network side, and
what we have in the Enterprise side, actually, we think we have a very solid base to develop that
from. So we're very comfortable with our starting position.
That means that we may add some geographic coverage, could add technology components in
there. But I also say that, we -- just to think that we would do a bigger acquisition, we're not going
to do that. For the very simple reason, we need to deliver on the ones we've done. So I think we
need to show that we can create the value for the shareholders and strengthening the company
with the investments we've done. So we have a lot of work to do that before I would even
remotely think about that question. So that's not part of the way we work. What we're focusing on
there -- we're of course, always in the M&A market, but it's going to be the smaller add-on bolt-
ons, geographic expansions, that's what we would be focusing on.
A - `Daniel Morris, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks for the question, Daniel.
Next question, please. Next question is from `Jakob Bluestone, Exane BNP Paribas at Exane BNP. Jakob, your line's
open.
Q - `Jakob Bluestone, Exane BNP Paribas `
Thanks, Daniel. Hopefully, you can hear me okay.I appreciate you haven't guided specifically for 2025. And I presume that sort of reflects some of
the sort of broader geopolitical uncertainties. But I was just hoping you could maybe give us a
little bit of sort of qualitative color around some of the puts and takes for revenues and margins.
You've obviously mentioned potential risks around tariffs and sort of market growth. Are there
any other things that we should bear in mind for revenues? So, for example, the fact that you had
a number of one-offs in '24.
And then at the margin level, can you maybe just help us understand, do you see your margins
and sort of broader cost control? Does that -- you had your big cost savings in '24 as you sort of
cut back as revenues were under pressure. Does some of that go into reverse? So could we start
to see some margin pressure coming as you start paying people more bonuses again? Maybe
some of the mix is a little bit different as places like India start to grow again. So just sort of
interested on anything you can say qualitatively on '25. Thank you.
A - `Lars Sandstrom, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Borje, do you want to start on top-line? And I can walk down the --
A - `Borje Ekholm, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, I can.
A - `Lars Sandstrom, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Margins and costs.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, I think what we see, we come out of a period where '23, '24, I think we had call it almost two
years of continuously falling sales. What we see is a much more stabilizing outlook. So that trend
of falling sales feels like we -- it's always dangerous to say that everything has changed, but at
least we get more comfortable in the outlook of the stabilizing and actually returning to some
more historic patterns. So I feel on the sales side, at least what we can see is a more positive
outlook than we've seen in the quarters before. So in that sense, we've gotten more positive.
And what's further giving that reason for positivism is actually that the U.S. is returning to stronger
growth. The numbers don't focus on the quarter or year-over-year increase in North America,
because that's from a very depressed level in the year before, but think about it much more as
we're seeing a broader-based recovery in North America. It's not only one contract, it's actually
broader. And when we start to see that with the front-runner characteristics of the North
American market, they were the first to really deploy 5G, then the other markets came. It gives us
the comfort that the market outlook is stabilizing that is, it's leaving the last few quarters. So we
see that to be a solid indication that we are in a good spot.
Then globally, what we have done, I would say over the past few years, is actually to reduce the
sensitivity to geographic mix. So we have much less exposure to different regions growing
differently. What may actually impact more on margins is the amount of rollouts. If we have a large
amount of rollouts, it actually puts a bit of pressure on the margins. And that's more important.
And when you think about the future, we're probably going to see the AT&T contract move into
more of rollouts and swap outs that we saw in India the year before, et cetera. That may be, call
it impacting more than necessarily the sales mix. But if you look, the U.S. used to be, or has
almost always in our industry been a front market coming back to growth and a broad-basedvaries by quarter, but at least it's getting more positive. We see Asia in the same way. So the
market is shaping up to be relatively -- it's improving and stabilizing.
A - `Lars Sandstrom, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. And we are still in a downward trend in outside of U.S. and Europe. And when that will, we
see -- as we mentioned, Africa with AU, they are pretty hard hit by geopolitics and the difficulties
they see. So -- and the competition in Latin America. So it is hard to see where are they, where is
the trajectory turning there, so to say.
And when it comes to margins, I think you mentioned it there will be a bit of mix on the margin, so
that could be some pressure, not substantial but holding us back somewhat.
And on the cost side, I think coming out of the year here in '24 a little somewhat elevated bonus
levels, but going back a couple of years, if you could argue that '23 was really a low year
compared to the historical average. So going -- looking into '25 for OpEx, that should be similar
levels because we have an underlying cost inflation hurting OpEx and of course cost of goods
sold as well, but we are continuously working with the cost reductions and as I meant, we
mentioned there in the outlook on the restructuring. We will -- they will be maintained on a high
level to mitigate some of this cost inflation pressure that we still see.
Q - `Jakob Bluestone, Exane BNP Paribas `
Understood. Thank you.
A - `Daniel Morris, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks Jakob.
Moving to the next question please. The next question is coming from the line of Andreas
Joelsson at Carnegie. Andreas, please go ahead.
Q - `Andreas Joelsson, Carnegie `
Good morning everyone. I'd just like to go back to Daniel's question on capital allocation, if I may,
and this is just so we understand everything everyone. As Daniel said you have a strong cash
position you will have proceeds, you will have free cash flow also for 2025, I guess, given that you
see a stabilizing outlook and just from a philosophical way, what is the arguments for a company,
like Ericsson to have to have a net cash position. I understand you have had it historically as well,
but what is the reasoning behind that, if I may. Thanks.
A - `Lars Sandstrom, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
I think it is our firm commitment to really ensure that we have capacity to do the investments in
R&D over time. I think, that it has been the leading star -- guiding star for the company for quite
some years. And I think we also have -- if we go long back into history, felt that, that has been
hurting our ability to invest in when having not the right cash position. So to say, so I think that is
call it a bit of conservatism on that end but I think coming through 2025 here we will continuously
evolve and assess what is the right capital structure and of course started discussion internally
together with the Board and then at that -- at the latest stage externally also communicate how
we look upon this.
A - `Borje Ekholm, President and Chief Executive Officer `One philosophical thing, Andreas, that we very rarely talk about, but actually our customers care a
bit. They typically make 10-year commitments when they put our networks in operation. So they
would prefer that we are solid from a financial perspective so they can comfortably make that
commitment, right? So to avoid -- to have that discussions in customer interactions, it's better to
be maybe a bit conservative, as Lars said, on the capital.
We talk a little bit less about that but I think that's been a factor. And here, I think it's going to take
some time and has taken time for the customers to realize that we are increasingly becoming a
software business. When we were, if you go back 15 years, we were much more hardware,
hardware-centric. And then, of course, it was a bigger question for the customers. As you move
into becoming a software vendor, I think that capital, I mean, the working capital becomes less
and less and less.
So I do think that that's going to change. But so far, that's been one of the things that's actually
been important in order to capture customers. And we come from a spot in 2017 when this was a
topic in every customer interaction, hasn't been since then. But every customer I met were
focusing on, Ericsson going to stay alive? Are you going to turn it, et cetera? That's not the
question anymore. But we want to also be a bit prudent in that perspective.
Q - `Andreas Joelsson, Carnegie `
Thank you. Very helpful. Thanks.
A - `Daniel Morris, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Andreas.
Moving on to the next question, please. Next, we have `Sandeep Deshpande, JPMorgan from JPMorgan.
Sandeep, please go ahead.
Sandeep, we don't hear you yet. Can you check if you're mute?
Q - `Sandeep Deshpande, JPMorgan `
Yes, hi. Can you hear me?
A - `Daniel Morris, Head of Investor Relations `
We do now, yes.
Q - `Sandeep Deshpande, JPMorgan `
Yes, hi. I have a quick question, Borje, about you talked about the stabilizing market, end market
and particularly North America. But what -- is it the share gains that is causing the improvement in
the North American market? Or is it the 5G Advanced? What is the next product to drive the
growth from here, given that 5G has been rolled out in the U.S. at this point and somewhat in
other markets clearly not as much as in the U.S. But the other part of the question is, do you need
6G to happen anytime soon? And what is the timing of 6G? So what I'm trying to understand is
timing of new product to drive this continuing growth that you've seen in the second half of this
year, or will we see a situation where in the second half of this year when the comps become
more difficult and the growth suddenly weakens again?
A - `Borje Ekholm, President and Chief Executive Officer `Well, if you're -- first of all, I think 2023 was a very low year. So if you look at the percentage
growth in North America, it's actually, I wouldn't focus on that. That's not going to be the
predictive power going forward, right? So -- and our market is not that type of high growth that
we saw in Q4. But if you look going forward and if you actually look a little bit and dissect Q4 a bit,
what you see is, of course, that a part of the increase in North America comes from the market
share gain from that big contract. No doubt about that. That's an important driver. That moved
into deliveries during the second part of the year. We started some in Q2, but in reality, it was
second part of the year. So that, of course, helped us. But as I said, it's also broader based
recovery.
And then you start to say, why is that happening?
Well, first of all, 5G has not been built out. 5G is in the early stages still. So if you take the North
American market, 5G standalone is not rolled out. I think you probably live in London. I mean, that
in Europe, it's very limited build out. 5G is hardly built out. Most of the time when you get the 5G
icon on your phone, you're basically on dynamic spectrum sharing using a 4G spectrum. So 5G
has not been built out. We're still very early in that build-out. That's what we're starting to see in
North America. The 5G, the demand for 5G comes from growing 5G traffic, and we're still early in
that build-out. So I actually, I don't know if we have not maybe been clear on this historically, but
it's actually a low percentage that's been built out for -- and to have 5G, you need to build out
mid-band. That's very limited build-out, to be honest. So we're still very early in the 5G build-out
cycle.
And if you look at what you would expect in the future, you should expect that 5G will have more
base stations in reality than the 4G network, because it's at higher frequency. So you need a
denser grid. So if we're going to get the full benefit of 5G with the low latency, the high
performance, the ability to actually have many users in one cell site, we need to see much more
build-out. And we're actually very early in that. So I think the notion that new growth, it actually
drives from the growth in traffic and the underlying traffic.
And that's migrating from 4G over to 5G. And you will see changing nature on the 5G from
consumer applications, basic mobile broadband, download video, or stream music into much
more advanced applications, voice as an operating interface, you're going to see AI traffic, and all
of that will start to drive traffic in a new way. That's why you see us introduce new type of
products, new type of massive MIMOs, but it's not saying that it has to be a new generation or
anything, it's actually introducing, call it improved and strengthened products in the portfolio that
improved energy efficiency, but also cell edge performance, for example.
Can I touch on 6G, which is a very good question; it populates often. I mean, 6G, if you think
about it as a technology, probably going to get introduced 2030. It's something on that
timeframe. But what's more important is 6G is actually an evolution of 5G. So we should think of
6G not as a, new kind of type of a generation where you upgraded from 3G to 4G, or 4G to 5G,
it was kind of a fourth -- you needed also to upgrade the whole network. Well, the 5G and 5G
Advanced even more so will be cloud-based, you will have new type of principles be structured in
a horizontal way, and 6G will be more of an evolution on that. So if you're going to move into 6G,
you actually need to have the 5G network and the architecture of 5G built out already. Then you
can benefit from adding new frequencies, new capabilities that 6G will give. So I encourage you
not to think of 6G as a normal new generation. It's actually more of energy, call it generation. So
it's going to change the nature of the industry.
And I think this is important when we think about, the horizontalization will actually allow our
customers, the operator, not to have these cycles in investments as much, much more smootherinvestments. But that means for us also, we are not going to see those cycles in the future, much
more smoother based on the development of the demands of the network, call it traffic volume
and type of traffic. So I think we're entering a new phase here, where the -- where our customers
will look different. We will look different. But I think that actually for us is a positive, with less
hardware components, more software content on our sales.
Q - `Sandeep Deshpande, JPMorgan `
Thank you, Borje.
A - `Daniel Morris, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks for the question, Sandeep.
We've got time for one, very short final question. We're nearly up to time. If we can take the last
question please. The last question is coming from `Joachim Gunell, DNB at DNB. Joachim, please go
ahead.
Q - `Joachim Gunell, DNB `
Thank you and good morning.
So in 2024, I mean the progress in Networks has really stolen the attention here and there's been
stellar performance. So but on Cloud Software and Services here, I mean even including the IPR
catch-up payments, the margin levels here on operating profit levels has been fairly flattish. So
can you comment a bit on what do you want to see in order to improve this trend going forward
and in relation to the more long-term 15% EBITA target for the group, where do you envision
Cloud Software and Services margins be in order to deliver on that?
A - `Lars Sandstrom, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
When I think -- sorry, when it comes to Cloud Software, we see actually a good underlying
improvement. It doesn't have at all the same swings that you have in the Networks business,
which is quite different. That's more of a, you have the whole service component interact, et
cetera, as well, which is quite a different margin profile on that. It requires what we have done
there, continued commercial discipline, also driving the cost efficiency in the whole delivery that
we have in Cloud Software and Services. But also to improve margins further going forward and
increase this pace, we need to continue to drive also top-line here and start thinking on how do
we address growth areas within the segments where we are active there. And that is the work
that we are going into now. So that would be, so to say, the add-on from the current strategy
going forward.
And I think that there are good plans and good hard work in that to make that happen. And we
should see some signs of that already now in '25, I believe. But also I think what they have done
also is to really prioritize different parts of the group and reduce cost in some other areas really
to make sure that we end up in the right cost balance and cost levels in different parts of within
Cloud Software and Services. So they should be able to gradually continue this more EBITA
margin improvement journey and to start getting towards more in the mid long term double-digit
level here.
Q - `Joachim Gunell, DNB `
Thank you very much.A - `Daniel Morris, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks Joachim. Thanks everyone for joining.
That now concludes the Q&A session. Thank you.