Q4 2017 Earnings Call

Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Intel Corporation Q4 2017 earnings
conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a
question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. As a reminder, this
conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mark Henninger, Head of Investor Relations. Sir,
you may begin.
`Mark H. Henninger, Vice President, Finance and Director, Investor Relations `
Thank you, operator, and welcome, everyone, to Intel's fourth quarter 2017 earnings conference
call. By now, you should have received a copy of our earnings release and the CFO earnings
presentation, which replaces the CFO commentary that we previously used. If you've not
received both documents, they're available on our investor website, intc.com. The CFO earnings
presentation is also available via the webcast window for those joining us online.
I'm joined today by Brian Krzanich, our CEO; and Bob Swan, our Chief Financial Officer. In a
moment, we'll hear brief remarks from both of them, followed by the Q&A.
Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today's discussions contain forward-looking
statements based on the environment as we currently see it and, as such, does include risks and
uncertainties. Please refer to our press release for more information on the specific risk factors
that could cause actual results to differ materially.
A brief reminder that this quarter we've provided both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures.
Today, we will be speaking to the non-GAAP financial measures when describing our consolidated
results. CFO commentary and earnings release, available on intc.com, include the full GAAP and
non-GAAP reconciliations.
With that, let me hand it over to Brian.`Brian M. Krzanich, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thanks, Mark. 2017 was a record year for Intel, and fourth quarter results were outstanding, well
ahead of the forecast we outlined in October, based on the strength on both our PC-centric and
data-centric businesses. I will review our results with you in just a moment. But before I do that, I'd
like to share a few words about security.
We've been working around the clock with our customers and partners to address the security
vulnerabilities known as Spectre and Meltdown. While we've made progress, I am acutely aware
that we have more to do. We've committed to being transparent, keeping our customers and
owners appraised of our products and through our actions, building trust.
Security is a top priority for Intel, foundational to our products and it's critical to the success of our
data-centric strategy. Our near-term focus is on delivering high-quality mitigations to protect our
customers' infrastructure on these exploits.
We're working to incorporate silicon-based changes to future products that will directly address
the Spectre and Meltdown threats in hardware, and those products will begin appearing later this
year. However, these circumstances are highly dynamic and we updated our risk factors to reflect
both the evolving nature of these specific threats and mitigations, as well as the security
challenge more broadly.
Security has always been a priority for us, and these events reinforce our continuous mission to
develop the world's most secure products. This will be an ongoing journey, but we are committed
to the task, and I'm confident we're up to the challenge.
To keep you informed, we've created a dedicated website and we're approaching this work with
customer-first urgency. I've assigned some of the very best minds of Intel to work through this,
and we're making progress.
With that, let's turn to our 2017 and fourth quarter results. We just wrapped up the best year in
Intel's history with the best quarter in Intel's history. Revenue was up 4% year over year in the
fourth quarter, 8% if you exclude McAfee, setting an all-time record. Our Data Center, IoT and
FPGA businesses, each set revenue records. We met or exceeded all of the financial
commitments we made to you at the beginning of the year. And our focus on efficiency and
profitable growth produced significant leverage, driving non-GAAP operating income up 21%.
Our data-centric businesses deliver the technology foundations for the new data economy,
making the analysis, storage and transfer of data possible, giving our customers the ability to turn
data into amazing experiences and actionable insight. They're essential to our strategy. Data-
centric revenue, excluding McAfee, was up an impressive 21% over the fourth quarter of last year.
And I'd like to share a few highlights with you, starting with DCG.
DCG's revenue was up 20% over the fourth quarter. The cloud segment was up 35%, comm
service providers were up 16%, enterprise was up 11%, and our adjacency revenue was up 35%.
We saw broad-based demand strength with customer preference for high-performance products
driving richer ASP mix. Cloud segment results were driven by significant volume growth and
continued customer preference for higher performance products.
In the comms service provider segment, we continue to take share and grow revenue as
customers chose IA-based solutions to virtualize and transform their networks. Enterprise
segment's strength was driven mostly by ASP, as customers transition to Xeon Scalable products
in a seasonally stronger fourth quarter IT buy window.While we continue to see enterprise customers offload workloads to public clouds, we are also
seeing those customers prioritize performance solutions for hybrid and on-premise build-outs.
Customers across all of our segments are accelerating deployment of Xeon Scalable processors,
which is ramping roughly in line with our historical Xeon transition.
We continue to demonstrate leadership and progress in artificial intelligence with the data center,
at the edge, and from hundreds of watts to milliwatts. Our software optimization for the Caffe
framework has improved already strong Xeon Scalable ResNet-50 infringe performance by 2
times, just since the launch in July.
The first generation Nervana neural network processor ran a neural network less than two weeks
after we received silicon, and we shipped our first customer unit. At the edge, Google announced
its AIY Vision Kit, featuring our Movidius vision processing unit. And Amazon announced
DeepLens, the world's first deep learning-enabled video camera for developers, which uses an
Intel CPU, graphics and compute libraries for deep neural networks.
We're also seeing design wins that combine technologies from multiple data-centric business
units, reinforcing the idea that we have developed a unique and differentiated collection of
capabilities that can address customer challenges together more effectively than any one
business could alone.
A great example is Dahua's recent announcement of their DeepSense product line, which
combines Core CPU, Intel FPGA-based network video recorders, along with Movidius VPU-based
cameras, enable people and automobile detection and smart city applications using artificial
intelligence.
In the Programmable Solutions Group, we saw strong double-digit growth in the data center,
auto, embedded, and advanced products categories, as well as last-time buys of legacy
products. That strength was partially offset by softness in the comms infrastructure.
In Q4, we launched the Intel FPGA SDK for OpenCL to dramatically increase productivity for our
customers. We also delivered first-to-market leadership innovations in the Stratix 10 product line,
including the first SoC FPGA with an ARM processor at more than 1 million logic elements and the
industry's first FPGA with integrated HBM2 memory.
Our Internet of Things Group grew 21% with continuing momentum in retail, video, and in-vehicle
infotainment verticals. Wind River saw strong multiyear contract renewals and delivered its most
profitable quarter ever for Intel. The memory business grew 9% and achieved profitability in Q4,
as strong client volume was partially offset by a one-quarter qualification delay of a data center
SSD volume.
Last quarter, I shared with you that our leadership technology is resulting in strong customer
interest in long-term supply arrangements. That interest has continued to grow. We have since
signed additional agreements and now expect prepayments totaling roughly $2 billion over the
course of 2018.
Mobileye had another strong quarter, and business momentum is growing. Our 30 design wins
over the course of 2017 and 15 new program launches in 2018 are both increases of 2.5 times
over the prior period. We now have Level 2+ and Level 3 design wins with 11 automakers who
collectively represent more than 50% of global vehicle production. These advanced programs
launch over the next two years, and they represent a major leap in functionality versus current
semi-autonomous systems and are a significant step towards scalable Level 4 and Level 5 fully
autonomous systems.We reached an important milestone in the fourth quarter, the announcement of our Level 3
through Level 5 autonomous driving platform based on EyeQ5 and Atom, which we'll sample
over the next few months. We believe this will be the most advanced, scalable, and efficient
platform of its kind. EyeQ5 will deliver 24 tera ops of deep learning performance in a 10-watt
power envelope, or about 2.5 times the efficiency of the competition.
Just a couple of weeks ago at CES, we announced that by the end of 2018, we expect 2 million
EyeQ-equipped cars will be collecting crowd-sourced data for REM, our Road Experience
Management mapping solution. The resulting map will first be utilized in Level 3 beginning in
2019. The ability to crowd-source data to build and rapidly update the precision maps required for
higher levels of automation is a major differentiator in our plan to build out the safest and most
affordable autonomous vehicle system. It's also a great example of our data-centric strategy at
work.
And finally, I'd like to touch on our PC-centric businesses, the Client Computing Group. Over the
course of the year, the PC market improved. Our 14-nanometer manufacturing costs came down
and the competitive environment intensified. Against that backdrop, PCG's focus on innovation
and performance, especially in growth segments like gaming, 2-in-1, thin and light notebooks, and
enterprise, led to a record Core mix and record i7 volume in the fourth quarter. We also shipped
our first low-volume 10-nanometer SKU. And our modem business grew 26% over the fourth
quarter of last year.
Intel is undergoing one of the most significant transformations in corporate history, from a PC-
centric company to a data-centric company. We've made thoughtful, disciplined investments
along the way that have expanded our TAM to $260 billion. Those same investments have
produced a collection of data-centric businesses that are unmatched, growing at double-digit
rates, and approaching 50% of the company's revenue. Our opportunity is larger than it's ever
been, and we're hungry to compete and win.
In 2018, our highest priorities will be executing to our strategy and meeting the commitments we
make to our owners and our customers. This includes our commitment to restoring customer
confidence in the security of their data.
This year, Intel will celebrate a half-century of innovation that has profoundly changed the world.
Over the last 50 years, we invented the architecture and manufacturing technologies that have
made personal computing, the Internet, and the cloud not only possible, but pervasive. The
journey hasn't been without challenges; nothing worth doing ever is. Our culture has been forged
through taking challenges head-on and developing solutions our customers can count on. That
includes working directly to address the Spectre and Meltdown security threats.
We leave 2017 on a financial high note, but I'm even more excited about what's to come, about
our strategy producing great products for our customers and great returns for our owners. I see
Intel innovation changing the world for another 50 years, and that journey starts with 2018.
Over the coming year, we'll bring amazing innovation and performance to the PC market,
advance the state of art in the artificial intelligence, lead the way towards mass 5G deployment,
launch the industry's first new memory architecture in two decades, and take another step
toward a safer world in which autonomous driving is a reality.
Looking back on 2017, I could not be more proud of our team and all they have accomplished. As I
look to our 50th year, I'm more optimistic and confident than I've ever been about Intel's future.
And with that, let me hand it over to Bob.`Robert Holmes Swan, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Thanks, Brian.
The fourth quarter was an outstanding close to a record 2017, and we are building real
momentum heading into 2018. Revenue for the quarter was $17.1 billion, up 8% year over year.
Operating income was $5.9 billion, up 21% year over year. And EPS of $1.08 was up 37% year over
year.
From a capital allocation perspective, we redeemed $1.6 billion of 2035 convertible debt,
reducing our share count by 59 million shares; and repurchased $500 million of higher-coupon
debt and exchanged $1.8 billion into 30-year debt at a 1% lower coupon rate.
On tax reform, our Q4 GAAP earnings reflect a one-time tax impact of $5.4 billion. And our
guidance reflects approximately 7-point improvement in our effective tax rate going forward.
To summarize, we had a fantastic quarter and year and are on track to exceed the three-year
targets we laid out at our Analyst Day one full year ahead of schedule.
Our Q4 results demonstrated continued momentum in our transformation from a PC-centric to a
data-centric company. Intel's data-centric businesses, those outside of the PC segment, are at an
all-time high mix of 47% of our revenue, up from approximately 40% in 2012. We've made
significant investments to expand our TAM into new data-rich markets like memory,
programmable solutions, and autonomous driving. These investments are just starting to pay off
and will fuel Intel's growth going forward.
Our PC-centric business was down 2% in a declining PC market, and it continues to be a great
source of profitability. DCG delivered its most profitable year since 2011 by focusing on premium
and growth segments with industry-leading products. This business generated the cash to fund
Intel's investments in new data-centric growth.
Moving to Q4 earnings, we generated significant EPS expansion in the quarter, up 37% year-on-
year. Our EPS improvement was driven by strong top line growth, a five point improvement in
operating margin and significant gains from our ICAP portfolio. Our gross margins expanded two
points in the quarter. And our spending as a percent of revenue declined by three points, as we
delivered $700 million more revenue and $300 million less spending.
In terms of operating efficiency, we're well ahead of schedule of meeting our commitment by
reducing spending to 30% by 2020. We now expect to achieve this goal no later than 2019. Total
spending was down 6% year over year in the fourth quarter, while we continued investing in our
key priorities including driving Moore's Law forward, winning in artificial intelligence, and
autonomous driving.
R&D spending, as a percent of revenue, is down approximately one point. And our SG&A costs
were down over two points, as we rationalized our marketing and sales programs and generate
significant leverage in our SG&A functions.
Let me touch briefly on our segment performance. Client Computing Group had another strong
quarter. Revenue of $9 billion was down 2 points. And operating margins were down 2 points.
Operating margins were lower on 10-nanometer transition costs. We saw strength in the
commercial gaming business, and we believe the worldwide PC supply chain is operating at
healthy levels. The Data Center Group had record revenue of $5.6 billion, up 20% year over year.
And operating income of $3 billion grew 59%. Q4 operating margin was 54%.As Brian mentioned earlier, we had strong growth and execution across all segments. Overall unit
volume was up 10%, ASPs were up 8%, and our adjacencies grew by 35%. Our ASP strength
demonstrates the value customers see in our high-performance products. Xeon Scalable
launched in July. It's ramping well, with customers broadly deploying this leadership product
family.
Revenue scale from leadership products, ASP strength, and the exclusion of 2016 one-time
charges drove strong operating income growth for the business. For the full year, revenue was up
11% and operating margin came in at 44%, both ahead of the expectations we provided at the
beginning of the year.
The IoT, NSG and PSG business segments are becoming a larger component of our overall
business, collectively growing 19% year over year. Our Internet of Things business achieved
record revenue of $879 million, growing 21% year over year, driven by strength in industrial and
video and continued momentum in our retail business.
Operating profit was $260 million, up 43% year over year. The Mobileye business also had a
record quarter, and we are on track to our deal thesis. As we called out last quarter, results for
the Mobileye acquisition are included in our All Other segment and reflects the Q4 integration of
Intel's autonomous driving group spending into Mobileye.
Our memory business had revenue of $889 million, up 9% year over year with strong demand for
data center SSD solutions and demand signals outpacing supply. This segment was profitable for
the quarter, and we expect the segment to be profitable for the full year of 2018.
Programmable Solutions Group had record revenue of $568 million, with 35% growth, driven by
strength in data center, automotive, and embedded. Operating profit was $156 million, up 95%
year over year. The Stratix 10 design win pipeline, which represents PSG's largest ever, doubled
over the last year due to engagements in 5G, cloud computing, and the infrastructure transition
to network function virtualization.
We laid out our capital allocation priorities early in the year: invest organically, expand acquisitively,
and return capital to our shareholders and do it wisely. In the year, we delivered on our promise.
First, we generated strong free cash flow of $10.3 billion in the year and returned $8.7 billion to
shareholders through dividends of $5.1 billion and share repurchases of $3.6 billion. Second, we
funded a majority of the Mobileye acquisition from the sale of non-core assets during the year,
including McAfee and the sale of ASML shares. And, third, we redeemed $1.6 billion in convertible
debt, reducing 59 million shares. And we also tendered higher-coupon debt for lower-coupon
debt.
Let me expand on the ICAP and Treasury-related transactions we executed in the quarter. First,
we sold 11.4 million shares of our ASML Holding, which generated $2 billion in cash proceeds and a
gain of $1.5 billion.
Second, we redeemed our 2035 convertible debenture. This redemption created a $2.8 billion
cash outflow and a non-cash loss of $385 million, which was tax-deductible. Since this debenture
was convertible and therefore dilutive, the redemption effectively acted as a buyback that will
reduce diluted share count by 59 million shares.
And, third, we successfully tendered $2.3 billion of high-coupon debt in the quarter. We
exchanged $1.9 billion of old debt into $2 billion of 30-year new debt, reducing our coupon rate
by 1%. We also redeemed $425 million of old debt for cash. This transaction both lowered our
leverage and our interest expense.Adding it all up, 2017 was another record year for Intel. Revenue of $62.8 billion was up 9% year
over year, driven by 16% growth in our data-centric businesses and 3% growth in PC-centric
businesses.
Operating income of $19.6 billion was up 18% on strong execution across the businesses and
disciplined spending. Earnings per share of $3.46 was up 28% on excellent operational
performance and the benefit of $0.35 from ICAP net gains. With the change to the accounting
rules for recognizing price changes on equity investments, we do not expect to see these ICAP
gains repeat.
Before I turn to guidance, let me provide a little more context on the impact of tax reform on our
business. Intel's fourth quarter results reflect a higher GAAP income tax expense of $5.4 billion as
a result of U.S. corporate tax reform enacted in December. This includes a one-time required tax
adjustment on previously untaxed foreign earnings, payable over eight years, which was partially
offset by the re-measurement of deferred income taxes for the new U.S. statutory tax rate.
Looking ahead, we expect the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will help level the playing field for U.S.
manufacturers like Intel that compete in today's global economy. We expect the 2018 tax rate of
approximately 14%, driven by a lower U.S. statutory tax rate of 21%, lower tax on foreign income,
benefits from U.S. exporters, and the continuation of the R&D credit. The change in our tax rate
drives approximately $0.28 in 2018 EPS.
Intel has a rich history of investing in U.S.-led research and development and U.S. manufacturing.
Just last year, we committed to the fit-up of our Fab 42 facility, creating thousands of jobs at
completion. These tax reforms provide further incentive to continued investments like this.
Before we turn to our 2018 outlook, I also want to highlight two accounting rule changes: first,
new accounting rules for revenue recognition; and, second, accounting for equity gains and
losses. We do not expect a material impact to revenue from the revenue recognition accounting
change. The changes in accounting for equity gains and losses will require the recognition of
unrealized price changes each quarter.
To equity holdings, like our ASML position, we'll see mark-to-market adjustments that will flow
through earnings in 2018, which may create greater volatility on a GAAP basis. This change
resulted in an impact of $2.7 billion of net unrealized gains at year-end that we booked to equity
on January 1, 2018.
Now, moving to the full year. We are forecasting the midpoint of the revenue range at $65 billion,
up 4% year over year. We expect operating margin of approximately 30%, with gross margins
down 2 points to 2.5 points; and spending, as a percent of revenue, to be down 1 point to 1.5
points.
The decline in gross margin was driven by growth in our adjacent businesses as we play in an
expanded TAM and the transition cost associated with 10-nanometer, both partially offset by
higher gross margins from our 14-nanometer products. We expect EPS of $3.55, up 14%,
excluding the ICAP net gains, driven by a strong top line growth and a lower tax rate of
approximately 14%, which will increase EPS by approximately $0.28.
We expect net capital deployed of $12 billion. This reflects gross CapEx of $14 billion, offset by
approximately $2 billion of customer prepayments for memory supply agreements. Increasing
CapEx reflects our and our customers' confidence on our memory technology leadership. We
expect free cash flow of $13 billion, an increase of approximately 30%, directly contributing to our
decision to raise our dividend by a full 10%.As we look to the first quarter of 2018, we are forecasting the midpoint of revenue range at $15
billion, up 5% year over year. We expect operating margin of approximately 27%, flat year over
year, with a 3 point decline in gross margins offset by a 3 point decline in spending.
We expect EPS of $0.70, up 11%, excluding ICAP net gains from the strong top line growth and a
lower effective tax rate. We believe 2018 will be another record year for Intel, and we feel great
about where we are entering year two of our three-year transformation.
We've met and exceeded our commitments. Our PC-centric team continues to operate very well
in a down market. And our data-centric businesses are up double-digits collectively as we
continue to transform the company to power the cloud and smart connected devices.
With that, let me turn it back to Mark.
`Mark H. Henninger, Vice President, Finance and Director, Investor Relations `
All right. Thank you, Brian and Bob. Moving on now to the Q&A, as is our normal practice, we
would ask each participant to ask one question and just one follow-up, if you have one. Operator,
please go ahead and introduce our first questioner.
Q&A
Operator
Our first question comes from the line of John Pitzer from Credit Suisse. Your line is now open.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Good afternoon, guys. Congratulations on the strong results. Thanks for letting me ask the
questions. My first question just revolves around the revenue guidance for the March quarter. At
the midpoint, down about 12% sequentially is a lot worse than I guess normal seasonal. And I
guess I'm trying to figure out the parameters that you guys are using to come up with that
number. Was there something in the DCG strength in the calendar fourth quarter that you don't
think is repeatable? Given your comments around the PC supply chain being healthy, that to me
feels a little bit more seasonal than not in the March quarter. So I'm just curious as to why the Q1
revenue would be so much below what has been the five-year median seasonality for Q1.
A - `Robert Holmes Swan, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
John, thanks. It's Bob, so really two things going on. One, the enterprise growth in DCG, as Brian
highlighted, was up 11% in the fourth quarter, so extremely strong seasonal growth for enterprise;
a little bit more than we expected, frankly. That's number one.
Number two, PSG 35% growth was helped by end-of-life sales during the course of the quarter.
And if you adjust for maybe more normalized enterprise growth and PSG growth, you get to
more of a seasonal Q4 to Q1 dynamic, so in line with seasonal if you make those two
adjustments.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
That's very helpful. And then, Brian, my second question revolves around CapEx. I think it was a
year ago on this conference call that you mentioned that you thought that calendar year 2017 and
calendar year 2018 would be above trend line CapEx spending for you guys. And then you
thought it would come down again in calendar year 2019 to a more normal trend, albeit you didn'talready being covered by prepayments. But how do we think about the trend line CapEx from
here, especially in light of the changing relationship between yourself and Micron on IMFT?
A - `Brian M. Krzanich, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Sure, John. So my perspective is if you take a look at it, logic on our CapEx just scales with our
increase in revenue and our overall growth rate. So that's still in line.
With memory, we're going to take a look at it really on a year-by-year basis. And I'd tell you that
Bob's really doing a good job of helping the business unit look over the capital. And when we
have demand and people are willing to pay up front for that demand and reserve the capacity,
like we've done this year. We're going to go ahead and put that capacity in place plus what we
think the overall market – we can do as distributing across the overall market.
That's really independent of the changing relationship with Micron. That's really more about how
we're doing development work out in time really. That's actually still two generations away. That
really didn't affect 2018. This was really about what we saw for the overall NAND memory market
plus the additional capital and capacity that people wanted to reserve through that process. We
look at that each year, John, and say okay, as we look out into 2019 at the end of 2018, we'll do
that same analysis.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Thanks for the clarification.
A - `Robert Holmes Swan, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
I would just – sorry, just to follow on to Brian's comments. The way we're looking at memory, and
we've talked a bit about this on the last call, is increased confidence in our customers in the
technologies that we're developing, where those relationships, they will help fund the scaling of
the capacity to grow the business. And we're really trying to match net capital employed to be in
conjunction with known customer demand.
So what that meant for 2017 is the net capital is roughly $1.5 billion, and we've held that relatively
flat in 2018. So while gross capital is higher, we have more conviction in the customer base to
fund $2 billion of the gross capital. So memory, we're really trying to focus on customer adoption
of our technology to effectively and efficiently scale the business.
And then, just the only other point I would make on logic, remember a year ago in terms of our
outlook for growth, we're well ahead of our outlook for growth. We were probably at the time,
implied in our outlook was probably a $62.5 billion number in 2018. Obviously, with our guide now
of $65 billion, we're $2.5 billion higher. And it's that incremental growth that's placing more
demands on logic capacity, both for 14-nanometer, 10-nanometer, and as we think forward, on 7-
nanometer.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Perfect. Thanks, guys.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Joe Moore from Morgan Stanley. Your line is now
open.Q - `Joe L. Moore, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Great, thank you. I wonder if you could talk about OpEx. Obviously, you've been pretty disciplined
there bringing that down, but you've also got some other initiatives. You announced the discrete
graphics effort. Maybe if you talk about – it seems like that would cost a lot if I just look at what
your competitors are spending. And then at some point, you're going to spend money on NAND
that used to be shared with Micron. So just can you talk about the puts and takes there? And is
there something that we should think about that's coming down to offset those potential
increases?
A - `Brian M. Krzanich, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Sure. I'll start, and then I'll let Bob give you the under-the-cover detail of the dollars. But, Joe,
really we've already factored all of those things in. So things like the discrete graphics is a
ramping spend. The memory is R&D spending out in time, so for 2018 has no really effect. And
then we've driven overall efficiency in all of our R&D spending to offset that. So increasing in GPU
spending, there are some other increases as well around things like autonomous driving and
some of the other – artificial intelligence and some of the emerging areas.
You're right, over time, we'll increase spending in NAND in R&D, but those are being offset by
efficiencies that we're driving into the rest of our product R&D. And we really feel like we're
getting to a good point where we can keep the pace of innovation going on our core products,
while we fund these new initiatives as well and not pick a beat from our continued efficiency
efforts across spending as a percent of revenue.
A - `Robert Holmes Swan, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Joe, just to add some numbers to Brian's words. We've kind of come down from 36% to 35% to
34% to a second half of 2017 at roughly 31% of revenue. So we've been coming down as we've
been doing two things: one, the investments that we've been making are paying off in terms of
higher growth; and number two, we're making real trade-offs in where we're investing our
money.
As implied in our guidance, as we go into 2018, we're expecting our spending levels to be
roughly flat with an annualized 2017 spending level. And underneath that, continuing to drive
efficiencies in sales and marketing as we become more of a B2B or data-centric company and
getting real leverage on our G&A functions across the board.
So we've made real progress during the course of the last couple years, including the second
half. We expect to make continued progress, while making the critical investments in things like
discrete graphics, autonomous driving, artificial intelligence and continuing to invest in Moore's
Law.
Q - `Joe L. Moore, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Okay, great. And as you think about that NAND investment, I guess people have asked me what
the separation from Micron on a long-term path means. Does that mean there's sort of a more
focus on propriety products like 3D XPoint? Or do you remain firmly committed to a more
competitive NAND market?
A - `Brian M. Krzanich, Chief Executive Officer & Director `Fair. So I just want to make sure we clarify a little bit, Joe. The separation of development work is
again out in time. Think of it in the 2020 timeframe is when the real independence come, and it's
NAND-specific. So we continue to work together on 3D XPoint. And this is really just – it's not a
separation of the companies or something about the relationship.
The relationship with Micron continues to be a good one, and I foresee it will continue to be a
good one in the future as well. This is about direction of where we're going to take our products,
and we've talked about ours are very data center-centric and really tied to performance and
aligned to the customer market that we're really looking at. And so, the spending in R&D we're
talking about right now is clearly NAND-specific. 3D XPoint continues to be a joint effort.
Q - `Joe L. Moore, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Understood. Thank you very much.
A - `Mark H. Henninger, Vice President, Finance and Director, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Joe.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Ambrish Srivastava, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) with BMO Capital Markets. Your line
is now open.
Q - `Ambrish Srivastava, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) `
Hi. Thank you very much, Brian and Bob. I wanted to go back to DCG, specifically on the op
margin front. We've not seen a five handle, if my model is correct, it's been eight-plus quarters.
So can you please speak to the sustainability of the op margin? And kind of what were the drivers
that got you to that level? And then, I had a follow-up as well, please. Thanks.
A - `Robert Holmes Swan, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yeah. So we came into the year and we indicated that we expected margins for the full year to
be in the kind of 40% to 45% range. And, obviously, we started out low, but we set our
expectations where that would grow throughout for the course of the year.
So a couple things in the fourth quarter. Obviously, growth, so real good leverage on our existing
investment was a big contributor. Secondly, ASPs were up 8%. So of the 20% growth, ASPs
accounted for 8 points of that. And as Brian highlighted, whether it's cloud, comms or enterprise,
customers in the quarter were really paying for performance. That performance for us was higher
ASPs.
Third, continued progress on unit costs. And then last, you may remember last year's fourth
quarter, we had some warranty and IP-related charges in the data center business that I think cost
us roughly 4 points a year ago. So last year is – we're a little bit deflated, but good volume
leverage, strong ASPs as customers paid for performance and unit costs improving.
Q - `Ambrish Srivastava, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) `
So we should expect this level going forward, Bob?
A - `Robert Holmes Swan, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `I think I wouldn't get too far away from the 40% to 45%, to be honest with you. I think as we go
into 2018, we think good cloud momentum that's been consistent performance over the course
of the year, last couple years. Comms, our performance we believe was real strong in a
somewhat sluggish market, so real share gain. But the high kind of seasonal enterprise growth
and strong ASPs in the quarter we think are more seasonal in nature. And we're not anticipating
enterprise growth to stay at these levels as we go into 2018.
A - `Mark H. Henninger, Vice President, Finance and Director, Investor Relations `
Thanks.
Q - `Ambrish Srivastava, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) `
Okay, that's helpful. And then, for my follow-up on the gross margin for next year, you provided
sort of qualitatively that adjacency, as well as the cost impact from the 10-nanometer ramp. But,
A, I was surprised you didn't mention competition because now AMD will have a full year of
product in an area they never were for – I shouldn't say never – they were not in an area for a long
time. So question is, are you seeing any competition? Are you factoring that in? And then, B,
would it be possible to quantify the two impacts that you mentioned? Thank you.
A - `Robert Holmes Swan, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yeah. I'd highlight three things that are driving the deterioration. But I'd start first with, we've
always characterize our long-term gross margins to be in the 55% to the 65% range. And for the
last several years and included in our guidance this year, we'll be at the upper end of that 60% to
65% range. But for the last couple years, we've had maturity of 14-nanometer. And that maturity,
both in terms of getting more and more performance and lower and lower unit costs, has been
contributors to gross margins.
And as we go into 2018, we see 14-nanometer modest contribution from profitability because
we've matured on the cost curve. That's an increasingly competitive environment, and we don't
anticipate dramatic ASP improvements over the entire company in some cases, yes, but for the
most part, no. So we'll see some continued improvement in 14-nanometer products during the
course of the year.
Secondly, we are really accelerating the growth of our adjacent businesses. The investments that
we've been making in both the data-centric businesses and our growth in modem, those are
contributing to our year-on-year EPS growth. However, both of those product lines or businesses
have lower margins. So our success in modem and memory is having a mix impact on our gross
margins.
The third area is we're going from 10-nanometer start-up, where costs are coming down, to
more the ramp to the 10-nanometer. And that ramp is going to weigh on the margins as we
begin to develop production going into the second half of the year where we're way up the curve
on where our yields and costs are. So those are kind of the three things as we see it. And if I were
to characterize, roughly plus one, roughly minus two, roughly minus one, rounding those.
A - `Brian M. Krzanich, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
And, Ambrish, on your question specifically around competition, I think every year we look at it as
the competitive environment and we're out to compete for our customers. And so, we factor that
in each year appropriately, I think, against the competition. So we looked at the competitive
environment. And we believe Xeon Scalable, a great performance that has. Our overall productroadmap, we think we have a highly competitive roadmap and have adjusted for that in our
forecast.
Q - `Ambrish Srivastava, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) `
Okay. Thank you for all the details. Good luck.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Stacy Rasgon from Bernstein. Your line is now open.
Q - `Stacy Aaron Rasgon, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. Firstly, can you walk us through your free cash flow
waterfall? I can't get there. Flattish operating income on 4% revenue growth. You lose a couple
billion dollars on ICAP gains. CapEx, I guess maybe flattish with the memory prepayments. Taxes
maybe gets me a third to half of the way there. But where does the rest of the free cash flow
come from? Are you just draining a ton of working capital or what? Can you walk us through?
A - `Brian M. Krzanich, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yes. First, $13 billion in free cash flow, up roughly 30% year-on-year. First, higher cash earnings.
Our guide has EPS up roughly 14%. In that guide, depreciation has grown in 2018 relative to 2017.
So that has just higher cash earnings.
Secondly, we do expect lower working capital as we go through 2018. Third, we have higher
strategic customer supply agreements. And those three things are all contributing to the positive.
And obviously, Stacy, the higher gross capital is a little bit of an offset. So stronger cash earnings,
better working capital, more strategic supply, partially offset by higher CapEx.
Q - `Stacy Aaron Rasgon, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Okay. For my follow-up, I want to ask about the growth next year of your kind of adjacent
businesses versus your core businesses. Of that $65 billion, of that 4%, can you give us a feeling
how much of that is coming from the adjacent, I guess mostly memory and modems versus the
core? It must be decent given the gross margin pressures. And I guess as a corollary to that, you
mentioned the one quarter delay in data center memory. Was that a statement on XPoint?
A - `Brian M. Krzanich, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
No. That was a NAND – I'll start with just the answer to that question, Stacy. That was a 3D NAND
SSD. We had some delays in the fourth quarter, and those are being addressed now. So that was
that comment.
Q - `Stacy Aaron Rasgon, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
And growth – I'm sorry, go ahead.
A - `Robert Holmes Swan, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
I think on your first question, in the $65 billion, we characterized it as roughly low single digit
decline in our PC-centric businesses. So implied in that is PC maybe declining a little bit more and
modem adjacency within the CCG segment partially offsetting that.In the overall guide, we said that the data-centric businesses would be growing in the mid-teens.
Obviously, we believe that will be the strongest growth segment within the makeup of our data-
centric businesses will be in memory. And it will be a function of customer quals that Brian just
highlighted. And we expect NSG growth to accelerate throughout the course of 2018.
Q - `Stacy Aaron Rasgon, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
So what is the...
A - `Robert Holmes Swan, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
So it's a low single-digit decline on PC-centric and mid-teens growth on data-centric businesses.
Q - `Stacy Aaron Rasgon, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
So what does that memory strength imply for the data center growth, the DCG growth,
particularly given the strong performance in Q4?
A - `Robert Holmes Swan, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
For the most part, the ins for NSG that will go through data center will be late in 2018 and won't
really have an impact on the overall growth rate of that business. So it's primarily about growth of
3D NAND during the course of the year. Thank you.
Q - `Stacy Aaron Rasgon, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Got it, thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore ISI from Evercore. Your line is now open.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore ISI
Good afternoon, thank you for taking my question. I guess a couple housekeeping questions, if I
could put them together. I'm curious if you could share with us how you're thinking about CapEx
spend between logic and memory. And then on the 10-nanometer startup, can you share with us
when you're expecting to begin depreciating those costs?
A - `Robert Holmes Swan, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
First on the CapEx, we indicated gross capital in the year of $14 billion that we get customer
strategic supply agreements of roughly $2 billion. So our net capital is $12 billion, $12 billion in the
year. Again, I'd break that into two pieces: memory, net capital employed, no change, and logic
CapEx up roughly $1 billion year on year. And as we mentioned earlier, that $1 billion is a function
of primarily growth: continuing to grow 14-nanometer; second, scaling up 10-nanometer; and
third, investing in next node 7-nanometer during the course of the year. So those three things are
really driving the $1 billion increase in CapEx for logic.
The second part of your question – so for 10-nanometer, as we bring that equipment online,
there's some equipment now that's being depreciated. But as we bring more online as we ramp
in the second half of the year, when we turn that equipment on is when we start depreciating it.
So we'd expect our depreciation bill in the second half of the year to be growing.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore ISIThank you.
A - `Robert Holmes Swan, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
That's one of the contributors really to come full circle. That's one of the contributors to the gross
margin deterioration during the course of the year as we start to ramp 10-nanometer.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore ISI
Very helpful. Thanks, Bob.
A - `Robert Holmes Swan, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Thanks.
A - `Mark H. Henninger, Vice President, Finance and Director, Investor Relations `
And, operator, I think we have time for a couple more questions.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Your line
is now open.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thanks for taking my question. For the first one, Brian, I'm curious. Are you baking in any effect on
sales or costs or pricing from any resolution on the processor security issues? There is one line of
thinking that says customers might decelerate their purchase. And then you have others in the
industry saying that customers might accelerate their purchase later on. So I'm just curious how
you're looking at the financial implications, positive or negative, from this issue near term and
longer term.
A - `Brian M. Krzanich, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Sure, so let me try and break it into two kinds of answers for that, Vivek. From a cost standpoint,
we've baked in and we've talked about that. We don't expect any material impact of the security
exploits on our spending or product costs or any of that. So that's how we baked that in.
From a forecast standpoint, we actually made our forecasts. And we've checked it as we go
through the first few weeks here in the year against our prior forecasts to make sure that the
forecast incorporated any changes or any signs we're seeing up or down. And I'd tell you, at the
highest level, we're not seeing much of a change in those forecasts as a result of this.
So I'd tell you it's pretty balanced right now. So spending not material and didn't make any adds
there. And then our forecast – we had a forecast. We've checked it as we go through the first few
weeks of the year, and it hasn't really changed or altered as we looked at it.
A - `Robert Holmes Swan, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
And the only other thing I'd add, per Brian's comment earlier, we go into the year realizing that
it's an increasingly competitive environment. And our focus is on, right now, continuing to bring
the best highest performance products to market, but also lots of time and energy spent on
focusing on fixing this issue, primarily through software patches as opposed to short-term
hardware things.Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Got it. And as my follow-up, for the full year, how should we think about growth in just the DCG
business? I understand you gave some color around the entire data-centric group which includes
memory and other segments. But just sort of apples-to-apples, how should we think about
growth in just DCG, which had a very strong double-digit growth here in 2017? Thank you.
A - `Robert Holmes Swan, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yeah. Throughout the course of 2017, we kind of guided to high-single digit and we kind of
executed to that throughout. And then, Q4 wasn't dramatically different than the first three
quarters of the year, really with the exception of the high seasonal spend for enterprise. And that
really took us from a high-single digit to low-double digit or 11% growth for the year.
As we go into 2018, we do not expect that. We think that in the enterprise space, things will go
back down to negative single-digit range and, therefore, don't anticipate a dramatic difference in
how we laid out DCG a year ago.
So that's how we're thinking about it. If I maybe elevate that, back up a little bit and just think
about when we're putting together our plans for the year, there's two areas where our tendency
is to be a little cautious on the outlook. One is, PC TAM. We tend to be a little more cautious on
PC TAM, and we tend to be a little more cautious as we think about enterprise growth in the DCG
business.
And the reason we do that is we think it's important to be cautious, get our cost in line. And if our
assumptions on market rates of growth turn out to be conservative, we believe we'd benefit
from higher volume and real strong flow-through to net income. That's how we plan the year
coming into 2017, and we did kind of the same thing for 2018. So I don't anticipate dramatically
different DCG growth in how we laid out 2017 as we entered 2018, because we really haven't
assumed a change in trajectory of enterprise CIO spending in the course of the year.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. Thanks. Very helpful.
A - `Mark H. Henninger, Vice President, Finance and Director, Investor Relations `
Operator, if you can go ahead and pick our last question.
Operator
Yes. Our last question comes from `Blayne Curtis, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. from Barclays. Your line is now open.
Q - `Blayne Curtis, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Hey, guys. Thanks for squeezing me in. Just wanted to go back to the DCG ASPs. You had talked
about the ramp of scalable being kind of to plan, but then I think you got a nice tailwind. And I
think it implies enterprise had a higher percent of scalable. So just wondered if you could just talk
on broad strokes just where the scalable ramp is here, and your expectations kind of getting
through the year and where that could go?
A - `Brian M. Krzanich, Chief Executive Officer & Director `Sure. So I'll start and Bob can add some number detail and all. The Xeon Scalable ramp is right in
line with the prior ramp of similar products on our DCG road map. And what you saw when we
talked about Q4 was not necessarily more Xeon Scalable, but people buying up the stock on
Xeon Scalable which drove the ASP.
So they're buying the higher-performance, higher-priced part. And that's not uncommon when at
the early stages of the ramp people come in and they typically want to buy the highest
performing parts at the beginning. And then they fill out their distribution as other buyers come in
and other parts of the market open up. So ramps on schedule and aligned with prior ramps. And
the ASP was more about SKU – buying up on the higher-performance parts than necessarily a
volume statement.
Q - `Blayne Curtis, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Got you. And then I also want to go back on just – sorry. Thanks. I just want to go back on gross
margin as well. As you look for March, you mentioned the drop is from adjacent business as well
as 10-nanometer. Obviously, memory you're signaling a big ramp, but it doesn't (01:02:10) fully. I
just wonder if, Bob, you could just walk through the 10-nanometer start-up costs as they kind of
move through the year and kind of if you can outline between those two, in Q1, what's the bigger
factor?
A - `Robert Holmes Swan, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
So I think mix dynamics are going to be a bigger factor overall for the year, both in Q1 and for the
rest of the year as our memory and modem business continue to accelerate strong growth. So
that's going to be the biggest impact. I think 10-nanometer will have an impact just right out of
the gate and will kind of continue throughout the year as we scale volume, but also need to
improve yields during the course of the year. So, hopefully, that's helpful.
Q - `Blayne Curtis, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Okay. Thanks, guys.
A - `Mark H. Henninger, Vice President, Finance and Director, Investor Relations `
All right. Thank you all for joining us today. Operator, please go ahead and wrap up the call.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation in today's conference. This concludes
today's program. You may now disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.