Q4 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Q4 2021 Intel Corp
Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the
speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions)
I would now like to turn the conference over to your speaker for today, `Tony Balow, Vice President, Investor Relations, Vice
President, Investor Relations. You may begin.
`Tony Balow, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, operator. Welcome to Intel's Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call. By now, you
should have received a copy of our earnings release and the earnings presentation. If you've not
received both documents, they're available on our investor website, intc.com. The earnings
presentation is also available in the webcast window for those joining us online. I'm joined today
by our CEO, Pat Gelsinger; and our new CFO, Dave Zinsner. Also joining us is our prior CFO,
George Davis. In a moment, we'll hear brief remarks from Pat and Dave, followed by Q&A.
Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today's discussion contains forward-looking
statements based on the environment as we currently see it, and as such, it does include risks
and uncertainties. Please refer to our press release for more information on the specific risk
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. A brief reminder that this quarter we
have provided both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. Today, we will be speaking to the
non-GAAP financial measures when describing our consolidated results. The earnings
presentation and earnings release available on intc.com include both the full GAAP and non-GAAP
reconciliations.In today's call, we will be discussing both the Q4 2021 and the full year 2021 results, providing
forward-looking guidance for Q1 2022. We will be providing guidance for full year 2022 at our
Investor Day on February 17th.
With that, let me hand it over to Pat.
`Patrick Gelsinger, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Tony, and good afternoon, everyone. First, let me say welcome to Dave, who is
joining us for his first earnings call. Many of you know Dave well and know his track record of
successfully driving shareholder value. We're very excited to have him join our team. I also want to
take a moment to thank George for his many contributions during the critical period in the
company's transformation. Everyone here at Intel wishes him all the best in his future endeavors
as he begins his planned retirement in May.
Q4 was a tremendous finish to a transformational year where we beat expectations on both the
top and bottom line. We exceeded our guidance for the quarter by over $1 billion on the topline,
finishing with our best quarter and our best full year revenue ever. We had a record quarter for
DCG where we grew 20% year-on-year and where we continue to be the partner of choice for
cloud and data center customers. We expect that our Xeon shipments in December alone
exceeded the total server CPU shipments by any single competitor for all of 2021.
We had a record year for our client business, and in Q4, we outperformed our plan and delivered
another $10 billion quarter, highlighting again that the PC is more essential than ever. Continuing
our momentum as the market leader in ADAS and AV solutions, Mobileye grew more than 40%
year-on-year in 2021, delivering a 14th consecutive year of revenue growth. And finally, IOTG had
another $1 billion quarter to cap a record year as the need for compute at the edge continues to
grow.
Supporting these record results, our manufacturing network continued its superb execution
throughout the year. As an IDM, we were able to rapidly adjust to support customers' mix
changes, often within normal lead time and manufacture more than 2 million wafers. We broke
ground on two new fabs in Arizona three months ahead of schedule as part of the largest overall
manufacturing expansion in Intel's history, and all while managing a challenging COVID
environment and focusing on the safety of our employees, suppliers, and partners.
We also took several, in a series of, key steps to shape our business. To begin with, we recently
completed the first close of the sale of our NAND business on time, a critical step in optimizing
our portfolio in line with our new strategy. Second, we began unfolding our plan to find innovative
ways to sustainably unlock shareholder value with the announcement of our intent to take
Mobileye public in 2022. Third, just last week we announced our new manufacturing site in Ohio,
which will support our future growth and advances our plan to create a more geographically
balanced resilient supply chain. While there is a lot left to do, we're building momentum, and we
intend to continue our laser focus on execution, innovation, and growing the business.
Finally, Q4 was a sacred moment for the entire technology industry as we led the 50th
anniversary celebration of the Intel 4004, the chip that changed the world. Microprocessor
technology sparked by the Intel 4004 allows us to stay connected during the pandemic. It has
opened up new ways to work and learn. It has removed geographical boundaries and changed
almost every aspect of our lives. We are committed to accelerate this impact for the next 50
years as the insatiable need for compute that started with the 4004 continues to drive the value
of Moore's Law. At IDM, we outlined a long-term path toward more than 10x densitysteward of Moore's Law, we remain committed to keeping it alive for the next decade and
beyond.
Looking across the industry, 2021 was dominated by two recurring themes, unprecedented
demand and ecosystem supply constraints. The strong demand we saw throughout 2021
continued in Q4 and markets remained robust across all our businesses. We expect this trend to
continue as the digitization of everything, driven by the four superpowers of AI, pervasive
connectivity, ubiquitous compute, and cloud to edge infrastructure leads to an era of sustainable
growth. 2021 marked the best year in a decade for the PC industry with third parties reporting a
growth rate of approximately 15%, driven by higher PC density, shorter replacement cycle, and
increased market penetration.
In Q4, we also saw the strong recovery in the channel as increased supply led to record sell-
through for Intel, and we started to see inventories return to pre-pandemic levels. The data
center market was strong across all geographies in Q4, led by the enterprise, where the market
continued to recover from COVID lows. We expect the data center, network, and edge markets
to continue to have robust growth as hyperscalers lay out multiyear cloud CapEx investment
plans.
The ongoing need for data privacy and security drives additional edge and on-prem
deployments. 5G network and edge buildouts are scaling and workloads like AI continue to
expand. This unprecedented demand continues to be tempered by supply chain constraints, as
shortages in substrates, components, and foundry silicon has limited our customers' ability to ship
finished systems across the industry. This was most acutely felt in the client market, particularly in
notebooks, but constraints have widely impacted other markets, including automotive, the
Internet of Things, and the data center.
As we predicted, these ecosystem constraints are expected to persist through 2022 and into
2023, with incremental improvements over this period. The industry will continue to see
challenges in a variety of areas, including specialty and overall foundry shortages, substrates, as
well as third-party silicon. While constraints will remain, our IDM 2.0 strategy affords us a superior
position to navigate this environment. With control over our manufacturing network and supply
chain, we are able to react to rapid changes in demand and help solve challenges for our
customers, suppliers, and partners. Equally important, as an IDM, we remain more resilient to
foundry price increases as only a minority of our volume is produced by third parties.
Turning from the ecosystem to Intel, we made incredible progress over the last year, improving
our execution and technology development, manufacturing, and product leadership. With
unprecedented transparency, we laid out an ambitious path to deliver five process nodes in four
years and regain process performance parity by 2024 and unquestioned leadership by 2025.
We are shipping Intel 7 in volume today. And as I was able to say last quarter and can reaffirm
today, we remain on or ahead of schedule for Intel 4, 3, 20A, and 18A against the timelines we
laid out in July. Our manufacturing execution continued to improve and in Q4, as we shipped a
record number of servers and we have more than a 30% year-on-year reduction in 10-nanometer
wafer costs. We had record quarterly increase in our substrate capacity with our vendors and we
accelerated our pace of innovation with a record number of PDK releases and new product
introductions in our factories.
Finally, as part of our strategy to use both internal and external manufacturing, we signed multiple
long-term supply agreements, ranging from foundry partners to substrates to equipment
suppliers that will support the growth of our business for years to come. In particular, weannounced the deepening of our ASML partnership and our leadership position with the second
generation of EUV high-NA.
In client, we had another $10 billion quarter in 2021 with our sixth straight year of revenue growth.
We feel great about our position within the sustainably larger client market and we had an all-time
record shipments with customers like Dell. We have a great product lineup, starting with Tiger
Lake, which has now shipped over 100 million units, making it the fastest ramping notebook in our
history.
We are extending our leadership position further with products like our 12th generation Alder
Lake, the fastest client processor ever, which is now shipping to over 140 customers in 30
countries around the world. As our first performance hybrid product, it features the highest
performance CPU core Intel has ever built, as well as efficient cores optimized for power. It leads
the industry transition on DDR5 and PCIe5 to enhance gaming and creator experiences. The
Alder Lake family will scale across every PC segment, from ultrathin and light laptops to
enthusiast desktops where we've now set new overclocking records, to mobile gaming where
the Core i9-12900HK, the world's best mobile gaming processor, is up to 40% faster than the
prior generation. Following on the success of Alder Lake, we will continue to build momentum
later this year when we expect to introduce Raptor Lake, which is already booted in our labs.
In addition to leadership products, we are also driving platform innovations, and at CES, we
unveiled our 3rd Gen Evo platform. This new generation includes features like intelligent
collaboration to optimize remote work and learning experiences, as well as Thunderbolt 4 and
Wi-Fi 6E. With no legacy Wi-Fi interference, Wi-Fi 6E will enable incredible performance with low
latency, the biggest Wi-Fi advancement in 20 years. We are further reinvigorating the PC
ecosystem with technologies like Screenovate, which provides a seamless multi-device and
screen-sharing experience, which will begin rolling out on select Intel Evo platforms starting later
this year. Driven by the strong product and platform lineup, we feel confident in our ability to
compete and drive growth going forward.
Our Data Center Group had its best quarter ever, as customers continued rebuilding their
confidence and choosing Intel. Enabled by our IDM advantage, Ice Lake server shipped more than
1 million units, equal to the amount we had shipped in the prior three quarters combined. All of
our OEMs are currently shipping systems and all of our major cloud customers have announced
instances, including our third instance with Amazon Web Services.
Going forward, our road map only gets better, and we expect to ship initial SKUs of Sapphire
Rapids to select customers in Q1. Sapphire Rapids will offer significant performance
improvements across a range of workloads, including AI, where we are targeting up to 30x total
gain for Xeon. This demonstrates that a general-purpose CPU with built-in AI acceleration can
solve even more customer use cases that once necessitated GPU acceleration. Customers
remain excited about Sapphire Rapids and it has been chosen along with HPE to power the new
Kestrel supercomputer. Built for the US Department of Energy's National Renewable Energy
Laboratory, Kestrel will accelerate discovery of renewable power. Once completed in 2023,
Kestrel will have more than five times greater capability than NREL's existing system with
approximately 44 petaflops of peak performance.
Beyond the core data center, we continue to build on our leadership position from the network to
the edge with our comprehensive portfolio of hardware and software solutions. We are leading
the transformation of the network, where Xeon and FlexRAN software are used in almost all
vRAN commercial deployments. We are driving AI inferencing adoption at the edge with our
OpenVINO software and partners like BMW Group and Samsung in the factory and medicalenvironments, and we are extending the IPU ecosystem and accelerating the creation of fully
programmable network by collaborating on new FPGA-based IPU solutions with Inspur, Ruijie
Networks, and Silicom.
In our discrete and accelerated graphics business, we are starting the year very quickly. Alchemist,
the first product in our Intel Arc discrete graphics lineup is now shipping to customers with more
than 15 new mobile and desktop designs, including with Acer, ASUS, Dell, HP, Lenovo, Samsung
and others. Our Arc family of products will scale from mainstream up to the performance
graphics segment and will be available in the market later this quarter.
In high-performance computing, our Ponte Vecchio GPU is already sampling to customers. With
100 billion transistors, Ponte Vecchio has our highest compute density ever, and along with
Sapphire Rapids, will power the 2-hexaflop Aurora supercomputer at Argonne National
Laboratory. There are over 100 HPC applications running on Ponte Vecchio, which enabled by
oneAPI, provides a unified and open programming model across CPU and GPU. We are working
with numerous partners and customers, including Atos, Dell, HPE, Lenovo, Quanta, and
Supermicro to deploy our HPC-tuned CPUs and GPUs in their latest systems.
Our IFS business continues to see strong and enthusiastic customer support. We have a strong
pipeline of potential customers and IP development with the ecosystem is progressing well. We
are shipping for revenue on our packaging solutions and we continue to expect customer test
trips in our factories on our Intel 16 process this year. Innovations like RibbonFET and PowerVia are
proving to be very attractive features to potential customers and the Intel 18A design kit has now
been released to three RAMP-C customers. Overall, we are ahead of where I thought we'd be
and I am thrilled with the progress of our IFS team.
In mobility, Mobileye continues to be an industry leader in both ADAS and AV and we recently hit
a significant milestone, shipping our 100-millionth EyeQ SoC. At CES, we gave a glimpse of the
future with the EyeQ Ultra, which will do the work of 10 EyeQ5 SoCs in a single package and was
designed to deliver the optimum power and performance for a fully self-driving vehicle. In Q4, we
also introduced our first autonomous on-demand service in Paris in collaboration with the RATP
Group. Paris is the latest in a list of locations where Mobileye is piloting autonomous vehicle test
fleets, including New York, Munich, Detroit, Tokyo, Israel, and China. Looking ahead, we still
expect to launch commercial Robotaxi services in Munich and Tel Aviv in 2022. As we announced
in December, we are working to take Mobileye public to unlock shareholder value. We are making
good progress, and we'll share more as we go through the year.
You'll hear a lot more about how we are re-architecting our business for growth as part of our
upcoming Investor Day. We will lay out details on how we are leveraging our core strengths to
accelerate our plans and how we are uniquely positioned to create value. We'll give you the proof
points you should expect to see in 2022 that show that we are on track for a long-term plan, all
backed up by the transparency and accountability that our new reportable segments will provide.
Let me close by saying again that Q4 was an incredibly strong finish to a great 2021, and I believe
that with growing markets, our strong product road map, and our increasingly solid execution,
2022 will only be better. In fact, just in the past 24 hours, we were pleased to see the ruling from
the General Court in Europe and their decision to overturn the EUR1.1 billion fine. The
semiconductor industry has never been more competitive than it is today, and we look forward to
continuing to invest and grow in Europe.
At the same time, here in the US, we were very excited to see the progress on the CHIPS Act,
with the House introducing their version of the bill yesterday. The President and other membersof the administration have been clear on the importance of this transformational investment, and
it's encouraging to see the strong bipartisan and bicameral support as we continue to work
together to address the long-term impacts of the semiconductor shortage, restore US leadership
in this critical industry, and rebalance the global supply chain.
With that, let me turn it over to Dave.
`David Zinsner, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Pat, and good afternoon, everyone. First, let me say how happy I am to be part of Intel.
It's a really exciting time and I'm looking forward to the opportunity to support Intel's
transformation and plans for growth. I think we have a great opportunity to drive compelling
returns and shareholder value, which all starts with the plans that we will lay out for you at Investor
Day in February.
Q4 was a record quarter, delivering a stronger-than-expected finish to another record year. Both
DCG and IOTG achieved record quarters, with CCG, IOTG, and Mobileye delivering full year
record revenue. Q4 revenue was $19.5 billion, exceeding our guidance by $1.2 billion. The revenue
beat was broad-based, led by stronger-than-expected enterprise and government demand in
data center, desktop PC strength and better-than-expected notebook demand. Gross margin for
the quarter was 55.4%, exceeding our guidance by 190 basis points due to strong flow-through
on higher revenue. Q4 EPS was $1.09, $0.19 above our guide due to strong operational
performance.
For full year 2021, we achieved record revenue of $74.7 billion, up $1.2 billion from our previous
guidance and up 2% year-over-year. 2021 gross margin was 57.7% and EPS was $5.47, up $0.37
year-over-year. We generated $11.3 billion of free cash flow in 2021, approximately $1 billion lower
than prior expectations as higher net income was offset by Q4 working capital fluctuations.
Now, turning to our business units, CCG delivered record annual revenue, its sixth straight year of
revenue growth, up 1% year-over-year and up 6% when excluding the modem and connected
home divestitures. For the quarter, revenue was $10.1 billion, up 5% sequentially on strong
commercial demand. Platform ASPs were up 15% year-over-year on a richer mix, driven by strong
demand for our highest performing platforms and industry-wide constraints leading our
customers to prioritize limited components to higher-end systems. Operating profit was down
3% year-over-year on increased spending to further strengthen our product and platform road
map.
The Data Center Group delivered a record $7.3 billion in revenue for Q4, up 12% sequentially and
up 20% year-over-year on strong enterprise and government demand. Full year revenue was
down 1%, due to a slower-than-expected recovery earlier in the year, as well as competitive
pressure, partially offset by stronger enterprise and government and communications service
provider demand. Platform ASPs were up 3% sequentially and 4% year-over-year on improved
mix to our highest performing products. Operating profit in Q4 was down 17% year-over-year,
primarily due to the previously disclosed Intel Federal related one-time charge and 10 nanometer
product ramp. Full year operating profit was down due to lower revenue, with an increased mix of
10 nanometer products, Intel 4 startup charges, and increased investment in our product road
map.
IOTG achieved record Q4 and full year revenue. Q4 revenue was $1.1 billion, up 36% year-over-
year on broad-based strength, led by the industrial and retail segments. Full year revenue was $4
billion, up 33% year-over-year as the business saw a strong recovery from COVID relatedPSG delivered $484 million in Q4 revenue, up 15% year-over-year and up slightly quarter-over-
quarter as industrywide supply constraints continued to severely limit revenue growth. Full year
revenue was $1.9 billion, up 4% year-over-year. Operating profit was $51 million, up 19% year-over-
year. If not for the external supply constraints, we believe the PSG business would have delivered
over $500 million in additional revenue in 2021.
Mobileye reported Q4 revenue of $356 million and $1.4 billion for full year, up 43% year-over-year.
Full year operating profit was $460 million, up 91% year-over-year.
Before moving on to Q1 guidance, I want to briefly discuss changes to our non-GAAP reporting,
beginning in 2022, that we touched on in our Q3 earnings. First, in an effort to more closely align
with our semiconductor peers and allow for more consistent comparability between periods, we'll
be removing stock-based compensation and all gains and losses related to our ICAP portfolio
from our non-GAAP results. Despite this change, we'll continue to closely evaluate stock-based
compensation to ensure we're in line with industry benchmarks and optimize ICAP investments to
advance our strategy and maximize ROI.
Second, we're modifying our segment reporting to align with our revised organizational structure
and business strategy. Moving forward, we will report results under the following business units.
Client computing, which includes our historical CCG business, plus workstation revenue; data
center and artificial intelligence, which includes our data center CPU products, plus our PSG
business; networking and edge, which includes our IOTG business, plus our networking focus
products previously included in DCG; accelerated computing and graphics, which includes all
discrete graphics products; Mobileye, which is unchanged from our prior segmentation; and Intel
foundry services, which includes revenue from our wafer and packaging offerings. This new
reporting structure enables transparent accountability relative to how well we are managing and
executing against the six business units that will be further communicated at Investor Day in
February.
Moving to our Q1 outlook, we continue to see strong demand across all our businesses, and note
that Q1 includes the impact of an additional 14th week. We expect results to be tempered by
continued industrywide component constraints, normal seasonality, and PC notebook inventory
burn as OEMs work through inventory imbalances created by ecosystem constraints that have
limited their ability to ship systems in certain segments.
We expect Q1 revenue of $18.3 billion, down 1% year-over-year, but up 2% when adjusting for an
approximately $600 million one-time corporate revenue item recognized in Q1 2021. As we
signaled in our Q3 call, gross margin will be impacted by our 10 nanometer product ramp and
increased process technology investment. The aforementioned one-time corporate revenue
item in Q1 2021 will also impact the year-on-year compare. We are forecasting gross margin at
50%, EPS of approximately $0.80, and a tax rate of approximately 15%.
Note that we will provide full year 2022 guidance and more details on our long-term financial
model as part of our Investor Day on February 17th. We hope to see you there in person for a full
day of presentations and Q&A sessions with our most senior leaders.
Finally, I want to thank George for his three years at Intel, delivering outstanding results and
making many of the changes necessary to begin our transition to a growth company.
And now, let me hand it off to George to say a few words.
`George S. Davis, Executive Adviser `Thanks, Dave. I want to close my final earnings call with sincere thanks to our Intel employees who
amaze me every day, and for the privilege to have served as your CFO. And I could not be more
delighted that Dave is taking over, knowing all the incredible strengths he brings to the role.
Thanks all.
`David Zinsner, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, George. With that, let me turn the call back over to Tony to get to your questions.
`Tony Balow, Vice President, Investor Relations `
All right. Thank you, Dave. Moving on now to the Q&A, as is our normal practice, we would ask
that each participant ask only one question. Operator, please go ahead and introduce our first
caller.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of `John Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse with
Credit Suisse. Your line is open.
Q - `John Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Yeah, good afternoon, guys. Congratulations on the results and thanks for letting me ask the
question. Pat, it's great to see a second quarter of year-over-year growth in DCG and an
acceleration over the calendar third quarter. But if you look underneath the covers, there's sort of
two stories at play, enterprise is coming back extremely strong. But you look at the cloud part of
the business, I think this is the fifth consecutive quarter of year-over-year decline. And so, I guess,
there is two parts to my question. One, when do you see a return to year-over-year growth in
cloud, and two, to the extent that the investment community has a bias that everything eventually
ends up in the cloud, what is kind of your long-term view of the sustainability of this enterprise
demand?
A - `Patrick Gelsinger, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Hey, thanks, John, and thanks for the comments on the great finish to a great year. So as
we look at the DCG business here, we just say we started out behind early in the year, digestion,
and we've sort of been catching up and building momentum in the cloud piece of that business
all year long, and we do see that momentum carrying into next year. So that created some of the
year-on-year quarter -- quarterly compares that you described. E&G, really a tremendous second
half and a really strong Q4 for that business where we have higher market share and have seen
just a great environment.
What we're hearing from our customers is that the momentum in E&G continues into next year
with very strong backlog positions, and it would have been even stronger had it not been for
other supply constraints and match sets that we see. And as you may have heard me talk about
before, we don't see everything going to the cloud. We see this balance of on-prem and cloud-
based delivery, and cloud continues to grow faster than on-pram, but workloads continue to grow
on-pram. Also, we expect to see an acceleration of edge-based, and I spoke about this at our
Innovation Conference, where the big story as we get out two or three years from now is going
to be accelerating edge growth. And that's an area that Intel has a very strong position, in the
edge, very high market share, leadership platforms in the 5G, in inference and AI.So overall, we expect to see a very balance across our portfolio. We do see strength to see
growth in our cloud business next year, continued sustainability of E&G, but the real story over the
next couple of year we see is explosive edge growth.
Q - `John Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Ross Seymore, Analyst, Deutsche Bank with Deutsche Bank. Your line
is open.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Hi guys, thanks for letting me ask the question. Congrats on the strong end of the year, and thank
you to George and congrats to Dave. So with all that out of the way, Pat, I want to talk about the
PC market. I know you've been one of the more optimistic folks on that and the fourth quarter
results showed a little bit of evidence as to why you're optimistic. But you also talked about some
interesting inventory dynamics in there where channel inventory was rising. Can you talk a little bit
about your expectations for this year, again, not front-running the Analyst Day too much, but the
expectations for growth for the year and a little bit more on how you reconcile inventory rising
with shortages still persisting?
A - `Patrick Gelsinger, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thank you, and 2021 was really good, if not great year, for the PC, and I think most forecast
now are coming in estimating about 15% growth last year. As we're seeing, IDC, Canalys, modest
growth in the market next year. So as you've heard me -- and I think this matches exactly what
Sascha [ph] said yesterday, we'll just say a structurally larger market for us for next year, and a
couple of percent growth in that so we see that we won't be able to have continued growth in
our client business. And obviously, with a stronger and stronger product line, we see ourselves in
a very good position for our client market share.
Now, the inventory position is one where -- we have just been at historically low inventories for an
extended period of time, just racing to catch up with demand. And so, we would say that some of
this is just getting to inventory levels that are even approaching what we consider normal for a
business of this size, and one that's managing these still significant supply constraints at different
areas, power controllers, display led controllers, other aspects of substrates and different
component pieces. So a lot of these challenges have really led to, I'll just say, supply issues
throughout the customer base. So as we go to next year, we hope to see some of those starting
to moderate and turn to a more normal behavior in the industry, in particular the channel
inventory levels, the ones that were essentially zero, right, for almost all of the year and now
we're starting to see just a little bit of build-back in that area, which particularly for our channel
and distribution partners is sort of for the first time giving them something to sell for the whole
year. So a lot of response positively there.
And overall, we still see that the PC is now becoming this central part in an increasingly work from
home, learn from home environment. Windows 11, a strong upgrade cycle being introduced by
that. So a lot of good tailwinds and a great product line. It's going to be a great year for us in the
client space.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `Thanks, Pat.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Joseph Moore, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Great, thank you. I wonder if you could talk about the capital spending a little bit. And again, I
don't want to tread on mature, you're going to cover at the Analyst Day. But the footprint in Ohio,
the various comments that you've made about not being able to foresee having too much
capacity in the next couple of years, as you think about that, how much of that is your existing x86
business versus foundry and other opportunities, and any sense for the capital spending? You
talked to this year. How much of that is going to be buildings versus equipment?
A - `Patrick Gelsinger, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Joe. And I'll kick it off and ask Dave to comment as well. Overall, we would just say
that supply constraints, we just have a lot of catching up to do in building out the capital footprint,
and some of that is catching up, some of that's building for the new process technologies, our
five nodes in four years. But it also is leveraging the smart cap strategy that we've laid out where,
boy, I lost for having a free shell today that we could be ramping into. We simply have to build
some more shell capacity, and then we'll be determining where is the best use and how to fill
that as we start to build out those shells.
Everything that we've described, our Arizona buildout, our Ohio buildout, we do expect that that
will be satisfying both our internal products, as well as creating capacity corridors for our foundry
business as well. At Analyst Day, we'll be shaping that with more clarity and Dave will be giving
updates on a number of the capital aspects at the foundry -- for foundry, as well as for internal
capacity there.
So Dave, what else might you add?
A - `David Zinsner, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. First of all, thanks, Pat. And I just did want to say thanks for joining the call and I'm really
happy to be part of Intel. We have an exciting opportunity in front of us and I couldn't be more
excited to be a part of IDM 2.0. I think there is a lot of opportunity to create a lot of shareholder
value. In fact, one of the areas we're doing that right now is increasing the dividend 5%. So it's
great to, my first quarter, have a dividend raise. (multiple speakers)
A - `Patrick Gelsinger, Chief Executive Officer `
Good news, Dave.
A - `David Zinsner, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. On the CapEx front, Joe, obviously, as Pat mentioned, we'll give you a lot more granularity
in terms of 2022 and beyond in terms of CapEx. But if you look back at the 2021 CapEx split, it
was roughly 60% equipment, 40% space buildout. So that's at least the ratio last year. Of course,
it might evolve over time, but it gives you kind of the rough magnitude of the numbers.
Q - `Joseph Moore, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Stacy Rasgon, Analyst, Bernstein Research with Bernstein Research. Your
line is open.
Q - `Stacy Rasgon, Analyst, Bernstein Research `
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my question. I wanted to dig into your inventory comments again. So I
know you're talking -- you're saying you're building inventories, but your PC volumes were down
18% year-over-year. The PC market wasn't down 18% year-over-year. So it doesn't feel like you're
building inventory. If anything, it feels like inventory is bleeding out, so -- for your parts at least. So
how do I square that circle? What's going on there?
A - `Patrick Gelsinger, Chief Executive Officer `
You want to address that, Dave or George?
A - `George S. Davis, Executive Adviser `
Yeah, maybe I'll just comment a little bit on it. When we do a year-over-year comparison,
obviously, Q4 of last year was a huge quarter for CCG, particularly with the consumer and entry
SKUs. And so, what we've seen really starting with the second half, in particular for 2021, is a
rotation out of the consumer and entry area into the -- what we call our big core notebooks and
our desktop, which -- desktop had really dropped off and now we're seeing kind of a strong
recovery there.
So we -- if we think a little bit about the growth of CCG year-over-year, we certainly look to be
growing lower than the TAM. But if you take into account the fact that we -- you look at our exit of
modem and our exit of home gateway and the impact that that had on a year-over-year
comparison, that's about 6 points of growth. And then the customer's decision to go vertical on --
a large customer decided to go vertical, that's about another 6 points. So the overall growth --
the pattern is a little different because of the mix year-over-year, but the growth relative to the
TAM when you take into account these changes is much more in line with the overall growth of
the industry.
Q - `Stacy Rasgon, Analyst, Bernstein Research `
Okay, thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Harlan Sur, Analyst, J.P. Morgan with J.P. Morgan. Your line is
open.
Q - `Harlan Sur, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Hi, good afternoon, thanks for taking my question. So on Intel Foundry Services, it appears that
the team is off to a good start. Looks like a lot of good early engagements. If I'm a potential IFS
customer and I start my design today, realistically, right, I'm not expecting my chip design to be
ready for manufacturing conservatively for at least two years, because that's just how long the
design cycle times are for these leading-edge chips. And it seems consistent with your prior
commentary on IFS customers more focused on your 20 and 18A nodes, which is kind of
2024/2025 time frame. So if I think about the real big CapEx outlays to support IFS, myright way to think about it that most of the CapEx spend for IFS is probably two to three years
delay and more of the CapEx spend over the next two, three years to support growth of the core
compute businesses?
A - `Patrick Gelsinger, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, your comment sort of dimensionalize it almost right. The key thing to augment what you
said is that to be able to put the capital in place in 2024, 2025, you have to be building the shells
in 2022, 2023. So that's what we've -- and why, for instance, the Ohio announcement, we said,
hey, we are building shells so that we can fill it with our products and with foundry customers as
well. But clearly, when we get to Intel 3, as well as Intel 18A ramps for foundry customers, those
capital investments, most of that being back-end loaded, right, when you're putting equipment in
place, really ramp up in 2024 and 2025, but we've got to start building the shell capacity for
those in 2022 and 2023.
Your other comments, we do expect some of the Intel 16 customers that some of those products
will start ramping next year. So we do expect some of those design starts that are already
underway today to start giving us some revenues for our foundry offerings on Intel 16 in 2023. We
would expect Intel 3 to start contributing in 2024 and Intel 18A in 2025 and beyond. So it's sort of
that nice ramp. But we've also said, hey, we already have packaging customers and those
revenues have already started in Q4 of this year, and obviously some of the services, some of
these are pay-for services as well. So those will start contributing even before then.
But overall, the world wants more capacity. The world is looking for leading-edge foundry
capabilities. We're seeing very strong interest from many different sectors and I'll just say, across
whether it's leading-edge, high-performance computing, mobile customers, industrial customers,
and clearly automotive customers, a very broad swath of customers who are interested in the
Intel Foundry Services and great momentum that we're seeing.
Q - `Harlan Sur, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America with Bank of America.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America `
Thanks for taking my question, and thank you to George and welcome to Dave. I actually had a
near and longer-term question on gross margins. So in the near term, I'm wondering the 52%,
how does this kind of evolve through the year? I know you're not trying to give a specific number
right now, but what are the puts and takes and kind of the key drivers? Is this the floor or ceiling,
or kind of the average that we should be thinking about?
And then longer term, Pat, how do we reconcile that your main competitor who is kind of just
fabless, is pretty much at the same gross margins without having to spend any of the CapEx that
Intel plans to spend? When can Intel start using the pricing power in the markets where you have
very large incumbency? Thank you.
A - `David Zinsner, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Okay. Let me start and Pat can certainly provide his color around pricing. So you're right that we
are going to provide a lot more details around the year at the Investor Day and give you actuallysome perspective over the longer term. But I think I can help you think through a little bit about
the trend based on the following commentary.
So in our third quarter earnings call that Pat and George were representing Intel, we said that we
had to make investments, both in terms of newer process technologies and the startup costs
associated with that, and we need to -- needed to ramp 10 nanometer, and that was going to put
pressure on gross margin. And they create -- they presented a range of somewhere between
51% and 53% was the gross margin level that we would need to operate at, while we were
getting ourselves caught up from a technology perspective.
So we're in that range for the guidance of 52%, and we feel very good about 51% to 53% range
for the year. So that's -- so when you look at this number, it can bounce around a little bit, but the
51% to 53% range we've given, we feel real confidence around for the time being. Now, after
that, as we get back to a leadership position in terms of technology and in terms of products, of
course, there is absolutely opportunity to improve upon that and we will, I think, provide you good
evidence of that at the Investor Day in February. So that should give you some incentive to come.
A - `Patrick Gelsinger, Chief Executive Officer `
And a couple of comments on the longer-term margin picture. As we said, leadership products,
when we get through process leadership, right, and the nice cadence for those process
technologies, those will become nicely accelerants and we said that we will see our margins
recover in the latter part of the five-year window that we gave guidance on our last earnings call.
So we do see those as contributors and we'll see our margins rise over time as a result.
Additionally, we do expect our long-term margins to be a composite of our foundry business,
which will be on the lower end of the margin range that we'll operate the company in and
combining that with the higher end of our leadership products as those occur. So we will be giving
a better characterization of that at the -- at our investor meeting as well. Further, we'd say, over
time, we think we have a structurally superior margin model for our business where I think
everybody is seeing acute inflation and foundry costs and others in the industry, where our
factory network will give us a lot more opportunities to create a more balanced cost structure
that others in the industry will not be able to accomplish.
So overall, we see great margin outlook, great cash flow and free cash flow opportunities over
the horizon, and we'll characterize those much more carefully as part of our investor meeting. But
we see the advantages of our business model over anybody else in the industry to be quite
substantial for supply, for margin creation, for cash flow generation, and all of these will come
together in a very powerful way.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Chris Danely, Analyst, Citi with Citi. Your line is open.
Q - `Chris Danely, Analyst, Citi `
Hey, thanks, guys. So you're spinning out Mobileye to maximize shareholder value, which I think
everybody likes. Have you given any thought, or is there any possibility of spinning out Altera to
maximize shareholder value as well?A - `Patrick Gelsinger, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks for the question. The Mobileye spinout, things are progressing smoothly. We'll give
updates on that as appropriate as we go out over time. But -- and as we said, it will be a partial
spin, so we still see continuing and substantive value creation for Mobileye having a high
relationship with Intel. So we'll be updating on that as things progress there.
I won't say that's the last one that we'll consider for such moves. We see this as a formula for
value creation that may have other areas that could benefit from such approaches from the Intel
family as we look to the future, and we said this is a model for value creation that we think is a
powerful one and one that we'll be exercising in the industry. But we have no other specifics to
talk about at this time. But keep showing up. We're going to have lots of good things to talk
about.
Q - `Chris Danely, Analyst, Citi `
Thanks.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS with UBS. Your line is open.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS `
Thanks a lot. Pat, I had a question about how you think about DCG and your server share, and
obviously, Sapphire Rapids is going to be a lot more competitive, but Genova is also going to be
ramping kind of right on top of it. So I -- is there kind of a line in the sand that you think of that you
won't let share go below X percentage? Can you just talk big picture about how you think about
market share in server? Is there a threshold over which you'd use price to get more competitive?
Thanks.
A - `Patrick Gelsinger, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thank you. And overall, we do see that the product line is getting more competitive.
Sapphire Rapids will be a stronger product, but we're already seeing that the product line is
getting more competitive with Ice Lake, and our Q4 numbers on Ice Lake were very good, and
we see the -- Q4 equaled all of the shipments of the first three quarters of the year. So Ice Lake
is an improvement, Sapphire Rapids gets better. We do expect that there is going to be a bit of
to and fro with the competitive alternatives where they'll deliver a product, we'll deliver the next
product.
And as you've heard me say, we are on a path to sustained, unquestioned leadership, and in this
area, it's going to take us a few generations until we're unquestionably in a leadership position.
But we believe our product teams, our packaging teams, and our process technologies, our
factory capacity, all of these give us the tools to create leadership products, and then we
combine that with our platform leadership and our software technologies, we have a path to
unquestioned leadership over time. Obviously, we believe we're going to have a superior cost
structure as you've already touched on, given that many of our server products come from our
factories. So we're going to be in a better margin and cost position and capacity. So we think we
have a lot of tools to address market share over time, and we're going to dimensionalize the
business a bit more as part of our Analyst Day coming up.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS `Thank you, Pat.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Matt Ramsay, Analyst, Cowen with Cowen. Your line is open.
Q - `Matt Ramsay, Analyst, Cowen `
Thank you very much. Good afternoon, guys. Just following up on the Data Center Group, the
revenue very strong, but the operating margin, I think, was down 10 points year-over-year, and I
wanted to dig into that a little bit. The slides and the release mentioned an Intel Federal charge. If
you guys could quantify that? But the bigger part of the question is now with the Ice Lake ramp,
there is a lot more volume in DCG that's going on to the 10 nanometer node. And my question
Pat is, do we need to evolve the product set to where we get to Granite Rapids and we get off of
10 nanometer before we see margin improvement in DCG, or is there -- going to Sapphire
Rapids in a tiled approach with smaller tiles, while still on 10, is that enough for the margins to
recover? Thanks.
A - `Patrick Gelsinger, Chief Executive Officer `
Do you want to start that, Dave?
A - `David Zinsner, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I'll start and you can obviously (multiple speakers)
A - `Patrick Gelsinger, Chief Executive Officer `
And I'll pile on.
A - `David Zinsner, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So I mean, just in the strict walk of the operating margins of the DCG business, so it's some
of the things I talked about in terms of the aggregate story around gross margins. There is the
ramp of 10 nanometer for the data center space, there is higher startup costs associated with
new process technology, so that's certainly driving it. We also had a one-time charge in our E&G
business for a Federal charge that also negatively impacted the operating margins.
And then lastly, as we talked about, we are continuing to ramp up our investment in terms of
product technology, in R&D, and so we had some increased OpEx investment that also drove it.
But all of this is kind of executing to the plan that Pat laid out a quarter or so ago. And so, this is all
part of where we wanted to be at this point to drive the future of the company.
A - `Patrick Gelsinger, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. And I'd say, over time, we absolutely expect that we're going to improve the operating
margin of this business again, and we haven't ramp a new node for five years in our data center
business, and that's something that -- it's an embarrassing thing to say on the one hand and
obviously, as a result, we've been in an area that we shouldn't have had operating margins that
high in this business. It's just been that we've been running on very mature nodes, well past the
time that a normal cycle should be, and now, we are aggressively ramping 10. We're also starting
to ramp the cost of 7 and 4 as well.
So all of these taken together, I think you're seeing a very unusual period in the margin -- in thebusiness for us long term. And as we're going through the cycle of a new process technologies,
investments in the business, nothing here is surprising to us, and you can expect that over the
long term, this is a great business for Intel as we ramp leadership process technologies with
unquestioned leadership products. We're going to do well here.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of `Srini Pajjuri, Analyst, SMBC Nikko with SMBC Nikko. Your line is
open.
Q - `Srini Pajjuri, Analyst, SMBC Nikko `
Thank you, Dave. A question on gross margins, actually a clarification. If I take your, I guess, the
fourth quarter result, 55%, and then add back the Federal charge, and then you're guiding to 52%
for Q1. That's roughly 5 to 6 points of drop. So I'm just wondering what are some of the puts and
takes that impacting, if there are any. I mean, I see that headwinds that you talked about, but I'm
wondering if there are any tailwinds or mix related impacts as well. Thank you.
A - `David Zinsner, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, sure. So definitely, the Federal charge not repeating itself in the first quarter is certainly
helpful. And there are a couple of mix benefits that we're seeing. But the charges associated with
ramping 10 nanometer, particularly in the data center space and these startup costs on Intel 4 are
predominantly what's driving the reduced gross margins. But again, it's exactly where we thought
we would be in the first fiscal quarter. I mean, this is the number that we were planning to drive
the business to, and ultimately, the ROI on all the investments we're making that drive headwinds
in the gross margins for the first quarter will turn around and drive a very good ROI down the
road.
Q - `Srini Pajjuri, Analyst, SMBC Nikko `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our final question comes from the line of `Ambrish Srivastava, Analyst, BMO with BMO. Your line is
open.
Q - `Ambrish Srivastava, Analyst, BMO `
Hi. Thank you, Pat. I just wanted to check in on the expansion plans that you have. How much of
that is dependent on the CHIPS Act passing and also from other incentives. And I ask that
because I was listening to your presentation, I guess, earlier in the week at the Ohio site, and you
did make a comment there urging attendees to make sure that they weigh in to the extent that
they can to get the CHIPS Act passed. So just was wondering how much of that -- of the
expansion plans are dependent on the act here, as well as in Europe, some government
incentives. Thank you.
A - `Patrick Gelsinger, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, thank you for that question. It's what I hope would be raised in the call. So thank you for that.
And I'll just say overall, I mean, it was just a fabulous day in Ohio, right. The enthusiasm we've
gotten -- and as I said at the event, we are -- we helped put silicon in the Silicon Valley. We
established the Silicon Forest in Oregon, the Silicon Desert in Arizona, and now the SiliconHeartland, and the enthusiasm we've gotten from the leadership there, the Governor, the
congressional leaders, and being able for this farm kid from Pennsylvania to stand on stage in the
White House and say, now, it's my pleasure to introduce the President of the United States of
America, just surreal.
So it's just a fabulous day for Intel, our nation, and our industry. Obviously with the CHIPS Act
going on the floor of the House, we're highly encouraged. And I spoke to Speaker Pelosi at
length on the subject just yesterday, is there -- you expect that it will be debated on the floor
next week. And hopefully, following what we expect will be passage in the House, a reconciliation
process, and so I'd say everybody is now more optimistic on this coming across the line in the
near future.
Now, obviously, I think we and others have viewed the passage of this as an accelerant for our
investment plans. And as I've said very clearly, hey, we're going to build a site in Ohio, it could
either be small or it could be big and fast. And with the passage of the CHIPS Act, it's going to be
bigger and we're going to build it out faster as a result, and we think that's good for our
company. Even more important that it's good for our nation, as we rebuild a resilient globally
balanced supply chain. And the events of just yesterday, getting the bill on the House floor, I think,
is a very, very good sign for all that we'll get this across the line. But even more so, right, we see
acts in Europe that are gaining momentum as well in the EU Chips Act as well, and we've been
quite involved in that domain and we had hoped to see our expansion plans accelerate in Europe
as well.
So overall, all of these things will simply benefit the industry, but it certainly will accelerate our
investment plans as it makes us more competitive globally to be for our products, but even more
so for our foundry business as well. So thank you for that question.
And with that, let me again -- I do want to say thank you to Dave joining us for the first time.
George, thank you again for your support, for the years that you've contributed in this critical
period of the company. And I do want to remind you of the strategies, we're going to build the
team, improve the execution. As we look back on 2021, we've made tremendous progress
across all areas that we've laid out. We still do have a lot of work to do, but we're focused,
energized, and momentum is building, and I look forward to sharing our progress with you as we
continue on this amazing journey. And Investor Day is coming up. We're going to lay out the
strategy, we got a lot to say, and this is a great business. We finished a great year. Thank you all
for joining us today.
A - `Tony Balow, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Pat. Thank you, Dave and George. Operator, can you please close the call?
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.