Q4 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to Qualcomm's Fourth Quarter and
Fiscal Year 2023 Earnings Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we'll conduct a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions)
As a reminder, this conference is being recorded November 1, 2023. The playback number for
today's call is 877-660-6853. International callers, please dial 201-612-7415. The playback
reservation number is 13741657.
I would now like to turn the call over to `Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan, Vice President, Investor Relations, Vice President of Investor
Relations. `Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan, Vice President, Investor Relations, please go ahead.
`Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Today's call will include prepared remarks by Cristiano
Amon and `Akash Palkhiwala, Chief Financial Officer, Qualcomm Incorporated. In addition, `Alex Rogers, President, Qualcomm Technology Licensing QTL & Global Affairs, Qualcomm will join the question-and-answer session.
You can access our earnings release and a slide presentation that accompany this call on our
Investor Relations website. In addition, this call is being webcast on qualcomm.com and a replay
will be available on our website later today.
During the call today, we will use non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G, and
you can find the related reconciliations to GAAP on our website. We will also make forward-
looking statements, including projections and estimates of future events, business or industry
trends, or business or financial results.
Actual events or results could differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking
statements. Please refer to our SEC filings, including our most recent 10-K, which containimportant factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking
statements.
And now the comments from Qualcomm's President and Chief Executive Officer, Cristiano Amon.
`Cristiano R. Amon, President & Chief Executive Officer, Qualcomm Incorporated `
Thank you, Mauricio, and good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. In fiscal Q4, we
delivered non-GAAP revenues of $8.7 billion in non-GAAP earnings per share of $2.02 above the
high-end of our guidance. Revenues from our chipset business of $7.4 billion reflect a more stable
Android handset environment. Licensing business revenues were $1.3 billion.
During the quarter, we also made significant progress on our leading technology and product
roadmaps while improving operational efficiency. We remain fully focused on our future growth
and diversification opportunities. Let me now discuss key highlights from the business.
As we enter the age of generative AI, we're seeing an unprecedented pace of innovation. On-
device GenAI is evolving in parallel with GenAI in the cloud, enabling entirely new use cases. It has
the potential to change how we interact with our devices, making the user experience more
natural, intuitive, relevant, and personal, with increased immediacy, privacy, and security.
We have quickly established Qualcomm as a leader in on-device GenAI for smartphones, next-
generation laptops, XR, and automotive, and we are well-positioned to benefit from this
opportunity. We expect high-performance on-device AI to become a requirement over the next
few years, driving content, units, or both.
Our Snapdragon platform is highly differentiated from its competitors. First, we significantly
increase the AI processing performance and power efficiency of our best-in-class NPU, CPU, and
GPU. Second, we are collaborating with multiple partners and ecosystems to enable a host of
consumer and productivity-based AI models running natively on our platform. Third, we're
enabling multibillion parameter GenAI models to run continuously and concurrently for multiple
use cases, including multimodal.
For example, in the latest Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 smartphone platform, state-of-the-art large
language models, such as Llama and Baichuan, up to 10 billion parameters are running at up to 20
tokens per second. And large vision models, such as stable diffusion, can generate images from
text in less than one second with ultra-low power consumption.
As always running on-device GenAI becomes pervasive. We believe it will create one of the most
significant changes in user experience similar to the transition from the future phone to the
smartphone, and the introduction of the graphical user interface for PCs. Snapdragon will play a
significant role in this transformation.
We also reached an important milestone in our expansion into PCs with the announcement of our
Snapdragon X Elite platform. It is the result of a relentless pursuit to create the ultimate intelligent
computing experience and establish Snapdragon as the industry leader in performance and
power efficiency. The Snapdragon X Elite includes our first implementation of the custom Oryon
CPU, which exceeds the multi-threaded CPU performance of any x86 or ARM competitor in its
class.
It also matches the single-threaded CPU peak performance of the leading x86 CPU competitors
at 70% less power. Additionally, our premium integrated Adreno GPU delivers up to 2x faster
performance than the competition at ISO power or matches competitor peak PC performance atSnapdragon X Elite also features our newest Hexagon NPU. With 45 TOPs of performance, the
Hexagon NPU with 45 TOPs of performance to Hexagon NPU is capable of running GenAI models
with over 13 billion parameters on-device. In total AI performance of the Snapdragon X Elite
across CPU, GPU, and NPU is 75 TOPs, the highest in the industry.
Microsoft is redefining the entire Windows experience with the AI co-pilot and the Snapdragon X
Elite is built from the ground up for this opportunity. We look forward to PCs powered by
Snapdragon X Elite from leading OEMs starting mid-2024. The merging of physical and digital
spaces remains a significant future opportunity for Qualcomm and we recently launched the
Snapdragon AR1 platform, our first dedicated platform for smart glasses.
AR1 Gen 1 was developed in close collaboration with Meta and powers the new Ray-Ban Meta
Smart Glasses. It features a dual ISP camera system for premium photos and videos as well as
powerful on-device AI for image enhancement, virtual assistance, real-time translation, visual
search and more.
Together with Meta, we're developing next-generation technologies to create the future of
spatial computing. The AR1 Gen 1, along with the previously announced Snapdragon XR Gen 2,
are a testament to the strength of this longstanding partnership. Across the industry, Snapdragon
remains the platform of choice for all leading VR, MR, and AR designs.
In networking, we continue to be a global Wi-Fi leader across enterprise and home networks, as
well as broadband gateways. Our Wi-Fi 7 solutions are seeing strong traction with more than 350
design wins across all categories today. We recently announced several new collaborations,
including with Charter Communications in the U.S. and EE in the U.K., both of which are preparing
to roll out enhanced next-generation Wi-Fi 7 connectivity to the residential and small and
medium-sized business customers.
We're excited about the launch of our Fiber Gateway Platform, which adds 10 gigabit passive
optical network capabilities to our portfolio. With Fiber, in addition to 5G and Wi-Fi 7, we're now
positioned to lead in next generation broadband solutions. Additionally, our unique service-
defined Wi-Fi technology, a signature feature introduced with our Wi-Fi platforms, offers a unified
data flow management architecture from cloud to device. It delivers orchestration, classification,
scheduling, and insights to enable the end-to-end management of home networks and real-time
optimizations across devices.
In automotive, the digital transformation of the industry continues to bring new levels of
computing, intelligence, and cloud connectivity to the vehicle. These trends are driving new user
experiences, advancements in driver assistance, autonomy, and safety. They also offer the
potential for new revenue opportunities as vehicles gain the ability to evolve with over-the-air
updates in digital services. The vehicle is becoming software-defined, and the Snapdragon Digital
Chassis remain at the center of this transformation. We are pleased that our Digital Chassis
solutions will bring advanced capabilities to the upcoming Cadillac Escalade IQ, which is planned
for commercial production in 2024.
The Cadillac Escalade IQ will be equipped with the Snapdragon Cockpit, Snapdragon Auto
Connectivity, and Snapdragon Ride Platforms. Additionally, we're proud of our partnership with
BMW for all vehicles, as well as the upcoming Neue Klasse. We're also excited that the
Snapdragon Digital Cockpit and connectivity solutions now power the new Mercedes-Benz user
experience starting with the 2024 E-Class Sedan.
We recently expanded our Digital Chassis offering with the launch of two new platforms for twovehicles. Our new platform design wins in launches with Gogoro, Harley-Davidson, and others are
receiving positive feedback from the ecosystem on their ability to advance technology
development and bring new user experiences to these vehicles.
Finally, we announced a new long-term relationship with Amazon Web Services to enable
automakers to integrate cloud technologies into their vehicle development lifecycle. The offering
combines the Qualcomm Cloud AI 100 solution, our Snapdragon Ride Platforms, as well as AWS,
breath of services and capabilities. This will advance the future of software-defined mobility and
change how vehicles are designed and developed.
In handsets, we announced our latest premium mobile platform, the Snapdragon 8 Gen 3, which
delivers industry-leading performance and extraordinary experiences to consumers for the
upcoming GenAI era. Some key features include intelligent capture with the world's smartest AI-
powered camera, console-level gaming with ray tracing with global illumination, studio-quality
audio, the world's first XPan technology, best-in-class connectivity, and the world's fastest on-
device AI processing on a smartphone.
We look forward to flagship device launches, powered by the Snapdragon 8 Gen 3, by global
OEMs and smartphone brands including Xiaomi, Honor, OPPO, Vivo, OnePlus, Sony, and more. In
addition, we recently entered into an agreement with Apple to supply Snapdragon 5G modem-
RF systems for smartphone launches in 2024, 2025, and 2026. This agreement reinforces our
track record of sustained leadership across 5G technologies and products. We are proud of our
ongoing relationship with Apple.
As we look forward, our technology roadmap has never been stronger, and the fundamentals of
Qualcomm's growth drivers remain unchanged, with significant opportunities in the coming years.
We continue to focus on stockholder returns and executing on our ongoing diversification
opportunities while maintaining operating discipline.
I would now like to turn the call over to Akash.
`Akash Palkhiwala, Chief Financial Officer, Qualcomm Incorporated `
Thank you, Cristiano, and good afternoon, everyone. I'll start with our fourth fiscal quarter results.
We delivered non-GAAP revenues of $8.7 billion and EPS of $2.02, which is above the high end of
our guidance. QTL revenues of $1.3 billion and EBT margin of 66% were in line with our
expectations. QCT delivered revenues of $7.4 billion and EBT margin of 26%, which were near the
high end of our guidance on strength in handset and automotive revenues.
Handset revenues of $5.5 billion increased 4% sequentially and were higher than expectations,
due to the benefit from the early stages of recovery in Android demand. IoT revenues of $1.4
billion were down 7% quarter-over-quarter, including softness in industrial IoT demand.
Automotive revenue grew 23% sequentially to $535 million, making this the 12 consecutive
quarter of double-digit percentage growth on a year-over-year basis. Non-GAAP operating
expenses decreased 1% sequentially to $2.2 billion. Before turning to guidance, I'll summarize our
fiscal '23 results.
We delivered non-GAAP revenues of $36 billion and EPS of $8.43, despite the challenging macro
environment. We remained focused on our strategic priorities of extending technology leadership
and driving revenue diversification while taking significant steps to improve our operating
efficiency. We continued our strong momentum in automotive and delivered record revenues of
$1.9 billion with year-over-year growth of 24%, progressing towards our target of greater than $4
billion in revenue by 2026.We exceeded our fiscal '23 cost action target, reducing non-GAAP operating expenses by 7%
relative to the fiscal '22 exit rate, executing on our commitment to manage the cost structure
given the current operating environment. Our business continues to generate strong free cash
flow with a record of $9.8 billion. Lastly, our balance sheet remains strong with $11.3 billion in cash
and marketable securities.
Now, turning to guidance. We are seeing early signs of stabilization in demand for global 3G, 4G,
5G handsets. We now estimate that calendar '23 handsets will be down mid to high single-digit
percentage relative to calendar '22, an improvement from our prior expectations.
In the first fiscal quarter of '24, we are forecasting revenues of $9.1 billion to $9.9 billion and non-
GAAP EPS of $2.25 to $2.45. In QTL, we estimate revenues of $1.3 billion to $1.5 billion and EBT
margins of 70% to 74% with sequential growth driven by an increase in global handset units for
the holiday season. In QCT, we expect revenues of $7.7 billion to $8.3 billion, and EBT margins of
26% to 28%.
On a sequential basis, we estimate double-digit percentage growth for QCT handset revenues
and anticipate both IoT and automotive revenues to decline consistent with last year. QCT
handset revenue forecast includes the benefit of normalization of Android channel inventory and
higher demand due to the acceleration of flagship launches with our newly announced
Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 mobile platform.
Notably, QCT handset forecast includes sequential revenue growth of greater than 35% from
Chinese OEMs.QCT IoT revenue forecast reflects the industry-wide cyclical factors we have
previously discussed, including lower demand and elevated channel inventory.
Lastly, we expect non-GAAP operating expenses to be flat relative to the fourth fiscal quarter. As
we enter fiscal '24, we are encouraged by the early signs of demand stabilization in handsets,
and our strong competitive positioning across revenue streams. Key industry trends, such as
heterogeneous mobile computing and on-device generative AI, provide a strong foundation for
content growth and expansion to new device categories, driving growth opportunities for
Qualcomm.
In closing, I want to thank our employees for their hard work and dedication, and for remaining
focused on execution and continuing to deliver industry-leading products. This concludes our
prepared remarks. Back to you, Mauricio.
`Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Akash. Operator, we are now ready for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) The first question comes from `Samik Chatterjee, JP Morgan with JP
Morgan. Please proceed with your question.
Q - `Samik Chatterjee, JP Morgan `
Yes. Hi. Thank you, thanks for taking my questions and congrats on the results here. I guess if I can
start with Cristiano, your comments about on-device AI becoming pervasive in a few years. I thinkinvestors are largely looking for more sort of evidence and validation that this is going to be a key
focus area for a lot of OEMs, smartphones and other device OEMs.
So as you look over the next sort of 12 to 18 months, what should investors look at in terms of
more validation of either wins or revenues that you expect from the monetization of the trend in
relation to what investors can really look to as milestones to validate that this is actually going to
be sort of playing out over the next three to four years and have a follow-up.
A - `Cristiano R. Amon, President & Chief Executive Officer, Qualcomm Incorporated `
Thank you so much, Samik, for your question. For those that have not seen, I think, I would
recommend to see the highlights of our Snapdragon Tech Summit that just happened a couple of
weeks ago when we announced the results of our investments in GenAI.
I'll tell you, Samik, that on-device GenAI, as I mentioned in my prepared remarks, are evolving in
parallel to the cloud. And it's going to have a significant impact in how you change the user
experience. Just think about a simple use case as you're texting. Every single test that you write
could be an input to a model, and that could bring a prediction of your behavior and bring other
applications.
We demonstrated a number of use cases that are in the developer, but many other OEMs.There
are a number of different models, from large language models to large visual models. One
unique position of Qualcomm, we have many of those models running natively on a platform.
We're creating a Model Zoo for Snapdragon. And you saw announcement from Microsoft, from
Meta, from what we're doing over Android, we're doing our Chinese partners.
And you're going to start to see those signs, especially with flagship devices launching in '24 as
you started to see those use cases, changing photography, changing messaging, changing
scheduling, changing assistance, how you should think about this financially for us. You have the
potential to create a new cycle for phones, and it will have an impact on increased silicon content.
Just to put in perspective, we have significantly increased the processing performance of our AI
processing in the device, or NPU, is going to have silicon content, it's going to have an impact on
mix, and it's going to have an impact on unit of all of it, and it's likely going to start as use cases
get developed with flagships launch in '24, but it could be very significant as you look at the next
two to three years.
Q - `Samik Chatterjee, JP Morgan `
Okay. Got it. And for my follow-up, I guess you're sounding a lot more positive around the
recovery in the Android OEMs related to the smartphone market. I think investors at the same
time are grappling with the potential sort of puts and takes, particularly when it comes to your
primary or large Android customer, Samsung, using more in-house solutions going forward.
So when we think about sort of seasonality beyond the December quarter, particularly around the
launch period, how should we think about your market share with Samsung progressing and what
impact does that have on relative to your typical seasonality from December to March? Thank
you.
A - `Cristiano R. Amon, President & Chief Executive Officer, Qualcomm Incorporated `
Very good question. Let me unpack that question. Let's divide the conversation in two. I think the
first part of the conversation, as we said in the prepared remarks, we're happy that the inventoryAnd one data point that we provided in a cautious I think remarks is, sequentially from Q4 fiscal to
our guide, we're seeing a total growth of revenue from Chinese OEMs, both in China and outside
China, of 35%. And I think that shows that our customers are in a great position, I think even
facing new interests in the market, and it's also strength of our roadmap and the stabilization of
the market.
The second question is about Samsung. Look we're happy with our partnership with Samsung,
there's the upcoming launch of the GS24, we expect to have the majority share. Our product is
really great, I think as I said we probably have one of the best product roadmaps in the history of
the company, especially in the GenAI processing capabilities, and the product is getting better.
We were happy to talk about what we have done in PC with our new Oryon CPU. That CPU is
coming to mobile, especially in '25, and we expect even more, I think, evolution of GenAI. So the
roadmap gets better over time. Overall, we're positive about our relationship with Samsung.
Thank you.
Operator
Our next question is from Matt Ramsay with Cowen. Please proceed with your question.
Q - `Matthew D. Ramsay, TD Cowen `
Thank you very much, guys. Good afternoon. I guess for my first question, Cristiano, I did pick up
on the 35% growth sequentially with China OEMs.But you guys -- the question I've been getting a
ton is around Huawei and what they're doing. So you guys called out, I think, last quarter that they
were going to be getting some supply on 7 nanometer from SMIC and being able to do some
devices themselves. And then you called out an impact to your revenue.
But I think longer-term into all of next calendar year there is some expectation that they might get
some more supply some of it from SMIC on 7, some of it from SMIC on 16, and that might be a
unit headwind to some of your other OEM customer. Maybe you can sell into them as well on 4G.
So if you can unpack a little bit of what's going on with Huawei and how you see it impacting the
market in China that would be helpful. And I have a follow-up. Thanks.
A - `Cristiano R. Amon, President & Chief Executive Officer, Qualcomm Incorporated `
Thank you for your question, Matt. I think maybe separate and first, as we indicate in the last
earning call, I think we indicated that we don't have any more projection of selling our 4G I think
SoCs to Huawei. And going forward we don't expect to have any significant -- it's going to be a
very small I think contribution from Huawei.
I think the more interesting answer to your question and that's the reason I provide 35% data
point, is as Huawei launched the device, what we are seeing from our customers is continue, I
think, growth from our customers on the Android side. We see a mixed improvement of our
customers moving towards flagship, and it's kind of reflected in our numbers. So it does not
change, I think, the trajectory that we have with our Android customers in China.
And there is a possibility, I think, that Huawei, as upgrading their existing customer base there
was a data point, there's about 100 million Huawei former customers with a four to five year old
Huawei phone, and that could have an impact on increasing the TAM.
Q - `Matthew D. Ramsay, TD Cowen `Thank you, Cristiano. I guess as my follow-up, it was very impressive, some of the products that
you put forward for the PC market at the latest Snapdragon Summit, I think you were right to call
out the performance levels, the power levels, and the much, much different support from
Microsoft. I guess what I'm trying to understand a little bit more is support for ARM PCs, whether
in gaming or in enterprise use cases, by other ISVs, so folks that might need to use other end
applications that wouldn't be touched directly by Qualcomm or directly by Microsoft.
Cristiano, could you give us a little bit of an update there? What are you seeing from the ISV
ecosystem, and in what parts of the PC market do you see potential momentum for your
products? Thanks.
A - `Cristiano R. Amon, President & Chief Executive Officer, Qualcomm Incorporated `
Look, there's a lot to unpack here. I can speak about this for the whole day, but I'm going to try to
be succinct. First thing, we're incredibly proud of the accomplishments of our team. I think
Snapdragon X Elite took the leadership position in this space for any mobile computing device,
we're incredibly happy with performance of the new CPU, both single-threaded and multi-
threaded performance.
But not only that, I think it's important to highlight the AI processing capability, because that's key
to answer your question. If you look versus announcements on NPU or some of the other ARM
competitors, we had 45 TOPs performance on the NPU, a total TOPs performance on X Elite of
75.
And that aligns with the transition that Microsoft is making towards a Windows AI future,
especially the new services with the Copilot and everything we're doing with Microsoft on on-
device, working together on-device AI with the cloud and with the Azure endpoint. We're excited
about that. And you should start thinking about the PC business almost like the auto business.
We're focused on next generation PCs not existing PCs, and as those Windows started to switch
to Windows AI and our platform launches, you create opportunity for us to start gaining scale.
Specifically to your question, Microsoft has been very active together with us of bringing a lot of
applications natively to the platform. I think we had a significant progress made across consumer
and commercial applications.
You continue to see announcements and Windows 11 can also run every x86, 32, and 64-bit to the
Microsoft emulation. We also made significant strides in the emulation performance. So I think
Snapdragon X Elite represents the results of this Microsoft-Qualcomm collaboration. And I'll finish
the answer by saying, if you look at the announcements of other computing companies talking
about having an ARM-based PC preprocessor. That is validation that that's our TAM now. It is
going to be part of the expansion of TAM for Qualcomm. We're a new player, and we look at this
as a growth opportunity. We're excited about it.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Walkley with Canaccord Genuity. Please proceed
with your question.
Q - `Michael Walkley, Canaccord Genuity Corp `
Great, thanks. Quick question for Akash. Strong cost execution coming in ahead of plan for exiting
the fiscal '23 and flattish into the start to Q1. How should we think about OpEx levels planned forthe year? Is there more areas to cut, or you think you'll remain kind of flattish for the year from
the good start?
A - `Akash Palkhiwala, Chief Financial Officer, Qualcomm Incorporated `
Yeah, thanks, Mike, for the question. Yeah, we're very happy that we set a target for fiscal '23 of
a reduction of 5% relative to the '22 exit rate. And we came in at 7%. As we have continued to
mention, we are committing to operating discipline and we did implement additional actions this
quarter proactively.
And the way we are managing our portfolio is really while we are reducing cost, we want to
ensure that we continue to invest appropriately in technology, leadership, and diversification in
some of the areas that Cristiano just went through. So that's the balance we are trying to strike.
And as we look at the rest of the year, again we are committed to maintaining operating
discipline as we move forward. I think we are in a very good place from an OpEx perspective. We
are investing in the right areas and we will focus on that scale.
Q - `Michael Walkley, Canaccord Genuity Corp `
Great, thanks. And kind of building on that, my follow-up question to you, Cristiano, just to follow-
up on the on-device GenAI opportunity. How should we think about the increased dollar content
per device for Qualcomm or increased ASPs relative to your high end Snapdragon ship today?
Thank you.
A - `Cristiano R. Amon, President & Chief Executive Officer, Qualcomm Incorporated `
Look, let me start and see if Akash wants to add something else to the answer. The way we think
about this is let, rather than provide a specific dollar content is he has a mix improvement. It will
drive towards a richer mix of higher and premium tier devices. He has an ASP increase, especially
because of the accelerated performance for AI. And we're combining that with significant
advancements in CPU, and GPU as well. And he has the opportunity to drive units where there's a
new upgrade cycle or share gains. Akash, I don't know if you want to add anything.
A - `Akash Palkhiwala, Chief Financial Officer, Qualcomm Incorporated `
Well, and maybe just the other thing to keep in mind is outside handsets. As we talk about the PC
opportunity, of course, our AI leadership becomes extremely important there. And then also
within IoT, we think about GenAI as something that's going to be a key technology going forward,
it'll expand our addressable market, expand the dollars we make per device in that area as well.
So it's a much broader play for us, including automotive with ADAS, IoT, and PC.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Stacy Rasgon, Bernstein Research with Bernstein Research. Pleased
proceed with your questions.
Q - `Stacy Rasgon, Bernstein Research `
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. For my first one, I want to ask the March quarter
seasonality question a little more directly. Akash, can you just give us some of the puts and takes
on that March quarter seasonality? I mean, we've got a strong Apple quarter, presumably in
December, that rolls off. We've got Samsung that launches, although, we can question what the
share is. We've got other things going on. Just how do we think about that seasonality in the
context of everything that's going on, which we'll be expecting?A - `Akash Palkhiwala, Chief Financial Officer, Qualcomm Incorporated `
All right. Sure. So let me maybe try to address the shape of the year as a broader comment. I
mean, we do expect the first quarter and the fourth quarter to be the strongest quarters within
the year. And then third quarter, as you know, is typically the lower quarter because we don't have
a flagship phone launch that happens during the quarter.
But when you step back and kind of look at, as we enter fiscal '24, we're very happy with kind of
the early signs of stabilization in the global handset market. And so we are cautiously optimistic as
we go forward with that stabilizing and the normalization of Android channel inventory. We are on
a strong trajectory as we go through the year.
Q - `Stacy Rasgon, Bernstein Research `
Alright. That's helpful. For my second question, I want to ask about the new Apple agreement. So
you put that out a little while ago. You're modeling 20% share now in the phone that launches in
'26. So that'll be primarily a fiscal '27 issue. How should we think about the shape of that in '24
and the launches that happen in '24 and '25? Do we assume that you've got close to 100% of the
majority of the units there and then it drops down for modeling purposes to 20% on the '26
launch? Or like, what does that look like?
A - `Akash Palkhiwala, Chief Financial Officer, Qualcomm Incorporated `
Yeah, so the way you should think about the new agreement without kind of going into specifics,
the framework is very consistent with the previous agreement. It covers three launches. So the
launch in '24, launch in '25 and launch in '26. And again, the framework is consistent with what we
had before. For financial planning purposes, we're taking the same approach as we did with last
agreement. And that's the 20% you mentioned where in the last year, we are planning as if we're
going to get 20% share. But to the extent that we get more than that, that'd be upside for our
plan.
Operator
Our next question is from the line of `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank with Deutsche Bank. Please proceed with
your questions.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank `
Hi guys, thanks for letting me ask a question. I just wanted to dive a little bit into the automotive
and IoT sides of things. Just a clarification for your fiscal fourth quarter guide, Akash, I believe you
said they'd be somewhat similar to last year. I just wondered what you meant by that? And then a
bigger cyclical question, we've heard a number of different companies talk about inventory burn
in those two markets. You guys highlighted it in IoT, so I wondered where we were there, and are
you seeing anything in automotive?
A - `Akash Palkhiwala, Chief Financial Officer, Qualcomm Incorporated `
Sure. So the financial guidance we gave is that the quarter-over-quarter trend from September
quarter to the December quarter in automotive and IoT will be consistent with last year. So if you
look at last year, automotive was down, I think, 1% or 2%, and so we're guiding effectively down
1% or 2% or flat for automotive.
We obviously had a very strong quarter in the September quarter. The business traction continuesthe relationship with the customers is very strong as well. So we continue to be optimistic and
we're well on our way to execute on the financial targets we have given long term.
From an IoT perspective, again, the same guidance that is consistent with last year, what the
trend we saw between the September and December quarter. And really, when you think about
IoT, we're seeing some of the same factors that other players in the industry are seeing, some
demand weakness coupled with channel inventory.
As we look forward, we think of first quarter as the bottom for the year for IoT. We expect to
strengthen from that point on, and especially as we get into the second half of the fiscal year,
with the environment normalizing, but then also very increasingly strong traction for our products,
we think we'll have a strong second half in IoT.
Q - `Ross Seymore, Deutsche Bank `
I just wanted to ask a follow-up on the gross margin side of things, Cristiano, you talked about AI
at the edge and across a number of different products, whether it's the PC side, the handset
side, et cetera. I just wondered, what does that mean to the gross margin within QCT? It seems
like it opens up new TAMs on the unit side, outside of handsets, probably increases the TAM
from a dollar content on the handset side. Does that yield upside to gross margin, about the
same? Just what are the puts and takes as we translate all that to the profitability side?
A - `Akash Palkhiwala, Chief Financial Officer, Qualcomm Incorporated `
Sure, from a shorter-term perspective, as you'll see from our guide, we did very well in
September quarter. We're guiding in line for December quarter. I think your question is more of a
longer-term opportunity of the expansion of our gross margin as we get into these new areas.
And we definitely agree that I think as we scale in outside handsets, especially in automotive and
IoT, we have an opportunity for margin expansion.
A - `Cristiano R. Amon, President & Chief Executive Officer, Qualcomm Incorporated `
Ross, this is Cristiano. Just two things I want to add real quick on the first question and then on
this. As we gain scale in markets, for example, such as auto and in certain segments of the IoT
like PCs, XR, those things, they also have the opportunity to give us operating margin efficiency
because our R&D is highly leveraged, especially on the computing and the connectivity part. So
the more that we get scale, we'll continue to probably be accretive to margins.
I want to make a quick comment on your IoT. You should look at our IoT dynamics. Not all IoT are
created equal. I think we have a lot of things within our IoT. So there's existing business that are
subject to some of the inventory dynamics, but there are new growth opportunities there. One of
I remind everyone that PC is in there, which is likely going to be material in fiscal '25, if you think
about devices with the X Elite are launching towards the second half of '24.
You have XR, which was still in the early phase of that opportunity. It has networking, we have
fiber, we didn't have it before, so I think we're positioned now to expand and networking with
fiber and 5G and Wi-Fi 7 is positive. And it has still an opportunity to move processing to the edge
when IoT next. So we're going to be -- those are less subject to some of the cyclical dynamics
we're seeing right now for existing business. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question is from the line of `Christopher Rolland, Susquehanna with Susquehanna. Please proceed withQ - `Christopher Rolland, Susquehanna `
Thanks for the question, guys. How are you guys thinking about global handset units over your
next fiscal year? And then also, given your new product launches here, how should we think about
Qualcomm ASPs as we progress for the progress for the next fiscal year as well.
A - `Akash Palkhiwala, Chief Financial Officer, Qualcomm Incorporated `
Chris, it's Aakash. So as we mentioned on the call, we've seen kind of early signs of stabilization
in the handset market, including in China. And for calendar '23, we now expect mid to high single
digits versus '22, which is an improvement from what we had before.
As we look at '24, the recent demand stabilization obviously provides a positive setup as we go
into the year. So we are cautiously optimistic on how '24 plays out. But specifically on 5G units,
which is really our target market, we expect high single-digit to low double-digit growth from '23
into '24. So that's kind of the market that we pursue, and we think there's growth opportunity
there going into next year.
From an ASP perspective, because of all the factors we discussed earlier in the call with the chips
becoming way more capable especially with Gen AI, we think we are on a good trajectory to
continue to expand our ASP consistent with the last three-year trend. So if you look at our last
three-year trend, we've added approximately 10% increase in any tier of chipset every year, and
we think, as we look forward, we have the opportunity to do that going forward.
Q - `Christopher Rolland, Susquehanna `
That's a great update. Thank you. Another question for you quickly. There was some new
language in your 10-K around the European Commission proposing regulations around standard
essential patents, potentially devaluing those patents. I wasn't familiar with this. How serious do
you think that risk could be, and are there any other meaningful developments in any other
geographies, or are we all kind of status-quo?
A - `Alex Rogers, President, Qualcomm Technology Licensing QTL & Global Affairs, Qualcomm `
Yeah. So thanks for that question. This is Alex. So we've been tracking these developments in the
European Union. There's actually a variety of parts to this proposed regulation ranging from
wanting more transparency and ownership of SEPs and essentiality of SEPs to other issues
relating to kind of pre-legal processes and other sorts of regulations that would affect the
licensing and go-to-court process.
The European Union right now is in what they call a trilogue process. It's going to take a while to
get through Parliament and the Member States are going to weigh in. The Commission's going to
weigh in. The European Patent Office is actually opposed to parts of the regulation, Ericsson and
Nokia, of course, weighing in as well.
So this is going to be a fairly messy, just call it legislative process, that will take some number of
years to sort out. It's being followed in other jurisdictions. We're following it here in the U.S. The
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has weighed in somewhat negatively I think, and it's being
followed in China as well. So this will kind of play out over some years. It's not that unusual to have
a variety of different SEP-related policy initiatives underway in different jurisdictions.
OperatorOur next question is from the line of Chris Caso with Wolfe Research. Please proceed with your
questions.
Q - `Christopher Caso, Wolfe Research `
Yes, thank you. Good evening. The first question is regarding the overall handset demand and
understand the comments you made about 5G units going into next year. I guess one part of the
question is with the increase that you saw in the China business. How much of that do you believe
was associated with just inventory normalization as opposed to, actual, more end market units.
And then what does that mean for QTL, which has also been somewhat depressed because of
the lower handset market? What should we expect on that as we go into next year?
A - `Akash Palkhiwala, Chief Financial Officer, Qualcomm Incorporated `
Yeah, Chris, it's Akash. So the way we think about the handset market is, we've seen a
stabilization in the market and we're projecting forward, especially into the December quarter,
and QTL's guide, as something that the stable market represents. And so we're guiding a
midpoint of $1.4 billion, sequential growth of 11%.
In terms of breaking down the revenue growth in QCT between inventory and market, obviously
it's kind of difficult to do over a quarter. But we do think that inventory is a big part of it, and it's
really the market is stabilizing where it's at with inventory really driving a majority of the
improvement. In addition to our market share position and revenue growth that comes with
content increase as new chips get launched.
Q - `Christopher Caso, Wolfe Research `
Got it. And with regard to QTLN [ph], I guess I'd assume to see the QTL numbers to come back
closer to where we've seen them in the past. That's going to require some more improvement
and market demand is accurate.
A - `Akash Palkhiwala, Chief Financial Officer, Qualcomm Incorporated `
Yeah, that's right. I mean, QTL revenue forecast is really a function of the scale of the overall
handset market. And so as the scale changes, it would improve QTL revenues as well.
Operator
Our next question is from the line of `Brett Simpson, Arete Research with Arete Research. Please proceed with
your questions.
Q - `Brett Simpson, Arete Research `
Yeah, thanks very much. My question was really on fiscal '24 Android smartphone outlook and I
guess there's a lot of moving parts here with Huawei building up their own chipset and we've all
seen the volumes they're talking about for next year and you've also got a fairly high share in
flagship segments with Samsung. So just looking at fiscal '24, can you perhaps just provide us a
framework for whether or not Qualcomm can grow Android handset sales in fiscal '24? Thank
you.
A - `Cristiano R. Amon, President & Chief Executive Officer, Qualcomm Incorporated `
Brett, we're not guiding the full year at this point. We gave you the guidance for first quarter and I
gave you an outline as well of how we expect the shape of the year to play out for the overallcompany and I think those pointers should give you a sense of our view into the year.
Q - `Brett Simpson, Arete Research `
Okay, maybe just to follow-up Akash in terms of your OpEx plan for fiscal '24. I mean we've seen
your sales in fiscal '23 decline and operating profit down pretty significantly in fiscal '23. How are
you thinking about the OpEx for fiscal '24? And I guess -- and specifically when I look at
Qualcomm's headcount, you have over 50,000 people in the business and a lot of your large
fabless peers have about half that headcount. How do we think about the sort of spending plan
for next year just giving the puts and takes here? Thank you.
A - `Akash Palkhiwala, Chief Financial Officer, Qualcomm Incorporated `
Yeah. So Brett, as you're aware through calendar -- through fiscal '23, we took action on cost
reductions a couple times and as I also mentioned this quarter we've taken additional action. So
the idea is, how do we maintain operating discipline while continuing to invest in the
diversification initiatives that are so important for the company going forward. And what you're
seeing in our forecast is a representation of those factors.
Operator
Thank you. Our final question is from the line of `Tal Liani, Bank of America with Bank of America. Please proceed
with your questions.
Q - `Tal Liani, Bank of America `
Hey, thank you so much. I want to ask about market share. Next year, MediaTek is saying that
they're doing great and they're gaining share. Huawei published now their target for 100 million
units versus 60 million that they had before. And the question is, how do you feel about your
market share for handsets sourced within China? What are the areas maybe that you are strong
at? What are the areas that you think you'll see more competition? Thanks.
A - `Cristiano R. Amon, President & Chief Executive Officer, Qualcomm Incorporated `
Akash, I will start and maybe you add some quantitative comments. Tal, I think I will say, if you --
just a recap, in fiscal '23 that just ended, we had a share increase both globally and in China of
sell-through and we like I think the direction that we have been going.
As we said, we'll continue to retain majority share at Samsung, we feel good about their
relationship going forward. And we have seen traction from preeminent high tier before Chinese
OEMs this in spite of the launch of in the successful I think initial sales of a newcomer and that's
kind of also reflected in the sequential 35% grow. Akash, I don't know if there anything you like to
add?
A - `Akash Palkhiwala, Chief Financial Officer, Qualcomm Incorporated `
No. I'll just say this competitive environment is no different than what we've had in the past and
really if you look at our current products and going forward, we think our competitive
differentiation is actually accelerating, both with our custom CPUs coming into our handset
product line and with GenAI, in addition to other factors that differentiate us. So we're pretty
confident as we go forward, we're in a good place from a competitive positioning perspective
and content increase.
Q - `Tal Liani, Bank of America `Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. That concludes today's question-and-answer session. Mr.Amon, do you have anything
further to add before adjourning the call?
A - `Cristiano R. Amon, President & Chief Executive Officer, Qualcomm Incorporated `
No. Thank you all for listening to and participating in the call. I just want to say thank you, to our
employees, our suppliers, our partners. And I think we've been focused on the things we can
control and really focus on building incredible, I think, products as we continue to change
Qualcomm from a communications company to a connected computer company and go into new
markets. Thank you again, and looking forward to talk to you all next quarter.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.