Q4 2025 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing-by. Welcome to the Qualcomm Fourth Quarter and
Fiscal 2025 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later,
we will conduct a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions)
I would now like to turn the call over to `Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan, Investor Relations, Vice President of Investor
Relations. `Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan, Investor Relations, please go ahead.
`Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan, Investor Relations `
Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Today's call will include prepared remarks by Cristiano
Amon and `Akash Palkhiwala, Chief Financial Officer & Chief Operating Officer. In addition, `Alex Rogers, President, Technology Licensing & Global Affairs will join the question-and-answer session.
You can access our earnings release and a slide presentation that accompany this call on our
Investor Relations website. In addition, this call is being webcast on qualcomm.com, and a replay
will be available on our website later today.
During the call today, we will use non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G. And
you can find the related reconciliations to GAAP on our website. We will also make forward-
looking statements, including projections and estimates of future events, business or industry
trends, or business or financial results. Actual events or results could differ materially from those
projected in our forward-looking statements. Please refer to our SEC filings, including our most
recent 10-K, which contain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially
from the forward-looking statements.
And now to comments from Qualcomm's President and Chief Executive Officer, Cristiano Amon.
`Cristiano R. Amon, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mauricio, and good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. In fiscal Q4, we
delivered another strong quarter with revenues of $11.3 billion and non-GAAP earnings per shareof $3, both of which exceeded the high end of our guidance range. QCT revenues of $9.8 billion,
up 9% sequentially, were driven by strong end customer demand for Snapdragon powered
premium-tier Android handsets, continued traction for automotive Snapdragon Digital Chassis,
and strength in IoT across industrial, Wi-Fi 7 access point, 5G fixed wireless, and smart glasses.
In addition, all three QCT revenue streams exceeded our expectations, including record
automotive quarterly revenues in excess of $1 billion. Licensing business revenues were $1.4
billion. Fiscal '25 non-GAAP revenues of $44 billion were up 13% year-over-year with record QCT
annual revenues of $38.4 billion, up 16% year-over-year, including automotive and IoT revenue
growth of 36% and 22% year-over-year, respectively. We delivered 18% year-over-year growth in
total QCT non-Apple revenues above our prior estimates. We remain on-track to achieve our
fiscal '29 long-term revenue commitment as outlined at our 2024 Investor Day.
I will now share some key highlights from the business. At Snapdragon Summit in September, we
introduced our Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5 Mobile platform for next generation flagship AI
smartphones. This platform is equipped with our custom-built 3rd generation Oryon CPU, the
fastest mobile CPU ever, along with an upgraded NPU and GPU. With the Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen
5, we continue to set the pace of innovation in mobile processors.
This year marked our 10th Snapdragon Summit with simultaneous events held in Maui and Beijing,
validating the strength of our Snapdragon ecosystem, leading China OEMs, including Xiaomi,
Honor, Vivo and OnePlus, announced their flagship phones at our event. More than 1,100
partners, analysts, tech influencers, and press attended in person, and our keynotes captured
over 26 million unique views across both events. Together with our announcement, Snapdragon
Summit generated over 547 million social media impressions.
In addition, our Snapdragon Insiders community of tech enthusiasts, developers, and fans has
grown to more than 20 million members worldwide. Our highly-differentiated technology
continues to drive increased brand visibility. And during the quarter, Qualcomm debuted at 39 on
the Interbrand top 100 Global Brands list for 2025, reflecting the strength of Snapdragon. And for
the first time ever, Kantar's BrandZ most valuable Global Brands list included Snapdragon, where
we ranked number 38.
Also at Summit, we unveiled our newest platform for premium laptops, the Snapdragon X2 Elite
and X2 Elite Extreme. Once again, our industry leading processors continue to outperform
competitors, surpassing Intel and AMD in both speed and power efficiency. Our latest NPU sets a
new benchmark as the world's fastest AI engine for laptops, also exceeding Intel and AMD and
performance. And with the new Oryon Gen 3, we have the world's first 5 gigahertz CPU for the
ultra mobile laptop category with extended battery life. We now expect approximately 150
designs to be commercialized through 2026 and remain optimistic about the continued
momentum for Snapdragon powered AI PCs.
As AI transforms human computer interactions, intelligent wearables and specifically smart
glasses are evolving into personal AI devices that can connect the user directly to an AI agent or
model. This emerging category is growing at a remarkable pace and has reached an inflection
point fueled by very strong demand for smart glasses from Meta. This quarter alone, Meta
introduced several new Snapdragon powered styles including the Ray-Ban Meta 2nd generation
glasses, the Oakley Meta Vanguard performance glasses and the Meta Ray-Ban Display and
neural band.
In addition to Meta, our leadership in this space is reflected by the 30 designs in production or
development with our global partners. They include Samsung, which recently launched Galaxy XR,a truly multimodal AI headset and the first device for Google's new AI native operating system,
Android XR. We achieved a significant milestone in automotive with the launch of Snapdragon
Ride Pilot, our first full system solution for L2+ automated driving, developed in close
collaboration with BMW.
It debuted in the automaker's BMW iX3 EV SUV powered by our advanced self-driving software
stack, Snapdragon Ride Pilot sets a new standard in automated driving, is designed for universal
compatibility and seamless integration with automakers, unlocking L2+ driver assistant features
like hands free highway driving and urban navigation for vehicles worldwide. Snapdragon Ride
Pilot is currently validated in 60 countries and extends toward 100 in 2026.
The broad interest from leading automakers globally is exceeding our expectations. At IAA
Mobility, Qualcomm and Google announced an expanded partnership, including the integration of
Google Gemini models to our suite of Snapdragon digital chassis solutions. Together, we will
enable automakers to build and deploy personalized AI agents to act as an in-vehicle assistance,
bringing multimodal edge to cloud AI to next-generation software defined vehicles.
In industrial IoT, we completed our acquisition of Arduino, a premier open source hardware and
software company with an IoT development ecosystem of more than 30 million users worldwide.
This builds on our acquisitions of Edge Impulse and Foundries I/O and accelerate our plans to
provide a comprehensive edge AI development platform for a broad set of applications. With
these new assets, we're expanding our portfolio to a wide range of customers and verticals,
further cementing our position as the leader of AI for the edge.
Additionally, we recently released the Arduino UNO Q single board computer, powered by a
Dragonwing processor, this full stack Edge AI platform enables the rapid development of
solutions for applications ranging from smart home automation to industrial robotics, drones, and
more. AI data center growth is moving from training to dedicated inference workloads, and this
trend is expected to accelerate in the coming years. The mass adoption and continuous use of AI
applications is driving the industry to look for competitive alternatives that prioritize power
efficient performance and cost.
We announced our entry into this market and recently unveiled our AI inference-optimized AI200
and AI250 SoCs and associated accelerator cards, and racks. We are very pleased to have
HUMAIN as our first customer for these solutions with a target deployment of 200 megawatts
starting in 2026. Looking ahead, we're executing on a multi-generation roadmap with an annual
cadence.
I would like to share that we're looking forward to providing an update in the first half of 2026 on
our data center plans, including our roadmap performance and differentiated memory and
compute technology. We will also highlight our progress in other areas, including advanced
robotics, next generation ADAS, industrial edge AI, and 6G devices and AI-powered RAM. As we
execute on our strategy and expand our IP and capabilities, we believe we are one of the best
positioned companies to lead the expansion of AI to the edge, edge to cloud hybrid AI and
develop a power efficient cloud inferencing solution.
I will now turn the call over to Akash.
`Akash Palkhiwala, Chief Financial Officer & Chief Operating Officer `
Thank you, Cristiano, and good afternoon, everyone. Let me begin with our fourth fiscal quarter
results. We are pleased with our strong non-GAAP performance with revenues of $11.3 billion and
EPS of $3, both of which were above the high end of our guidance. QTL revenues of $1.4 billionand EBT margin of 72% were above the midpoint of our guidance, driven by slightly higher
handset units.
QCT delivered revenues of $9.8 billion and EBT of $2.9 billion, with year-over-year growth of 13%
and 17% respectively. QCT EBT margin of 29% was at the high end of our guidance. QCT handset
revenues of $7 billion increased 14% on a year-over-year basis, reflecting increased demand for
premium Android handsets powered by our Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5 platform.
QCT IoT revenues of $1.8 billion grew 7% year-over-year, driven by strength across industrial and
networking products and increased demand for AI smart glasses powered by our Snapdragon
platform. In QCT Automotive, we surpassed $1 billion quarterly revenue milestone, delivering 17%
year-over-year revenue growth as the adoption of our Snapdragon digital chassis platform
continues to accelerate.
With the recent enactment of the One Big Beautiful tax bill, we now expect our non-GAAP tax
rate to remain in the 13% to 14% range going forward, and we anticipate lower cash tax payments
relative to prior expectations. This new legislation resulted in a non-cash charge of $5.7 billion in
the fourth fiscal quarter to reduce the value of our deferred tax assets. This charge is excluded
from non-GAAP metrics, but impacts our GAAP results.
Before turning to guidance, I'd like to take a moment to highlight our strong performance in fiscal
'25. We are incredibly pleased with our execution with non-GAAP revenues of $44 billion and EPS
of $12.03, representing year-over-year growth of 13% and 18%, respectively. In QCT, we achieved
16% year-over-year revenue growth, driven by double-digit increases across all revenue streams,
with IoT up 22% and automotive growing 36%.
We also delivered QCT operating margins of 30%, in line with our long-term target we previously
outlined. Over the past five years, our non-Apple QCT revenues grew at a 15% compounded
annual growth rate. Similarly, over the last two years, our non-Apple QCT revenues grew by 17%
and 18% respectively. Lastly, we generated record free cash flow of $12.8 billion, and consistent
with our commitment, we returned nearly 100% to stockholders through repurchases and
dividends through the year.
Now, turning to guidance. In the first fiscal quarter, we expect to deliver record results with
revenues in the range of $11.8 billion to $12.6 billion and non-GAAP EPS of $3.30 to $3.50. In QTL,
we estimate revenues of $1.4 billion to $1.6 billion and EBT margins of 74% to 78%. In QCT, we
expect record revenues of $10.3 billion to $10.9 billion and EBT margins of 30% to 32%. We
anticipate record QCT handset revenues with low-teens percentage growth sequentially,
primarily driven by new flagship Android handset launches powered by Snapdragon.
Following our outperformance for QCT IoT revenues in the fourth quarter, we expect a sequential
decline consistent with last year, driven by seasonality in consumer products. In QCT Automotive,
following a record fourth quarter, we estimate revenues in the first fiscal quarter to remain flat to
slightly up on a sequential basis. Lastly, we forecast non-GAAP operating expenses to be
approximately $2.45 billion in the quarter.
In closing, as we approach one year since outlining our growth strategy at Investor Day, I'd like to
provide an update on the progress towards our $22 billion fiscal '29 revenue target across
automotive and IoT. In automotive, we've established ourselves as the most strategic silicon
partner for OEMs globally. The accelerating adoption of our Snapdragon digital chassis platform
and 36% year-over-year revenue growth in fiscal '25 puts us on track to achieve our $8 billion
revenue target.Across IoT, the increasing importance of artificial intelligence, high performance low power
computing, and connectivity validated by our 22% year-over-year revenue growth in fiscal '25
reinforces our confidence in achieving our $14 billion revenue target. In industrial, increasing
customer engagement and growth in design win pipeline, combined with our recent acquisitions
to unlock access to 30 million users underlines our confidence in strong revenue growth through
the end of the decade.
In XR, we are exceeding prior expectations on strong demand for AI smart glasses, and we
remain the platform of choice for smart glasses and mixed reality devices across leading global
OEMs and ecosystems. In PCs, we extended our technology leadership with the recent launch of
Snapdragon X2 Elite and X2 Elite Extreme platforms, which deliver multigenerational performance
increases across CPU, GPU, and AI. Given our strong pipeline of approximately 150 design wins,
we are optimistic about the growth potential for Snapdragon powered AI PCs as we expand our
presence across global consumer and enterprise channels.
In networking, our continued innovation and leadership in Wi-Fi, 5G, edge processing, and AI,
combined with our integrated platform approach positions us to drive content growth and
adoption globally. As Cristiano outlined, beyond our revenue target, we are also pursuing
incremental opportunities across data center and robotics. Finally, I want to thank our employees
for exceptional execution and continuing to deliver industry leading technologies and products.
This concludes our prepared remarks. Back to you, Mauricio.
`Mauricio Lopez-Hodoyan, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Akash. Operator, we are now ready for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) One moment please for the first question, which will come
from the line of Joshua -- `Joshua Buchalter, Analyst, TD Cowen with TD Cowen. Please proceed with your questions.
Q - `Joshua Buchalter, Analyst, TD Cowen `
Hey, guys. Thanks for taking my question, and congrats on a, you know, stellar set of results in a
bumpy backdrop. I -- I wanted to start with the data center business. You know, I realize you're
going to provide more details in the first half of 2026, and -- and my questions might get punted
as a result. But maybe you could spend a few minutes talking about, you know, what you see as
Qualcomm's right to win in the data center space and any details you can provide on the specs of
AI200 and AI250 beyond what you are -- you were able to offer in the press release when the
HUMAIN engagement was announced? And then lastly on this topic, you know, last quarter, you
called out a, I believe a hyperscale engagement. I assume that's distinct from the HUMAIN
engagement and any details on timing there? Thank you.
A - `Cristiano R. Amon, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Hey, Josh. Thanks for your question, and -- and thank you. Yeah. So look, we're very excited. I
think this is the next chapter of, I think of the process we have been in Qualcomm to changing the
company, diversifying the company, spending our IP. I think that's one of the reasons I think we
made acquisitions such as Alphawave. We think there are two areas that we outlined that we can
participate into the data center. We were incredibly excited about the size of the opportunity inthe next phase, I think, of data center build out. Where there's going to be real competition, we
go from training to inference.
We have been focused in two areas. One is, we believe we have one of -- one very strategic
asset in the industry, which is a very competitive, power efficient CPU that is both for the head
node of AI clusters as well as general purpose compute. And then we also have been building
what we think is a new architecture dedicated for inference. I think the focus has been increased
computer density and simplify the -- the architecture for the data center in terms of increase, I
think performance per watt. I think it's all going to be about generating the most amount of
tokens with the least amount of power, and that's our right to play.
We're excited about what we're doing. There has been in development. It's something that we're
actually doing in a very disciplined manner. We spend a lot of time, I think, with our early ex --
experimentation with AI 100 to develop the software. And then we're now building AI 200, AI
250, both the SOC, the card direct solutions. And I think we're pleased what we're seeing. We
will provide more details on that as you outlined early next year.
Specific to your questions, I think we -- we were in discussion with a hyperscaler. We're very
pleased with the outcome of that conversation, and that's going to be part of our update when
we provide details on the roadmap, the performance, the KPI, we'll be able to show details of
the solution as well as our customer engagement. We are in conversation with a lot of companies.
It's clear the market wants competition for this. But in a typical Qualcomm way, we're just going to
be focused on executing in -- and -- and show the products performing. Like I said, this is -- it's
exciting, the new chapter of our expansion and alongside robotics, those are kind of new
opportunities for us.
Q - `Joshua Buchalter, Analyst, TD Cowen `
Appreciate all the color there and looking-forward to the updates. For my follow-up, I wanted to
ask about the handset market. So you highlighted your ongoing momentum in the Android space
is -- as driving growth in the fourth quarter -- excuse me, calendar fourth quarter in your prepared
remarks. You know, there's been a lot of noise, I think about -- at your lead Android customer, you
know, potentially looking to use an internal modem more than they have in recent years. Could
you maybe just talk about your visibility into your share at that customer? And any sort of share
that you would expect to -- how that you would expect that over the next year or so? Thank you.
A - `Cristiano R. Amon, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Look, thanks for the question. And actually I want to -- I want to spend a little bit of time on this,
because I -- I -- I sense that there's potential for a lot of noise when noise is exactly not required. I
think, first of all, there is -- there is one thing that is happening with our Snapdragon and our
premium tier Snapdragon Android, which has been very consistent, and this has happened over
the past few years. The premium tier is expanding.
I think if we look at the overall market, we has -- we have this trend that is very healthy, and the
premium tier is expanding and is adding more compute. That's -- that is the reason why our
Android business, even on a market that is relatively flat, which is a handset market, we continue
to grow our content, ASPs, and earnings because we see premium tier expanding. A lot of the
upside we have in the handsets is primarily driven by the Android premium tier.
Second part is our relationship with Samsung. We have said for a number of years, a number of
reasons and this has been true in the past, I think, several years, that what used to be a normal
relationship at a 50% share, the new baseline is about 75% share. And that is always going to beour financial assumption. When we out execute, sometimes we get more than 75%. On Galaxy
S25, we got a 100%. Our assumption for any new Galaxy is always going to be 75%. That's our
assumption for Galaxy S26.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Samik Chatterjee, Analyst, JPMorgan Chase & Co with JP Morgan. Please proceed with
your questions.
Q - `Samik Chatterjee, Analyst, JPMorgan Chase & Co `
Hi, thanks for taking my question. Cristiano, you mentioned the -- on the data center side, starting
with that, you mentioned the price performance for the inferencing performance that you're
trying to deliver. I mean, most of the training clusters that we've sort of seen the other
incumbents sort of talk about the ranges of installation cost is somewhere in the sort of $30
billion, $40 billion per gigawatt that we're hearing of. Can you just right size us in terms of when
you're thinking about their deployment on a gigawatt basis, what kind of cost performance or
price performance are you thinking of relative to these inferencing workloads that you can
support on the AI 200 or AI 250? And I'm also trying to get to sort of what revenue implications
are for HUMAIN when you sort of deploy 200 megawatts with them. And I have a follow-up,
please.
A - `Cristiano R. Amon, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. I'm going to try to give as much color as I can without getting ahead of the update we're
going to provide next year. So --so first, let's just have a broader discussion about revenue. What
we said before -- what we said before that we expect data center products to start leading to a
revenue ramp beginning in fiscal '28. I think as a result of the HUMAIN engagement and -- and our
progress on -- on the AI accelerator, I think we're pulling this forward into fiscal '27. So you should
expect now from what we said before, I think, data center revenue is going to start to become
material in fiscal '27. So I think that's the extent of what I can provide at this moment is about a
one year pulling.
The second thing is we are -- we are getting interest. You should assume the companies they're
having to deploy as much compute as they need in the data center for inference, especially now
that you see the constraints that you -- you have on power, the constraints that you have on the
amount of computer identity. I think we have a lot of folks interested. We will not have any
conversations if we didn't have a solution that is competitive. But we will -- will show the KPIs of
the platform, I think, when we have a roadmap update earlier next year.
Q - `Samik Chatterjee, Analyst, JPMorgan Chase & Co `
Okay. Okay. Got it. And maybe the second one seems -- similar to Josh's question, I think, Akash,
if I'm interpreting the market's reaction to your strong numbers, there seems to be that concern
about what March looks like with the change in share at the primary Android customer. Typically
on the handset side, your quarter-over-quarter decline into March has been sort of this high-
single-digit pace. Is that still a good run rate with sort of the lower level of share or would you sort
of guide us otherwise? Because I think that's really what the market seems to be sort of
concerned about at this point. Thank you.
A - `Akash Palkhiwala, Chief Financial Officer & Chief Operating Officer `Yeah, Sami -- Samik, thanks for the question. We're -- we're not guiding beyond first quarter at
this point. But when you look at our strong business momentum, exiting fiscal '25, you see the
benefit of that showed up in our results, also showing up in the December quarter guidance. And
so that carries forward into the rest of the -- rest of the fiscal year. The only -- only additional thing
I'd note is just a reminder that we expect to close our Alphawave acquisition in the first calendar
quarter of '26. But otherwise, I think the business momentum is strong, and -- and just a couple of
factors that you outlined.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS with UBS. Please proceed with your
questions.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS `
Thanks a lot. Akash, you -- you -- when you talked about September, you said that the beat was
driven mostly by premium Android, but it seemed like it came a little more from your top
customer because before you were saying to take like 30% of units out and that was like $500
million roughly, but it seems like nowhere near that much came out from that customer. So I
mean, it was kind of, you know, barely down year-over-year. So can you just square that? And
then also as part of that, can you speak to how much that customer is as a -- as -- as kind of a
baseline assumption for December, I think, we've seen that the -- that the, you know, model that
has their modem and it's not really selling very well. So I would assume that that's a tailwind for
you also in -- in, you know, calendar Q4? And then I had a second question. Thanks.
A - `Cristiano R. Amon, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Sure, Tim. So as -- as we had said earlier, we expect it to be in three of the four models of the
phone that was launched. And so that is exactly what happened, and share, of course, is based
on what sell -- how sell-through plays out. Specifically on the September quarter question, we
already had kind of demand from the customer that was factored into the guidance we gave. So
the upside we saw was not from Apple. It was really driven by Android customers and primarily
premium tier with the launch of our new Snapdragon chip.
When you look at the sequential trend as well, as -- as I mentioned, the -- we are -- we are
forecasting approximately low teens sequential revenue growth in the handset revenue stream
for QCT, and primarily driven by Android as well. So there is -- there is some benefit from Apple,
but the primary driver for the -- for the growth quarter-over-quarter is actually Android premium
tier shipments.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS `
Okay, thanks. And then is there any update on the negotiation with Huawei for a license? It seems
like it's kind of dragging on a little bit. Can you just talk about that?
A - `Alex Rogers, President, Technology Licensing & Global Affairs `
Yeah. This is Alex. Thanks for the question. No, we actually don't have an update now. Discussions
are still underway, really nothing substantive to -- to say beyond that.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Stacy Rasgon, Analyst, Bernstein Research with Bernstein Research. Please proceed
with your question.Q - `Stacy Rasgon, Analyst, Bernstein Research `
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. So you noted the non-Apple QCT revenue was up 18%
year-over-year. And even if I take out the auto and the IoT, it's -- it's clear that the Android piece
was up like pretty strong double-digits year-over-year. So am I right in assuming that's all content
or primarily content given -- I don't think units grew that much. And is that the right sort of pace of
like further content increase that we ought to be thinking about as we go forward?
A - `Akash Palkhiwala, Chief Financial Officer & Chief Operating Officer `
Yeah. So -- so Stacy, you're doing -- obviously doing the math right. There are two primary drivers
on this. One is just the mix shift of units up. And so this is a trend that we've seen over the last
several years and it's -- sometimes it's thought of as a developed market trend, but that's not
true. It's across all developing regions as well. The devices that are purchased continue to move
up. And so that shows up in the -- the benefit to our revenue stream.
The second trend is within premium tier, content continues to grow as we deliver more and more
capable chips and more capable handsets are being delivered as a result of it. And those are the
two primary drivers of kind of the long-term trend of -- of our handset business.
Q - `Stacy Rasgon, Analyst, Bernstein Research `
Got it. Thanks. And if I could have -- have a -- a quick follow-up. Just the Snapdragon Android
strength in September and December. Is that primarily China? And is there any concerns there? I
mean, is that just the timing of the launches? Like any thoughts on -- on pull forward or anything
like that, anything we ought to be thinking about there?
A - `Akash Palkhiwala, Chief Financial Officer & Chief Operating Officer `
Yeah. No, there is no pull forward there. I think what -- what we've seen is, all of our -- most of our
China customers, actually all the major customers have already launched devices, and the initial
reception to the devices have been very positive. We'll see a lot of our global customer launch
devices as well later this quarter going into early next year. And so it's just a reflection of kind of
normal purchase patterns around the launch of these devices and -- and the great initial
consumer reaction to -- to the launches.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Chris Caso, Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC with Wolfe Research. Please proceed with your
questions.
Q - `Chris Caso, Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC `
Yes, thank you. And a question again on AI data center, and I realize, you know, you're going to
provide some details coming up, but -- but there's some specs out there, so -- so which is why
we ask. But, you know, from we've seen what was in the press release was, you know, perhaps a
different architecture than what we've seen others attack the market with, you know, DDR
memory, PCI Express, and that. Should we interpret that as, you know, sort of a first approach by -
- by Qualcomm with more to come, or is this rather a different sort of philosophy for attacking the
market? You talked about being, you know, more efficient on power consumption. Is this sort of a
different -- attacking the market differently than what's in the market today.
A - `Cristiano R. Amon, President & Chief Executive Officer `I think the -- the answer to the question is yes. You know, for us, I think we were approaching this,
thinking about what the future architecture should look like. We -- we had said before, and I think
that's -- we have thought about this for the edge as well, which means when we think about
dedicated inferencing clusters and the goal of -- is to actually have the highest possible computer
density at the lowest possible cost and energy consumption to generate tokens. We thought
there may be a -- an architecture that is beyond the GPU and what you've traditionally been doing
with GPU and HBM is what we should be doing. That's -- that's we're developing and -- and we
have to execute, and -- and that's the focus on the company right now.
Q - `Chris Caso, Analyst, Wolfe Research LLC `
Got it. With -- just -- just -- just back on handsets and, you know, you talked about a mix shift
towards the premium tier. You know, to what extent has the -- the -- the growth that you've seen
in handsets been -- been driven by, you know, Snapdragon ASPs. And, you know, obviously, you
know, wafer -- wafer prices are going up as you go to finer -- finer geometries. You know, maybe
talk about the impact of higher ASPs on handset growth both now and going forward, and, you
know, how the industry absorbs those higher ASPs?
A - `Akash Palkhiwala, Chief Financial Officer & Chief Operating Officer `
Yeah. So I think there's a long-term trend that we've seen. This is -- this is a conversation that we
have every year, but we continue to see just very strong demand for more capable chips, more
capable processing in -- in these premium tier chips. And so the competition between the OEMs
drives it, the demand for consumers doing more activity on the phone drives it. And we know the
next couple of chips that we're making, and we're already in discussions -- advanced discussions
with our customers. So we feel pretty confident that there is legs to this trend over the next --
next several years.
The -- the second factor that I outlined is important to keep in mind as well is, this-- this very
significant mix shift towards more premium devices, and that's not about content growth within
the tier, but it's more about more capable devices being purchased by consumer, and -- and that
is a multiyear trend as well that we're continuing to see going forward.
Operator
The next question is from the line of `Tal Liani, Analyst, Bank of America with Bank of America. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Tal Liani, Analyst, Bank of America `
Hi guys. Thank you. If I look at this quarter, you grew handsets by 14% and it looks like next
quarter, you're guiding against 600 basis points of above -- above market growth or above
market expectations for QCT. When you look at next quarter, what are the components of this
outperformance? Do you -- can you go over kind of IoT autos and handsets? Where do you think
you can perform better than you initially thought last quarter, et cetera? Can you give us a little bit
of a color on how next quarter is behaving of the QCT breakdown. Thanks.
A - `Akash Palkhiwala, Chief Financial Officer & Chief Operating Officer `
Tal, just to confirm your question is about the December quarter, first fiscal quarter.
Q - `Tal Liani, Analyst, Bank of America `
Yes, first fiscal quarter, sorry. The question is about the guidance for next quarter.A - `Akash Palkhiwala, Chief Financial Officer & Chief Operating Officer `
Yeah.
Q - `Tal Liani, Analyst, Bank of America `
Yeah.
A - `Akash Palkhiwala, Chief Financial Officer & Chief Operating Officer `
Yeah, perfect. So in -- specifically in automotive, we had a record quarter in September, so $1.1
billion -- approximately $1.1 billion and we are guiding flat to slightly up in automotive. We -- we do
think that we are in this very strong position, as add -- additional cars get launched with our
capabilities in them, we will continue to grow revenue through the year. IoT is similarly positioned,
right. We saw significant upside relative to our guidance within the September quarter, and we
are positioned to continue to grow revenue starting first quarter going into the rest of the fiscal
year as well.
Within handsets, the upside that you're seeing in the December quarter is really the success of
our -- launch of our new chip. We've seen all the major OEMs launch devices with it. As I said
earlier, strong consumer reaction and that is reflected in -- in our financial forecast. On a
sequential basis, as I mentioned earlier, we are forecasting a low teens sequential revenue
growth in the handset stream in -- in QCT.
Q - `Tal Liani, Analyst, Bank of America `
And my follow-up is on -- on a -- like historical perspective, when you launch a product into China
and it's into the New Year's -- the Chinese New Year, et cetera, is -- is first fiscal quarter the
strongest quarter? What happens from a seasonal -- seasonality point of view, what happens for
the next few quarters from historical perspective?
A - `Akash Palkhiwala, Chief Financial Officer & Chief Operating Officer `
I mean, as you've seen in the past, we expect our first -- first fiscal quarter and second fiscal
quarter to be the stronger quarters in the year and -- and usually the June quarter, the third fiscal
quarter is the lower quarter. So that's -- seasonality should be consistent with what you've seen
before in the handset business.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `CJ Muse, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald with Cantor Fitzgerald. Please proceed with
your question.
Q - `CJ Muse, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Yeah, good afternoon. Thank you for taking the question. Wanted to kind of focus on QCT EBT
margins. And revenues grew 5% year-on-year, yet margins were down 100 plus bps. And I'm
curious, you know, is that a function of mix, or is that a function of higher manufacturing costs or is
it simply R&D investments, you know, for future revenue growth?
A - `Akash Palkhiwala, Chief Financial Officer & Chief Operating Officer `
Yeah. I think when you look at the year-over-year trend, I -- I think, you should think of we are
investing in the data center area, which over the last several years, we've been kind of justfocusing OpEx on moving from mature businesses into growth areas. Data center is incremental
to the investment profile that we have.
Q - `CJ Muse, Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald `
Okay, very helpful. And then I guess, just -- just to hone in on your -- your non-Android handset
business, is there an update in term -- in terms of how we should model that for calendar '26?
A - `Akash Palkhiwala, Chief Financial Officer & Chief Operating Officer `
No change to what we've said on share within Apple versus what we've said in the past.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Ben Reitzes, Analyst, Melius Research LLC with Melius Research. Please proceed with
your question.
Q - `Ben Reitzes, Analyst, Melius Research LLC `
Hey guys, thanks a lot. Just wanted to touch back on the data center again and you said you're
going to be updating this in the next calendar year. You k now, previously, you had an Analyst Day
where you put out these long-term targets for FY '29. I -- I -- I would assume that, you know, on
the smallest opportunity was in XR at $2 billion. I would assume if we're going to have an event
and go through something like this -- this has the opportunity to be, you know, something pretty
material, bigger than, you know, the smallest opportunity you outlined at the last Analyst Day, that
was $2 billion for XR by '29 and more -- more like a, you know, another multi-billion opportunity.
Can you just -- can you guys clarify that?
A - `Akash Palkhiwala, Chief Financial Officer & Chief Operating Officer `
Yeah, Ben, that's a -- that's a great observation. I think we're -- we're seeing this market take off
very fast, especially AI smart glasses. And so we definitely feel like we're significantly ahead of
the guidance that we provided and very significant upside opportunity. I mean, if you kind of step
back and think about the broader opportunity around personal AI, and -- and you could think of it
as the glasses form factor or the watch form factor or hearables form factor, this could be a very,
very large market. And so if that plays out as -- as we suspect it might, it would create significant
upside opportunity.
Q - `Ben Reitzes, Analyst, Melius Research LLC `
Yes, sorry, just to clarify, though, my question, I appreciate that is that if you're going to outline
the data center opportunity and have a special event, should we assume that it's -- that it's a
multi-billion opportunity, something that you would call out that's at least as big, if not bigger than
anything, you know, you laid out at your last Analyst Day, which is, you know, the smaller
opportunities are $2 billion to $4 billion.
A - `Cristiano R. Amon, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Ben, no, thanks for the question. I understand it now. Yes, it's upside on that number and
success in this area, I think presents to us a potential multi-billion dollar revenue opportunity in --
in a couple of years, and -- and that's how we're thinking about it right now.
OperatorThank you. That concludes today's question-and-answer session. Mr. Amon, do you have anything
further to add before turning the call?
A - `Cristiano R. Amon, President & Chief Executive Officer `
I just want to thank all of our partners, our employees. And we -- we are continuing to change
Qualcomm into a very diversified company. We're probably one of the few companies among all
the semiconductor companies that can go from 5 watts to 500 watts with a very flexible and very
broad technology capabilities. I think one thing that we take pride of in every industry that we
enter, we have a platform that is a leading technology platform, and we're excited about the
future of the company, and we're just going to keep executing on this strategy. Thank you very
much for supporting our call.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.