Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview—Russia and Ukraine War” for a discussion of the impact on Cisco’s business of the on-going Russia and Ukraine war. There can be no assurance that our operating results and financial condition will not be adversely affected by our incurrence of debt. As of the end of fiscal 2022, we have senior unsecured notes outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of $9.0 billion that mature at specific dates from calendar year 2023 through 2040. We have also established a commercial paper program under which we may issue short-term, unsecured commercial paper notes on a private placement basis up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $10.0 billion, and we had $0.6 billion in commercial paper notes outstanding under this program as of July 30, 2022 . There can be no assurance that our incurrence of this debt or any future debt will be a better means of providing liquidity to us than would our use of our existing cash resources. Further, we cannot be assured that our maintenance of this indebtedness or incurrence of future indebtedness will not adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. In addition, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating can negatively impact the value and liquidity of both 25 Table of Contents our debt and equity securities, as well as the terms upon which we may borrow under our commercial paper program or future debt issuances. Our reputation and/or business could be negatively impacted by ESG matters and/or our reporting of such matters. There is an increasing focus from regulators, certain investors, and other stakeholders concerning environmental, social, and governance (“ESG”) matters, both in the United States and internationally. We communicate certain ESG-related initiatives, goals, and/or commitments regarding environmental matters, diversity, responsible sourcing and social investments, and other matters, in our annual Purpose Report, on our website, in our filings with the SEC, and elsewhere. These initiatives, goals, or commitments could be difficult to achieve and costly to implement. For example, in September 2021, we announced our commitment to achieve net zero across all scopes of greenhouse gas emissions by 2040, the achievement of which relies, in large part, on the accuracy of our estimates and assumptions around the enhanced power efficiency of our products, the adoption of renewable energy at customer sites, and the adoption of certain of our products and services by our customers. We could fail to achieve, or be perceived to fail to achieve, our 2040 net zero commitment or other ESG-related initiatives, goals, or commitments. In addition, we could be criticized for the timing, scope or nature of these initiatives, goals, or commitments, or for any revisions to them. To the extent that our required and voluntary disclosures about ESG matters increase, we could be criticized for the accuracy, adequacy, or completeness of such disclosures. Our actual or perceived failure to achieve our ESG-related initiatives, goals, or commitments could negatively impact our reputation or otherwise materially harm our business. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Our proprietary rights may prove difficult to enforce. We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products. Although we have been issued numerous patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of these patents or other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented or that our rights will, in fact, provide competitive advantages to us. Furthermore, many key aspects of networking technology are governed by industrywide standards, which are usable by all market entrants. In addition, there can be no assurance that patents will be issued from pending applications or that claims allowed on any patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the laws of the United States. Although we are not dependent on any individual patents or group of patents for particular segments of the business for which we compete, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights to the totality of the features (including aspects of products protected other than by patent rights) in a market, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time, and effort required to create innovative products that have enabled us to be successful. We may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of others. Third parties, including customers, have in the past and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. These assertions have increased over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. Because of the existence of a large number of patents in the networking field, the secrecy of some pending patents, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is not economically practical or even possible to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes or will infringe on the patent rights of others. The asserted claims and/or initiated litigation can include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, or customers, alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to our existing or future products or components of those products. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, or require us to develop a non-infringing technology or enter into license agreements. Where claims are made by customers, resistance even to unmeritorious claims could damage customer relationships. There can be no assurance that licenses will be available on acceptable terms and conditions, if at all, or that our indemnification by our suppliers will be adequate to cover our costs if a claim were brought directly against us or our customers. Furthermore, because of the potential for high court awards that are not necessarily predictable, it is not unusual to find even arguably unmeritorious claims settled for significant amounts. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, if we are required to indemnify a customer with respect to a claim against the customer, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. For additional information regarding our indemnification obligations, see Note 14(e) to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report. Our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased as a result of acquisitions, as we have a lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to such technology or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks. Further, in the 26 Table of Contents past, third parties have made infringement and similar claims after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition. We rely on the availability of third-party licenses. Many of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products. There can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. The inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis could limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our products. Risks Related to Cybersecurity, Privacy, and Regulatory Requirements Cyber attacks, data breaches or malware may disrupt our operations, harm our operating results and financial condition, and damage our reputation or otherwise materially harm our business; and cyber attacks or data breaches on our customers’ or third-party providers’ networks, or in cloud-based services provided to, by, or enabled by us, could result in claims of liability against us, give rise to legal and/or regulatory action, damage our reputation or otherwise materially harm our business. We experience cyber attacks and other attempts to gain unauthorized access to our products, services, and IT environment on a regular basis, and we anticipate continuing to be subject to such attempts as cyber attacks become increasingly sophisticated and more difficult to predict and protect against. Despite our implementation of security measures, (i) our products and services, and (ii) the servers, data centers, and cloud-based solutions on which our and third-party data is stored or processed (including servers, data centers and cloud-based solutions operated by third parties on which we rely) (collectively, our “IT environment”), are vulnerable to cyber attacks, data breaches, malware, inadvertent error, disruptions from unauthorized access, tampering or other theft or misuse, including by employees, contingent workers, malicious actors, or nation-states or their agents (which cyber attack or related activity may intensify during periods of diplomatic or armed conflict, such as the Russia and Ukraine war). Such events have caused, and in the future could result in, compromise to, or the disruption of access to, the operation of our products, services, and IT environment or those of our customers or third-party providers we rely on, or result in confidential information stored on our systems, our customers’ systems, or other third-party systems being improperly accessed, processed, disclosed not or in the future, or be lost or stolen. For example, in December 2021, multiple vulnerabilities were reported for the widely used Java logging library, Apache Log4j. We reviewed the use of this library within our products and services, its use in our enterprise IT environment, and its use by our third-party providers, and have taken steps to mitigate these vulnerabilities, including by providing security updates for affected products to our customers. We have not to date experienced a material event related to a cybersecurity matter; however, the occurrence of any such event in the future could subject us to liability to our customers, data subjects, suppliers, business partners, employees, and others, give rise to legal and/or regulatory action, could damage our reputation or could otherwise materially harm our business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Efforts to limit the ability of malicious actors to disrupt the operations of the Internet or undermine our own security efforts are costly to implement and may not be successful. Breaches of security in our customers’ or third-party providers’ networks, in third-party products we use, or in cloud-based services provided to, by, or enabled by us, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to a vulnerability in our products or services, or a failure to maintain the digital security infrastructure or security tools that protect the integrity of our products, services, and IT environment, could, in each case, result in claims of liability against us, damage our reputation or otherwise materially harm our business. Vulnerabilities and critical security defects, prioritization decisions regarding remedying vulnerabilities or security defects, failure of third-party providers to remedy vulnerabilities or security defects, or customers not deploying security updates in a timely manner or deciding not to upgrade products, services or solutions could result in claims of liability against us, damage our reputation, or otherwise materially harm our business. The products and services we sell to customers, and our cloud-based solutions, inevitably contain vulnerabilities or security defects which have not been remedied and cannot be disclosed without compromising security. We also make prioritization decisions in determining which vulnerabilities or security defects to fix and the timing of these fixes. Customers may also need to test security updates before they can be deployed which can delay implementation. When customers do not deploy security updates in a timely manner, or decide not to upgrade to the latest versions of our products, services or cloud-based solutions containing the security update, they may be left vulnerable. In addition, we rely on third-party providers of software and cloud-based services on which our and third-party data is stored or processed, and we cannot control the timing at which third-party providers remedy vulnerabilities, which could leave us vulnerable. Vulnerabilities and security defects, prioritization errors in remedying vulnerabilities or security defects, failure of third-party providers to remedy vulnerabilities or security defects, or 27 Table of Contents customers not deploying security updates in a timely manner or deciding not to upgrade products, services or solutions could result in claims of liability against us, damage our reputation or otherwise materially harm our business. Our actual or perceived failure to adequately protect personal data could result in claims of liability against us, damage our reputation or otherwise materially harm of business. Global privacy and data protection-related laws and regulations are evolving, extensive, and complex. Compliance with these laws and regulations is difficult and costly. In addition, evolving legal requirements restricting or controlling the collection, processing, or cross-border transmission of data, including for regulation of cloud-based services, could materially affect our customers’ ability to use, and our ability to sell, our products and services. The interpretation and application of these laws in some instances is uncertain, and our legal and regulatory obligations are subject to frequent changes. For example, the European Union’s (“EU”) General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) applies to our activities conducted from an establishment in the EU or related to products and services offered in the EU and imposes a range of compliance obligations regarding the handling of personal data. Additionally, we are subject to California’s Consumer Privacy Act and other laws, regulations and obligations that relate to the handling of personal data. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or other obligations relating to personal data, or to protect personal data from unauthorized access, use, or other processing, could subject us to liability to our customers, data subjects, suppliers, business partners, employees, and others, give rise to legal and/or regulatory action, could damage our reputation or could otherwise materially harm our business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed by evolving regulatory uncertainty or obligations applicable to our products and services. Changes in regulatory requirements applicable to the industries in which we operate, in the United States and in other countries, could materially affect the sales of our products and services. In particular, economic sanctions and changes to export control requirements, have impacted and may continue to impact our ability to sell and support our products and services in certain jurisdictions. In addition, changes in telecommunications regulations could impact our service provider customers’ purchase of our products and services, and they could also impact sales of our own regulated offerings. Additional areas of uncertainty that could impact sales of our products and services include laws and regulations related to encryption technology, environmental sustainability (including climate change), human rights, product certification, and national security controls applicable to our supply chain. For example, new laws and regulations in response to climate change could result in increased energy efficiency requirements for our products and increased compliance and energy costs. Changes in regulatory requirements in any of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Stock Our stock price may be volatile. Historically, our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as a result of variations between our actual financial results and the published expectations of analysts and as a result of announcements by our competitors and us. Furthermore, speculation in the press or investment community about our strategic position, financial condition, results of operations, business, security of our products, or significant transactions can cause changes in our stock price. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies, in particular, and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions and the announcement of proposed and completed acquisitions or other significant transactions, or any difficulties associated with such transactions, by us or our current or potential competitors, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. Additionally, volatility, lack of positive performance in our stock price or changes to our overall compensation program, including our stock incentive program, may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, virtually all of whom are compensated, in part, based on the performance of our stock price. 28 Table of Contents