Q4 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Good afternoon, everyone and welcome to Tesla's Fourth Quarter 2022 Q&A Webcast. My name
is `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations, VP of Investor Relations, and I am joined today by `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer, `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer,
and a number of other executives. Our Q4 results were announced at about 3:00 P.M. Central
Time in the update deck we published at the same link as this webcast.
During this call, we will discuss our business outlook and make forward-looking statements. These
comments are based on our predictions and expectations as of today. Actual events or results
could differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those mentioned in
our most recent filings with the SEC. During the question-and-answer portion of today's call,
please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up. Please use the "Raise Hand" button to
join the question queue.
But before we jump into Q&A, Elon has some opening remarks. Elon?
`Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Martin. So just going through 2022 recap. It was a fantastic year for Tesla. It was our
best year ever on every level. The team did an amazing job. It's an honor of course to work with
such an incredibly talented group of people. So in 2022, we delivered over 1.3 million cars, and
achieved a 17% operating margin, the highest among any volume carmaker. I think, maybe among
any carmaker. While doing so, we generated $12.5 billion in net income, and $7.5 billion in free-
cash flow.
Importantly, the Tesla team achieved these records while -- despite the fact that 2022 was an
incredibly challenging year due to forced shutdowns, very high interest rates, and many delivery
challenges. So it's worth noting that, yeah, all these records were in the face of massive
difficulties. Credit to the team for achieving that.
The most common question we've been getting from our investors is about demand. Thus far --
so, as I want to put that concern to rest. Thus far in January, we've seen the strongest orders
year-to-date than ever in our history. We currently are seeing orders at almost twice the rate ofproduction, so I mean that -- that's hard to say whether that will continue at twice the rate of
production the orders that are high, and we've actually raised the Model Y price a little bit in
response to that. So, we think demand will be good despite probably a contraction in the
automotive market as a whole.
So, right basically price really matters. I think there's -- just sort of a vast number of people that
wanted to buy a Tesla car, but can't afford it. And so, these price changes really make a
difference for the average consumer. It's sometimes for those -- for people who are well off,
have a lot of money, they sort of forget about how important affordability is. And it's always been
our goal at Tesla make cars that are affordable to as many people as possible, so I'm glad that
we're able to do so. And yeah so, I think it's a good thing, all things considered. We're also
making very good progress on cost control, and we're seeing the costs of production in Berlin
and Austin drop commensurate will see growth in production, so -- as you would expect.
So yeah, with respect to Autopilot, as of now, we deployed Full Self-Driving Beta for city streets
to roughly 400,000 customers in North America. This is a huge milestone for autonomy as FSD
beta is the only way any consumer can actually test the latest AI-powered autonomy. And we're
currently at about 100 million miles of FSD outside of highways. And our published data shows
that improvement in safety systems -- stuttering here again, safety statistics. It's very clear. So, we
would not have released the FSD beta, if the safety statistics were at not excellent.
With -- regarding batteries, our production rate of 4680 cells reached 1,000 cars a week at the
end of last year and we are increasing capacity for 4680 cells by another 100-gigawatt hours as
announced at Giga Nevada, yesterday. Our long-term goal is to get to well in excess of 1,000-
gigawatt hours of cells produced internally, and continue to use other cell providers, so to be
clear. We will continue to use the other cell providers, just the demand for lithium-ion batteries is
quasi-infinite or -- and will be for quite some time. So we feel we can scale a lot faster using both
suppliers and internally-produced cells. And we've got an amazing plan for making the 4680 cell
low-cost and high-energy density.
So, energy storage also saw record growth and with that is continuing to accelerate. And it was
worth remembering that the three pillars of a sustainable energy future are obviously electric
vehicles, solar and wind, and then the third key item is stationary storage to store the energy
from solar and wind, because obviously the sun doesn't shine all the time and the wind doesn't
blow all at the time. So you have those three things, you can convert all of Earth to a fully-
sustainable situation. Many times over actually.
So, I would like to just make it clear that there is a path towards a fully-sustainable future for
humanity and we -- our goal at Tesla is to accelerate, progress on that path as much as humanly
possible. So yeah, we're obviously ramping-up Megapack production, and we expect it to grow at
a rate quite a bit faster than our vehicle [ph] output.
So in conclusion, we are taking a view that we want to keep making and selling as many cars as
we can. We believe we can keep pushing for strong volume growth, while retaining the industry's
best operating margins. As we mentioned many times before, we want to be the best
manufacturer, but -- really manufacturing technology will be our most important long-term
strength. So -- and we'll talk more about our upcoming plans at the March 1st Investor Day.
And lastly. I want to once again thank all our employees for delivering another record-breaking
year. Congratulations, guys.
`Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `Thanks, Elon. And I think, Zach has some opening remarks as well.
`Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Martin. So as Elon mentioned, 2022 was a terrific year for Tesla. I also want to
congratulate the Tesla team and also say thank you to our suppliers for your support during quite
a volatile year. On a full-year basis, revenue increased over 50%; operating income doubled;
free-cash flows increased over 50%; and our margins remained industry-leading. Additionally, we
continue to make progress on overhead efficiencies as non-GAAP OpEx as a percentage of
revenue improved further.
For Q4 specifically, sequential and annual margin was impacted by ASP reductions as we're
managing through COVID impacts in China, uncertainty around the consumer tax credit in the US,
and a rising interest-rate environment. Note that in 2022, rising interest rates alone had
effectively increased the price of our cars in the US by nearly 10%. Additionally, COGS per unit has
increased on a year-over-year basis, driven primarily by three factors: first is, raw materials and
inflation, led by lithium prices and discussed at length in previous calls; second, we are working
through the early ramp of inefficiencies of our Austin and Berlin and in-house cell production
factories; third, our vehicle mix over the last year has moved more heavily towards Model Y, which
carries a slight cost premium to Model 3.
Partially offsetting these impacts, we've continued to execute on Tesla controllable cost
reductions in line with the progress we've made in prior years. These improvements include our
continued work to gradually move towards originally [ph] balanced build of vehicles. The Energy
business had its strongest year yet across all metrics, led by steady improvement in both retail
and commercial storage. While much work remains to grow this business and improve costs, we
believe we are on a good trajectory. As we look towards 2023, we're moving forward
aggressively leveraging our strength and cost. There are three key points I wanted to make here.
First, on demand, as Elon mentioned, customer interest in our products remains high.
Second, on cost-reduction, we're holding steady on our plans to rapidly increase volume, while
improving overhead efficiency, which is the most effective method to retain strength in our
operating margins. In particular, we're accelerating improvements in our new factories in Austin
and Berlin and in-house cells where inefficiencies are the highest. But we are attacking every
other area of cost, and unwinding cost increases created from multiple years of COVID-related
instability. This includes logistics, expedites, accumulation of material buffers, part premiums,
productivity and overheads, as an example. As the world transitions from an inflationary to a
deflationary environment, we expect a strong partnership with our suppliers on this journey as
well. In that, we've priced our products with a view towards a longer-term cost structure. Thus
there will be an impact on operating margin in the near-term. However, we believe our margins
will remain healthy and industry-leading, over the course of the year.
Third, we are continuing to ensure funding is prioritized for our long-term roadmap. This includes,
expanding in-house cell production, bringing Cybertruck to market, development of our next-
generation vehicle platform, expansion of our manufacturing footprint, and growth of the energy
business. We are looking-forward to discussing these plans in more detail on our Investor Day in a
month. Thank you.
`Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, Zach. Let's now go to investor questions.
Questions And AnswersA - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
The first question is some analysts are claiming that Tesla orders, net of cancellations came in at
a rate less than half of production in the fourth quarter. This has raised demand concerns. Can
you elaborate on order trends so far this year? And how they compare to current production
rates? I think, we.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
We already answered that question.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Yes, exactly.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
The demand far exceeds production, and we actually are making some small price increases as a
result.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you. The second question is in similar vein, what has the initial reaction been to global price
reductions in early 1Q, 2023, specifically in terms of order intake levels?
We've answered that one as well.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
And so, let's go to the next one. And the next investor question is will Tesla to be able to take full
advantage of advanced manufacturing production credits for battery cells/packs? So $3,700 per
long-range Model 3 and Model Y, at $45 a kilowatt-hour for autos and energy products? And how
much does Tesla, expect to earn in the coming year from these credits?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
I'll say a little bit about it, then I think, Zach will add some. Long-term, we expect these -- the value
of these credits to be very significant. You can do the math, if you were to get anywhere near
1,000-gigawatt hours of your production or even a few 100-gigawatt hours. It's just very
significant.
So -- but the credits do rely upon domestic manufacturing, and in case of Panasonic versus
domestic manufacturing, we're splitting the value of the credits. So it will -- the value of credits
this year will not be gigantic, but I think, it could be gigantic and if you do it. We think it probably
will be very significant in the future.
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Just to add and put some boundaries on what we're expecting in terms of impact to Tesla
for this year. So different products, we think we'll get different amounts of credit. The regulations
here are still influx, and there continues to be updates. So this is just our best understanding atthe moment. But, we think on the order of $150 million to $250 million per quarter this year, and
growing over the course of the year as our volumes grow.
And part of the work we're doing here, which is part of what this incentive package is trying to
incentivize is, as Elon mentioned to move more manufacturing onshore in the United States,
which is Tesla's plans anyways. And so, I think, we're pretty well-positioned over the coming years
to take advantage of this. But then also part of what the goal of this incentive package is, is to
improve adoption from our customers. And so we also want to use these incentives to improve
affordability as we think about what the price points are in our products going forward.
And so, as we're thinking about our pricing changes in the US, a couple of weeks ago that we
announced, we were looking at what the credit benefit to Tesla would be, to make sure that
customers are able to receive the benefit not only from this that were received to some extent,
but also on the consumer-facing side, which is currently 7,500 per car of tax credit, assuming that
subject to the MSRP caps and the Income caps. So, we want to use this to accelerate sustainable
energy, which is our mission and also the goal of this bill.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. The next question from investors is after recent price cuts, analysts
released expectations that Tesla automotive gross margin excluding leasing and credits will drop
below 20%, and average selling price around $47,000 across all models. Where do you see
average selling price and gross margins after the price cuts?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Go ahead, Zach.
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I'll jump in on this. So you know, there is certainly a lot of uncertainty about how the year will
unfold, but I'll share what's in our current forecast at the moment. So, based upon these metrics
here, we believe that we'll be above both of the metrics that are stated in the question. So 20%
automotive gross margin, excluding leases and reg credits and then $47k [ph] ASP across all
models.
And so -- two other comments I want to make on this. Just tactically, on sequential ASP changes
from Q4 to Q1. And just as a reminder, the ASP reduction is not as large as the reduction in
configurator prices. As in Q4, we had backlog customers that we're delivering cars to at a lower
price book, given that backlogs had been so long for so much of 2022. But then also, there are
various programs in place that we used in Q4 that lowered ASPs.
The second comment I wanted to make here is that, as a management team here, we're most
focused on what our operating margin is. And so, as other areas of the business become more
important, particularly the energy business which is growing faster than the vehicle business. And
as we're heavily focused on operating leverage here, improving efficiency of our overheads, we
think the right metric for us to be focused on is operating margin. And so, I wanted to make sure
that I shared that with the investor community as well, because that is what we're primarily
managing to now.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Something that -- I think some of these smart retail investors understand, but I think a lot ofsoftware to have full self-driving enabled. And full self-driving is obviously getting better very
rapidly.
So, that's actually a tremendous upside potential, because all of those cars with a few exceptions
remain -- only a small percentage of cars don't have Hardware 3, so that means that there are
millions of cars were full self-driving can be sold at essentially, like at 100% gross margin. And the
value of it -- of FSD grows as it because -- as the autonomous capability grows. And then, when it
becomes fully-autonomous, that is a value increase in the fleet. That might be the biggest asset
value increase of anything in history. Yeah.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's go to our next investor question. Since Elon started political influencing polls from
Morning Consult & YouGov show Tesla brand.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
YouGov, crush that with your left.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Sure. Tesla brand favorability declining in 2022 and division among partisan lines. Such brand
damage can impact demand. Does Tesla track favorability and how will any brand damage be
mitigated?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, let me check my Twitter account. Okay, so I've got 127 million followers. It continues to grow
very rapidly. That suggests that I'm reasonably popular. And I might not be popular by -- the way
with some people, but for the vast majority of people, my follow account speaks for itself. And
the most interactive accounts, social media account, I think maybe in the world. But I'm certainly
on Twitter. And that's actually pre-dated the Twitter acquisition. So, I think, Twitter is actually an
incredibly powerful tool for driving demand for Tesla.
And I would really encourage companies out there of all kinds, automotive or otherwise, to make
more use of Twitter. And to use their Twitter accounts in ways that are interesting and
informative, entertaining, and it will help them drive sales, just as it has with Tesla. So, the net
value of Twitter, apart from a few people are complaining, is gigantic obviously.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you. And let's go to the next question. Please provide a detailed explanation of where you
are on the 4680 ramp. What are the current road blocks? And when do you expect to scale to
10,000 vehicles a year -- a week?
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President, Powertrain and Energy `
Yeah. Thanks, Martin. First of all, I just want to say congrats, and thanks to the Tesla 4680 team
for achieving 1k a week in Q4. It was no small feat. Definitely a result of more than a couple of
years of hard work. As far as where we stand, in Texas, one of four lines are in production with
the remaining three in stages of commissioning and install.
Really our 2023 goal as 4680 team is to deliver a cost-effective ramp of 4680s well-ahead of
Cybertruck. Our focus areas are dialing-in and improving the quality of the high-volume supplymechanical parts, and driving battery process yields up as much as possible, between the two of
those things, we had achieved those key goals, we'll be well set up to have for a major 4680
year in 2024.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you. Our next investor question is, Elon has said previously that FSD Hardware 4 will most
likely come first in Cybertruck. Is that still the current plan? Do you expect there to be an upgrade
path for Hardware 3 cars to Hardware 4?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Cybertruck will have Hardware 4. And to be clear, for 2023 Cybertruck will not be a
significant contributor. It's the bottom line. But, I bet, it will be into next year. So it's an incredible
product, and I can't wait to drive it personally. It will be the car that I drive everyday. Actually just,
I'm wearing the T-shirt with this matched glass.
And it's just -- it's just one of those products that only comes along once in a while, and it's really
special. So, yeah, with respect to upgrading cars that have Hardware 3. I don't think that will be
needed. Hardware 3 will not be as good as Hardware 4, but I'm confident that Hardware 3 will so
far exceed the average -- the safety of the average human. So what we're aiming for is like how
do we get ultimately to, let's say, for argument's sake if Hardware 3 can be, say, 200% or 300%
safer than human, Hardware 4 might be 500% or 600%. It will be Hardware 5 beyond that. But
what really matters is are we improving the average safety on the road. But it is the cost and
difficulty of retrofitting Hardware 3 with Hardware 4 is quite significant. So it would not be, I think,
economically feasible to do so.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you. The next question is for Zach. Zach, when do you think Tesla Insurance will become a
big enough a revenue source to warrant providing more details in the financials of the business,
so investors can compare it to other insurance companies?
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I think, it's probably going to take some time before this business. It's large enough for
specific financial disclosures. But, I am happy to provide an update on where we stand in the
business.
So we're currently at a $300 million annual premium run rate, as of the end of last year. We're
growing 20% a quarter, so it's growing faster than the growth in our vehicle business. And in the
States in which we're operating, on average 17% of the customers in that States are using a Tesla
Insurance product. So, and that number continues to tick-up as we spend more time in markets.
And we see most of the adoption occurring when folks take delivery of the new car, as they're
setting up insurance for the first time, as opposed to going back and switching when they already
have insurance set up. So, it's an inherent stickiness in the insurance business, but.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Sorry, no, go ahead.
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `No, I was just going to say, just as a broader remainder on kind of the motivation for starting this
business, it was to improve and still is to improve the total cost of ownership of our cars, given
that we're seeing high premiums of insurance from third-party companies. And that remains our
priority here.
We'll obviously run this as a healthy business, but we want to make sure we keep our costs low
and insurance stays affordable to our customers.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. And so there are two important side benefits for Tesla Insurance that are worth-
mentioning. One of which, Zach alluded to, which is that just by Tesla offering insurance for our
cars at a competitive rate, that makes the other car insurance companies offer better rates for
Tesla's, so it has a bigger effect than you think because it improves total cost of ownership or
insurance costs, even when they don't use Tesla insurance. Because, now the guy goes up to the
world have to compete with Tesla, and cannot charge outrageous insurance for Teslas. This is
great. So it has an amplified effect, very important.
Then it is also giving us this good feedback loop into minimizing the cost of repair of Teslas -- all
Teslas worldwide. Because we obviously want to minimize the cost of repairing at Tesla, if it is in a
collision. And for Tesla Insurance -- and previously, we didn't actually have a good insight into that,
because the other insurance companies would cover the cost. And actually, the cost in some
cases were unreasonably high. So, we've actually adjusted the design of the car and made
changes in the software of the car to minimize the cost of repair. Obviously, minimize the first --
the best repair is no repair, avoid the accident entirely, which since every Tesla comes with the
most-advanced active safety in the world.
Whether or not you buy full self-driving, you still get the intelligence of full self-driving for active
safety -- active collision prevention. So, it's giving us a really good feedback, we look forward
again reducing cost -- total cost of ownership and also just figuring out how to get if somebody's
car is in an accident. Most accidents are actually small, they are like broken fender, or scratched
side of the car, or something like that. They are the vast majority of accidents. But we're actually
solving how to get somebody's car repaired very quickly and efficiently, and back in their hands.
And like I said, those improvements actually apply then to old cars. And then, we're making just to
emphasize another key point, because some of these points be like, so I apologize [ph] for being
repetitive, but it's remarkable how small changes in design of the bumper, and improving --
obviously, improving the logistics of spare part by providing spare parts needed for collision
repair have an enormous effect on the repair cost. So if you're waiting for a part to get repaired,
and that part takes a month, now you've got a month of having to rent another car. It's extremely
expensive. And, of course, you're missing the car that you love, and the one you actually want to
drive. So, this has actually a very significant effect on total cost of ownership and customer
happiness.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you. The next question from investors is, is Cybertruck production still on track for mid-
year?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
We do expect production to start, I don't know, maybe some time this summer, but I always like
to credit [ph] downplay the start of production, because the start of production is always veryslow. But, it increases exponentially, but it's always very slow at first. So, I wouldn't put too much
stock in start of production, is kind of when does volume production actually happen, and that's
next year.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President, Powertrain and Energy `
Yeah. That's great, Elon, like -- just to emphasize on that, we've started installation of all the
production equipment here in Giga Texas, castings, GA general assembly, body shops. We built
all out beta vehicles, some more coming still in the next month. But as you said, the ramp will
really come 2024.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, exactly.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you. And the last investor question is with near infinite global demand for energy storage.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, seriously.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Where will Tesla build the next Megapack factories? How many are needed on each continent?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
It's a good question. It's not something we -- I think, would, I think we'll provide an update about
that in the future, but it's something we're thinking about very carefully. I really, kind of like what is
the fastest path to 1,000-gigawatt hours a year of production. And, you'll see announcements
come out later this year and the next. That answer that question.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you. Okay and now let's go to analyst questions. The first analyst question comes from
`Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research, LLC from Wolfe Research. And Rod, feel free to unmute your mic.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research, LLC `
I think, I'm unmuted. Can you hear me?
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Yes, we can.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research, LLC `
Okay, thank you. Just firstly, it sounds like your 1.8 million unit volume indication for this year is
somewhat more supply-constrained than demand-constrained? Then I have a follow-up on cost,
is that an accurate statement?A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
No. Well, okay. I mean, our internal production potential is actually closer to 2 million vehicles, but
we -- you were saying 1.8 million, because -- I don't know, it just always seems to be some
freaking force majeure thing that happened somewhere on Earth.
And we don't control if there is like earthquakes, tsunamis, wars, pandemics, et cetera. So if it's a
smooth year, actually without some big supply-chain interruption or massive problem, we actually
have a potential to do 2 million cars this year. We're not committing to that, but I'm just saying
that's the potential. So -- and I think, there would be demand for that too.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research, LLC `
Yeah. Thanks for clarifying that. And on the cost side, the numbers that we just saw from you, as
you pointed out, were weighed down by the 4680 ramp, the Berlin, Austin, Giga castings,
processes, not at rate. Can you give us a bit of an indication of the headwind that you're
absorbing from those things like you did last quarter?
And then lastly, on cost, do you think that we can tease out an interesting data point from on
where battery costs are headed from this announcement that you just made last night? If I'm
correct, it looks like the investment cost per kilowatt-hour is less than half of what I've seen
anywhere else, maybe $30 a kilowatt-hour for that capacity?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
I don't think we want to say the specific number, but it's interesting, if you look at the size of the --
of Giga Nevada that is allocated to make 100 gigawatt-hours, is a small fraction of the size that
currently makes about 35.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President, Powertrain and Energy `
Yeah. I mean, the goals we've outlaid at Battery Day on using the investment required to deploy
cell manufacturing, I mean, that's been a key focus of ours and the team is doing a good job
hitting the marks on that focus.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. And it goes back to the point I was making -- I said that several years ago, I think, Tesla's
really -- the competitive strength that will be by far the hardest for other companies to replicate,
is Tesla being just damn good at manufacturing, having the most advanced manufacturing
technology in the world. And if you got that sort of advanced manufacturing toolbox, you can
apply it to many things. And we're applying it now to battery cells.
I should also say that, there -- we have other products in development. We're not going to
announce them obviously, but they're very exciting. And I think we'll work for those clients when
they -- when we reveal them. Tesla has the most exciting product of any company on Earth by a
long shot. And we'll continue to, I think, be in that position. We've got more great ideas. I mean,
we know what to do with. So the future is very exciting.
As I said in the last call, there is going to be bumps along the way, and could probably have a
pretty difficult recession this year, probably -- I hope not, but probably. And so, one can't predict
the short-term sort of stock value, because when there is a recession and people panic aand the
stock market then prices of the stocks -- worth value of stocks can drop sometimes to surprisinglyQ - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research, LLC `
Thank you. And I think, Zach, there was a question on cost headwind in Q4?
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I mean, our weighted average COGS for the company, if you were to assume Austin and
Berlin were at the cost structure of our other factories, it was on the order of 2,000 to 2,500 of
headwinds. So I think from there, you can back into margin impact of those factories as of end of
Q4.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you very much. And let's go to the next question from `Pierre Ferragu, Analyst, New Street Research from New Street
Research. Pierre, please go ahead.
Q - `Pierre Ferragu, Analyst, New Street Research `
Thanks, Martin. Can you hear me well?
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Yes.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
Q - `Pierre Ferragu, Analyst, New Street Research `
Excellent. Zach, actually, I'd like to follow-up on the data point you just gave on cost. If I look back
at the COGS per car, you guys bottom close to $36,000 in the middle of 2021. And then, the
number went up as you had to face with inflation in input costs and the ramp of Berlin and Texas.
And this quarter, I think we are close to $40,000 and we peaked maybe close to $42,000 at
some point last year. And so my question from here is, how much time do you think it takes you
to get back to this kind of $36k [ph], which would mean Berlin and Texas and the input costs all
that stuff is normalizing. Is that like -- and that would be like a kind of like a 10% decline in the
COGS per car? Is that something we can hope to see this year? Or is that too optimistic?
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
The Austin and Berlin ramp in efficiencies and 4680 will make a substantial amount of progress
on that over the course of the year, and that is within Tesla's control. We were doing a lot of work
on cost reduction outside of that, and we talked about supply chain costs, expedites logistics,
attacking everything.
On the raw materials and inflation side, where lithium is the large driver there, and this was a
meaningful source of cost increase for us. We'll have to see where lithium prices go. And, we're
not fully-exposed to lithium prices, but I think in general, this is what we've seen from our forecast
here, cost per car of lithium in 2023 will be higher than 2022. So, that's a headwind that would
have to be overcome to return back to those levels.
So, I don't think we'll get there this year. But I think, we'll make progress. And we'll continue to
find ways to offset these raw material costs that we don't have control over. Andrew, is thereanything on that?
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President, Powertrain and Energy `
Yeah. Like on the non-cells raw material, we begin to capture benefits of indexes tapering out
[ph], but due to the length of various supply chains, it does take time before this is reflected in
our financials. And while alumina is down like 20% year-over-year, steel is about 30% down year-
over-year, the global non-cells raw materials market continues to be influenced by geopolitical
situations in Europe, high production cost due to labor cost increases and energy spikes, and
disruptions due to natural disasters like typhoon in Korea four months ago, pandemic lockdowns.
So we believe that, meaningful price corrections will ultimately come, but it remains uncertain
exactly when.
In the meantime, we continue to redesign supply chain to make it more efficient and work with
our supplier partners to find more efficiencies, streamline logistics and transportation to reduce
costs.
Q - `Pierre Ferragu, Analyst, New Street Research `
Excellent. Thank you. And I have a quick.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Sorry, Drew, you want to go say something?
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President, Powertrain and Energy `
I was going to say, we're also -- our fleet is starting to mature. The 3/Y fleet, and we're gathering
a lot of data out of that fleet to understand how we can sort of bring some margin that we didn't
know we had out of the product. So over the course of 2023 on the powertrain side, we're
actually going to go after sort of some materials where we're paying for more performance than
we need, or we have more content than we need without impacting reliability at all. And that will
actually add up to a pretty significant cost reduction on the powertrain side over the course of
2023. So we're not just sort of relying on supply. We're also doing design actions to bring cost
out.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. My guess is, if there is a -- if the recession is a serious one, and I think it probably will be,
but I hope it isn't. That would lead to meaningful decreases in almost all of our input costs, so we
expect to see deflation in our input costs most likely, which would then lead to, yeah, better
margins. I'm just guessing here. So this -- that would be my guess.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you.
Q - `Pierre Ferragu, Analyst, New Street Research `
Thank you, so much. So as a quick follow-up, Elon, I was thinking about like FSD, and when you
look at like the situation today compared to a year ago, it's -- like the progress has been like,
amazing in the quality of the product, but also its rollout. And so, I was wondering how much is
this like impacting the tech rate of FSD today? So do you already see that people are getting
more excited by FSD, because they see it around them on 400,000 cars, and they see the valueof the service already? Or is that too early to really see like, to expect like an uptick in the tech
rate?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
The trend is very strong towards use of FSD. And as you alluded to, with each incremental
improvement, the enthusiasm obviously increases. And so, I think something that still a lot of
people out there don't quite appreciate is that Tesla would -- I would always say like, Tesla is as
much as a software company as a hardware company, but Tesla is really one of the world's
leading AI companies. This is kind of a big deal, with AI on the software side and on the hardware
side.
With the Hardware 3 inference computer, still the most-efficient inference computer in the world,
despite being at this point, five years old from the design point. And with Hardware 4 coming,
and then Hardware 5 beyond that, where there are significant leaps. And the Dojo computer, we
expect to be using that operationally at Tesla, later this year, so -- and we're seeing just a lot of
world-class AI talent join the company. There is also the long-term potential of Optimus, where
we're able to use our expertise in electric motors and power electronics, batteries, and advanced
manufacturing to be able to make a humanoid robot that is actually useful. And can be made at
high volume with exceptional capabilities, because of the Autopilot/AI that, where we take the --
because the car is like a robot on four wheels and Optimus is a robot on legs, but the -- as we
get closer and closer to solving real-world AI, and we don't see anyone even close to us in
achieving this.
The value -- I think, you appreciate this and a few others do, but most don't know what I'm talking
about. And so -- but it's, this is the thing that has order of magnitude potential market cap
improvement for Tesla.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you. And the next question comes from Alex Potter from Piper Sandler.
Q - `Alexander Potter, Analyst, Piper Sandler `
Can you hear me guys?
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Yeah.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
Q - `Alexander Potter, Analyst, Piper Sandler `
Okay, great. So a quick one on FSD. This, I guess for Zach. Obviously, you unlocked some
deferred revenue in the quarter that will translate presumably into higher margins on every
incremental sale, going forward. So long, as people opt-in for FSD. But I was wondering if you
were able to disclose the percentage of the $15,000 price that you're not going to be able to
recognize as revenue upfront rather than deferred?
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `Yeah. I mean, the way that we've structured this is a full self-driving package has two
components. There is enhanced Autopilot, the price of which is listed on the website, we fully
recognize that. Then there is an incremental, which is for the additional features of full self-driving
offers, and we've released a portion of that. And then there is a minority of the total package
that's remaining, that will be released over time as software updates are there.
And in our shareholder letter, in addition to disclosing the dollar amount of the deferred revenue
release, we also included in there the dollar value of the balance of unreleased deferred revenue
that will be released over time with future software updates.
Q - `Alexander Potter, Analyst, Piper Sandler `
Okay. Great. And then maybe one additional question here on the incremental capacity in
Nevada, the 4680s that you're planning. That's a lot of batteries obviously. And presumably, you
won't be putting all of those in Tesla Semi. So I guess, two questions about that incremental
capacity.
First, is it correct to assume that all of those 4680s are going to be more or less fungible and
usable in your entire range of products? And if the answer is yes, then if you had to guess, how
do you think that 100-gigawatt hours would be allocated between your various end markets?
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President, Powertrain and Energy `
I don't know.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
This is a bit too much guessing.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President, Powertrain and Energy `
Yeah.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President, Powertrain and Energy `
Yeah. I mean, you're right. Not all of the 100-gigawatt hours are going to go into the Semi trucks,
that is correct.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Let's say like, we -- I alluded to a number of future products, those future products would use the
4680.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you. And the next question comes from George from Canaccord Research.
Q - `George Gianarikas, Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Group Inc. `
Hi, everyone. Thanks for taking my question. So you recently adjusted prices and that may have
put many of your competitors in the back foot. In addition to that, your capital markets haverecently gotten a lot tougher. So with those factors in mind, I'm curious how you see the current
competitive landscape changing over the next few years? And who do you see as your chief
competitors five years from now?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, five years. Five years is a long time. As with the Tesla Autopilot/AI team, until late last night
and just we're just asking -- I was just like, so who do we think is close to Tesla with -- for a
general solution for self-driving? And we still don't even know really who would even be a distant
second. So, yeah, it really seems like we're -- I mean, right now, I don't think you could see a
second place with a telescope, so -- or at least we can't.
So, I know, that won't last forever. So, in five years, I don't know the, probably somebody has
figured it out. I don't think it's any of the car companies that we're aware of. But, I'm just guessing
that someone might figure it out eventually, so yeah.
A - `Andrew D. Baglino, Senior Vice President, Powertrain and Energy `
I mean, beyond that, Elon, like in the vehicle space, even though the market is shrinking, we're
growing. And EVs have doubled almost year-over-year, so like whoever keeps up with the trend
of EVs is going to be your competitor. The Chinese are scary; we always say that. But like a lot of
people always look at the EV market share, but we always look at it as, how much of the total
vehicle space do we have, and we're just going to keep growing in that space. There is 95% for
us to go get.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I don't want to say like -- I think, we have a lot of respect for the car companies in China.
They are the most competitive in the world, that is our experience. And the Chinese market is the
most competitive. They work the hardest, and they work the smartest. That's sort of lover-side
[ph] for the China car companies that we're competing against.
And so, if I were to guess, there are probably some company out of China is the most likely to be
second to Tesla. We are, and the Telsa China team is winning in China, really yeah. And I think we
actually are able to attract the best talent in China. So hopefully, that continues. So, yeah, so
we're fired about the future and yeah well, it's going to be great.
Q - `George Gianarikas, Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Group Inc. `
Just as a follow-up, the Inflation Reduction Act has created huge tax incentives for commercial
vehicles. You mentioned an incredibly-interesting product pipeline. Are there maybe some plans
to accelerate commercial vehicle form factors outside of the Tesla Semi to help accelerate EV
adoption?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I was basically saying that, yes, but I'm not going to give you details, because this is -- nice
try, nice try. Yeah, of course, of course.
So, we actually look at it like, what is the limiting factor for new vehicles, because if the -- for the
longest time, we've been constrained on total cell lithium-ion production output. And so people
said like, why not bring this other car to market or that other car to market? Well, it doesn't really
help, if all you're doing is shuffling around the batteries from one car to another. In fact, it hurts.
Because you add complexity, but you don't add incremental volume, so it's sort of pointless. Infact, like it's counter-productive to add model complexity without solving the availability of lithium-
ion batteries.
So, as we saw -- as we get -- so we want new product introduction to match where the cells are
available or that new product to use those cells without cannibalizing the cells of the other cars,
that's the actual limiting factor for any new models, not anything else really.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you. Let's go to the next question. The next question comes from `William Stein, Analyst, Truist Securities from Truist.
Q - `William Stein, Analyst, Truist Securities `
Great. Thanks for taking my question. You started to answer this earlier, but I would like to ask this
question about the AI elements of your business, and ask if you could comment on progress
around Dojo and Optimus? And your anticipation for the likelihood, for example, for the company
to disconnect the GPU cluster in favor of Dojo? And to have some market achievement in
Optimus?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I mean, obviously, with -- just we're still at the early stages, there are big autopods [ph] in
any predictions. It's like -- I think, easy to predict the long-term, but hard to predict the time in-
between now and then. But we think Dojo will be competitive with NVIDIA H1 at the end of this
year and then, hopefully surpass it next year. And I think the key there is like, I think what's the
energy usage required for given amount of -- if you are training frame a video, how -- what's the
energy costs required to do that training.
If we think probably, we do it -- and we said that's already actually at AI Day too, so it's not new
information. But we do see potential for an order of magnitude improvements relative to GPU,
what GPUs can do for Dojo, which is obviously very specialized for AI training. It's hyperspecialized
for AI training. So it's not -- it wouldn't be great for other things, it should be extremely good for
AI training. So just like if you do an ASIC for something, it is going to be better than a CPU. This is
sort of, in some ways like a giant ASIC. And we're able to, since we're operating one of the
biggest GPU clusters in the world already, the -- yeah, we've got a good sense of how efficient
the GPU clusters operate and what Dojo needs to do in order to be competitive.
But we think that it does have a fundamental architectural advantage because -- because it's
designed not to be a -- the GPU is trying to do many things to many people. We're trying to do
graphics, video games, it's doing crypto mining. It's doing a lot of things. Dojo is just doing one
thing and that is training. And we're also optimizing the low-level software too. So it had a various
sort of, environmental [ph] level, so it's just insanely good at efficient training. And the inter-
communication [ph] between the Dojo modules is extremely high. It's not going across an
Ethernet cable. It's like -- so anyway, the -- we see a path to an order of magnitude improvement
in the energy efficiency or per given unit of training. But we also have to achieve that. And so,
when will it be achieved? It's hard to say, but we do see a path to get there.
And then also in inference like once you something trained, well, if you want to have a product,
that's a consequence of training, that product may not be anything to do with cars. Then the
efficiency of inference is extremely important and we also have by far the most efficient inference
computer at the -- with the FSD computer in the car. This has potential for products that links --
that are in car even really in automotive.A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you and William do you have a follow-up?
Q - `William Stein, Analyst, Truist Securities `
Yes, it sounds like the 1.8 million units, you expect this year is supply not demand, limited supply, it
sounds like by the lithium batteries. If you were to become demand limited can you talk to us
about your propensity to use price and your relatively high industry margins to grow units and
share?
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, to be clear, the 1.8 million is not self-supply eliminated and I mean, we did address that
number earlier in the call. Elon, if you want to answer?
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. It's roughly -- cell supply is roughly matched with that. And this 1.8 million cars, if we get
lucky, it could be more. And then, the rest would go into stationary storage, the Powerwall and
Megapack. So, yeah, so -- well, true.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Okay, let's say, the final question from `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Hi. Elon, first question is, is it time for Tesla to significantly expand the captive finco, I think you
only have like $4.5 billion of basic receivables, it's basically nothing compared to other big -- other
companies, then I have a follow-up.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
I think Zack, maybe is best to answer.
A - `Zachary Kirkhorn, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I mean, the way that we've been using captive financing so far is to plug, what we believe
to be gaps in the market of existing third-party products. And so we have a couple of offerings in
Europe, we do loans for energy business, retail energy business here in the US. We do leasing
and we do a small amount of US loans that are very targeted. And so we're using captives to
support market gaps as I mentioned. So basically as a vehicle to support vehicle sales, make sure
customers have access. I do think there's opportunity here to continue to grow this. We are
growing it slowly here. It is a consumer of cash. So we're being cautious on how we do that, but
the plumbing is in place to do a lot more here. And I think we'll have to see how things unfold
over the course of the year and make decisions real-time as to how much we ramp it up versus
ramp it back.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
I think, if we see a severe recession this year, which like I said, hopefully, we don't. In severe
recessions, cash is king big time. Because it's in such short supply. So, we want to be cautious
about using cash for loans and that sort of thing for cars. I feel, we're in a very strong position toget through a recession, because we really don't have any debt and we've got over $20 billion of
cash, which is great.
The cash is earning a ridiculous return, a good return. So it's like non-trivial, and the interest rate
actually in the $20 billion is earning like quite a good amount. So -- and I've made this point on
Twitter a few times, I'm sure a lot of people on this call understand the fact -- the basic value of a
security is a function of the risk-free rate or we'll see how risk-free it really is but the T-bill [ph]
rate. So if you've got -- I think the -- if I recall correctly, the S&P 500 has a long-term rate of return
of roughly 6%. And so I think that needs to be very cautious about having Fed rates that
potentially exceeds, I don't know, 6%.
If we like -- if we see deflation, and I think we are seeing deflation then you would add the
deflation number to the "risk-free rate" from the Fed. And as that starts to exceed 6%, now
you're starting to exceed the long-term return of the S&P 500 and starts to become
questionable as to why don't just put your money in a savings account essentially instead of in the
S&P 500, if the S&P 500 is variable and the bank interest rate is not? This is -- so basically, the
Fed is the risk of crushing the value of all equities, which is quite a serious danger.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thanks Elon. And just as a follow-up. I don't want to steal the thunder from March -- March 1st and
in Austin but, how close are we to that step-change improvement in BoM cost where you can sell
an EV for under $25,000 or $30,000 bucks and actually generate a profit that kind of real moving
assembly line moment manufacturing? Yeah, I don't want to steal the thunder, but just if you
wanted to wrap our path there that'd be helpful. Thanks Elon.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Oh man, I mean, I'd love to answer -- if I were you I'd probably be asking the same question, but
we would be jumping the gun on future announcements.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Fantastic. Thank you very much, everyone, for all your good questions and we will see you again
in three months' time.
A - `Elon Musk, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
A - `Martin Viecha, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you. Bye, bye.