Q4 2017 Earnings Call

Operator
Good morning and thank you for standing by. Welcome to Abbott's Fourth Quarter 2017 Earnings
Conference Call. All participants will be able to listen only until the question-and-answer portion
of this call. This call is being recorded by Abbott. With the exception of any participant's questions
asked during the question-and-answer session, the entire call, including the question-and-answer
session, is material copyrighted by Abbott. It cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without Abbott's
expressed written permission.
I will now like to introduce Mr. `Scott Leinenweber, Vice President, Investor Relations, Vice President-Investor Relations.
`Scott Leinenweber, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you, and good morning. Thank you for joining us. I'd like to apologize here at the start for
the late start. We had a few difficulties with the phone connection. With me today are Miles White,
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Yoor, Executive Vice President-
Finance and Chief Financial Officer. Miles will provide opening remarks and Brian will discuss our
performance and outlook in more detail. Following their comments, Miles, Brian, and I will take
your questions.
Before we get started, some statements made today may be forward-looking for purposes of
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including the expected financial results for
2018. Abbott cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and
uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-
looking statements.
Economic, competitive, governmental, technological, and other factors that may affect Abbott's
operations are discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors, to our Annual Report on Securities and
Exchange Commission Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. Abbott undertakes no
obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as a result of
subsequent events or developments, except as required by law.Please note that fourth quarter financial results and guidance provided on the call today for sales,
EPS, and line items of the P&L will be for continuing operations only. On today's conference call,
as in the past, non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand Abbott's
ongoing business performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled with the
comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings news release and regulatory filings from
today, which are available on our website at abbott.com.
Unless otherwise noted, our 2017 commentary on sales growth refers to comparable operational
sales growth, which adjusts the 2016 basis of comparison to include results for St. Jude Medical
and to exclude the impact of exchange, the current-year and historical results for Abbott's
Medical Optics and St. Jude's vascular closure businesses, which were divested during the first
quarter of last year, as well as the current-year sales for Alere, which was acquired on October 3,
2017. Comparable growth also reflects a reduction to St. Jude's historic sales related to
administrative fees paid to group purchasing organization in order to conform with Abbott's
presentation.
With that, I'll now turn the call over to Miles.
`Miles D. White, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Thanks, Scott, and good morning. Today, I'll discuss our 2017 results as well as our 2018
outlook. For the full year 2017, we achieved ongoing earnings per share of $2.50, representing
13.5% growth. Strong performance across many of our businesses enabled us to achieve
adjusted earnings per share well above the midpoint of the initial guidance range that we set at
the beginning of last year.
This past year was a very good and important one for our company. We performed well and our
new product pipeline was highly productive, and we took some very important strategic steps
forward you know. Also, a key element of our long-term success has been our ability to
proactively shape our company to ensure we're in the right businesses that provide the best
opportunities for growth. This past year was important in that regard (00:04:26). It began with
the acquisition of St. Jude in January, followed by the sale of our Medical Optics business and, in
the fall, our acquisition of Alere.
The additions of St. Jude and Alere enhanced our leadership, scale, and presence in attractive
areas of healthcare. We've long been a major global player in diagnostics, and Alere adds Rapid
Diagnostics to our existing leadership position in the $50 billion global diagnostics market. St.
Jude, on the other hand, made us a leading player in Medical Devices, particularly in the very
important cardiovascular area, where we previously had leadership in only certain focused areas.
Adding St. Jude made us a major player in nearly every area of the $30 billion cardiovascular
device market. St. Jude also brought us into a promising new area, neuromodulation, to treat
chronic pain and movement disorders. While we were adding these pieces, we sold AMO, our
Medical Optics business. Though this business was very successful for us, we didn't see a path
that will move us into a broader leadership position across the larger vision care market. So we
sold the business to J&J, who was already in that position, which allowed us to focus on other
priorities and growth opportunities.
So, as we enter 2018, we're more diverse and better-balanced than ever before. We've
sharpened our focus and enhanced our leadership positions and opportunities for growth. And
importantly, our R&D productivity is at a new high. Over the past several months, we've launched
a number of products that will increase our competitiveness, open new markets, and contributeto growth in 2018 and beyond. Great products are coming from our pipeline, which I'll highlight as
I review each of our businesses in just a moment.
All of this translates into our expectations for another year of strong financial performance in
2018. As we announced this morning, we forecast adjusted earnings per share of $2.80 to $2.90,
which reflects 14% growth at the midpoint. I'll now provide a brief overview of our 2017 results and
2018 outlook for each business.
I'll start with Nutrition, where sales grew low single-digits in the fourth quarter, reflecting a modest
sequential improvement versus the prior quarter. In the U.S., growth this quarter was balanced
across our Pediatric and Adult businesses. In Pediatric Nutrition, growth was led by PediaSure and
Pedialyte; and in Adult Nutrition, growth was driven by our market-leading Ensure and Glucerna
brands.
Internationally, while much has been discussed regarding market dynamics in China, particularly
the evolving regulatory environments and ongoing channel dynamics, I'd note that we've
continued to see improving market conditions there. As expected, the new food safety
regulations went into effect in that country at the start of this year. We were well-prepared for this
change, and the market is in the early stages of transitioning to new products.
As we look at the overall $30 billion global nutrition market, we see a market that remains
attractive. Favorable demographic and socioeconomic trends remain intact, which provide strong
foundational support for market growth going forward. And our position within the market
remains highly competitive with well-known and trusted brands in both pediatric and adult
nutrition and a great global footprint that spans both developed and emerging markets. Our
focus is to continue enhancing our competitiveness and to capitalize on future growth
opportunities in this market.
Turning to Established Pharmaceuticals or EPD, where we achieved another quarter of double-
digit sales growth led by broad-based performance across several countries, including India,
China, and Latin America; as you know, over the past several years, we've shaped this business
through a series of strategic moves. These actions not only shape how we participate by adding
scale and strengthening our product portfolios, but also fundamentally enhanced where we
participate.
Our business is unique in that we're focused exclusively on emerging markets. There's no other
business like it in the world. Emerging markets are growing rapidly, their populations are aging,
their middle classes are expanding, and their healthcare systems are developing. Our strategy to
build significant presence and scale in these fast-growing markets is unique and has been highly
successful.
Moving to Diagnostics, where we consistently achieved above-market growth with our leading
platforms in Core Laboratory, Molecular, and Point of Care testing, the fourth quarter was no
exception with sales growth of nearly 7%. This past year was important for this business on two
fronts. First, the addition of Alere expands our presence in one of the few areas in diagnostics
where we weren't already a leader, the highly attractive rapid diagnostics market. Over the past
few months, the team has made good progress integrating this business, and we continue to
see several levers for growth acceleration, including opportunities for geographic, platform, and
test menu expansion.
And secondly, we initiated the launch of the Alinity platforms of instruments, an integrated family
of next-generation diagnostic systems for every area of diagnostics in which we compete. As welaunch last year in Europe and we'll launch in additional geographies including the U.S. over time.
This highly differentiated platform promises to be a significant, sustainable growth driver for this
business over the coming years.
And lastly, I'll cover Medical Devices, where sales grew nearly 10% in the fourth quarter led by
strong growth in Electrophysiology, Heart Failure, Structural Heart, Neuromodulation, and
Diabetes Care. As I mentioned earlier, adding St. Jude was truly a game-changer for us, instantly
transforming us into a broad-based medical device leader with scale, presence, and a great
pipeline of next-generation products. One area in particular that shined this past year was our
new product productivity.
In Rhythm Management, we closed the MRI-safe product gap across our portfolio in the U.S.
including FDA approvals of our pacemaker, ICD, and CRT-D devices. These approvals enhance
our competitiveness tremendously in this area.
In Electrophysiology, we launched EnSite Precision, our best-in-class cardiac mapping system. We
also launched our next-generation Confirm Insertable Cardiac Monitor in Europe and the U.S. With
a slimmer product profile, easy insertion procedure, and smartphone connectivity, initial customer
feedback on Confirm has been very positive.
In Heart Failure, we launched HeartMate 3 in the U.S. This life-saving system helps pump blood
through the body for advanced heart failure patients as they await further treatment, including
heart transplant. We also have an ongoing development program to expand our indication here
to include destination therapy for patients where transplant isn't an option.
In Vascular, we launched XIENCE Sierra, the newest generation of our leading XIENCE stent
system in Europe. Initial market feedback has been positive, and we anticipate bringing Sierra to
the U.S. in the next few months. And in Structural Heart, in addition to double-digit growth, we
continue to advance our pipeline in several areas including minimally-invasive new approaches for
mitral and aortic valve replacement, as well as tricuspid valve repair.
As you can see, the combination of Abbott and St. Jude created a best-in-class cardiovascular
device portfolio with depth, breadth, and innovation to help patients restore their health, deliver
greater value to customers and payers. We had a long-term strategy to become a leader in
cardiovascular care. We laid the foundation over a number of years and the combination of
Abbott and St. Jude brought it to fruition.
St. Jude also brought us into Neuromodulation, where several recently-launched products led to
30% growth in the fourth quarter through both share capture and market expansion. This leading
portfolio of products offers improved relief for patients living with chronic pain and helps those
suffering from movement disorders. Positive effects of these products are nothing short of
amazing.
And in Diabetes Care, sales grew 28% in the fourth quarter, led by FreeStyle Libre, our highly-
differentiated glucose monitoring system. Over the course of last year, we also achieved a
number of important regulatory and reimbursement milestones for Libre. Notably, in North
America, we received regulatory approvals in the U.S. and Canada. On the reimbursement front,
we obtained national coverage in the UK, France, and Japan; and earlier this month, we
announced that FreeStyle Libre obtained Medicare coverage in the U.S.
So, in summary, 2017 was a very good year for us. We performed well, our new product pipeline
was highly productive, and we took some very important strategic steps forward which yielded
both immediate results and strengthened our long-term growth opportunities. We're entering2018 with very good momentum, we're more diverse and better balanced, our leadership
positions are stronger, and importantly, a significant number of recent and upcoming product
launches position us for strong growth in 2018 and beyond.
I'll now turn the call over to Brian to discuss our 2017 results and 2018 outlook in more detail.
Brian?
`Brian B. Yoor, Executive Vice President, Finance & Chief Financial Officer `
Okay. Thank you, Miles. As Scott mentioned earlier, please note that all references to 2017 sales
growth, unless otherwise noted, are on a comparable basis and do not include results from our
Alere acquisition, which is consistent with the guidance methodology we utilized all of last year.
Turning to our results, sales for the fourth quarter increased 7.7% on an operational basis.
Exchange had a positive impact of 2% on sales, resulting in reported sales growth of 9.7% in the
quarter. Regarding other aspects of the P&L, the adjusted gross margin ratio was 58.8% of sales,
adjusted R&D investment was 6.9% of sales, and adjusted SG&A expense was 28.9% of sales.
Overall, as we look at 2017, we delivered strong adjusted EPS growth of 13.5% and significantly
exceed our cash flow objectives: full year 2017 operating cash flow in excess of $5 billion and free
cash flow in excess of $4 billion.
Turning to our outlook for the full year 2018, today we issued guidance for adjusted earnings per
share of $2.80 to $2.90, which reflects 14% growth at the midpoint. In terms of our 2018 sales
forecast, please note that all references to sales growth rates, unless otherwise noted, are on an
organic basis. On this basis, our 2017 sales baseline would be $26.7 billion, which exclude sales
from Alere or Rapid Diagnostics, as we call it, which we acquired in the fourth quarter of last year,
and also excludes sales from our former Medical Optics and vascular closure businesses, which
we sold during the first quarter of 2017.
So, for the full year 2018, we forecast organic sales growth of 6% to 7%. In addition, we expect
Rapid Diagnostics to contribute to sales of a little more than $2 billion for the full year 2018. Based
on current rates, we would expect exchange to have a favorable impact of a little below 2% on
our full year reported sales, with more than half of this favorable impact driven by strengthening
of the euro. As we've discussed previously, when the euro moves, the fall-through impact on our
results is modest, taking into account our European cost base and our hedging programs.
Before I review our outlook for the P&L, I'd note that we've reclassified certain pension-related
items in order to comply with recent changes in pension accounting standards. As a result,
approximately $150 million of net pension-related income has been removed from operating
lines of the P&L, primarily cost of goods sold and SG&A expense, and now will be reported as
nonoperating income.
With that in mind, we forecast an adjusted gross margin ratio of somewhat above 59% of sales
for the full year, which reflects underlying gross margin improvement across our businesses. We
forecast adjusted R&D investment around 7.5% of sales and adjusted SG&A expense of
somewhat above 30.5% of sales, which reflects the pension-related reclassification I just
mentioned, as well as incremental investments in the businesses to support recent product
launches and to further strengthen our pipeline.
We forecast net interest expense of around $775 million. This forecast includes the net interest
impact of $4 billion of debt that was repaid earlier this month, as well as anticipated additional
debt repayments throughout 2018. We forecast a gain of approximately $5 million on the
exchange gain/loss line of the P&L for the full year 2018 and around $110 million of nonoperatingincome, which includes, as mentioned earlier, pension-related net income in accordance with the
recent changes in accounting guidelines. Lastly, as a result of U.S. tax reform and our forecasted
mix of global income, we forecast an adjusted tax rate of 14.5% to 15% for the full year 2018.
Turning to our outlook for the first quarter of 2018, we forecast an adjusted EPS of $0.57 to $0.59.
In terms of our 2018 first quarter sales forecast, please note that the first quarter 2017 organic
sales baseline would be $6.15 billion which, as we commented earlier, exclude sales from our
former Medical Optics and vascular closure businesses, which we sold during the first quarter of
last year.
On this basis, we forecast organic sales growth of 6% to 7%. In addition, we expect Rapid
Diagnostics to contribute sales of a little more than $500 million in the first quarter. At current
rates, we would expect exchange to have a positive impact of around 3.5% on our first quarter
reported sales. We forecast an adjusted gross margin ratio of somewhat above 59% of sales,
adjusted R&D investment around 7.5% of sales, and adjusted SG&A expense of around 33% of
sales. Lastly, we forecast net interest expense of around $200 million in the first quarter.
Before we open the call for questions, I'll now provide a quick overview of our first quarter and
full year organic sales growth outlook by business. For Established Pharmaceuticals, we forecast
high single-digit sales growth for both the first quarter and the full year. In Nutrition, we forecast
low single-digit sales growth for both the first quarter and the full year. In Diagnostics, we forecast
organic sales growth of mid-single digits in the first quarter and mid- to high single-digits for the
full year. And in Medical Devices, we forecast sales to increase mid- to high single-digits for both
the first quarter and for the full year.
With that, we will now open the call for questions.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. Our first question comes from Mike Weinstein from JPMorgan. Your line is open.
Q - `Michael Weinstein, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
First off, congratulations on a very nice close to 2017. I think probably helpful because the fourth
quarter of 2016 to the fourth quarter 2017 has some moving parts, what do you think the kind of
the clean organic performance was for 4Q 2017?
A - `Brian B. Yoor, Executive Vice President, Finance & Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, Mike, I would just chime in, there are a couple but they're relatively modest. As you know,
St. Jude had a battery recall in the fourth quarter of last year which suppressed that baseline a bit
and we had a little bit of timing in EPD. But other than that, that's about it. Our organic growth
would be around 7% this quarter. Really strong.
Q - `Michael Weinstein, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Excellent. And the confidence in the 2018 outlook, Miles, the 6% to 7%, which I think The Street – if
you would have surveyed The Street before, they would have said, you guys would have said
mid-single digits. So, obviously this is at the upper end and more bullish than that. Is it the
momentum that you're seeing particularly in the device side of the business, and could you speak
specifically to a couple product launches, one of them I think I'd really like to hear about is Libre,
another one is Confirm, which (00:22:03) it's off to a very nice launch.A - `Miles D. White, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I'll tell you – look, the forecast we put out, it's a strong forecast. It just is. I mean, relative to
peer groups, competitors, segments, the whole thing, and even relative to us. And to be honest,
even looking at that, yeah, I feel pretty confident about it; I mean I don't know the unknown. I
don't know what exchange may or may not do. That's always unpredictable. But based on
everything we know at this point, my view is, yeah, its 6% to 7% and probably closer to the high-
end of that.
And if I look at the underlying performance of the business and in different segments, and I'll just
recap some of this. The drag on some of the growth here has been Nutrition, and even that is
sequentially improving, and the situations that we've seen that have set that business back a little
bit have all improved and are all improving. So I think, first of all, that's a good omen.
Secondly, in all the other areas, take EPD, very sustainable growth. They had a very strong fourth
quarter. I think it was 14%. I don't expect 14% for the whole year 2018, but let's face it, they're
running strong. And then I look at Diagnostics and Devices, and they've both got just a
tremendous bunch of new product launches. And they're not flash in the pan product launches.
These are going to sustain growth over a number of years because these are big and broad
product launches.
The Alinity product launch, I think, is going to make a big significant difference in Diagnostics. I
think we're going to see increasingly better performance out of Alere. But, look, Alinity is across
six segments of Diagnostics. And so, I think that's a pretty sustained momentum. And they've
been doing a terrific job, frankly, in the 6% to 8% growth range with a lot of, I'd say, aging
systems and older systems. Now, they've got an entirely brand new product line out there in all
categories. So, I think that bodes well.
And then I finally look at the whole cardiovascular device area. You'll recall, Mike, many people
challenged whether St. Jude was really growth, and there was a lot of grumbling a year ago
about that acquisition. And sequentially, over the course of this year, St. Jude's gone from first
quarter 2.4% to 4% in the second quarter, 4.2% in the third quarter, and 10% in the fourth quarter.
I won't tell you that I think 10% is sustainable for the year, but they had a 10% fourth quarter and
they didn't have to stretch to do it.
And the product launches and approvals, mainly the product approvals, particularly in the U.S. that
I forecasted to you in both July and October, all happened. And there was some skepticism
about that because of the situation in Sylmar, but frankly, our team's done a terrific job in Sylmar
and a terrific job communicating with our U.S. regulators. And we got all those product approvals,
and those launches are all out of the blocks and going well.
So, I knock on wood, I looked into 2018 and it all feels remarkably strong and sustainable, and I
think that's terrific. Tax reform was a nice boost, and there's a lot of things here that are all
looking up. And then I finally come to Libre, which I enjoy the fact that every time something is
announced with Libre, it's a surprise to somebody because everybody seems to have such low
expectations for it. And I think we're going to continue to surprise people in that category.
We're investing several hundred million dollars in expansion. This is a big product. I think you
estimated at one point $50 million to $100 million in the U.S. this year. I think that's a good range
of estimate. But, frankly, it's going strong. We're adding probably 50,000 customers a month
right now, and that's increasing. And that was primarily Europe; that doesn't even reflect much
U.S. yet.So, as we came out of the fourth quarter, the growth rate of that product is just tremendous, and
we've got a series of enhancements and approvals and additions to it coming that only make it
better. And as I said, it's not a niche product. It's a mass-market product. There are tens of
millions of Type 1 diabetics and, frankly, the same in Type 2s trying not to be Type 1 diabetics, and
I'm one of them.
So, I wear the product, I live the product, I know the product, and I think this product has a long
track road ahead of it. And so, as I look at all the growth drivers of the company and then some
of the elements of St. Jude, like Neuromodulation and Structural Heart and other things, I think
there's just an awful lot of growth here.
So, I go into 2018, I look at the numbers that we forecasted and, yeah, I feel pretty confident
about it. So, at this point, I'm looking at the success we're having with cash flow and the balance
sheet, investment in expansion, investment in capacities, investments in R&D and SG&A, which I
put more money into, and everything looks pretty good.
Q - `Michael Weinstein, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Miles, if I could...
A - `Miles D. White, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
I realize that was a long answer, but you kind of asked a big question.
Q - `Michael Weinstein, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
No, no, no, that was perfect. Thank you. And just so you guys know, the sound quality isn't great
on our end; so, just FYI. Miles, I did want to ask you about capital allocation and the benefit of tax
reform. Tax reform is going to lower your overall tax rate in 2018 by 150, 200 basis points. You're
also getting access to previously trapped cash in your global cash flows going forward. Can you
just talk about what you plan to do with the trapped cash, and then how the access to global cash
flows changes at all your capital allocation plans? And then I'll drop. Thanks.
A - `Miles D. White, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Well, it's not trapped anymore, and it's terrific to have access to it. I have to say. I'm pleased
with where tax reform came out. As a multinational and a company that had a lot of debt in the
last two years because of the acquisitions, I had concerns about some of the structures they
were looking at, but it all turned out pretty good. And I think it will stimulate a lot of growth and
investment in the U.S., in particular. And you can see that in a lot of the things that companies are
communicating. The same is going to be true for us.
As far as capital allocation, Brian mentioned in his remarks, we were up to a gross $28 billion of
debt because of our acquisitions of St. Jude and Alere and a little bit of lingering debt we had just
over time. And we just paid off $4 billion of that. So, we're down to $24 billion. And over the next
six months, we'll pay off probably $3.5 billion to $4 billion more. And we'll be down to $20 billion
by the end of 2018. The cash flows in the company are strong. Brian's run a program with our
EVPs to be very conscious of cash generation, and that's been extremely successful, and our cash
flows and profits and so forth right now are as strong as they've ever been.
So, as I've said, we want to make a priority out of getting that cash – or getting that debt down to
a more balanced level. We've already exceeded the targets that the rating agencies had for us,
and we'll be below – on debt-to-EBITDA, we will be below 3x at year-end. And on a net basis –that puts us in a, let's say, position to kind of be at a more normal capital allocation viewpoint at
that point.
We raised our dividend in December by 6%. I'd anticipate we'll raise it again at the end of the
year probably more than that, because we like to maintain a payout ratio of a little better than
40% of EPS. So I think our capital allocation, our cash flow is strong. We're pushing down the debt
fast, faster than we anticipated by at least 18 months. And so, all of that right now is, frankly,
looking quite good largely due to the tax reform and, frankly, the management of cash flow here.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from `Matthew Taylor, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. from Barclays. Your line is open.
Q - `Matthew Taylor, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Hey good morning. Thanks for taking the question. So, the first question I wanted to ask was
specifically on Diagnostics. I guess, I was just a little intrigued by the fact that the guidance you
gave for the year implies some improvement, and you also talked about that in your comments.
And I wanted to explore two things: one is can you talk about how the Alinity rollout could
cadence through the year; and then, secondly, now that you have had Alere or Rapid Diagnostics
under your belt for a little while, can you talk about the state – of the state for that asset and how
you expect that to grow over the coming years?
A - `Miles D. White, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Matt. Well, let me start with Alinity. First of all, its six different systems: two in
particular that are in the Core Laboratory; one that will address transfusion; one that will address
Point of Care testing; one that will address hematology; and one that will address Molecular
Diagnostics. And so, there's multiple dimensions to this.
Where you've got approvals around the world; they're all approved in Europe at this point. A
couple are approved in the U.S.; we expect more approvals the following year. We tend to be
pretty much on those approvals. The menu expansions in our development have gone extremely
well in the last, say, 10 to 12 months. So, they've got very full menus and, therefore, the pace of
introduction can go much faster, because accounts don't really want to address change until
they've got full menus or close to it. So, that momentum picks up.
And then you've got to deal with the life cycle of contracts that are out there in the world. Now
today, we've got, I want to say, 25,000, 26,000, 27,000 instruments out there in these main
categories, main Core Lab categories. And my goal is to replace that entire base and, of course,
take a fair amount of share over the next 5 to 10 years. So, there's a ramp there. There's a scale
there. It's a significant scale, and our attention now is all about scale up and all about pace and
magnitude.
This is not going to be some incremental slow rolling thing. It starts that way. Initially, it starts as a
slow roll, and then it's going to pick up tremendous momentum because it's our intent to replace
that entire base and, frankly, take a lot of share with it. So I think we're in a really great position
with Alinity. Our challenge now is just mass scaling and as we attack that market.
On Alere, I'd say our team has done a terrific job. We have on entirely new, from Abbott,
management team there. I'd say, their progress in terms of integration, reorganization, et cetera,
has gone extremely well. Literally, within a couple of weeks, we reorganized the entire company
into business units, fully integrated business units with management teams and so forth.I'd say that our assumption of the business has gone at warp speed and gone well. We're ahead
of schedule on literally everything: on target on our synergies; we're ahead of our targets on
sales and profit, flu and strep seasons in the U. S. have aided that, to some degree. But thus far,
I'd say everything is sort of on point as we projected. And beyond that, I don't have a lot more
detail to give you other than so far so good. And I think our transition management has been
excellent. It's been that way with St. Jude, too. What we did at St. Jude, we've done faster at
Alere, and St. Jude was pretty fast.
So, we went through sort of the same things with St. Jude. We reorganized a lot of businesses
there into fully integrated business units. We did it in the first six months. That's usually very
disruptive, but we managed to do it without disruption. And we did it with Alere in a matter of
weeks. So I'd say we're in a strong position and very pleased with the management team and
how rapidly it's up to speed. We've got a new couple of new hires on some of the business, but
I'd say this team has not gotten up to speed quick.
Q - `Matthew Taylor, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Thanks. And one follow-up. This is probably the most pleased I've heard you sound in a while in
how things are going, and the results kind of speak for themselves. But I know you're never
satisfied. What areas would you point us to where things aren't going well that you want to
improve, and how do you think about dropping all this good growth on the top line through to the
bottom line versus investing and all the things that you have to invest in now?
A - `Miles D. White, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I'd say two things. We still got improvement to make in Nutrition and we know that, and our
Nutrition team knows that. And we've had a lot of discussion about that. I've personally talked to
our GMs around the world and so forth. And there's no point in having your dauber down; we
simply want to do better. And I'd say even where our growth rates are now, sequential
improvement's a plus.
Now, there are number of places we're pretty positive and pretty happy with performance. I'd say
the U.S. stands out as executing really well. There's a number of countries around the world
executing well. And the ones that had difficulty are improving. So, that remains a point of
attention to us. I'd say in terms of the happy column, a lot of our success right now and what
we're focused on is organic growth. We've never had such productivity out of R&D at Abbott, and
frankly, so has St. Jude. And I now consider them Abbott.
And what St. Jude had said about their pipeline and to The Street over a number of years is true.
They had and do have a terrific pipeline of products. We've gotten the approvals. We've closed
the gaps where they had deficiencies, and there's a lot of growth there. And so, what I'm
particularly happy about is that the organic growth opportunity here across all of our businesses –
Nutrition, EPD, Pharma business, the new product launches in Diagnostics and Devices including
St. Jude and Alere – it's just, it's broad and it's deep, and it's exciting to have that much
innovation and new product to be launching.
And so, our challenges aren't so much fixing problems or deficiencies; our challenges are how
fast we can scale and how fast we can run. I'm pretty confident that it's sustainable, and it's
sustainable for a long time because it is organic growth of new products. So, I'm pretty happy
about that. I'm not out looking for M&A, and I don't have any significant M&A on the radar screen.
Frankly, I don't have any M&A on the radar screen because I want to hit those debt targets by
year-end. Our targets are more aggressive than the ratings agencies. I want to get back to whereour capital allocation flexibility is as flexible as it's ever been, and I want to get there fast and I'm
going to get there fast.
So I think our challenges are how to keep the pedal down on that growth, because all of these
businesses have opportunities at the same time, and some of it's some fairly significant scale-up.
And Libre is a tremendous opportunity. It's a mass-market product, and it's unlike any other
medical device. Medical Devices by nature is sort of niche therapy. This one's not. And this one
has a totally different rhythm to it. And the pace of scale and the magnitude of opportunity is
more like tech than it is med tech.
And that's an interesting challenge for us. It's a positive challenge. It's a good challenge. And
fortunately, we've got such strong cash flow, we can afford the capital investment that we want to
spend while we're paying down our debt and paying our dividends and so forth. I mean, as
challenges go, that's a pretty nice set of challenges. You don't lose sleep on those.
Q - `Matthew Taylor, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from David Lewis from Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.
Q - `David Ryan Lewis, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Good morning. Miles, there's a lot of conversation this morning on growth, but it was fairly robust
EPS guidance for Abbott to start the year. And I think for us what's interesting is, unlike a lot of
your peers who are dropping through all the tax down to the bottom line, you're reinvesting
which it makes sense given your premium growth. But I wonder if you could sort of give us a
sense of where that reinvestment is going and, given your flexibility, how you're feeling about this
sort of mid-teens EPS growth over the next couple of years?
A - `Miles D. White, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Well, nice try. I don't give guidance that far ahead, but yeah it's a good question. I have seen that
a number of companies have dropped through quite a lot of tax benefits to bottom line. And
frankly, I expect to see that. I mean, there's some industries and some – there's some businesses
that really benefited from tax reform. If the primary source of your sales and profits is in the U.S.,
obviously, you got a really demonstrative benefit. If you're a multinational and/or you had a lot of
debt or something, it's not as demonstrative.
Now having said that, we've dropped through some of that tax benefit into our EPS, and I think
that's reflected in our guidance this morning. I did direct a significant amount of the benefit from
tax into R&D and SG&A. And I think that's warranted given not only the new product launches and
how fast we want to run with some of these, but – so I've directed some of the benefit to
increased R&D investments.
And you can imagine, I mean, I've directed some of that at Diabetes Care and Libre. I've directed
some of that at Neuromodulation and other Cardiovascular products, directed a fair bit of it at
SG&A expansion and so forth. When you've got these kinds of opportunities, you've got to invest
in them and put fuel behind them. And fortunately, tax reform's given us that ability.
We will spend some of that money investing in manufacturing in United States. As it's predicted
that, that would happen, we will. I won't tell you where or what products and so forth because Idon't want to forecast that to competitors and so forth. But in fact, the U.S. will benefit. And as
well some locations overseas where we've got already existing capability, facilities, expertise, et
cetera.
But we are directing a fair amount of this to help ensure we've got not only a sustainable product
pipelines and rapid innovation and enhancements to products, but that we're also doing our best
in marketing areas and so forth to maximize the opportunity that's in front of us as rapidly as we
can. We don't want to think about it so incrementally because I think sometimes when you've got
these new products and opportunities, you got to go hard and fast.
And I think when you do that, you establish a better share position, a better market position, a
better use position with customers, regulators, et cetera, and that's much more sustainable over
time. So, as you asked me, I think if we get our job done, particularly in areas where we just – that
I've just highlighted, which is a lot, I think our growth rates are pretty sustainable.
We start every year with a double-digit earnings growth target. And as we've indicated this year
on an apples-to-apples comparable growth basis, we expect 6% to 7%. And I'm in the upper half
of that range, in my beliefs. But I'd like to see that growth rate increase even substantially going
forward. We're always trying to be double-digit earnings. I'm not concerned about having a
double-digit earnings growth rate on a sustainable basis for the next few years. I want to drive
the top line so that I can sustain that at an even higher rate, and that's where my focus is.
Q - `David Ryan Lewis, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Okay. That's very clear. Thanks for the color, Miles. And then I think St. Jude has got a lot of
attention on the call, but Alere, less so. What's your focus for 2018 for Alere? Can this asset
definitively get back to sort of underlying growth in 2018? And how quickly can Alere get back to
what you would think is market growth for Point of Care? Thanks.
A - `Miles D. White, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I'd say slower than St. Jude. St. Jude, as you all remember it, it went through about a four,
five-year period where it didn't have much growth, and the Street was unhappy with that. And
they missed their earnings targets a couple of times. What they were right about was they had a
robust R&D pipeline and a product pipeline, and they were right about that.
And I think the people that led and managed St. Jude should feel vindicated about that than we
do because there was a fair amount of concern and criticism when we acquired St. Jude. But,
frankly, as you can see in the numbers, there's growth here and there's going to be growth here
and it's not just small, incremental growth, it's significant. I'm really happy with the performance of
St. Jude. I think Alere is a little longer story. The company had a lot of internal operating
challenges. It hadn't been invested in. So, I think pipelines are going to take a little longer to
develop.
I think restoring sort of the cohesiveness and performance of functions in the business and some
of the business is going to take a little longer. So, I expect Alere to emerge, I'm going to say, over
two to three years because we want to put more investment into new products, refreshing
products, R&D, SG&A, et cetera. We do have some rationalization to do. That doesn't mean
restructuring, that means the integration of those functions and businesses and figuring out what
are old products, what our new products, and so forth.
So, I think Alere will be a little slower emergence than St. Jude has been. St. Jude sort of
exploded on the scene here over one year, and I don't think Alere will explode on the scene, but Idon't think Alere is going to be flat either. We believe there's a lot of growth here in this entire
Rapid Diagnostics and Point of Care space. I think there's a lot of growth. And I think that growth
is sustainable over many years, but I don't think it's going to be – I'm not going to be telling you
the same story about Alere at the end of the year.
At the end of 2018, I'm going to tell you we had a good year. It tracked better than we thought.
It's showing growth. I'm going to tell you all those things at year-end, I'm pretty sure. And we love
the underlying assets and products and so forth. I mean, that's all going to be true. But I think,
operationally, it's going to take a little longer to get this back on an investment cycle and products
and launches and so forth that we'll want to see.
The good news is we've got so many other opportunities at the same time that I think it's nicely
staged. You don't want everything to show up at the same time. So I think it's nicely staged to
help sustain the growth of Diagnostics while they're dealing with the scale up of Alinity.
Q - `David Ryan Lewis, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Great. Thanks, Miles. Congrats on the quarter.
A - `Miles D. White, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Joanne Wuensch from BMO. Your line is open.
Q - `Joanne Karen Wuensch, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) `
Good morning and thank you for the question; very nice quarter. Can we turn a little bit to EPD?
That area of growth tends to be a little bit of a black box for investors. How do we think about the
sustainability of that growth rate? This is the second quarter in a row of mid-teens growth.
A - `Miles D. White, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, Joanne, it's – I think the fundamentals underlying the market's driving off a lot of the
growth. The managers in that business and I sort of have this ongoing debate; I'm always
chronically dissatisfied and they're always telling me, hey, look, we're really growing fast here. But
the fact is the underlying dynamics of the market drive a lot of the growth because we've
selected markets and countries, emerging markets in particular, that have growth characteristics,
which I characterized in my remarks.
So the underlying fundamentals of those markets are all very positive in terms of growing
healthcare systems, growing middle-class, spending on healthcare, et cetera. But succeeding
those markets requires a certain amount of presence and strength and scale. Meaning, you want
to be in the top five competitors in most of these markets. China is a little different, but you want
to be in sort of the top five competitors. You want to have very broad product lines and you want
to have some depth in various therapeutic categories, and you want to have a strong brand. I
think our teams around the world have done a super job at that. I think there is countries where
we believe we can do even better, a lot better.
So I'd say, first of all, the underlying dynamics are strong. We put a fair amount of emphasis in
renewing and broadening our products. We put a lot of attention into our own, let's call it,
development productivity, registration productivity, et cetera. We're putting more and moreinvestment into India and our distributed organizations to do just that, because we believe we
can and should. We're putting a lot of attention on gross margin management to improve our
gross margins, whether in procurement or things that we source from third-parties that we should
do ourselves and so forth.
So there's a lot of emphasis on margin improvement. And frankly, the margin is already good,
better than good. But we know that there's opportunity to improve it still further. A lot of people
think of generics as commodity generics that don't make much money. These are branded
generics where the brand matters. It's sort of an OTX type thing in a lot of these markets, and
we make pretty good profits here. So, the characteristics of these markets have been that.
That said the last couple of quarters have some anomalies that bump these numbers up and
down. We went through a couple of disruptions in India, for example, which is a big part of our
business, where we went through the demonetization issue and then the GST tax thing. We
actually managed that really well, I think. But that affected inventory management by wholesalers
and distributors, which are a big part of our business system here.
And so sometimes, I think we're going to see some of these quarters look very up and other
times they're going to be a little less up, but they're always up. And I don't think the 14% we saw
in the fourth quarter is something we expect every quarter. Now, if its starts to happen three or
four quarters in a row, I'm going to be back with my manager saying, I think you're a little
conservative. But I think it's a double-digit grower. I think it's easily sort of 9% to 11% on a very
sustainable basis on the sales line. So, a lot of that's fundamentally in the markets. And then
we're pressing to kind of broaden our product lines and gain share because of the way we
manage the business.
Q - `Joanne Karen Wuensch, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) `
Very good. Thank you. As my follow-up, Neuromodulation sales were up 30% in the quarter after
being up 50% for the beginning portion of the year. How do we think about that growth going
forward, and there's a lot of good buzz coming out of NANS [North American Neuromodulation
Society], could you please update us on that?
A - `Miles D. White, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I'm going to have Scott help me with that, because I asked the same thing, I said, geez,
why are we down to 30%? It's because of the comparison to this fourth quarter last year, and
Scott can give you a little color on that. But the growth rate here remains strong and the
opportunity remains strong. This is one of the bright – well, we've got a lot of bright spots. This is
one, clearly. Scott?
A - `Scott Leinenweber, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Yeah, Joanne, as you recall, we launched Burst and deep brain stimulation products in the fourth
quarter of last year, to Miles' point. Obviously, the business is coming off a great year. We're
number one now in the chronic pain segment. We do expect to capture more share next year.
The market is growing in the low teens, and we expect to grow faster than that.
Q - `Joanne Karen Wuensch, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States) `
Terrific. Thank you very much.
A - `Miles D. White, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `You welcome. Thank you, Joanne.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Josh Jennings from Cowen. Your line is open.
Q - `Joshua Jennings, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Hi. Good morning. Thanks for taking the questions and congratulations on the strong finish to
2017. I wanted to start, back on St. Jude. You guys laid out some synergy targets around the
acquisition. I just wanted to get an update on whether or not you think that there's upside to
those historic targets particularly on the revenue synergies side. We've been assuming revenue
synergies hitting in year two, but you're already seeing revenue synergies come. And then also
just on the margin contribution with the rebound in top line growth of the St. Jude franchise, is it
safe to assume that the margin contribution outlook for that unit in 2018 is going to step up
nicely?
A - `Brian B. Yoor, Executive Vice President, Finance & Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I think – this is Brian – I think those are the right assumptions. I mean, we're right on with our
synergies as we track. We've always said $500 million by 2020. We had a great year. We
executed very well. We integrated, achieved our synergies, and expect that to continue, and
that's incorporated into our guidance. As Miles discussed earlier, we're very excited about the
acceleration of top line growth here and there's a lot of opportunities. And I think the continued
growth and sequential growth momentum 2018 over 2017 should be accretive to the operating
margins not only for that business unit but for Abbott as well.
Q - `Joshua Jennings, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Thanks. And just a follow-up on Nutrition. The Food Safety Law took effect in China on Jan 1. I
know it's very early, but can you help us think through and what you're seeing initially and what do
you expect to see over the next couple of quarters in the Pediatric China market and also an
update on Nutritional pricing in the U.S.? Thanks for taking the questions.
A - `Miles D. White, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. I'll answer part of that, and then I'll phone a friend here at the table. I'd say, first of all, I
personally was concerned that this switch-over in the Food Safety Law, what we had to do – all do
to comply with product labeling in a number of products and so forth, I was afraid it was going to
be terribly descriptive. And it turns out we've already experienced the disruption in the past two
years as the market was flooded with many products and a lot of volume and a lot of channels
and so forth.
The single biggest issue we all had to do was re-register products and comply with the elements
of the law. And all of our concerns were, would we get our products through the regulatory
bodies in China and be ready for that transition? And the answer is we made it. So I think, that, I'm
happy with. We've been careful to monitor our inventories of previous product versus new
product, et cetera. So, to the extent that we can have visibility to that, I think we're comfortable
with how that transition's gone. I think we're not seeing the kind of disruption that we might have
or that we've seen the last couple of years.
So, I'd say, look, thus far, I'm glad we don't see unpredicted disruption. And so, hopefully we can
now stabilize back into a more normal, call it, competition in the market. It's a very, very dynamicand so forth. We didn't need the disruption of the Food Safety Law, but I think that's stable and
kind of behind us at this point. Brian or Scott?
A - `Brian B. Yoor, Executive Vice President, Finance & Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. On the U.S. side, you asked about the pricing. I would just say we've never historically really
relied on price. It's about volume. And we had a great year in our Pediatric business in the U.S.,
and that's all about share capture in the instant milk formula market, part of the Pediatric
business, with innovations that we introduced. And we want to continue to sustain to be a share
leader there. But also bright spots there in that Pediatric portfolio are Pedialyte and PediaSure
which also have done quite well in the U.S. and are great brands for us.
And then I think the story on the Adult is we knew we had some adjustments to make. We're
making the right adjustments. We know we have some innovations coming and we're seeing
sequential improvement even here in the fourth quarter of 2017, and we want to continue to
sustain that momentum and compete on share and market expansion on the Adult, because we
just typically hadn't relied on price in the U.S. or any other area for that matter.
A - `Miles D. White, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
We've gained some share back in Adult, that's nice to see. I think the team's done a terrific job in
the Ped market, and we remain the clear leader in that market. And at this point, as Brian said,
we're not relying on price. I think there's a clear value proposition to be marketed out there and
we haven't tried to stretch that and nor will we.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Lawrence Biegelsen, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC from Wells Fargo. Your line is
open.
Q - `Lawrence Biegelsen, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Good morning, guys. Thanks for fitting me in. I'll just asked two quick product-related questions
and drop. CRM, I think you grew about 2% in the fourth quarter. Is that how we should think about
2018, or do you think that could get better? And then there was a question asked earlier on
Confirm Rx, maybe just setting expectations, could you do, say, $50 million in 2018 on that
product, is that realistic? Thanks for taking the questions, and congrats on the quarter.
A - `Scott Leinenweber, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Larry. Yeah. I think on CRM, you're about right. We would expect something in the low
single-digits on that front. To your point, Confirm, really great opportunity. Obviously, we're still
early in the launch of that, first quarter. The feedback that we're getting from physicians on that
one is very positive. This is the only device out there that's smartphone-compatible. So, there's a
big benefit on the patient side of it as well. Your forecast on that one, I think, seems reasonable
as well.
Q - `Lawrence Biegelsen, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Thanks for taking the questions, guys.
OperatorThank you. Our next question comes from Glenn Novarro from RBC Capital Markets. Your line is
open.
Q - `Glenn John Novarro, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Hey, two quick questions from me as well, and both are for Brian. Brian, U.S. dollar, the weaker
U.S. dollar has become a tailwind to the top line. Does any of that fall to the bottom line or is that
completely hedged away? Question one. And then number two, the lower tax rate for this year, is
this a sustainable new run rate for the next couple of years? Thanks.
A - `Brian B. Yoor, Executive Vice President, Finance & Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. Let me take the exchange question. As always, it's early in the year. So, we're reluctant to
necessarily flow lesser there (00:57:15). It's a little modest. We know we have a hedge there. So,
have a modest impact from sales I quoted. As, I think, Miles has said this before, let's see how
things go. If rates hold and things pan out, and history is an indicator, similar to last year, we may
see some of those flow-through. But I think it's too early. There's a lot of events that we watch,
right, throughout the year. Go ahead, Miles.
A - `Miles D. White, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Let me add one comment to that. As you plan the year, we all can calculate what we
believe our tax reform impact is going to be given our geographic mix and so forth, as you know.
And then there's exchange, and if you're a multinational, you've got a lot of currencies to deal
with. It's not so predictable. The exchange happens to us a lot of times. And so, we try to prepare
for that with hedges.
That said, going into the year what we chose to do was say, listen, we're going to put some of
the tax benefit from tax reform into the EPS and we're going to put some of it into investment, as
I described earlier, because that we can forecast, we can predict, it's knowable. Exchange isn't so
knowable. So, if exchange continues to benefit us, there's really not enough time in a given
quarter or year to reliably invest back the benefit of exchange.
So the likelihood is, if exchange runs better than we forecasted at this point, investors are likely to
see some of that. Obviously, we hedged some of it to protect the stability of earnings, but you
can't hedge it all. So, if we are favorable, yeah, you'll probably see it.
Q - `Glenn John Novarro, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
And on the tax rate?
A - `Brian B. Yoor, Executive Vice President, Finance & Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. And as I mentioned earlier, the range we got was 14.5% to 15% for 2018. There's a lot of
moving parts to tax reform. I'd just note that regulations are still being formed, interpretations are
ongoing. But from where we sit today, we believe we should generally be in the same ballpark of
this range, and we'll provide further updates as we learn more, too, as the tax laws unfold here.
Q - `Glenn John Novarro, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Okay. Thanks, Miles. Thanks, Brian.
A - `Scott Leinenweber, Vice President, Investor Relations `Operator
Thank you. Our final question comes from Bob Hopkins from Bank of America. Your line is open.
Q - `Robert Adam Hopkins, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thanks very much for fitting me in. Just two quick questions. One is on emerging markets, I just
wanted to see what emerging market growth was in the quarter and if that accelerated in fourth
quarter versus earlier in the year and then what your outlook is for kind of 2018 for emerging
market perspective because it seems like things have really going well in emerging markets
generally. That's just the first question.
A - `Scott Leinenweber, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Yeah, I think that's a fair characterization. Generally when it's quiet, things are good in emerging
markets, and it's been fairly quiet. We did deliver double-digit growth in emerging markets this
quarter. To Miles' point, there's a lot of strong fundamentals in those markets that would point
towards growth going forward.
Q - `Robert Adam Hopkins, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
And then the other one I wanted to ask about was just back on FreeStyle Libre, I think you
mentioned earlier in the call that you're bringing on 50,000 new customers, I believe, you said a
month, and...
A - `Miles D. White, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
A quarter.
Q - `Robert Adam Hopkins, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
...honestly, I assume – a quarter?
A - `Miles D. White, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Sorry. If I misspoke, per quarter.
Q - `Robert Adam Hopkins, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. That makes more sense. But still, a big number. And I assume right now, the majority of
that, obviously, is outside the United States. Can you give us a sense as to kind of your – the pace
of your sign-ups in the U.S. and what you sort of think for 2018 from a patient perspective for
Libre in the U.S.?
A - `Scott Leinenweber, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Yeah. I would just say, look, we launched pretty much right at the end of the year. Obviously,
there's very modest sales in the fourth quarter number there. Without getting the number, I
would say the strips are basically tracking right with our expectations. I think Miles have mentioned
a quarter or so back when asked what a reasonable estimate for year-one sales would be. And it
was agreed upon it'd probably in the $50 million to $100 million range, and that's still where we
sit today.
Q - `Robert Adam Hopkins, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `Okay. Thank you very much.
A - `Scott Leinenweber, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Well, very good. Well thank you, operator, and thank you for all of your questions. And that
concludes Abbott's conference call. A replay of this call will be available after 11 AM Central Time
today on Abbott's Investor Relations website at abbottinvestor.com. And after 11 AM Central Time
via telephone at 404-537-3406, passcode 8277348. The audio replay will be available until 10 PM
Central Time on February 7. Thank you for joining us today.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the
program, and you may all disconnect. Everyone, have a wonderful day.