Q4 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to Abbott's Fourth Quarter 2020
Earnings Conference Call. All participants will be able to listen only until the question-and-answer
portion of this call. (Operator Instructions) This call is being recorded by Abbott. With the
exception of any participants' questions asked during the question-and-answer session, the
entire call, including the question-and-answer session is material copyrighted by Abbott. It cannot
be recorded or rebroadcast without Abbott's express written permission.
I would now like to introduce Mr. `Scott Leinenweber, Vice President, Investor Relations, Licensing and Acquisitions, Vice President, Investor Relations, Licensing
& Acquisitions.
`Scott Leinenweber, Vice President, Investor Relations, Licensing and Acquisitions `
Good morning. And thank you for joining us. With me today are Robert Ford, President and Chief
Executive Officer; and Bob Funck, Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
Robert and Bob will provide opening remarks. Following their comments, we'll take your
questions.
Before we get started, some statements made today may be forward-looking for purposes of
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including the expected financial results for
2021. Abbott cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and
uncertainties, including the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on Abbott's operations and
financial results that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the
forward-looking statements. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological, and other
factors that may affect Abbott's operations are discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors to our Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, and in Item 1A, Risk Factors in our
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2020. Abbott undertakes no
obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as a result of
subsequent events or development except as required by law.
Please note that financial information provided on the call today for sales, EPS, and line items onGAAP financial measures will be used to help investors understand Abbott's ongoing business
performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled with the comparable GAAP
financial measures in our earnings news release and regulatory filings from today, which are
available on our website at abbott.com. Unless otherwise noted, our commentary on sales
growth refers to organic sales growth, which excludes the impact of foreign exchange.
With that, I will now turn the call over to Robert.
`Robert B. Ford, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Scott. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Today, we reported another
highly successful year for Abbott during what's been the single most disruptive healthcare event
in our lifetimes.
For the full year, we reported organic sales growth of nearly 10% and ongoing earnings per share
of $3.65, which reflects double-digit growth and is at the upper end of our guidance range we set
last January when we were expecting a normal economy. Performance like this after the
pandemic struck is a real achievement and demonstrates the strength of our diversified business
model. The normal times, it maximizes our growth opportunities and during the pandemic, it's
been tested by a global crisis and proven to be highly resilient.
It should come as no surprise that our performance was led by our Diagnostics business. COVID-
19 dominated the year for us and the world, and our primary response came in the form of
diagnostic tests to identify the virus. In total, we delivered more than 400 million COVID tests
since the start of the pandemic, including more than 300 million tests in the fourth quarter alone.
But as we discussed before, the year was not all Diagnostics in COVID. Our more consumer-
facing businesses Nutrition, Diabetes Care and Established Pharmaceuticals all contributed
growth for the year and we continue to launch an impressive stream of innovations across our
businesses. And I'll touch on some of these new products in more detail in just a moment. We
exited 2020 with tremendous momentum, including total sales growth of more than 28% and
ongoing earnings per share growth of more than 50% in the fourth quarter.
Turning to 2021, we're forecasting another year of top tier performance. As we announced this
morning, we forecast ongoing earnings per share of at least $5 in 2021 reflecting growth of more
than 35% compared to last year. And because we're building on top of our strong 2020
performance, our forecasted 2021 earnings per share is more than 50% higher than our pre-
pandemic EPS in 2019, which is highly unique and differentiated in this environment.
I'll now provide more details on our 2020 results before turning over the call to Bob. And I'll start
with Nutrition, where sales increased around 4.5% for both the fourth quarter and full-year. Strong
growth of Ensure, our market-leading complete and balanced nutrition brand and Glucerna, our
leading diabetes nutrition brand led to double-digit growth in Adult Nutrition for both the quarter
and full year.
In Pediatric Nutrition, U.S. sales growth of more than 5% last year was led by increased market
share of Similac, our market-leading infant formula brand. International Pediatric Nutrition sales
continue to be impacted by challenging market conditions in Greater China. During the past year,
we continued to expand our Nutrition portfolio with several new products and line extensions,
including the continued rollout of infant formula products across our Similac brand family that
contain human oligosaccharide or HMO, which supports a healthy immune system.Global expansion of our PediaSure, Glucerna, and Ensure brands including the continued rollout of
Ensure high protein products and the launch of four new Pedialyte rehydration products, Pedialyte
Zero Sugar, Sport, Organic and Immune Support. For 2021 we're forecasting similar sales growth
for our global nutrition business and a continued strong cadence of new product introductions.
Turning to Medical Devices, where sales were relatively flat in the fourth quarter. Strong double-
digit growth in Diabetes Care was offset by lower sales in our cardiovascular and
neuromodulation businesses due to challenging conditions as COVID case rate surge in certain
geographies towards the end of the quarter. As we saw throughout last summer and fall, we
expect procedure volumes to improve in these businesses as COVID case rate subside.
In Diabetes Care, sales grew nearly 30% for the fourth quarter and full-year led by FreeStyle
Libre, our market-leading continuous glucose monitoring system. In the U.S., Libre sales grew
50% last year and outside the U.S., Libre sales grew 40% surpassing $2 billion of international
sales for the full-year 2020. This past year was possibly our most productive ever in terms of new
product approvals and launches across our medical device portfolio. Let me touch on a handful.
First, the approval of MitraClip G4, the latest generation of our market-leading system to repair a
leaky mitral heart valve. Just last week in the U.S. Medicare expanded reimbursement coverage
for MitraClip which significantly expands the eligible patient population that can benefit from this
life-changing technology.
CE mark of Tendyne, a first of its kind minimally invasive device to replace a faulty mitral valve and
the CE Mark of TriClip, our minimally invasive clip technology to repair a leaky tricuspid heart
valve, long considered the forgotten valve TriClip brings an important new solution to patients
that have previously had very few treatment options. Abbott now offers minimally invasive device
therapies for three valves in the heart, the aortic, the mitral, and the tricuspid valves. We also
launched two Cardiac Rhythm defibrillation products under our Gallant brand that include
Bluetooth capabilities to align with our strategy and remote monitoring and digitally connected
care. Also saw the approval of EnSite X, our next-generation 3D cardiac mapping technology. And
U.S. approval of FreeStyle Libre 2 and CE Mark for Libre 3, the latest generations of our market-
leading continuous glucose monitoring systems, and CE Mark of Libre Sense glucose sport, the
first product in our strategy to expand use of our wearable biosensors technology into mass-
market opportunities beyond diabetes.
As you can see, it was a highly productive year for our pipeline and quite frankly, there is, even
more, I could highlight. In 2021, we're forecasting continued strong double-digit growth in our
Diabetes Care business led by FreeStyle Libre, and steady improvements in our cardiovascular
and neuromodulation businesses fueled by the continued business recovery, the society works its
way through COVID-19 and on the strength of our recent and upcoming new product launches.
Moving to Established Pharmaceuticals, or EPD, where sales increased 3.5% in the fourth quarter
reflecting sequential improvement versus the prior quarter. Despite COVID, EPD sales increased
2% overall in 2020 demonstrating the resilience of our business model even in this challenging
environment. Growth this past year was led by sales in India, Russia, China, and Brazil.
During the year EPD continued to strengthen its portfolio with more than 50 new product
launches across our key emerging markets. As we've discussed before, new product
introductions in EPD are more incremental in nature and a steady cadence of portfolio expansion
and refreshment we're achieving is an important element of our sustainable growth strategy. We
forecast demand and growth rate improvements in EPD during 2021, as well as, a continued
steady cadence of new product introductions that will contribute to growth.And I'll wrap up with our Diagnostic Business where sales grew nearly 110% in the quarter driven
by $2.4 billion of COVID testing-related sales. We realized, very early that a variety of different
testing solutions would be required to tackle the pandemic. With that understanding starting last
March, we developed and launched an entire portfolio of tests to target the virus. The biggest
contribution in the fourth quarter came from our rapid Lateral Flow Test to detect the virus, which
includes BinaxNOW in the U.S. and Panbio, internationally. These are highly portable, reliable and
affordable tests, and in just 15 minutes can detect if someone is infectious without the use of an
instrument, which means the test can be performed in virtually any setting such as physician
office, pharmacies, urgent care centers, workplace settings, and even at home.
As part of our pandemic response efforts, we also developed and launched a digital solution that
pairs with these test called NAVICA, which allows people to receive and display test results on
their mobile devices. But our efforts didn't stop at developing these tests. We also ramped up
manufacturing capacity on a massive scale and now producing more than 100 million of these two
tests combined per month. While our COVID testing efforts have clearly received a lot of
attention, we will also remain focused on the launch and rollout of Alinity, our suite of innovative
diagnostic instruments. We continue to retain existing businesses and capture share at strong
rates and we continue to build on our test menus for these instruments.
Last year, we initiated the U.S. launch of Alinity m for molecular testing. This launch included a
COVID test which helped jumpstart demand for this innovative, highly automated and
differentiated molecular testing platform. And earlier this month, we announced U.S. FDA
clearance for the first rapid handheld blood test for concussions. This test measures certain
biomarkers found in blood after a head harm event and produce the result within 15 minutes after
a plasma sample is inserted in our i-STAT Alinity handheld device.
Building on this initial clearance, we're also working on a whole blood point-of-care test under
FDA breakthrough designation and our vision is to develop a 15-minute portable test that can be
used in any settings where people might experience head injuries that required quick evaluation.
So in summary, despite the challenging environment, we achieved the upper end of the EPS
range we set last January before anyone knew the extent of the COVID pandemic
demonstrating the strength, resilience of our diversified business model and our superior
execution. Our new product pipeline continues to be incredibly productive, delivering
groundbreaking innovations and a steady cadence of important new products with more on the
horizon. We continue to lead in the area of diagnostic testing for COVID which is helping to fight
the virus and accelerating our long-term decentralized testing strategy. And we are forecasting
more than 35% adjusted EPS growth in 2021 which is truly unique in this environment.
I'll now turn over the call to Bob. Bob?
`Robert E. Funck, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Robert. As Scott mentioned earlier, please note that all references to sales growth rates
unless otherwise noted are on an organic basis.
Turning to our results, sales for the fourth quarter increased 28.4%, which was led by strong
performance in Nutrition and Diabetes Care along with global COVID testing related sales of $2.4
billion in the quarter. Foreign exchange had a favorable impact of 0.3% on sales, which was
somewhat favorable compared to expectations, had exchange rates held steady since the time
of our earnings call in October. Reported sales increased 28.7% in the quarter.Regarding other aspects of the P&L, the adjusted gross margin ratio was 58.5% of sales, R&D
investment was 6% of sales and SG&A expense was 23.5% of sales. Our fourth-quarter adjusted
tax rate of 14.1% reflects the adjustment required to align our tax expense with our revised full-
year effective tax rate of 15%. This is somewhat lower than the estimate we provided in October
due to a shift in the mix of our geographic and business income.
Turning to our outlook for the full year 2021. Today, we issued guidance for full-year adjusted
earnings per share of the least $5. Based on current rates, we would expect exchange to have a
favorable impact of approximately 3.5% on our reported sales which includes an expected
favorable impact of approximately 3% on our first quarter reported sales. We forecast full-year
net interest expense of around $515 million, non-operating income of around $230 million, and a
full-year adjusted tax rate of 15%.
With that, we'll now open the call for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from `Bob Hopkins, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch from Bank of
America. Your line is open.
Q - `Bob Hopkins, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great, and thank you. And good morning and congrats on all the success and progress you guys
are having. So Robert, so much that I could ask about here, but out I'll go high level with my
question and ask if you wouldn't mind putting that $5 earnings or at least $5 in earnings for 2021
guidance number in perspective for us given that that $5 is above even what the street was
modeling for 2022. And specifically, I guess the way I'd ask the question is, I am sure investors
would love some perspective on how COVID testing impacts that guidance? How you're thinking
about the base business? And maybe most importantly, given how much higher $5 is compared
to expectations. I am sure investors would love to hear your early thoughts on whether or not
Abbott can grow at a sort of traditional rate off of that $5 number next year? So sorry for the
elongated question but I would love any perspective. Thank you.
A - `Robert B. Ford, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure, Bob. You hit on all the points there, I guess. We've been looking at 2021 for several months
right now. I think one of the things as we're going into, it is that we knew, I mean a lot of
companies were going to be forecasting double-digit growth going into 2021, a lot of that
probably based on comps, where we saw a decrease in EPS. And that wasn't -- that's not the
case for Abbott, we're not coming out of a hole.
And as I said in my remarks, the $5 -- the at least $5 target for 2021, it's about 50% higher than
where we were in 2019. And what I can say is that, we are Bob and myself, as we manage the
business especially over these last couple of months and going into this year, we've been looking
at two-year CAGR across our businesses. And I think that's the right way to look at it, is to kind of
look at what happened in 2020. And it's easy for some of the businesses to come up and post
double-digit kind of growth for us. We're really looking at it on a two-year CAGR basis.
The point that you touched on, you know all the points that we've looked at and we've been
modeling several different scenarios. So I'll touch on those because they're all elements of how
we built to our at least $5. First of all, obviously COVID testing, it's been a big driver for us and itwill continue to be a big driver. I expect testing demand is still going to remain high even as the
vaccines rollout. I don't think we have even seen testing demand peak yet. So we built a lot of
capacity and we've talked about that over -- over last year, the capacity that we built, but we
didn't put it all in. We didn't put it all in into that $5. So -- but we don't[ph] all see it going away
either, but there's enough capacity there, testing capacity, sufficient testing capacity, for us to be
able to meet this kind of growing demand right now.
The other part of our forecast here, without a doubt, is looking at our base business and the
recovery of our base business. Specifically, the ones that were hit probably more heavily by the
COVID, which was some of our device businesses and our routine testing and routine lab testing.
These are important procedures, that are life-changing procedures, that are important routine
test to do, so you can't just keep pushing them out indefinitely. And what we saw in Q3 of last
year as those rates -- hospitalization rates started to come down, we started to see the pickup of
our procedures and of our core testing and we actually saw growth in several months in Q3 and
going into Q4 and obviously, that got impacted probably around Thanksgiving.
So we've seen that these can recover and we do have that modeled in into that $5, which is a
recovery of these businesses at a similar rate of what we saw in Q3 and somewhere in the fall.
I'd say the third kind of key element in there is our consumer businesses that probably weren't as
impacted and did pretty well during the pandemic. We expect those businesses to either
continue their trajectory or get better. I mean, I think, Nutrition had a really great year last year. I
expect them to have a very similar year this year with a lot of new product launches. EPD should
get sequentially better. We saw that in Q4, early indications in January show that recovery
continuing. And quite frankly, Libre, I expect to do better with all the innovation and investment
we're making there. So, those businesses will do well.
And then the fourth element that we've modeled a lot is spending, and ability to reinvest in the
businesses in areas that we thought that we could do more it[ph] investment, whether it's SG&A
and more specifically in R&D and accelerate some of our programs. I think you saw some of that
in our Q4 results where we beat consensus, while at the same time investing more in R&D and
SG&A. So we looked at these four elements here, Bob and we modeled it, variety of different
ways and just feel really good that this was a good floor, a good starting point at $5.
Quite frankly, if anything we could have significant upside over here is just[ph] really going to
depend a little bit on how we think about COVID testing going forward. So I kind of saw the $5
here is, okay. It's a 37% increase versus 2020, which grew 13% and we've got probable upside to
that. While at the same time, an opportunity to invest in the business, invest in SG&A, more
specifically in R&D. I think we've got a leading COVID test portfolio here with a variety of different
tests and capacity that we haven't dialed all in. And quite frankly, if I put all that capacity and I think
maybe you would add a little bit time believing that, but it's there.
And I think we've got an exciting base business like you talk -- like you had mentioned here, that
is poised for recovery. I mean, we've got great portfolios, real strong brands, rich pipelines,
strong leadership positions. So I think the $5 here was definitely a good starting point factoring all
those elements in here and we'll be able to kind of build from there as the year progresses.
Q - `Bob Hopkins, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Well. Thank you for that. That's a thorough overview. And then just the one follow-up would be,
obviously, it's the beginning of 2021. But does that high level of earnings for this year does that
mean you might not be able to grow off of that in 2022 because there is so much testing in 2021?Or just, give us some thoughts on Abbott's ability to continue on a double-digit growth trajectory
off of that $5 number if okay?
A - `Robert B. Ford, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. It's a little premature to just skip across all the way to 2022. But we have -- but listen, we
didn't do 2021 in isolation. So we looked at 2022 and looked at all those different scenarios that I
talked about. So I can probably give you some general comments over here. I mean, I think we're
forecasting a lot of growth this year and we're going to be looking to build on it. Prior to the
pandemic, the Street consensus for 2023 EPS was just under $5. So we're targeting that EPS this
level. this year. So in essence, we've pulled forward at least two full years of EPS growth.
And our mindset here Bob is going to be that we're going to maintain that pull forward
indefinitely. We always start our process with a double-digit target every year. That's been our
identity, and I have no intention of changing that identity. Of course, there is a couple of factors
here that we need to contemplate. But even looking at those factors, we feel good that we've
got the different elements here to be able to deliver on that double-digit. One of those is
obviously COVID and COVID testing, and even if COVID testing starts to mature a little bit in
2022 we believe there is a significant portion that's still very sustainable.
Can we predict it perfectly today? No, I can't. Not to a level that you are accustomed to get from
us. But I also think that the ability to do testing in a decentralized manner, people talk a lot about
how the pandemic has accelerated digital transformation in businesses, accelerated
transformation in the business models. The pandemic has accelerated our decentralized testing
strategy and I think the -- I think I've talked about this in the last call. I think a lot of the testing
channels that we're building here that have emerged, I don't see them going away. On top of
that, we -- as I said, we've got investment and investment spending into SG&A but more
specifically into R&D. We believe R&D is the more sustainable spend. It's the spend that allows us
to sustain our topline growth rate. So I would expect that these investments that we've made in
Q4 and definitely into 2021 that would have an impact on our base business growth rate. We've
always talked about our base business being sustainable at 7 to 8, and I would expect these
investments to be able to accelerate on that.
And I guess the third part to that question of yours about confidence on delivering double digits
in 2022 is we've got a great balance sheet and we've got strong financial health and a lot of
strategic flexibility there. So I lay all of these elements out here, sustained testing, the investment
in the business, and the strong balance sheet just gives me confidence that even with all these
different models here that we will be able to kind of continue to deliver that identity of double-
digit growth.
Q - `Bob Hopkins, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Matt Taylor from UBS. Your line is open.
Q - `Matthew Taylor, Analyst, UBS `
Hi. Thanks a lot for taking the question. So maybe I'll just ask you to drill down a little bit on testing
and the assumptions that you have for testing in the year. You came in really strong here in Q4with a big step-up sequentially. What are you assuming in the $5 for testing throughout the year?
If you could discuss some of the different product lines.
And then maybe, if you could provide some high-level thoughts on how much of a tale of testing
we might see into '22 and beyond?
A - `Robert E. Funck, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. So let me talk about kind of numbers and ranges here then --- and then I'll spend time
talking about the sustainability of the testing. As I said, I don't see the demand is kind of dropping
off even with the vaccine rollout. We achieved $2.4 billion in Q4. So if you annualize that it will go --
it'll annualize around $10 billion. So I can expect probably Q1 is going to be at that range of about
$2.5 billion or so.
And if you'd say, okay, what does the full-year range look like? I probably can't go beyond Q1 in
terms of exactly how it's going to look like, but you can be in that $6.5 billion to $7 billion range I
would think. But we've got, as I said plenty of capacity to go above that. So that's probably what's
incorporated here, Matt, in the $5. But I think the big point here is the sustainability of this. And to
your question there, I think, a good portion is sustainable, I think, a substantial portion is
sustainable, which is why we were a first mover and a leader here. We started with our lab-based
systems. Those were the -- probably the obvious part in the strategy. Since we knew we had a lot
of capital equipment out in the labs, we started with that[ph] strategy to take advantage of the
systems out there and you saw that roll out happened.
But we also knew then in a pandemic you were going to need to add, on top of that testing
infrastructure you're going to have to add faster testing and testing that could be done at a much
significant scale and that was more affordable, which is why we developed those two lateral flow
test. There's been a lot of visibility to Binax here in the U.S.
We haven't talked a lot about Panbio, but Panbio uses the same technology, the same kind of
antibodies, and we've got a whole supply chain that's been built outside of the United States that
supplies all of the markets that we're supporting with Panbio. So both those products, they've
been the bulk of our sales. We saw that in Q4. There's a lot of capacity that we've built around
them and that we continue to build around them.
And the clinical utility of them is really strong. I mean, they've been -- a lot of studies are showing
their reliability here at finding people that are infectious. And I think that's a key distinction here is
your ability to use these tests in a way for being able to find those people that are infectious and
not necessarily those that were infectious and that might have some remnants of DNA of the
virus in their system. So I think it's sustainable. And I think you need to take two, kind of, views
here on that, at least this is how we are looking at it.
First of all, we need to think globally about this. Sometimes we get very focused on the U.S. and
what's going on here in the U.S., but you've got 8 billion-plus people around the world. You've got
a variety of different countries that are experiencing different cycles in the disease, different
cycles in their vaccination strategies. So once you really take a bigger view here, this is not going
to be something that will just be done in the next couple of quarters here if you take a real global
perspective.
And the second thing that I think is just reframing the testing. I think we think about the
sustainability of testing when we think about Q2 and Q3 of last year. Long lines, not enough
volume, long turnaround times, $150, $200 tests. That might be not sustainable, not as
sustainable. But if you position yourself into a 2021, 2022 world where you now have fast, easier,much more scalable test, digital test that are priced for more accessibility and affordability, I think
that's the sustained kind of business here that we see. So when you think about that maturing of
the COVID testing market, we kind of see PCR kind of maturing first, and then we see the rapid
part of the business being sustained. And listen, we've built a lot of capacity. As I said, it's
probably 12 billion,13 billion,14 billion of capacity that we've built in there. We haven't put it all in,
but it's there.
And then the other part that I talked about was just the sustainability of Abbott past 2022 and
into 2023 as we've accelerated our point-of-care testing strategy. Everything we're doing in
fighting the virus has not only a direct impact of helping reopen the economy, et cetera, but it's
also seeding the market and it's building these new testing channels. We've got testing going on
at airports, hotels, urgent care, retail, universities, et cetera, so we believe that's pretty
sustainable too.
Q - `Matthew Taylor, Analyst, UBS `
Great. Thanks for that very detailed answer. Maybe I'll just ask a quick follow-up on Panbio
because that's a big new piece of the story here. I think, you really pointed out, it may take longer
in some countries for things to improve so maybe testing last longer there. Could you talk
specifically about Panbio? And what you're able to do capacity-wise. Is there any way to frame
that opportunity?
A - `Robert B. Ford, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. So from a technology perspective, it's using the same kind of lateral flow technology that
Binax has. It's just in a different form and in a cassette format. We've got capacity to do over 50
million tests per month. And we've used our infectious disease emerging market organization, so
the manufacturing, the regulatory, the R&D and more importantly, the commercial infrastructure
to be able to look across the world and support governments, workplaces, et cetera on rolling
out antigen testing internationally.
So, I think it's done very well. We've been able to kind of leverage some of the kind of joint
development of Binax and Panbio. But the demand that we're seeing internationally, I would
characterize also as probably just starting. It has an even peaked either. So I think we've got a lot
of opportunity with Panbio internationally too, and I think the team have done a really good job
there.
Q - `Matthew Taylor, Analyst, UBS `
Great. Thank you so much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Robbie Marcus, Analyst, J.P. Morgan from J.P. Morgan. Your line is open.
Q - `Robbie Marcus, Analyst, J.P. Morgan
Great. I'll add my congratulations on the quarter. Maybe I'll ask both my questions as one upfront.
This is a significant windfall of cash you're getting from the COVID testing in 2020 and 2021 and
hopefully, beyond. So maybe you could just talk about where you're going to put all that cash to
use? I know you've mentioned in the past some of it's going to fund new product launches. If you
could just also, as part of the answer, highlight the key product launches in 2021 and beyond to
look forward? Thanks.A - `Robert B. Ford, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. I'll probably say the following. A lot of it is going towards R&D, Robbie. And as I said, I think
that's the more sustainable spend. It's the one that allows us to build more sustainability in our
topline and building R&D programs.
Yeah, there is opportunity to accelerate SG&A and put some of that cash to use in SG&A, and
there are some businesses that could definitely benefit with more SG&A and there is a pretty
strong return as we put those in there, whether it's Libre or Nutrition. But a lot of the focus of this
reinvestment here is going into R&D.
And quite frankly, I think our pipeline is -- has been highly productive and maybe a little bit under-
appreciated, I think. There's a lot of focus that goes in -- into kind of key three products that you
guys like to write about them as the big three and they get a lot of attention. And quite frankly,
they should, whether it's Libre, MitraClip, and Alinity they are large multibillion-dollar segments
that are under-penetrated. And we've been making clear and intentional investments in those
businesses. So I am not going to spend a lot of time going through those but you kind of know
them, right? So Libre with Libre 3, we've got Libre 4 in development, we've been making
investments in new applications for the Libre platform outside of diabetes.
In MitraClip, obviously, we've got this opportunity with the CMS reimbursement. We have a fifth-
generation MitraClip that's also in development and we're investing in a significant amount of
clinical trials here to expand the market for us and we'll continue to do that. Probably the one I am
more excited about here is the moderate risk for DMR that we've announced also.
And then Alinity, you also know the story, I mean we've got six new systems, we're increasing the
menu and expanding that geographically. So that has a lot of attention, continues to have a lot of
attention, and we do resource those opportunities because they're that big. But I think it's
misleading here to think that that's the sum of our innovation strategy, we're so much more than
that.
On the EPD and the Nutrition side, we're going to continue to invest in line extensions and
portfolio refreshment. This is the model that we know drives the returns we need for these
businesses. And I think the team has now hit their stride in terms of how to do this and how to
effectively roll this out with local portfolios. EPD has rolled out over 50 products, I expect that to
continue. Nutrition has done over 20 and I expect that to continue.
In diagnostics outside of Alinity, outside of COVID, we've been investing a lot in expanding our
rapid testing portfolio. I've been talking about this -- about the opportunity we have to take
advantage of these new channels that we built and increase the penetration with different assays.
So whether it's going beyond COVID or flu with RSV Strep, we've got a sexual transmitted
disease platform for ID NOW which we're excited about also, which I think is got a great
opportunity. And then, this rapid concussion test Robbie, I think is a great opportunity for us,
probably the biggest opportunity we have is, if -- once we work through to have a whole blood
test I can envision here an opportunity across the 25,000 high schools in the U.S., the 5,000
colleges, all the sporting leagues, and that's going to take us another 1.5 years or a bit or so to
get there, but I think it's a great opportunity.
And then the Device portfolio is going to continue to get a lot of investment the way we have.
Obviously, Tendyne and Cephea, we want to be a leader in mitral. We've launched Tendyne in
Europe. We are funding our Cephea program so that we can have a transfemoral, transseptal
program for the replacement of the mitral valve. I am very pleased with the progress we've seenTriClip, I talked about the opportunity with TriClip. It's not going to be as large as mitral but it will
be 30%, 35% the size of the mitral market and we're still in the early innings here of
development of clinical evidence development, and we're going to be leading there. We've
made investments in increasing the competitiveness of our CRM portfolio. We've just started to
roll out now more global basis, our two new defibrillator products under the Gallant.
And we've been working hard at our Leadless program and making the investments in the
Leadless program so that not only can we come out with a single-chamber product and then be
able to upgrade it to a dual-chamber product. I like the program. I like what we've done with it. I
think we have a value proposition, a differentiated value proposition versus the competition.
CardioMEMS is another study that we've been funding and there's probably going to be required
some build-out of the commercial infrastructure to be able to support the rollout of that product.
If you think about the opportunity we have with CardioMEMS even at a 10% to 15% penetration on
that population, you're looking at $1 billion opportunity for us. So that is obviously getting a lot of
attention.
And then, I am very excited to come into the U.S. with the LAA and the TAVI[ph] product
sometime this year. I think these are great opportunities. I like the product that we have,
especially on the LAA side with Amulet. It does very well in Europe and we'll be funding those
programs too. So it's more than the big three. There is a lot here. And quite frankly, Bob and I are
already going to the businesses and say okay, what was below the line that you didn't show us in
the planning process? And can we get going on those two? So that's where a lot of the
investment goes, into R&D.
Q - `Robbie Marcus, Analyst, J.P. Morgan
That's really helpful. Thanks so much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `David Lewis, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.
Q - `David Lewis, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Good morning. And thanks for taking the questions. Robert, just want to follow back up on
investment. And I just -- I am just sort of thinking about your balance sheet here relative to peers.
You are already more than a turn better than all your large-cap peers. And frankly, I can see a
scenario, by 2024 this is a net cash business in a $200 billion market cap company. So you have
kind of unprecedented levels of financial leverage on the balance sheet.
In recent weeks, we've actually seen some of your competitors get more aggressive on growth-
oriented M&A and we haven't heard much of that conversation, this morning. So what are your
thoughts on kind of growth-oriented M&A this year to supplement that pipeline? And should
investors be thinking about tuck-in growth-oriented M&A? I guess, you certainly have the capacity
to do something more transformative. Then I had a quick follow-up?
A - `Robert B. Ford, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. On the M&A side, listen, we're always looking as of -- as I've always said, we're always
looking, we're always studying. So while we are not be announcing or doing something, we're still
studying, we're still looking. As I said in the previous question though, David, I mean we've got a
lot of organic opportunities to invest in and I like those organic opportunities. So they obviouslyBut if you think about M&A. Yeah, it's got to be a good fit strategically and it's got to align with our
growth orientation here. I mean, I am not going to look at something that's going to dilute our
topline growth rate. And obviously, is able to generate a return for our shareholders. So there is a
lot of activity. There is a lot of, I'd say, high evaluations right now also. But to the extent that we
do something this year, it would be more like tuck-in nature to be able to kind of augment some
of these portfolios. So that's probably the better way to put it to you.
Q - `David Lewis, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Okay. Very helpful. And then, what a difference a year makes for deepening the call. We haven't
talked about Libre, yet. But I am kind of curious on two fronts on Libre. One, what -- the full
commercial rollout of Libre 3 in Europe. When can we thinking about the right quarter to think
about sort of stepping on the gas with Libre 3? Is it this quarter? Is it next quarter?
And this is more broadly, Robert, I mean given the investment spending this year on direct to
consumer and where that platform would go over time, just maybe help us understand what
investors may not be appreciating about where that platform can go over a multi-year basis. So
when is the push in Europe and where can that platform go with investment? Thanks so much.
A - `Robert B. Ford, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Sure. So Libre gets pushed down to like fourth or fifth question. But it's still top of our
priorities here because it's such a huge opportunity for us. We had a real strong quarter in Q4.
We exited with a lot of momentum going into this year, especially in the U.S. I think global sales
were (inaudible) $1 billion, up 35%. And I expect the absolute dollar amount to get bigger. And
usually when that happens, we think well gee, lol of big numbers, right? The percentages are
going to go down and, I don't think so. I think that we're going to see continuing growth rate
expansion on our Libre business here. So I kind of look at Libre as a 2021 growth that should start
at 40% and go from there.
A lot of focus on the U.S. on the rollout -- on Libre 2 rollout. We're seeing a lot of the trend shifts
whether it's revenue, whether it's new users. I think the superior accuracy messaging here is, it's
definitely coming through and it's got all the other advantages of our value proposition. I think
one of the good things about the pharmacy channel is that there is a lot of available data, there is
a lot of available third-party audited data. And when I do the reviews with the team, we spent a
lot of time looking at them, and I thought, I mean you can't hide behind these -- you can't hide
when you are in the pharmacy like all this data is available.
And I think, (inaudible) has done really well in the U.S. And obviously, I want it do better, but I can't
look at it and not be objective that there's obviously been a trend shift here whether it's NBRx's,
TRx's refill rates et cetera. One of them that I am extremely happy to see is the Rx fulfillment
rates. So when a consumer goes to the pharmacy with a prescription, swipes the card, do they
get that prescription filled, right. And there is factors that drive somebody to not get it filled. It's
usually a co-pay. And what we've seen with the Libre Rx fulfillment rate is at about a 9 out of 10
get filled. When you compare that to our competitor at about 6 out of 10, I think the value
proposition here is really strong, meaning that we can invest in DTC advertising. We can invest
more in this platform and we're seeing the value proposition come through as it relates to Rx
fulfillment rates.
So I'd say the focus on U.S. is also[ph] your question on L3, we're already here. We've been
working through, I'd say the reimbursement contracting process. It probably got delayed a little
bit in Q4 in terms of our expectations given some of the focus of a lot of the internationalLibre 2 and Libre 3, we've got hundreds of millions of sensors here of capacity. And I think that's
ties a little bit to the expectation that we have for this segment, which is you've got close to 80
million people that could benefit from this target, which is why we took a very different approach
in our strategy, a much mass-market approach that -- develop a product that's consumer-friendly,
intuitive, make sure that it can provide measurable benefits and price it for mass adoption. And
that's working out very well. So we should see a Libre 3 launch international in Q1 and then in the
U.S., we'll issue a release when we get approval.
Q - `David Lewis, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thank you so much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Larry Biegelsen, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities from Wells Fargo. Your line is open.
Q - `Larry Biegelsen, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities `
Good morning. Thanks for taking the question and congrats on a really nice year. So two from me.
One, just on kind of how you see the recovery playing out in 2021 and one on the P&L. So Robert,
how do you see the year playing out for devices actually Ray[ph] and diagnostics X[ph] COVID
testing, in terms of the recovery. Q1 starts to be an easier comp because we started to see the
COVID impact last year in the first quarter. And do you see the second half of this year as more
normalized? Then I had one follow-up.
A - `Robert B. Ford, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Sure. So on the device side, as I said in the earlier comments here, Larry. I think we're going
to -- we're looking at what we saw in Q3 and correlating those that drop in rates, not an absolute
drop. So not trying to mirror the absolute number of hospitalizations, but at least the rate of
decline of hospitalizations and tying it into the increase in the procedures. A lot of these
procedures are life-saving, some of them are elective, some of them are life-saving and we're
hearing a lot of our accounts in the U.S. and international really wanting to kind of push stronger
and a sense here, that with the vaccine they feel more confident to be able to build it.
So I think you'll see, probably the biggest comp issue. I'd say, it's probably Q2. I mean, I think
that's when we saw the big drop. Q1 was probably more towards the end of the quarter, the last
two weeks of March. So I kind of see the more normalization growth rates. So that -- those kinds
of growth rates that you saw from our device business excluding diabetes to look more like that
in -- starting in Q3. But we'll have a nice build I think too there as the year progresses.
Q - `Larry Biegelsen, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities `
And then on the P&L. Bob, you gave some helpful color on some of the below the line items, but
the testing revenues, it comes at a pretty high margin, I believe. How should we be thinking about
gross margin and operating margin in '21 relative to 2020? Thanks for taking the questions.
A - `Robert B. Ford, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Certainly. So our gross margin on our testing business is pretty similar to kind of the base
business, maybe a touch higher than that. We saw steady improvement in the fourth quarter on
gross margin from the prior quarter. It was up about 100 basis points. And we saw that kind of
steady improvement coming out of the second quarter where we saw the impact of the decline
in kind of the Medical Device area. And -- third quarter, fourth quarter steady improvement there.And we would expect that to continue to go steadily up as we see recovery in those based
businesses. We see more normalization kind of coming through our manufacturing plants as well
as that volume kind of normalizes.
In the fourth quarter, you did also see the impact of some of the investments that we're making
in that capacity that Robert talked about, and so that was a bit of an offset that you saw kind of
come through in the fourth quarter.
Q - `Larry Biegelsen, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities `
Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Joanne Wuensch, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets from Citi. Your line is open.
Q - `Joanne Wuensch, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets `
Good morning, everybody. And thank you for taking the question. I want to focus on two things.
EPD saw a really nice recovery in the fourth quarter, but not as strong as it's been in the last
couple of years. How do you think about that recovering over time?
And then the second question is a bit of a big picture question. We're talking a lot with investors
about sort of a whole new world and how health care is being delivered. And I would think you
would be one of the closest to seeing how the pandemic has changed delivery. Thank you.
A - `Robert B. Ford, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. So on EPD. Yeah, we did see a nice recovery. I mean when we looked at how the impact of
COVID progressed geographically. We saw it for some reason kind of trail a little bit kind of the
developed markets, whether it was Europe and the U.S. We really started to feel the impact on
our EPD business, which is as you know, mostly emerging markets started to see it coming out of
Q2 and then big in Q3 as a lot of those countries kind of shutdown. And the way the model works
is, you still need a prescription and you need your physician or you need to go to your hospital to
get that prescription. So when we looked at Q4, we were actually not surprised, but it was good
to see that it came in a little bit higher than what we had expected, because we are trying to
model it very similar to what we saw in some of the other businesses and it came back, it came
back faster.
At the same time, there is -- it's not a nice, kind of, linear forecast in these markets, and there is -
- it does tend to bounce up around. I mean, we had a 9%, 10% growth in Q1. There were some
stocking effect there in kind of February, March, in some of the markets. So you will have a comp
over there. But what we look at is, we're looking at the IMS demand market progression in all
these markets that we're competing in and we're seeing a nice recovery. So I expect that just to
sequentially kind of get better and I guess, similar to the comment on devices get back to that
high single-digit growth rate towards the second half.
And then you also had a question on change of care. I mean, I think a lot has happened right? And
we've tried to have focus on the areas that we feel that we can contribute and benefit. One of
them I talked about is this decentralization of testing and how the pandemic has accelerated that
decentralization for us. We believed in it. We believe that we could drive it and create a whole
new testing channel when we did the Alere acquisition and this has kind of brought it forward
about, probably about two years in terms of where we are today versus where we thought weaffordable, and digitally connected testing is something that I think is going to be here and here
to stay. Whether it's a COVID test or other tests, I think that is a change a little bit in the delivery
at least on the Diagnostics side.
And then the other side that I'd say is one that we've been working on for quite some bit is, the
connectivity of our devices and the intersection of digital and health care and how those devices
are being connected. You've seen what we've done across all of our portfolio and devices and
we'll continue to position our products in such a way where we can develop them and take
advantage of that.
For neuromodulation, we've just announced here a very interesting platform, which I think is going
to have a significant impact on how that business and business model works with a much more
connected care platform where patients get to report their outcomes and eventually get to
remote programming, which is a huge change in that business model. So I'd say the COVID
testing accelerating decentralization of testing and connected care are probably the two
pandemic driven changes that we're focusing on taking advantage of.
Q - `Joanne Wuensch, Analyst, BMO Capital Markets `
Thank you.
A - `Scott Leinenweber, Vice President, Investor Relations, Licensing and Acquisitions `
We'll take one more question operator.
Operator
Thank you. And our last question comes from `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI from Evercore. Your line is open.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Hey guys. Thanks for taking my question here. And I'll try to ask both of mine in one question. I
guess Robert, your PCR plus antigen test, can detect these new variants especially the South
African variant. Is there a difference, one versus the other PCR versus antigen? And when you
look at the total revenue contribution my follow-up was the $6.5 billion to $7 billion-ish of COVID
revenues in fiscal '21. What would be a reasonable baseline modeling assumptions for-- when I
look at fiscal '22, is that a 50% drop off, 75% drop off. I am curious how you guys are thinking
about it. Thank you.
A - `Robert B. Ford, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I guess on the modeling thing, listen you could say there could be a drop-off, you could say
there could be an increase or it could stay. So I think the modeling piece here is a little bit difficult.
I think we're going to have a lot more understanding as we get towards the summer. But I think at
least for the first half, you've got -- we've got sufficient capacity here to kind of explore the
demand that exists, both in the U.S. and globally. So, yeah. I am not sure right now that you can
kind of easily kind of just put that model down like that. But it's just too soon.
Regarding your question on mutations and the impact there. A lot of the mutations here, I don't
want to get too wonky here, but we've been looking at this Vijay, since the beginning. We have a
group of, we call them the Virus Hunters. They're constantly looking and studying and getting
their hands on samples to be able to kind of not only test our existing products but even the
development of new ones.And then I'd say, right now the mutations are happening, the ones that you've referenced, the
South African one and the UK one, those are happening on what we would call the spike protein
or what we call the S protein. The rapid antigen test that we have are actually targeting the
nucleocapsid protein, what we call the N protein. So in silico analysis says no impact. The UK
NH[ph] kind of did a study on Panbio and found the UK variant did not influence the sensitivity of
the Panbio. But we're also collecting as many samples as we can from UK, South Africa, Brazil, et
cetera and making sure that we're constantly studying that to ensure that there is no change in
the sensitivity of the test that we've developed.
On the molecular side whether it's ID NOW. ID NOW looks at a different gene, the RPDP genes.
It's completely a different thing and similar thing also with the PCR. So I think those are right now
from everything we know wouldn't be impacted by the mutations. We're more focused on the
antigen with the mutations on those protein sequences.
Q - `David Lewis, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
That's extremely helpful. Thank you.
A - `Robert B. Ford, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So, I feel good about that right now. But obviously, we're constantly vigilant here.
So let me just close here. I'd say we had a real strong 2020, very strong performance almost 10%
topline growth, 13% EPS. We're forecasting 2021 here at least $5. And like I said, I think we've got
opportunity to have upside to that, but still already at $5. It's already at a 37% increase. And in
that $5, we're also making a lot of investments in R&D to be able to sustain our growth going
forward. So we feel confident about maintaining our double-digit in 2022. A significant portion of
our COVID testing we believe is sustainable. We've made investments or have a plan here to lay
out investments in our base business that I think will accelerate our growth rate, and some of the
questions here, we've got a strong balance sheet here. So you combine those three elements
here, I think we've got a -- not only a strong '21 forecast but a pretty good line of sight here in
terms of delivering double-digits for 2022.
So, thanks.
A - `Scott Leinenweber, Vice President, Investor Relations, Licensing and Acquisitions `
Thank you, operator. And thank you for all your questions. This now concludes Abbott's
conference call. A webcast replay of this call will be available after 11:00 AM Central Time today
on Abbott's Investor Relations website at abbottinvestor.com. Thank you for joining us today.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your participation
and you may now disconnect. Everyone have a wonderful day.