Q4 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to Abbott's Fourth Quarter 2022 Earnings
Conference Call. All participants will be able to listen-only, until the question-and-answer portion
of this call. (Operator Instructions)
This call is being recorded by Abbott. With the exception of any participant's questions asked
during the question-and-answer session, the entire call including the question-and-answer
session is material copyrighted by Abbott. It cannot be recorded or rebroadcast without Abbott's
express written permission.
I would now like to introduce Mr.`Scott Leinenweber, Vice President, Investor Relations, Licensing, and Acquisition, Vice President, Investor Relations, Licensing
and Acquisitions.
`Scott Leinenweber, Vice President, Investor Relations, Licensing, and Acquisition `
Good morning, and thank you for joining us. With me today are Robert Ford, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer; and Bob Funck, Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
Robert and Bob will provide opening remarks. Following their comments, we'll take your
questions. Before we get started, some statements made today may be forward-looking for
purposes of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including the expected financial
results for 2023.
Abbott cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that
may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking
statements. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may
affect Abbott's operations are discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors to our annual report on Form 10-
K for the year ended December 31, 2021. Abbott undertakes no obligation to release publicly any
revisions to forward-looking statements as a result of subsequent events or developments
except as required by law.On today's conference call, as in the past, non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help
investors understand Abbott's ongoing business performance. These non-GAAP financial
measures are reconciled with the comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings news
release and regulatory filings from today, which are available on our website at abbott.com.
Note that Abbott has not provided the GAAP financial measure for organic sales growth,
excluding COVID testing sales on a forward-looking basis, because the company is unable to
predict future changes in foreign exchange rates, which could impact reported sales growth.
Unless otherwise noted, our commentary on sales growth refers to organic sales growth, which
excludes the impact of foreign exchange.
With that, I will now turn the call over to Robert.
`Robert B. Ford, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Scott. Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining us. Today, I will discuss our 2022
results as well as our outlook for this year.
For the full-year 2022, we achieved ongoing earnings per share of $5.34, which is well above the
original EPS guidance we set at the beginning of the year. As you know, macro business
conditions been highly dynamic and challenging over the last few years, particularly for U.S. based
multinational companies. COVID-19 pandemic played a big role in this, of course. We saw the U.S.
dollar strengthen significantly and inflation reached new heights last year. Supply chains continue
to face challenges, and our healthcare customers have been navigating staffing challenges that
are negatively impacting certain medical device procedure trends and routine diagnostic testing
volumes. As we start the new year however, while these factors remain headwinds, I am
cautiously optimistic that we are starting to see them peak, and in some cases, ease a bit.
Over the past few months, the impact of COVID-19 on society has lessened and economies
around the world are increasingly reopening. In the U.S., the U.S. dollar weakened a bit and
inflation has eased somewhat. And hospital-based procedures and routine testing trends
continue to steadily improve in many areas.
As you know, COVID testing has been a big part of our story these past couple of years, and I am
proud of what our team has built; a full suite of tests across several platforms and the
intentionality in how we established a leading role in the world's response to the pandemic. In
total, we delivered nearly 3 billion COVID tests globally, since the start of the pandemic. Going
forward, we expect COVID-19 to transition to more of an endemic seasonal type of respiratory
virus. And with that, COVID testing, while still important, is expected to decline significantly.
We expect variants will continue to emerge, and therefore, our tests will more -- will remain an
important part of our leading respiratory testing portfolio, along with flu, RSV and strep, which we
offer across multiple testing platforms, including lab-based systems and hospitals, small desktop
devices in urgent care centers and physician offices as well as at-home tests.
As we reflect back on the impact of COVID testing efforts, over the last few years, it's clear that
our success in this area will have a positive, long lasting impact for the company. It strengthened
our strategic position in diagnostics through the expansion of our installed base of instruments,
including ID NOW, our rapid, point-of-care molecular testing platform, and through the opening of
new testing channels, such as physician offices and at-home testing.
It enabled us to increase investments in priority growth areas across the company, including R&D
and commercial initiatives in support of several recent and upcoming new product launches.While at the same time, increasing returns to our shareholders in the forms of dividend growth
and share repurchases. And lastly, it further strengthened our overall financial health and balance
sheet, which will provide significant strategic flexibility as we look to build and grow the company
even further. I'm proud of the role we played in fighting COVID the last few years, it reinforced
our purpose, had a meaningful impact on society, and enhanced our long-term strategic position
going forward.
Turning now to our outlook for 2023. As we announced this morning, we forecast ongoing
earnings per share of $4.30 to $4.50. We forecast organic sales growth excluding COVID testing
sales in the high-single digits. And we forecast around $2 billion of COVID testing sales for the full
year 2023.
I'll now provide more details on our results by business area before turning the call over to Bob.
And I'll start with Nutrition. Our sales declined around 6% in both the fourth quarter and full year
as a result of manufacturing disruptions at one of our U.S. infant formula facilities last year.
Production at the facility is up and running. And as we've mentioned previously, our initial supply
priority was to the WIC, Women, Infant and Children federal food assistance program to ensure
underserved participants had access to infant formula. As our manufacturing capacity has
continued to recover, we've been able to increase production of our non-WIC brands with a focus
on serving the broader infant formula market and building back inventory levels on retail shelves.
Turning to Diagnostics, where, as expected, sales growth in the fourth quarter was negatively
impacted by year-over-year decline in COVID-19 test sales. COVID testing sales were $1.1 billion in
the fourth quarter with rapid testing platforms, including BinaxNOW in the U.S., Panbio
internationally, and ID NOW globally, compromising approximately 95% of these sales.
Excluding COVID testing sales, worldwide diagnostics grew over 11% in the fourth quarter. Growth
in the quarter was led by rapid diagnostics where excluded COVID-19 test sales increased 30%
compared to the prior-year. As I mentioned earlier, during the pandemic, we significantly
expanded the installed base of ID Now and opened new testing channels. This expanded
footprint drove strong growth and supported testing needs when flu and other respiratory
infections surged late last year. During this past year, we continued the rollout of Alinity, our
innovative suite of diagnostic instruments and expand test menus across our platforms for
immunoassay, clinical chemistry and molecular testing.
Moving to Established Pharmaceuticals or EPD, where sales increased 8% in the fourth quarter
and over 10% for the full year. EPD continues to perform at a high level, having carved out an
attractive growth space in the global pharmaceutical market. Specifically, our geographic focus on
fast-growing emerging markets with a broad portfolio targeting attractive therapeutic areas.
Strong performance in the quarter was led by double-digit growth across several geographies
including India, China, Brazil, and Mexico.
And I'll wrap up with Medical Devices, where sales grew 7.5% in the fourth quarter and 8% for the
full year. Growth in both the quarter and full year was led by double-digit growth in
Electrophysiology, Structural Heart and Diabetes Care in the U.S. Internationally, sales growth was
negatively impacted by COVID surges in China during the fourth quarter as well as lingering
supply challenges in a couple areas.
In Diabetes Care, fourth quarter sales of FreeStyle Libre, our market-leading continuous glucose
monitoring system grew over 40% in the U.S. and Global Libre sales reach $4.3 billion for the full
year 2022. We continue to strengthen our Medical Device portfolio with numerous pipeline
advancements and launches including recent U.S. regulatory approvals of Aveir, our highlyinnovative leadless pacemaker used to treating people with slow heart rhythms. Eterna, the
smallest implantable rechargeable spinal cord stimulation system currently available in the market
for the treatment of chronic pain. FreeStyle Libre 3 which provides continuous glucose readings in
the world's smallest and most accurate wearable sensor. Libre was recently named the best
medical technology of the last 50 years by Galien Foundation. And finally, Navitor, our latest
generation transcatheter aortic heart valve replacement system.
So in summary, 2022 was another highly successful year for Abbott. We're optimistic about the
early signs we're seeing of an improving operating environment and excited about the growth
opportunities that lie ahead for all of our businesses and we continue to strengthen our overall
strategic position with a steady cadence of innovative technologies that are either in the early
stages of launching or expected to launch over the course of this year.
I'll now turn over the call to Bob.
`Robert E. Funck, Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Robert. As Scott mentioned earlier, please note that all references to sales growth rates
unless otherwise noted, are on an organic basis, which excludes the impact of foreign exchange.
Turning to our results. Sales decreased 6.1% on an organic basis in the quarter. COVID, testing
related sales were $1.1 billion dollars in the quarter which, while stronger than the forecast we
provided back in October, reflect a year-over-year decline versus sales in the fourth quarter of
the prior year. Excluding both COVID testing related sales and U.S. infant formula sales that were
impacted by manufacturing disruptions last year in our nutrition business, total Abbott sales
increased 7.1% on an organic basis in the fourth quarter and 7.4% for the full year 2022.
Foreign exchange had an unfavorable year-over-year impact of 5.9% on fourth-quarter sales,
which resulted in a somewhat favorable impact on sales compared to exchange rates at the time
of our earnings call in October as we saw the dollar weaken a bit late last year. Regarding other
aspects of the P&L for the quarter, the adjusted gross margin ratio was 55.6% of sales, which
reflects the impact of the Nutrition manufacturing disruptions and inflation we've experienced on
certain manufacturing and distribution costs across our businesses. Adjusted R&D investment was
6.5% of sales and adjusted SG&A expense was 28% of sales in the fourth quarter.
Turning to our outlook for the full year 2023. Today, we issued guidance for full year ongoing
earnings per share of $4.30 to $4.50. For the year, we forecast organic sales growth, excluding
the impact of COVID testing related sales, to be in the high single digits. We forecast COVID
testing related sales of around $2 billion dollars with around $750 million dollars forecasted in the
first quarter.
Based on current rates, we would expect exchange to have an unfavorable impact of
approximately 1% on our reported full year sales, which includes an expected unfavorable impact
of approximately 3% on our first quarter reported sales. We forecast an adjusted gross margin
ratio for the full year of approximately 56% of sales. Also for the year, we forecast R&D
investment of around $2.5 billion and SG&A investment of around $11 billion, which reflects
investments to support several ongoing and upcoming new product launches and strategic
growth initiatives. We forecast net interest expense of around $300 million, non-operating
income of around $450 million and a full year adjusted tax rate of approximately 14% for the year.
As Robert mentioned, the strength and resiliency of our business, particularly since the start of
the pandemic, has allowed us to concurrently invest in our strategic priorities, provide strongreturn to our shareholders and further strengthen our financial health, which provides a strong
base on which to grow the company going forward.
With that, we'll now open the call for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. At this time, we will conduct the question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions).
And our first question will come from `Robbie Marcus, J.P. Morgan from J.P. Morgan. Your line is open.
Q - `Robbie Marcus, J.P. Morgan
Oh, great. Thanks. Good morning, everyone. Robert, maybe to kick it off, I appreciate the
guidance, but there's a lot of moving parts through the different business lines with macro
involved, with a lot of new product launches involved. Maybe you could just build up how we
should be thinking about -- how you came up with the guidance range on both the top and
bottom lines given all the moving parts?
A - `Robert B. Ford, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. I mean there's obviously a macro environment here that's been complex and you've
mentioned it. And as I said in my remarks, and I think they've gotten significantly better versus
where we were in October when -- on our last earnings call. So I think that we've factored some
of that improvement and some of that stabilization in there. I mean I don't necessarily think that
we've got too many moving parts here. I mean obviously, we run a -- the company's got a lot of
different business and business segments. But if you look at really the two areas, I would say,
Robbie that kind of have had this effect of maybe sometimes distorting the results a little bit is
our COVID testing business, and the impact of the recalled products last year, right?
So from a COVID perspective, in 2022, we actually sold more tests than we sold in 2021. And
then obviously, the impact that recalled products, yes, that was a negative. Both of those flip next
year. So if you take those out of the equation, you kind of go back to what we were growing pre-
pandemic, right, which was top-tier high-single-digit 7% to 8% growth. That's what we grew in
2022 again excluding COVID and the impact of the recalled products.
And then if you take that, that comp out on the recalled product side this year as we return to
market and look at the base business, obviously without the COVID testing. We're going to be
growing high-single digits probably at a higher end of that pre-pandemic range probably 8 plus
percent. So I think it starts with the top line and that's probably the number one part of our
guidance is obviously making sure that we feel that our top line is taking advantage of all the
good parts, all the good product launches, et cetera that we have.
And from that perspective, I think a lot of what we're doing kind of supports that ongoing high-
single-digit growth rate. If you look at our device portfolio, we'll be looking at high-single-digit
growth rate, low double-digit growth rate, combination of both, kind of recovery, the steady
recovery procedures that we're seeing combined with all these product launches that we've got
lined up, that will ultimately have a full-year impact whether it's Libre 3, Amulet, Aveir, Navitor,
CardioMEMS, Eterna on the neuromodulation side, our mapping system, In EP, we're going to
launch a new ablation catheter. So the device portfolio is well set up to be able to drive thoseI mean, I think we're going to continue to see strong performance in EPD. I think as the world
continues to reopen, those emerging markets continue to be a great opportunity for us. We've
strengthened our position in diagnostics throughout these years, and we'll see continued
successful rollout of Alinity in our core and molecular diagnostics, and then a recovery in infant
formula too.
So I think you put all that in place, our core business Abbott that we knew pre-pandemic is actually
stronger than we were pre-pandemic with investments that we made. And I think that's the other
part of I guess in the P&L. If you look at what we've been able to do this year is because of
COVID and the investments that we made during COVID in these growth areas, we're able to
drive this high-single-digit growth across the company with a fairly flat investment line, whether its
R&D and SG&A. So really getting the leverage across the businesses.
So I mean, I think it really starts with our top-line and the confidence we have and the products
we're launching, the pipeline, the positions we have. And then COVID -- COVID, we forecast
about $2 billion next year and I think that's the right number, right now. Obviously, we see kind of
society transitioning here. We've got a strong install base. We've got manufacturing capacity. We
haven't factored in any kind of real surge, but if that happens, we do have the capacity to be able
to do that. So I'd say, those are some of the moving pieces there, but fundamentally, we're in a
real strong position in terms of our long-term growth opportunities, leading positions in these
attractive growth areas, strong pipeline, which I'm sure we'll get into some of them, and a strong
balance sheet. So that's how this has been constructed and I think that we're in a good position
here.
Q - `Robbie Marcus, J.P. Morgan
Great. Thanks, Robert. Really helpful. Maybe one for Bob. You gave us the full-year guide and you
gave some commentary down the P&L, which is really helpful. But how should we be thinking
about some of the quarterly cadence here? How FX flows? What is FX on the bottom line? And
how did that compare to '22? And any just things we should be thinking about first half or second
half on the P&L? Thanks a lot.
A - `Robert E. Funck, Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So if you think about the kind of the cadence of our business for 2023, really starts with the
top line, some of the things that Robert kind of talked about. First, we have a lot of new product
launch activity, especially in our Medical Device businesses that products that either launched last
year or we'll be launching this year, I'm sure we'll talk about some of those on the call today. So
you'll see the impact of those launches kind of grow over the course of the year, kind of feather
into that top line.
Secondly, we are seeing a steady improvement in procedure trends in the U.S. and Europe.
We've been seeing that and we expect to continue to see kind of a steady improvement there
on procedure trends over the course of the year. In our Nutrition Business, we will see
improvement as we continue to supply the market in particular, the non-WIC segment of the
infant formula market in the U.S. and so we'll recover share there and so we'll have the impact of
that over the course of the year.
For China, Robbie, I'd say, we've assumed a softer start in Q1 given some of the dynamics there
at the start of this year, but we anticipate that will improve over the course of the year. And so all
those changes, all those impacts on the top line as that builds over the course of the year will
flow through to earnings. As Robert talked about, we're going to get leverage in the middle ofthe year. And so, for the first quarter, we're -- we think -- earnings will be approximately $1 and
then we'll build from there.
On your question on foreign exchange, rates have improved a bit recently, but exchange is still a
headwind, particularly on earnings. Current rates, as I said in my opening remarks, exchange is
approximately 1% headwind on sales. EPS, it's a little bit more than $0.30 headwind for us in 2023.
The fall-through impact when currencies move like we have seen over the last year is always
complex. Translation is just a piece of the impact, and while that has improved from where we
were a few months ago, it still remains a headwind.
One of the biggest drivers that we're seeing is the impact from our hedging program. We
realized pretty significant hedging gains last year that won't repeat this year. And you can really
see the impact of those hedging gains on our 2022 results. Last year, there was a pretty
significant exchange headwind on sales little over 5% or $2.1 billion, but a fairly modest impact on
earnings, it was less than a dime. And that was really the benefit we realized last year on those
hedging gains that won't repeat in 2023. And that's not a unique dynamic that we're seeing,
we're seeing that from some other multinationals as well.
Q - `Robbie Marcus, J.P. Morgan
Thanks a lot.
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions). And our next question will come from `Larry Biegelsen, Wells Fargo Securities from
Wells Fargo. Your line is open.
Q - `Larry Biegelsen, Wells Fargo Securities `
Good morning. Thanks for taking the question. Robert, I feel compelled to ask about Libre again
just given how important it is. So maybe I'd love to hear from you, the outlook for 2023. How
should we think about worldwide growth? Can it exceed 20% this year? And can you talk about
international, we've been negatively impacted by the supply issues and the transition to Libre 3 in
Germany. When do you expect those issues to be resolved and just the growth drivers like basal
and the vitamin C resolution? What are some of the growth drivers to look forward to this year
for Libre? And I had one follow-up. Thank you.
A - `Robert B. Ford, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure, Larry. Well, I think Libre had another great year, a full-year growth of over 21% strong growth
in the U.S. over 42% and international kind of grew in those mid-teens number. We were
impacted a little bit by back orders as you said on the international side. And I'd say, probably a
little bit more on our earlier generation products. So kind of Libre 1 was that -- we had a significant
improvement in that situation in Q4. I expect one or two more months of until we can completely
resolve that, but a significant improvement over there on our international performance.
I think one of the key things on the international side is it was a little bit of this supply chain on
chips that we had, like that I said is mostly behind us. The other part of it is the upgrade cycle,
right? And when you go with an accelerated upgrade cycle versus yes with Libre 3 that we did
from Libre 2 in some of our key markets. And we went from Libre 1 to Libre 2, we let that upgrade
kind of somewhat happen naturally and that takes about a year and a half, two years to actually
complete. For Libre 3, we wanted to go more aggressively in some of these markets. So thattakes your sales force away from new demand generation to making sure that we can get the
scripts and do all the behind-the-scenes work for those upgrades.
So that's -- I would say that's still ongoing, but I call that about 80% to 85% complete. So then
that allows us starting now in 2023 on the international side to start kind of driving new additions
here. So I'd say, I expect a continued growth in the U.S. in terms of market expansion, basal
opportunity I think is a great opportunity, and I think it will start in the U.S. But I think we're seeing
that also internationally. And now that we've got the supply chain issue largely behind us, and the
upgrade cycle again largely behind us, we can focus our demand generation activities on new
users.
So I think that, that's one key driver of growth for us. Can we see path for another 20% growth in
2023? Yes, I can, and I think there's a lot of opportunities of growth. I think one of them that you
mentioned being the basal expansion is a significant opportunity. I think we've been leading the
charge over here, Larry, in terms of generating the clinical data, that's required to be able to
support reimbursement. It'll start, I think, in the U.S., but I don't think it'll be a U.S.-only
phenomenon.
But in the U.S. we'll probably start first. You've got about 4 million Type 2 basal patients, in the
U.S., about a third of them are Medicare. And even if you assume a reasonable market
penetration, you also have to assume a difference in annual utilization rates versus a Type 1 an
MDI or a pump or -- but even if we take all that in consideration, the opportunity starts with the 1
billion and it can range depending on the speed and the uptake of that. So I think this is a great
growth opportunity. And like I said, I don't think it's a U.S.-only situation, I think this is going to start
to expand across the world given the clinical data that you see with Libre and the impacts that it
has. So I think this is another great opportunity for us.
The vitamin C issue that you asked. We've submitted our response. We're working with the FDA
on this, and I'm not going to try and forecast that approval. But what I would say is that soon as
that gets approved then we'll start to see the product with a couple quarters connect to ID pump
systems. We have already launched a connected ID system -- AID system in Europe. Initial results
of the receptivity of that -- of that combined product in Europe is being very favorable. So I think
that's another key growth driver for us in 2023.
And then, finally, I would say on the pipeline perspective, I don't think it's a 2023 milestone for
sales, but I think it's an important development activity for us is going to be the running our trial
for the combined glucose-ketone sensor with the FDA and generating the data to support a dual
sensor, because I think again as I've mentioned, it seems to be the go-to sensor for pumpers, will
be this ability to measure glucose and ketones and factoring that into the algorithms. So that's
going to be -- that's obviously having a lot of focus of us in terms of running that trial.
And then finally, I would say outside of Libre, the Lingo platform is another kind of key growth
driver for us. I talked about expanding Libre, the Libre platform outside of diabetes, and using this
more broadly for a much more broader target. That -- we have a separate team that's been
working on that development, Larry. We will be launching two Lingo products this year in Europe.
I'd say the first one will probably be in the first half of this year, and the second one in the second
half. So I've talked about Libre being a $10 billion product by 2028, that implies a 15% annual
growth rate. We'll do better than that this year, and I think the opportunities we have to be able
to drive to that kind of revenue for this product are very real. And I think we've been executing
very strongly on all these areas.
Q - `Larry Biegelsen, Wells Fargo Securities `That's super helpful. Just one brief follow-up. You talked about being excited about the TriClip
opportunity at J.P. Morgan. I think it was just this month. I know, it's limited in what you can say
because you're presenting the TRILUMINATE data at ACC. But how are you thinking about that
opportunity relative to Mitral? Do you still -- and do you still expect to -- do you still expect
approval in the U.S. by year-end (cid:0)23? Thanks for taking the questions.
A - `Robert B. Ford, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
I think it's a great opportunity for us. And I think that we've shown that we're definitely here one
of the leaders when it comes to clip-based heart valve repair market. And do I think it's -- it could
be bigger than Mitral? I'm not sure I would go that far yet, but I would say that the uptake of the
Tricuspid repair market, I think, will be faster than the uptake for the Mitral just because I think
when Mitral was launched, it was the first repair system. And now you have a large group of
implanting physicians that are familiar with a clip technology or familiar with mapping that clip
technology in the procedure.
We did make some changes to the delivery device for the clip, it's a little different anatomy, a
little bit more challenging to get there with the clip in the tricuspid area. But I think that it's a great
opportunity. I mean, I think there's 3 million people today that suffer from tricuspid regurgitation.
There's not a lot of really good options available for treatment, which is why we invested in the
trial here in the U.S. to bring product to the trial. Like you said, we're going to be presenting that
in a couple of months. And I think it's a great opportunity for us.
We've already seen real nice traction of that in Europe. We launched that in 2021. The team
wanted to launch it right in COVID, and I must say at the beginning, I was somewhat against that,
but they proved me wrong and the products have done really well in Europe. So I think this is
another great opportunity for us here in the U.S. too. So we're not ignoring MitraClip. It's part of
our entire portfolio, and I think the combination of those two products in the implanting physician
will be very powerful for Abbott.
Q - `Larry Biegelsen, Wells Fargo Securities `
Right. Thanks so much.
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions). And our next question will come from Josh Jennings from
Cowen. Your line is open.
Q - `Joshua Jennings, Cowen `
Hi, thanks for taking the questions. Good morning. Robert, I was hoping to get to follow up on
Larry's question just on Libre, but just thinking more kind of in the out years and this $10 billion
target that you've set. I think maybe just -- I think you outlined everything for 2023 probably holds
true for over the next five years. But just if you could reiterate your confidence or not in that $10
billion out year target? And just do you expect consolidation between pump and CGM
companies? And maybe It'd be just great to hear strategic rationale of whether a combined
pump CGM offering under one roof would be advantageous for either Abbott or another
company.
And then the second question is just on Navitor and the launch here in the United States. What
would represent a win for Abbott from a U.S. share gain perspective? And what segment is a low-
hanging fruit considering the current label? Is it the elderly patients that don't have a long lifeexpectancy that are high-risk or even intermediate-risk? And how do you expect the Navitor
launch to play out and add to the medical device growth in 2023? Thanks for taking the
questions.
A - `Robert B. Ford, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Well, I mean I guess on Libre to your question on how to get to $10 billion by 2028, I mean,
the math will say 15%, right? How do you get to that 15%? I mean there are real three key areas
and I'll talk a little bit about them but I'd say, first of all, it's to continue to have a dominant share in
the heavy insulin user segment. We have that today with the non-pumpers with the MDI both in
the U.S. and globally and internationally.
So the real focus there becomes, okay, how do we focus now on the pumper segment and the
connectivity over there? And like I said, I think we'll do that with a little bit of catch-up with Libre 2
in terms of what is currently offered in the market. But then to leapfrog that, I think the combined
sensor, a glucose-ketones sensor is ultimately the way we'll play. And we'll see what pump
company is going to want to line up to be first on that connectivity if and once we get that
approval, because again, I continue to hear from KOL, the importance of that product for the
pumper segment.
So the second part is the basal expansion, and like I said, you can look at the basal population
globally, assume a certain penetration rate globally, a certain utilization rate, and that adds a
significant amount of growth to that number. And then the third piece of that is really expanding
Libre beyond just diabetes and looking at the Lingo platform. So the adding up and the execution
of those strategies are what ultimately we -- gives us confidence that we can get there, and we
can sustain that 15% growth rate over the next kind of five years.
Regarding your question on pumps, listen, I think that it's an important segment, it's one that
benefits quite significantly from a combined system. We're now -- we're focusing more
aggressively on that. As it relates to a all-in-one, I think the market has spoken in terms of -- the
pumpers want choice, they want to be able to choose what is the best sensor pump combination.
And so I think right now, my view on that is the consumers have spoken, the market has spoken,
the regulators have spoken, they want that interchangeability. And I think that our focus will be on
providing the best sensor for the pump systems that are out there.
So that's, I think, I covered your Libre questions. I think you had a question on Navitor. Listen,
we're excited about this. It's a large market, it's a large segment here in the U.S., it's about $3
billion. Our label is about 50% -- sorry, it's about 50% of the market, because we're only
approved right now for the high-risk patients. But it's got a string -- it's got a strong clinical profile.
I mean, we'll be sharing data at CRP specifically to this but, I mean, we've already released some
data on it last year comparing it to other valve systems.
So I think that we've been very intentional about wanting to enter this market, and to do it in a
way that is sustainable. Expectations, I mean, I've talked a little bit about this, there's obviously
two pretty well-entrenched players in the U.S. market. Do I think that we can be a leader in three,
four, five years, I think that might be difficult, but I think that we can come into this market and
offer another choice, another opportunity that provides additional benefits of differentiated
benefits versus other systems that allow us to pick up share.
If I look at where we are in Europe, we launched this in Europe and we have high single-digit
share in Europe. And we're not in all centers, we're in about half of the market. In the centers that
we are implanted and available, our share is in the mid-teens. So you put that together, we'rethink we've got the sales force in place. We want to roll this out in a way that allows us to be
sustainable in that strategy being able to be a double-digit share gain over the next couple of
years.
Q - `Joshua Jennings, Cowen `
Appreciate it. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions). And our next question will come from `Joanne Wuensch, Citi from
Citi Bank. Your line is open.
Q - `Joanne Wuensch, Citi `
Good morning, and thank you for taking the questions. I have two. The first one has to do with
Nutrition. And if you could outline where the company is in terms of recovery and when do you
think it'll return to growth? And then the second question has to do with use of cash. What are
your thoughts on it? And where you are on share repurchases? Thank you.
A - `Robert B. Ford, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Well, on Nutrition, as I said in the opening statements, production at Sturgis is up and
running. The team is working round-the-clock non-stop, very hard. Number one focus here as I
said was to serve the customers get product back on shelves. We started with WIC. The inventory
levels on the WIC contracts are very good as we entered into Q4. And we then started to focus
on our non-WIC brands, and that's progressed very well in the fourth quarter. And as we go into
this year looking very good.
So I would say, if you look at our growth rate, obviously, you've got this year-over-year comp.
You're going to see the growth already in Q1, Joanne, right? Because we were impacted last year
in February. But I guess the right way to look at this is, okay, strip away the comp, strip away
where this year-over-year effect of coming back on the market, et cetera. I expect our business in
-- our overall Nutrition business to be growing at that pre-pandemic level between 4% and 6%.
Our market shares in WIC have largely recovered and we're seeing a nice cadence of recovery in
the non-WIC share here in the U.S. So I think you'll start to see that growth rate already on the
print in Q1, obviously in Q2 and Q3. But the important thing here is we're looking at our share and
the share recovery is very much in line with our forecast that we've set for the full year. I'd like to
see our market share get back to pre-pandemic levels by the end of the year.
And then, sorry, what was your other question?
Q - `Joanne Wuensch, Citi `
Thank you. Use of cash, and whether -- where would you stand on share repurchases? Thank you.
A - `Robert B. Ford, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Well, use of cash talked about this. We've taken this balanced approach. I'd say, if I were to
kind of rank it in terms of use of cash, we're committed to growing a dividend, a strong and
growing dividend. So that's probably number one use of cash. We announced that increase of
about 9% in our dividend last year. So that's -- that I'll say is priority number one. Number two isobviously, ensuring that all of these new products that we've got launching are appropriately
resourced in terms of manufacturing and a lot of our CapEx investments.
On the buybacks, we did throughout the first nine months of last year, we had about $3 billion of
buybacks. And I'd say we probably did a little bit of catch-up there, Joanne, in terms of catching
up to some of the dilution as we were focusing on getting our leverage down post-acquisitions.
So we did a little bit of catch-up there, and I'd say in terms of buybacks going forward, we'll be
contemplating them and they'll be largely focused on offsetting any kind of dilution that we have
this year. I'd say, the other kind of key use here for us this year is going to be debt. We have
some debt towers coming up and we're not going to be renegotiating those just given interest
rates, we want to move those up. So that's probably where you see the use of cash.
Q - `Joanne Wuensch, Citi `
Thank you.
A - `Robert B. Ford, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
On the M&A side, which I know, is always a question. So I'll pre-empt anybody over there who's
got that on their list. I've talked about it on several calls, we're interested or actively assessing
opportunities, whether it's tuck-in on up. Clearly, the valuations here have come down somewhat
and I think they need to stabilize a little bit, but we've casted -- we cast a pretty wide net
diagnostics devices are the areas where we have most interest. And again if it's financially makes
sense for our shareholders and it fits strategically, then we will -- we've got that strategic flexibility
in our balance sheet to do that.
And we're going to be looking at businesses where we can bring value, whether it's -- whether
we can accelerate sales, whether we can enhance an R&D program or enhance its probability of
success, a growth area that we can build and have a path to building a position or even if it's just
to augment our own existing pipeline. I think when we've taken that approach -- our track record
shows that when we've taken that approach, it's largely been very successful for our
shareholders.
Q - `Joanne Wuensch, Citi `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. One moment for our next question please. And our next question will come from Vijay
Kumar from Evercore ISI. Your line is open.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI `
Hey, guys, thanks for taking my questions, and good morning to you, Robert. Maybe my first
question on your organic growth assumptions here. I think I heard 8 plus is a reasonable number
for our '23. What is that assuming for any impact from China supply chain? Any VBP impact? If you
could just give us some assumptions around those macro factors that would be helpful.
A - `Robert B. Ford, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I'll let Bob talk a little bit about some of the potentially our other macro factors, but the ones
you've just mentioned here, I mean China, it's an important market for us, Vijay. It's an important
growth market and it's good that it's moved to a more kind of reopening play. I think that has notonly a big impact for us in China where we've got a strong position. I mean, we're not overly
reliant, I'd say, it's about less than 5% of our total sales. But nonetheless, it's an important kind of
growth market for us.
And I think that reopening in China is going to have a real positive spillover effect in other areas
of the world, and I would say predominantly in Asia, Southeast Asia, where we've got strong
positions in our EPD and in our Nutrition business and in some device areas too. So I think the
overall opening of China is good. Like Bob said, there's going to be some choppiness in the first
quarter, because we're seeing in a lot of cases, hospitalizations et cetera. But I think as that
moves -- starts to move down, I think we'll see a pretty strong rebound in our growth prospects
over there.
So the VBP that you mentioned, yes, I mean that does have an impact. It's more restricted for
2023 in our electrophysiology business. So we'll feel a little bit of an impact there, but I think that
the market opens up for us, because of the strategy we took on the VBP side. So I think it's a --
net-net, it's going to be positive for us in the long-term here, medium long-term in terms of that
being an opportunity for us. We've seen this, Vijay. I mean, this happened to us. This happened in
the market with stents in 2019 in our vascular business. That business is back to what I would call
pre-VBP levels this year.
So there's an impact. In that case, we didn't necessarily win some of the contracts. In the case of
EP, we did win the contract, so -- or a portion of the contract. So I'd say, macro, yes, we've got
some of these headwinds that we've talked about. FX, I think, Bob's already talked about it,
inflation. But all those seem to be easing off a little bit and the recovery of the procedures and
the pipeline and the product launch is a key growth driver for us.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI `
Understood. Then, Bob, one for you on the gross margins here at 56%. That's a step down year-
on-year. When I look at pre-pandemic, you guys heard 59%. Is there a simple bridge, Bob, on how
much of this has been inflation? I mean you did spoke about hedging impact. Is that all hitting your
gross margin line? And why shouldn't inflationary pressures improve? And when can we start
seeing gross margins creep back up to pre-pandemic levels?
A - `Robert E. Funck, Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So the -- as I said in my opening remarks, around 56% for the year, that's a modest step up
kind of from where we exited last year. As you would expect, Vijay, in this environment, there's a
lot of different dynamics that multinationals are facing. We've got some headwinds. We've talked
about those inflationary impact how that flows through, including the inventory we built last year
that will be sold this year. We talked about currency where we're going -- we're not going to see
a repeat of those hedging gains that we had in '22. So that's a bit of a headwind there.
On the positive side, I'd say we're -- the recovery we're forecasting in the U.S. infant nutrition
business will contribute positively. And as that recovery occurs over the course of the year, that
will have a more positive impact. We also have gross margin improvement programs across all of
our businesses that will help to offset some of those headwinds and we're taking price where we
can, I'd say, our more consumer-facing businesses. And then finally, I'd say just the kind of from a
mix standpoint as we continue to see an acceleration in our Medical Device business with some
of these new product launches, those are higher gross margins than the overall company and
that will positively contribute to our gross margin.If you -- to your question about kind of where we were pre-pandemic and what we're guiding to
this year, kind of I'd say the biggest impact on a cumulative basis has really been inflation. And
that's really the -- I'd say the big difference here in terms of where we're guiding right now and
where we were pre-pandemic. But as we continue to see an acceleration and from a mix
standpoint and continue to work at some of our cost, we'd expect over time to see that gross
margin to continue to improve.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI `
Understood. Thank you, guys.
Operator
Thank you. One moment for our next question please. And our next question will come from
`Travis Steed, Bank of America from Bank of America. Your line is open.
Q - `Travis Steed, Bank of America `
Hi, good morning, and thanks for taking the questions. Just a follow-up to Vijay's question. On the
inflation piece, is that still $1 billion baked into the $4.40 guidance, so to make sure I understand
what's baked down on the gross margin line? And then anything to call out on the 2023 operating
margin expansion some of the moving parts to get the op margin expansion there. It looks like
22% is kind of what's implied by the guide.
A - `Robert E. Funck, Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So yes, on the gross -- on the operating margin, yes, we're around 22% kind of where we
were pre-pandemic. We're getting a high single-digit growth on the top line kind of in the --
excluding the COVID testing. We're getting leverage down to the P&L, which Robert talked about
where we were able to forward invest over the last couple years. So we're going to get leverage
in the expense area and that gets you to about around 22% op margin. In terms of inflation, we
are going to see a carryover impact from last year, still pretty meaningful, but we've been able to
mitigate a good portion of that through both our gross margin improvement programs that we
have across our businesses as well as taking some price where we can.
Q - `Travis Steed, Bank of America `
Okay. That's helpful. And a couple of product questions on EP. I think you mentioned the new EP
catheter mapping system. That was new, maybe I missed that in the past. And I'm curious how
you're thinking about pulse-field ablation and the impact on your EP business? And then the other
product question is on Libre. The vitamin C, is that on Libre 2 or Libre 3? I just want to understand
the pathway to get vitamin C on Libre 3 and the timing there.
A - `Robert B. Ford, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. On the Libre 3 vit C, I mean it's going to start off with Libre 2. So we want to get that done
first and then we'll progress onto Libre 3. So focus right now is on Libre 2 and then we'll move to
Libre 3. On your question on EP, yes, I mean, I think, the new catheter that we've launched in
Japan and start to launch in Europe towards the end of last year is our TactiFlex, which is really
using contact force together with the flexible tip that we had in our flex catheter. So the feedback
we've gotten at is really, really positive. So I think the combination here of our enhanced new
mapping system together with our market-leading mapping catheter in HD Grid and now bringing
TactiFlex, that combination is very powerful.Regarding PFA, it's definitely an area of interest, we've been investing in it. We actually had two
internal programs, had a bake-off, and saw the one that we felt stronger about taking some of
the learnings that we're seeing from the current on-market products, and there's obviously some
trialing that's ongoing right now, but I would say, it's a growth opportunity, it's an interesting area. I
think it's still too early to say in terms of will the market move completely over to this technology
or not. I think it's important to have it, and hence, why we're investing in our program. And
incorporating into our R&D program all of a sudden the deficiencies that we've heard from some
of the on -- the current on market products are the ones that are being put in development right
now.
So, important area -- important investment area for us in EP, definitely benefited from kind of the
investments that we made during COVID. And I think it's an important product I to have. Its ability
to convert, I think it'll convert a portion of the market. My sense is cryo was probably the first one,
but how much of cryo, still up to see. But definitely an interesting area for investment.
Q - `Travis Steed, Bank of America `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Robert B. Ford, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
We'll take one more question.
Operator
Thank you. One moment for our next question. And our last question will come from `Matt Miksic, Barclays
from Barclays. Your line is open.
Q - `Matt Miksic, Barclays `
Hey, thanks for squeezing me in. I figure maybe just if we could wrap it up with an update on a
couple of the pipeline products, the five products, Robert, that you highlighted in the past,
Amulet and CardioMEMS. Maybe if you just talk a little bit about where you are with these
launches in terms of size, scale, momentum, and maybe what kinds of catalysts we can look for,
metrics we can see. For these two products this year? Thanks.
A - `Robert B. Ford, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure, I mean actually those five products that I discussed on the last call, we talked about them,
exiting at an annual run rate of 500. They actually exited at a run rate of 550 and they grew
around 100%. So I expect those five products to kind of have maybe not 100%, but pretty high
growth rate in next -- in this year.
Regarding Amulet, listen, I think, it's -- like I said, it's a great space. We've been rolling out the
product last year, building the sales force. Key focus here is obviously ensuring good implanting
technique with the physicians. We're in about 225 accounts right now. I expect that in terms of
growth catalysts getting more share of those existing accounts as the physicians become more
and more accustomed to using our product and see the benefits of using our product versus
other systems. I think that'll be a growth catalyst.
And then expanding, we do want to start to expand more as our sales force has increased, the
competency of our sales team has increased, and our clinical team has increased, we feel more
confident now to be able to kind of expand to more accounts, and that's what we'll be focused
on. Another key catalyst of growth here is obviously the trial that we've been investing on incatalyst, which is to compare Amulet to novel oral anticoagulant. So that's another opportunity. It's
not one in 2023, but continuing that enrollment in that trial is an important driver for kind of the
long-term growth strategy here of Amulet.
CardioMEMS has done very good. We saw an indication expansion last year in the U.S., seen a
nice step up in sales. I think it's a great long-term opportunity. I think it's part of those five
products that are driving a lot of growth. And I'd say, probably the next kind of big area, I mean,
we've been investing in sales force and rolling this out. Next big area here is working on that
NCD, I think that will remove some of the -- maybe some regional hang-ups in terms of
reimbursement. So the NCD is something that we're going to be working on this year with the
data that we've collected as part of all of our trials. So I think they look very strong as part of that
group of five products. I like that.
Yes, I'd close up the call here, just a few remarks. The operating environment still remains
challenging, right? But it's not as challenging as we saw back in Q3 of 2022 in October. There are
definitely signs here of stability, there are signs of improvement, whether it's in the
macroeconomic side or whether it's specifically in the segments that we are competing in, and
Abbott's well-positioned. We're well-positioned to both capitalize on this improving environment
or to navigate if there's any unforeseen volatility over here. That's what our portfolio has been
built for, that's what our balance sheet is set up for. It's set up for these kinds of situations and
these kinds of scenarios.
We always knew that pandemic-level testing was not a base case. We knew that eventually, this
would move down to an endemic-like testing, and where -- our view here is that in 2023, we'll
start this process of moving to that. And so as a result of that, we did do this forward investing
into our growth areas, whether it's Devices, Diagnostics, certain areas in EPD, or Nutrition, and
that's allowed us to grow at the pre-pandemic level this high single-digit top-tier growth without
having to make the OpEx investment that you would expect to be able to sustain that growth. So
we're getting that flow through on the P&L and that leverage on our investments.
I do recognize the cost pressures, company recognize those cost pressures, we've talked about
this now. To Vijay's question, we're going to be working relentlessly on getting our gross margin
back to that pre-pandemic level and it's a combination of working at our cost profiles and our GMI
programs, but also, as we accelerate the growth in our device business, that mix shift contributes
to that, so --
And finally, our balance sheet is strong and provides us the strategic flexibility we need to
navigate. And we take this balanced approach where we can provide returns to our shareholders,
while at the same time, investing for the long-term. So thank you for being on the call overall. I
think Abbott is very well-positioned as we kind of exit this kind of pandemic state and move into
more of an endemic state. I think we're well-positioned and now it's all about execution.
A - `Scott Leinenweber, Vice President, Investor Relations, Licensing, and Acquisition `
Thank you, operator, and thank you for all of your questions. This now concludes Abbott's
conference call. A webcast replay of this call will be available after 11 a.m. Central Time today on
Abbott's Investor Relations website at abbottinvestor.com. Thank you for joining us today.
Operator
Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your participation. You may now
disconnect. Everyone, have a wonderful day.