Q4 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to Abbott's Fourth Quarter 2023
Earnings Conference Call. All participants will be able to listen only until the question-and-answer
portion of this call. (Operator Instructions) This call is being recorded by Abbott. With the
exception of any participants' questions asked during the question-and-answer session, the
entire call including the question-and-answer session is material copyrighted by Abbott. It cannot
be recorded or rebroadcast without Abbott's expressed written permission.
I would now like to introduce Mr. `Mike Comilla, Vice President, Investor Relations, Vice President, Investor Relations.
`Mike Comilla, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Good morning, and thank you for joining us. With me today are Robert Ford, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer; Bob Funck, Executive Vice President, Finance; and `Phil Boudreau, Senior Vice President, Finance, and Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice
President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer. Robert and Phil will provide opening remarks.
Following their comments, we'll take your questions. Before we get started, some statements
made today may be forward-looking for purposes of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
of 1995, including the expected financial results for 2024.
Abbott cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that
may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking
statements. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological, and other factors that may
affect Abbott's operations are discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors to our Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31st, 2022. Abbott undertakes no obligation to release
publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as a result of subsequent events or
developments except as required by law.
On today's conference call as in the past, non-GAAP financial measures will be used to help
investors understand Abbott's ongoing business performance. These non-GAAP financial
measures are reconciled with the comparable GAAP financial measures in our earnings newsNote that Abbott has not provided the GAAP financial measure for organic sales growth on a
forward-looking basis because the company is unable to predict future changes in foreign
exchange rates, which could impact reported sales growth. Unless otherwise noted our
commentary on sales growth refers to organic sales growth, which is defined in the press release
issued earlier today.
With that, I will now turn the call over to Robert.
`Robert B. Ford, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Mike. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Today, I'll discuss our 2023
results as well as our outlook for this year. Before I do that, and I think it's important that we take
a moment to look back at the challenging environment that we all faced over the last few years
and how our actions during that time position the company to be in an even stronger position
today than before the start of the pandemic.
In the two years preceding the start of the pandemic, Abbott delivered organic sales growth of
more than 7% which was considered top-tier given the large size of our company. We expect
growth in 2020 to be in a similar range, but then COVID-19 arrived and disrupted that trajectory,
and while our procedures-driven businesses such as Medical Devices and Routine Diagnostic
Testing experienced a slowdown through the healthcare systems around the world shifting their
focus, our branded generic pharmaceutical business was able to stay the course, and our
nutrition business accelerated as people around the world placed a greater emphasis on
protecting their health. While some companies saw their entire portfolio suffered during the
pandemic, Abbott's diversified business once again proved to be resilient.
It was also during this time that we created a multi-billion dollar COVID testing business in just a
matter of months that helped play a role in reducing the spread of the virus around the world.
COVID testing grew to become a significant part of our portfolio, representing nearly 20% of our
sales in 2021 and 2022. And given the important role that these test had on society and on our
financial performance, COVID testing temporarily altered our identity and became a main point
of focus for the general public, our investors, and other stakeholders. But we knew that the
pandemic would not last forever. So we planned ahead. We pulled forward or accelerated
investments in several areas across the company when the demand for COVID testing was at
peak levels knowing that we would scale these investments back down when the eventual
decline in demand for COVID testing occurred. And the experiences we've gained in creating the
COVID testing business and then managing the rapid scale-up and subsequent scale-down of
that business will have a lasting positive impact on our company.
Our R&D pipeline was one of the areas we targeted for the accelerated investments and we are
seeing those investments pay off. In the last two years, we have announced more than 25 new
growth opportunities, which include a mix of new products, new indications, and geographic and
reimbursement expansions and this level of pipeline activity is occurring across the entire
company. In EPD, for example, we announced an agreement to commercialize several biosimilars
in emerging markets.
In Nutrition, we continue to invest in science-based solutions to address emerging medical needs
with particular emphasis on the fast-growing adult nutrition segment. In Diagnostics, we
announced approvals for new tests, new instruments, and a new laboratory automation solution.
And in Medical Devices, we announced 10 new product approvals along with several new
opportunities to further improve the growth outlook of the existing portfolio.These new opportunities are well-balanced with each of our seven medical device businesses
accomplishing at least one significant pipeline-related achievement. Looking back at our
performance in 2023, it is clear that these new opportunities contributed to an acceleration in our
growth. Both our sales and earnings growth exceeded the expectations we communicated at the
beginning of last year.
Sales excluding COVID testing grew double-digits every quarter last year and finished the year
up more than 11% higher than our original guidance of high single-digit growth. Adjusted earnings
per share finished the year at $4.44, which was above the midpoint of our original guidance range
despite COVID testing sales coming in much lower than originally forecasted and this is a
testament to the strength of the Abbott portfolio and a strong indication of the top-tier
sustainable performance we are positioned to continue to deliver as we move past the
pandemic.
Turning to our outlook for 2024. As we announced this morning, we forecast sales growth
excluded COVID testing to be in the range of 8% to 10% which equates to generating organic
sales growth of more than $3 billion. We forecasted adjusted earnings per share of $4.50 to
$4.70 which contemplates double-digit earnings growth on the base business. I'll now provide
additional details on our 2023 results by business area, before turning the call over to Phil.
And I'll start with Nutrition, where sales increased 14% in the quarter. In Pediatric Nutrition, double-
digit growth in the US was driven by continued market share capture in the US infant formula
business, where we are once again the market leader. International growth of 18% was driven by
growth coming from both infant formula products and our PediaSure toddler brand. In Adult
Nutrition sales for the full year surpassed $4 billion and grew 13.5% in the quarter driven by strong
demand for Abbott's market-leading Ensure and Glucerna brands.
Turning to Established Pharmaceuticals or EPD, where sales increased nearly 9% in the quarter
and 11% for the full year. This is the third consecutive year that EPD sales have grown double-
digits. Our unique business model of offering broad product portfolios across a targeted set of
therapeutic areas that are tailored to the local needs of each emerging market we operate in
continues to deliver outstanding results.
Moving to Diagnostics. Growth in Rapid Diagnostics was impacted by seasonality related to the
respiratory virus testing. The flu season arrived later this year than last year, which cost sales of flu
and other respiratory tests to be lower in the fourth quarter compared to that of the prior year.
But in Core Laboratory Diagnostics growth of nearly 10% continues to be driven by the success of
our Alinity suite of systems paired with our broad test menu offering. Alinity continues to drive
high contract renewal rates and competitive win rates. We recently announced that we received
FDA approval for our new lab automation system that offers cutting-edge technology to help
laboratories increase performance and improve the overall quality of their operations. The
system has been available in international markets, and we look forward to offering this to
customers in the US.
I'll wrap up with medical devices where sales grew more than 15% in the quarter led by double-
digit growth in six of our seven medical device businesses. In diabetes care, fourth quarter sales
of FreeStyle Libre, our market-leading continuous glucose monitoring system grew 24% and
ended the year with global sales surpassing $5.3 billion. In terms of sales dollars Libre has
become the most successful medical device in history and it has outpaced market growth in 13
out of the last 16 quarters.In Electrophysiology, sales growth of 21% was driven by double-digit growth across all major
geographic regions, including more than 20% growth in Europe. In Rhythm Management, growth
was led by double-digit growth in pacemaker sales led by AVEIR, our recently launched leadless
pacemaker that can be used for both single-chamber and dual-chamber. In Structural Heart,
double-digit growth in the quarter and full year was led by MitraClip as well as several recently
launched new products including Amulet, TriClip, and Navitor. For the full year, MitraClip sales
grew high-teens internationally and 10% on a global basis.
In Heart Failure, sales grew more than 15% in the quarter and 12% for the full year, driven by
continued adoption of both chronic and acute circulatory support devices. And lastly in
Neuromodulation sales grew nearly 19%, driven by the recent launch of Eterna, our first
rechargeable neurostimulation device for pain management.
So in summary, we exited the pandemic with an even stronger position. 2023 was a very
successful year. We outperformed our initial expectations on both the top and bottom lines. The
pipeline is generating a lot of new opportunities for growth, and we are forecasting this positive
momentum to continue and contribute to the strong growth, we are forecasting for 2024.
I'll now turn over the call to Phil. Phil?
`Phil Boudreau, Senior Vice President, Finance, and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Robert. As Mike mentioned earlier please note that all references to sales growth rates
unless otherwise noted are on an organic basis. Turning to our fourth quarter results. Sales
increased 2.1% on an organic basis, which as expected reflects the impact of the year-over-year
decline in COVID testing-related sales. Excluding COVID testing sales underlying base business
organic sales growth was 11% in the quarter. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable year-over-year
impact of 0.8% on fourth quarter sales.
Regarding other aspects of the P&L. The adjusted gross margin ratio was 55.9% of sales,
adjusted R&D was 6.1% of sales, and adjusted SG&A was 26.3% of sales in the quarter. Lastly, our
fourth quarter adjusted tax rate was 14%. Turning to our outlook for 2024. Today, we issued
guidance for full year adjusted earnings per share of $4.50 to $4.70, which includes an adjusted
earnings per share forecast of $0.93 to $0.97 for the first quarter of 2024.
For the year, we forecast total underlying base business organic sales growth, which excludes
COVID testing sales to be in the range of 8% to 10%. Based on current rates, we would expect
exchange to have an unfavorable impact of a little more than 1% on our reported full year sales,
which includes an unfavorable impact of approximately 2% on our first-quarter reported sales. We
forecast non-operating income of approximately $130 million and an adjusted tax rate of 15%.
With that, we'll now open the call for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) And our first question will come from `Larry Biegelsen, Analyst, Wells Fargo from
Wells Fargo. Your line is open.
Q - `Larry Biegelsen, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Good morning. Thanks for taking the question, and congrats on a nice end to the year here. So,
Robert pre-COVID Abbott was growing 7% to 8% organically as you mentioned, you're guiding to8% to 10% today for 2024 off of a higher revenue base. What has changed? And what is giving
you the confidence to guide that high to start the year? Maybe talk about the key assumptions,
and I'll leave it there for my one question. Thank you.
A - `Robert B. Ford, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Larry. I mean, as I said in my prepared remark, and quite frankly, as we talked about
throughout most of 2023 the impact of the strategy we took to take some of the COVID
revenue and reinvest in the base business, I think ultimately that's really the factor here. I mean
we operate in these four business segments, and their underlying attractiveness still is very
sustainable. So, strengthening our positions that we are already pretty strong in each of these
four segments was absolutely the right strategy here, because we believe that these are
important areas of healthcare to be in.
So, I'd make the case here that all four of our major businesses are actually in a better and
stronger shape than when we were pre-pandemic which was about $10 billion less and growing at
that 7% to 8% range. You look at EPD, as I said in my comments, I mean, these are three
consecutive years of double-digit organic sales growth. This is probably one of our best
commercial teams. They operate in a very challenging geographies and different markets. And
they've done an exceptional job at growing the top line and expanding the bottom line. I think
even with all the FX and all the challenges that we've seen in those markets they've expanded
their op margin profile by 300 basis points.
So it's a pretty strong position, strong team, and then we layered in that now a new growth
vertical by adding biosimilars, which historically hasn't been a platform that's been readily
available in emerging markets. It's probably been more of a developed markings play. So, I think
that's going to provide a new growth vertical for us there. Nutrition, I think did an incredible job
here. As we said at the beginning of last year at regaining our leadership position here in the US, I
think it speaks a lot about the trust that our users and customers have for our product.
But even adult -- our adult business. Our adult business has increased a billion dollars since pre-
pandemic, and it's just strengthening and getting stronger. I mean, it's $4 billion growing high
single-digits. There's a lot of medtech businesses, Larry, that command very strong premiums in
terms of valuation, just by having those kinds of growth rates and sizes. So and we are making
investments in that channel also, so.
Diagnostics has got a great track record here. Our Core Lab business has done very well. I've
talked about our algorithm and formula here and framework for growth. We've gotten some
recent very large account wins globally here and I think that's the result of our portfolio. And quite
frankly, the trust that these customers have in Abbott and our ability to execute and our Rapids
portfolio has done very well in terms of placing a lot of new instruments out there for
decentralized testing and we've been making investments in new assays to be able to put
through those instruments so.
And then Medical Devices, historically was in that high single-digit growth. I think what's changed
there to become now a double-digit grower for us on a very large-size business is that you have
historically double-digit growth businesses like Heart Failure, EP, Structural Heart ADC. I mean
those are continuing. I think what's changed here is that we've taken a strategic look at about
40% of the revenue in medical devices are CRM, and vascular businesses that were showing very
little growth historically and made investments in them to accelerate their growth rates. I think you
saw that in Q4. With CRM, I'd say it's predominantly been an organic play with our leadless
platform and technology. On vascular, it's been a combination of adding inorganically to thethink that's really in a nutshell, across all of these very four attractive segments we've spent the
last couple of years strengthening it and I think you're starting --you saw that last year, every year,
double-digit growth. And they've gotten stronger and they've gotten better and they've gotten
more growth opportunities with them.
So I think that's really the driver there. I mean if you -- I've gotten some of the headlines here
about accelerating sales, but not seeing maybe that come through in the -- on the earnings.
Again, this is another one where you look at the impact that COVID had on us and the clouding of
it. Our core business grew EPS last year, 40% plus. We're forecasting double-digit earnings per
share growth this at the midpoint double-digit this year. We've got a range around it. I mean
there's a lot of volatility in the world. Larry, so I'd say yeah, I don't have to list all those out in terms
of macro and geopolitics, but we've proven to be pretty resilient there and I think the range
captures the opportunity that we have on the earnings side, I'd say there's probably more upside
than downside in that range. But it's only January. So, I think this is a good starting point.
Q - `Larry Biegelsen, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Super helpful. Thanks for taking the question.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question will come from `Joshua Jennings, Analyst, Cowen and Company from Cowen. Your line is open.
Q - `Joshua Jennings, Analyst, Cowen and Company `
All right. Good morning. Thanks for taking the questions and heck of a congratulations on the
strong finish to the year. I was hoping to just follow up on your comments there, Robert, on just
the earnings power and just the margin expansion trajectory. Abbott is a unique story relative to
peers because you didn't have the margin headwinds during the pandemic due to the COVID
testing business that you developed internally, but I was hoping to just thinking about the pre-
pandemic margin expansion trajectory of the business in that 30 basis point to 50 basis point
range. And just hoping you can give us a little bit more color on some of the drivers of market
expansion and how your team sees that trajectory going forward in '24 and into the outer years.
Thanks for taking the question.
A - `Robert B. Ford, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. I mean let's say we hear a lot of companies talk about working here to recover to their
operating margin and try to get back to their op margin pre-pandemic. We are in a pretty unique
position, I'd say versus our peers here. Our op margin profile is already at the pre-pandemic
level. And I think what you saw us do there, Josh and I talked a little bit about in my comments is, I
think we managed very well strategically, the spending piece of it. We accelerated the spending
investments when we were at our COVID sales, were at their peak levels a few years ago and
then we held that spending flat these last couple of years even though our top line was growing
pretty significantly here.
So, I'd say our biggest opportunity for margin expansion really is on the gross margin line. And
that is, if you think about our big five activities this year at the company and we can do all five at
the same time. But I'd say gross margin is pretty high up there in our priority. We are forecasting a
pretty nice step up in our gross margin profile this year roughly around 75 basis points. And you
know, there's a combination of factors that are helping to drive that margin expansion, that
profile expansion.We've got a pretty strong track record here of executing on internal margin improvement
program, so every business has got their programs. We manage those on a monthly basis. They
all get reported out. So there's a high degree of visibility and inspection to those programs.
Some of the headwinds that we faced, I'd say, over the last couple of years are starting to turn a
little bit into tailwinds. So whether it's commodity costs, freight, and distribution all those
elements seem to be, let's say, right now, and given our visibility for the year as we stand here
today turning into tailwinds. So that helps.
And then the other part here is just you know, I'd say portfolio mix. So as some of the device
businesses continue to outpace and continue to grow, those are higher margin businesses. And
they provide that mix element in that gross margin expansion. So I think, this provides a nice
opportunity for us this year. But I expect, over time, we'll get back to our pre-pandemic gross
margin profile. It's for me it's not a question of if, it's just a question of when. If we could target
50, 75, I mean it's never going to be as linear as we always would want, but that kind of
expansion for us, I think really provides a good opportunity to do -- to drive earnings growth over
the next couple of years.
So I'd say that's our biggest opportunity. I think we did a really good job at leveraging spending
and I think you see that in our profiles. So our big opportunity here is gross margin, and we're all
over it.
Q - `Joshua Jennings, Analyst, Cowen and Company `
I appreciate those details. Thanks, Robert.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question will come from `Marie Thibault, Analyst, BTIG from BTIG. Your line is open.
Q - `Marie Thibault, Analyst, BTIG `
Good morning, thank you for taking the questions. I wanted to ask a little bit more about your
electrophysiology business. That segment has been very strong, and I've been impressed that
you've been able to put up that European growth rate in the face of some competitive PFA
launches. So would love to hear what's going on behind the scenes there. How you're getting
those growth rates? And how you're thinking about the US EP business as we see some PFA
launches this year? Thanks for taking the questions.
A - `Robert B. Ford, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Well, I think we've showed pretty strong robust growth in our EP business throughout all the
year, even in the face of actual end-market competition. It's been strong across the board. I don't
think it's just been a Europe story. US has been strong. China has been very strong for us this
year, especially in VBP. I mean, there were some there was some price challenges throughout the
year with VBP but the volume we picked up, the market share we pick up more than offset that.
So it's really been across the board here, and I think it really is about the strength of the portfolio.
So not only having a strong mapping system with our (inaudible). I think is at the core. Good
mapping disposables and diagnostic disposables also. And I think launching TactiFlex which is the
flexible tip, combined with the contact force. We've seen great results, great outcomes, whether
it's outcomes to the patient or time of procedure. We've seen that consistently around the world.
And then on top of that, I think we've got a great team, really a great team that is very close toabout some of the shortcomings that exist in those. So I think it's really the combination of our
portfolio and our team that really has kind of sustained the growth as we look to more PFA
systems that will be in the market this year. In the US, listen, as I've said I think it's a great
technology. I think there are some challenges with some of these first generation products. I do
expect there to be uptake and usage of it. I think what's been interesting in observing the uptake
in Europe, is that it is first, at least from what we've seen it is first seen to have broader adoption
in the cryo segment. And then from there, then kind of moving past that. So, right now, I think, I
guess that's my assumption in the US until I see something differently is that, it will follow a similar
pattern. And then the question will just be kind of speed, but I think the team has done a really
good job here on the ground with the technology.
Q - `Marie Thibault, Analyst, BTIG `
Thank you, Robert.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question will come from `Robbie Marcus, Analyst, J.P. Morgan from J.P. Morgan. Your line is
open.
Q - `Robbie Marcus, Analyst, J.P. Morgan
Great. Thanks for taking the question. Robert, maybe I could ask on Libre. This is the most
successful medical device at the conference just a few weeks ago in San Fran, you were talking
about really robust growth rates moving forward and targets. Maybe you could help us
understand where the growth is going to come from in '24 and beyond. And one question I get a
lot from investors is, we see the IQVIA script data, it's the best we have. It seems like Libre sales
or at least prescriptions are flattening out yet the sales keep growing. How do we think about the
discrepancy there? And how big is the Medicare DME business, and the growth again there from
basal? Thanks a lot.
A - `Robert B. Ford, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Strong growth in Q4 under $1.5 billion. US was up 32%. And I'd say still haven't -- team hasn't
even had to unleash L 3 in the US market in 2023. I think you'll see that. Now reality hit in 2024 but
being able to put that kind of growth rates in the US without even having a launch L 3 with a
competitive new system, I think that speaks a lot about our position, our scale, and our brand.
The growth is going to come from -- I've been pretty consistent about this Robbie, I mean, it was
lot of opportunities here for growth. I'm not going to list them all out here, but I'd say okay the
basal is a big opportunity. It's a large opportunity for us, but -- and I also think it's multi-year, so I
don't think it's just a '24-'25, I think the penetration into the basal segment is definitely two-plus
years easily. And Libre dominates in the pharmacy channel here. I mean, you referenced IQVIA
Robbie, 7 out of 10 new scripts for this patient segment is Libre. And I think that's a testament to
the strength and the value proposition that the product has. So it's becoming an increasingly
strong growth contributor in the US.
In Japan and in France, where that reimbursement is exclusive to Libre. That's also having a nice
contribution on growth. I think right now in the US, most of the population is now covered whether
it's in medicare or whether it's in private -- private commercial medicare represents about a third
of the market. So, I think there's a great opportunity here.We just got to build the build awareness, build the trailing experience with primary care and that's
what we are doing, that's what we have been doing quite frankly for some time. So it's a nice
opportunity and it's a great growth opportunity for us like -- unlike I've said easily two-plus years.
I think the other part of the opportunity we have Robbie is looking at a segment that really hasn't
been -- we haven't been able to access which is that of pump connectivity. I think this represents
a great opportunity for us. If you look at basal is being a market expansion opportunity, I think the
pump connectivity becomes the market conversion opportunity for us.
You've got 150,000 to 200,000, I guess new pumpers every year and that patient segment has
-- we haven't been able to target it. But now that we've got the regulatory clearings and
connecting to all the different pump manufacturers, I think this is a great opportunity for us.
And I think it's good for patients. I think it's going to be good to have a different option, especially
for this patient population where insulin delivery and the whole connected system is important,
right. Recently, there was an independent third-party study. I think this is the first time we've seen
an independent head-to-head study that was published a few weeks ago showing that Libre 3 is
superior to the recently launched product from our competitor across a variety of different
metrics, whether it's bias[ph], for whether it's Mark[ph]. So, I look at that and I say, okay if you're a
pump company and you wanting to provide the best solution to users. That's an important
aspect, especially for this segment.
So, I look at the basal. I look at the pump. It's probably good drivers for us in '24, '25, but we've
got multiple growth verticals here on this platform like I've said. To your question on IQVIA. I think
anybody who kind of follows pharma is more attuned to pharma knows that IQVIA doesn't pick up
the entire market. So, the pharmacy channel in the US gets picked up by IQVIA, but there are
other segments in the market that drive adoption that don't get picked up by IQVIA, so maybe
that's what you're seeing.
Q - `Robbie Marcus, Analyst, J.P. Morgan
Great. I appreciate the thoughts.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question will come from `Daniel Antalffy, Analyst, UBS from UBS. Your line is open.
Q - `Daniel Antalffy, Analyst, UBS
Hey, good morning, guys. Thanks so much for taking the question. Congrats on a strong end the
year and strong guidance. Just Robert since this story seems to be very much about top line
growth. I haven't heard you referenced the Fab five, one of my favorite analogies in a long time.
So just wanted to and maybe I just missed it, but just wanted to get an update on those five
products, sort of where you think you guys are in launch trajectories, revenue contribution for
each of those products? Do you still think there the Fab Five? And where -- how they sort of
factor into the growth of 8% to 10% organic growth for 2024? Thanks so much.
A - `Robert B. Ford, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks. I don't know if I regret using that terminology are not now, Danielle, but I guess I
would say, yes, they are great products, and we didn't think about calling them that because
there was going to be a flash in the pan for one or two years. We look at these as really long-
term, great growth opportunities that we have that will significantly add to the company over theAnd quite frankly, they have added a good amount of growth for us this year and they will
accelerate. So, I think this year -- sorry in 2023, those five products have represented about half a
point of growth. I expect that to increase in 2024 to about a point of growth total Abbott
contribution.
So they are definitely stepping up. And I'd say some of them, I would call market-creating
opportunities Tricuspid, I would put over there. CardioMEMS over there generating the clinical
data, generating the data for reimbursement, generating referral pathways. We know how to do
this. And we all want things to go pretty fast, especially with medtech products, right. But with
products like this, that had such significant growth opportunities, there's a certain amount of work
that you need to do regarding clinical work as it relates to market expansion, development of --
and market development.
I'd say some of the other products on that list, I'd say are probably more market conversion and
these are already attractive large attractive growth segments that we are targeting with our
technologies Navitor in the TAVR space, AVEIR in the CRM side. I mean, these are large segments
that were coming in. And we'll have different value propositions. I think AVEIR has got a
tremendous opportunity. It's a $3 billion global pacing market and the value proposition for AVEIR,
I think is second to none in terms of its proposition to the implanter to the patient. So we -- I
expect a lot from AVEIR in terms of growth. I expect a lot from Navitor and we are going to be
expanding so we'll have two new line extensions to Navitor this year Navitor Vision and Navitor
Titan.
And so we are investing in those areas and yeah, they are still great products. They will still have
the Fab five on it and they continue to increase, they will growth 50% at least we are forecasting
a 50% growth next year and it will contribute about a point of growth to the overall company. So
that being said, I will say those are great products and they take a lot of focus, but we still have a
lot in the chamber here too whether it's Lingo, whether it's our TBI test. We're going to be
launching a nutritional drinks for GLP-1 users. This year also we are doing a lot of work on Volt,
which is our PFA solution. We put out some announcements already the beginning of the year
regarding our clinical trials. I talked about biosimilars in EPD, our dual analyte sensor for Libre. We
are developing a new Alinity system to target a segment of the diagnostic market that we are
currently not competing. So, yeah, Fab five, a lot of great contributions, but there's a lot in the
chamber here and I think that's really what's going to sustain our growth beyond 2024 and 2025
is just having a robust pipeline.
Q - `Daniel Antalffy, Analyst, UBS
Thank you, Very thorough. Thanks so much.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question will come from `Joanne Wuensch, Analyst, Citibank from Citibank. Your line is open.
Q - `Joanne Wuensch, Analyst, Citibank `
Good morning, and thank you for taking the questions. A nice start to the year, or nice end to the
last year too. So here's the question I have. In nutrition, you've done a great job of -- it sounds like
returning to normalcy. I'm wondering if there are pockets that still need to sort of get back on
track or whether we should think of this returning to just sort of a mid single-digit segment growth
category? Thanks.
A - `Robert B. Ford, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `Yeah. I think kudos to the team here. We set out a target at the beginning of last year at this time
last year to get to market leadership. In our October call we had already confirmed that. And let's
say over the last couple of months that continues to expand in terms of our position versus the
number two. Yeah, I mean, I think you will now have the full year effect, Joanne of having all of
that share. And I'd say, given the strength of the portfolio of the team and what we went through
and the actions that we've taken, I'd actually expect us to actually surpass our pre-recall share. I
don't know exactly when, but that will be my expectation on that. You'll have a little bit of a partial
year impact there of some pricing that we took across the entire nutrition portfolio.
So I'd say we are probably above that four to six range that we used to have pre-pandemic at
least into 2024. As I've said, I think that we can be at the higher end of that range, once
everything kind of settles down and I think a big growth driver for us going forward is really going
to be the adult segment which is growing high single-digits and of which we've got very high
market share positions across the globe and this position with the brand we have, the science
that we have really aligns to, I'd say a pretty sustainable demographic trend that we are seeing,
which is just an aging population, that is focusing on healthcare and on nutrition.
So I'd say that's probably an opportunity for us to maybe break out of that higher end six range
going forward, but I think right now, you will see the impact of the share in the US, some partial
year impact of the price allow us to be above that 6% range. And then as we move into next year,
what's going to be the impact of some of the launches that we have planned for the adult
segment and what is that going to do for us.
Q - `Joanne Wuensch, Analyst, Citibank `
Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question will come from `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI with Evercore ISI. Your line is open.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Hi guys, thanks for taking my question, and Robert, congratulations on a -- on the nice Q4 and the
solid guide. I guess my one question is on M&A. Looking at the balance sheet, phenomenal
position at least you have a minimum of 20 billion of firepower. Abbott hasn't done any large
deals in the last few years. So my question is how do you see the opportunity for larger-sized
deals? What is Abbott's appetite for a larger-sized more meaningful transaction?
A - `Robert B. Ford, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Well yeah, we've got a strong balance sheet, and provides us with a lot of flexibility on our capital
allocation plan. On the M&A side, Vijay listen I think it starts off with we've got a great pipeline. We
have great organic opportunities here to be able to kind of drive top-tier sustainable growth. So
that ends up putting -- allowing us to be in a selective position here where we are not trying to
use M&A as a way to kind of bulk up our top line or to cover any kind of top-line gaps that might
be there.
So that allows us to be sustainable -- allows us to be more selective. And if there are
opportunities that fit strategically and can generate an attractive return then like you said you've
done the math. We've got the flexibility and firepower to do that, but I'm not looking to acquire
businesses, simply to make the topline look good. Profitability matters, earnings matter. And
when you get into these larger-size deals you have to have very strong conviction andunderstanding of that to be able to generate those returns. And not just look at it as a top-line
play. I think they are harder nowadays. You look at what we did with St. Jude, and we have looked
back at the deal model that we put together, spot on in terms of all aspects there of how we
thought this business would impact the company.
So I'm not discarding anything like that. I'm just providing you the framework that says they are
harder to make work if you want to look beyond just topline and you want to look at ROICs and all
the right financial metrics here in terms of how you deploy capital and -- but I don't feel that we
need to do anything like that to cover a topline kind of gap. If we ever did something like that, it
was because it would be strategic, and looking at the company kind of long-term and not trying
to fill the topline gap. (Multiple Speakers)
A - `Mike Comilla, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Operator, we'll take one more question, please.
Operator
Thank you. And our last question will come from `Travis Steed, Analyst, Bank of America from BofA Securities. Your line is
open.
Q - `Travis Steed, Analyst, Bank of America `
Hi, everybody. Thanks for taking the question. So some of the insurance companies are getting
surprised by higher procedural utilization. Some medtech companies are kind of calling out
above-normal growth. So curious, Robert, if you look at your med device markets are there areas
where you think you're seeing some kind of above-elevated catch ups are coming through or do
you think this is kind of more normalized growth rates that you're seeing in 2024? Just kind of
addressing some of your thoughts on the overall market.
A - `Robert B. Ford, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I don't think that we are seeing kind of any, kind of catch-up or pent-up or anything like that.
I think what you're seeing here is more at least I can speak for our portfolio. I just think you're
seeing more adoption of the technologies, right. So, I think there was some disruption. We've
talked about it in some parts of -- some procedures that require a little bit more prior[ph]
planning or imaging before and imaging after.
I think those -- that combined with the labor shortages that occurred 2022 -- 2022, I think that
probably slowed a few of them down, but I don't think that there was a bolus returning as a result
of that. I just think we got back into a normal cadence here of being able to see procedures
increasing. We saw that in structural heart procedures. We saw that in CRM and EP procedures,
not just here in the US, but around the world too so, seen that also in routine diagnostic testing.
Travis. A lot of our -- a good portion of the Diagnostic business, our Core Lab business is actually
in the hospital. So we also get to see that too. And I didn't see a bolus of testing coming back. So
we try and triangulate this. I just see this as procedures are returning back to normal and because
the -- because these technologies that are being developed and launched into the market are so
-- it got such great opportunity to improve care, improve life of patients, I just think you're seeing
the return to the adoption and the adoption curve.
Some are faster than others just given I think the market and market positions, et cetera, but I
wouldn't account for it to be some sort of pent-up piece over here.Q - `Travis Steed, Analyst, Bank of America `
Great. Thanks a lot.
A - `Robert B. Ford, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Well, I'll wrap up here. And like I said in the beginning very successful year 2023 in many
ways. It's sort of represented this transition year regarding the coming down of COVID, I think we
did a really good job at managing the scale-up and scale-down. A lot of healthcare companies
actually participated, and in trying to solve the COVID problem and I think we did a good job here
at being able to scale up and scale down.
Our performance here is now transitioned from being driven by COVID testing to once again
being driven by a broad-based strength across the entire company. We delivered double-digit
organic sales growth on every base business and every quarter and we are clearly entering 2024
with a lot of momentum. The pipeline we talked a bit about. It continues to be highly productive.
And I'm forecasting here top-tier growth in 2024. And as you look at our range on the EPS guide
like I said, there's probably more upside to that than downside. But we are in January, so we're
off to a good start, and looking forward to executing this year.
A - `Mike Comilla, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Okay. Thank you, operator, and thank you all for your questions. This now concludes Abbott's
conference call. A webcast replay of this call will be available after 11 a.m. Central time today on
Abbott Investor Relations website at abbottinvestor.com. Thank you for joining us today.
Operator
Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your participation. You may now
disconnect. Everyone have a wonderful day.