Q4 2015 Earnings Call

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Teledyne Fourth Quarter
Earnings Teleconference Call. At this time, all telephone lines are in a listen-only mode. Later,
there will be an opportunity for questions-and-answers with instructions given at that time. And as
a reminder, today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to your host, Jason VanWees. Please go ahead.
Jason VanWees `
Good morning, everyone. This is Jason VanWees, Senior Vice President-Strategy and M&A at
Teledyne, and I'd like to welcome everyone to Teledyne's fourth quarter and full year 2015
earnings release conference call. We released our earnings earlier this morning before the
market open.
Joining me today are Teledyne's Chairman, President, and CEO, Robert Mehrabian; COO, Al
Pichelli; Senior Vice President and CFO, Sue Main; and Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary, Melanie Cibik. After remarks by Robert and Sue, we will ask for your questions.
However, before we get started, our attorneys have reminded me to tell you that all forward-
looking statements made this morning are subject to various assumptions, risks and caveats as
noted in this earnings release and our periodic SEC filings. And, of course, actual results may
differ materially. In order to avoid potential selective disclosures, this call is simultaneously being
webcast and the replay, both via webcast and dial-in, will be available for approximately one
month.
Here is Robert.
Robert Mehrabian `
Thank you, Jason, and good morning everyone. We ended 2015 with our strongest quarter of the
year. Sales and earnings per share were significantly higher than the preceding quarters. In fact,
earnings in the fourth quarter of 2015 were nearly a record just under last year's record results.Year-over-year revenue declined on an especially difficult comparison. However, given past R&D
investments and the resulting new products, as well as improving aerospace and defense
markets, we achieved sequential quarterly improvement in revenue throughout 2015 in both our
digital imaging and aerospace and defense electronics segments. In addition, GAAP, and I
emphasize GAAP, operating margin increased sequentially throughout 2015 and on a full year
basis despite the lower revenue and an increase in pension expense coupled with greater
severance charges we were able to maintain operating margin.
Before commenting further on our result and segment financials, I want to provide some
additional perspectives on our company. First, our balanced business portfolio is not dependent
on any single product or market. For example, while a weak offshore energy market is impacting
our marine instrumentation product, this end market only represents approximately 15% of total
sales.
On the other hand, our defense business, which represents over 25% of total sales, contributed
to the growth of our aerospace and defense electronics and engineered systems segments in
the fourth quarter. In addition, given our content on U.S. submarine programs as well as growth of
our autonomous underwater vehicles, our U.S. Government business also mitigated declines from
oil and gas products.
Second, Teledyne knows how to manage change. It's part of our culture, our DNA. As a reminder,
U.S. Government budget cuts or sequestration and a corresponding shrinking defense business
resulted in over $100 million of lost annual sales between 2012 and 2015. From the outset, we
began aggressive cost reductions and facility consolidations. At the same time, we invested
wisely across our continuing businesses and added complementary acquisitions.
Three years after sequestration, total company sales, gross margin, operating margin and
earnings per share are all significantly higher. In 2015 and continuing throughout 2016, we are
again consolidating facilities and businesses, but this time, our efforts are largely focused on
marine instrumentation. And while the overall instrumentation service revenue declined in 2015,
we were able to maintain margin. In summary, while we cannot predict the duration of market
cycles, the defense, aerospace, energy or others, we can and have managed through many such
events in the past.
Turning back to quarterly results, GAAP earnings per share of $1.57 decreased from last year's
$1.62. The $0.05 decline largely resulted from the 3.6% decrease in revenue as greater
severance charges, negative pension effects and other expense were essentially offset by
greater tax benefits and a reduced share count. Sales to international customers decreased
slightly due to lower demand for marine and test and measurement instrumentation as well as
foreign currency translation. On a full year basis, foreign currency translation affected sales
negatively by approximately 1.5%, but acquisitions offset this decline.
I will now briefly comment on our business segments, after which Sue Main will review some of
the financials in more detail and provide an earnings outlook for the first quarter and full year
2016.
In our instrumentation segment, fourth quarter sales decreased 11.1% from last year. Sales of
marine instrumentation decreased 11.6% due to lower sales of interconnect systems and other
marine sensors and systems for energy production, partially offset by higher sales of interconnect
and marine systems to the U.S. Government.
In the environmental domain, sales decreased 7.9% and it reflected a tough comparison, as wellsales of ambient air analyzers used in pollution controls.
Sales of electronic test and measurement systems declined, where sales to Europe, and
especially Asia, were impacted by both weak demand and currency headwinds.
GAAP segment operating profit declined and operating margin decreased 108 basis points due
to lower sales as well as severance-related charges.
Turning to the digital imaging segment, fourth quarter sales were essentially flat with last year,
while GAAP segment operating profit increased 47.4% and operating margin increased 365 basis
points.
Turning to aerospace and defense electronics, fourth quarter sales increased 5.6% from last year.
U.S. Government and defense sales were flat year-over-year, but considerably higher than in the
first half of the year. In addition, our commercial avionics business continued to perform
exceptionally well. GAAP operating profit for the segment increased 6.5%.
Turning to the engineered systems segment, fourth quarter revenue increased 4.2%, but
operating profit decreased 13%. Sales increase from nuclear and aerospace manufacturing
programs as well as commercial hydrogen generators, but lower shipments of high-margin cruise
missile engines and additional pension expense impacted margins.
In summary, 2015 was fraught with challenges, a weaker industrial economy, contractions in
corporate capital spending, and wild swings in energy prices and foreign exchange rates. I am
proud of our efforts to address these challenges and our financial result in light of the
circumstances. Because we expect some further deterioration in our offshore energy businesses
and since we remain cautious in other commercial markets given the challenging global economic
environment, we feel it is prudent to be measured in our outlook for 2016.
Our acquisition pipeline is strong and our long-term focus remains growing the company through
both acquisitions as well as investments in new products. Nevertheless, we will weigh share
repurchases versus acquisitions given relative valuations.
I will now turn the call over to Sue Main.
Susan L. Main `
Thank you, Robert, and good morning, everyone. I will first discuss some additional financials for
the quarter not covered by Robert, and then I will discuss our first quarter and full year 2016
outlook.
In the fourth quarter, cash flow from operating activities was $61 million, compared with cash flow
of $85.6 million for the same period of 2014. The lower cash provided by operating activities in
the fourth quarter of 2015 primarily reflected lower net income and higher income tax payments
and then a reduction in accounts payable near year-end.
Free cash flow, that is cash from operating activities less capital expenditures, was $45.6 million in
the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to $71.8 million in 2014. Capital expenditures were $15.4
million in the fourth quarter compared to $13.8 million for the same period of 2014. Depreciation
and amortization expense was $22.4 million in the fourth quarter compared to $24.2 million for
the same period of 2014.
We ended the quarter with $696.9 million of net debt; that is, $782 million of debt and capital
leases, less cash of $85.1 million for a net debt-to-capital ratio of 34.1%. In the fourth quarter 2015,we amended the $750 million credit facility to extend the maturity to December 2020.
Also, in the fourth quarter, we issued $125 million of senior unsecured notes. The notes consisted
of $25 million at 2.81% due in November of 2020 and $100 million at 3.28% due in November
2022. On January 26, 2016, Teledyne's Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase
program for up to an additional 3 million shares of Teledyne common stock.
Turning to pension and stock compensation expense, in the fourth quarter of 2015, gross GAAP
pension expense was $1.1 million compared with gross pension income of $0.3 million in the same
period of 2014. For your reference, our pension, which is primarily for legacy retirees, remains
fully funded as of year-end 2015.
Stock compensation expense was $2.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2015, compared with $3.9
million in the fourth quarter of 2014. In 2015, in an effort to reduce cost, we granted no stock
option, but we will do so in 2016.
Finally, turning to our outlook, management currently believes that GAAP earnings per share from
– in the first quarter of 2016 will be in the range of $1 to $1.10 per share. We expect our full year
2016 earnings per share outlook to be $5.05 to $5.15. The 2016 full year effective tax rate,
excluding any discrete items, is expected to be 28.8%.
I do want to emphasize a few items regarding our current 2016 outlook compared to 2015. The
2015 results benefited from significant discrete tax items and a lower tax rate of 28.1%.
Collectively, these tax items generate approximately $0.32 per share of headwind for 2016
compared to 2015.
I will now pass the call back to Robert.
Robert Mehrabian `
Thank you, Sue. We would like to now take your questions. Alan, if you're ready to proceed with
questions and answers, please go ahead.
Q&A
Operator
Absolutely. Our first question will come from the line of `Jim Ricchiuti, Needham & Co. LLC with Needham & Company.
Go ahead.
Q - `Jim Ricchiuti, Needham & Co. LLC `
Thank you. Good morning. Robert, I wonder if you'd comment – you touched on some additional
cautiousness not only in the offshore energy market, which I think is understandable, but you also
alluded to potentially some weakening in other parts of the commercial business and I assume
some of that maybe the electronic test and measurement business. But I wonder if you could
elaborate a little bit more on what you're seeing in some of the other commercial businesses.
A - Robert Mehrabian `
I think, Jim, generally what I can say is that, like almost all others companies in our businesses,
we're not really forecasting weakening. We're just being cautious because there isn't a day that
passes by that you don't read about the various economies across the world, in China as an
example, weakening and the dollar getting stronger. I just feel that we have to be cautious at thisQ - `Jim Ricchiuti, Needham & Co. LLC `
Got it. You may or may not be in a position to talk about the businesses, but is there any color
that you might be able to give us as to how we might think about growth in some of the
businesses over the course of the year? It sounds like you feel a little bit more comfortable with
some of the government-related business certainly on the aerospace and defense side, and I
guess engineered systems has also picked up nicely.
A - Robert Mehrabian `
Jim, I can give you at least what our present outlook is for the different segments. We believe
primarily because of the declines in the offshore energy market in which we play. We have
significant positioning even though it's only a small fraction of the overall business. We think there
are going to still be further declines.
We'll make some of that up with our businesses in energy businesses, marine businesses that are
with the government. But, overall, I think if you look broadly at our instrumentation segment,
which has revenues of little over $1 billion this year, I think it would be prudent for us to think that
would go down overall maybe 5% next year. I think if you look at digital imaging and aerospace
and defense, which also makes up approximately another $1 billion, I think we expect that it'll go
up in revenue about 5%. So kind of offsetting what's going to happen in the instrumentation.
And then lastly, in energy engineered systems, I think it's going to be – year-over-year, we're
going to be relatively flat. So I think we look forward to 2016, as I've described it, but I think in
2017 and I hate to go that far out, but in 2017, we do have some programs that have potential for
significant growth especially in engineered systems like the shallow water combat vehicle and our
multi-user platform on international space stations, those will really start taking off by early 2017.
So we think engineered system may not grow next year, but the year after, it's going to do very
well. I hope that helps you.
Q - `Jim Ricchiuti, Needham & Co. LLC `
It helps. The aerospace and defense, is that maybe mid-single-digit growth? Is that the way just
given your bookings?
A - Robert Mehrabian `
Yeah, I think about 5% is appropriate.
Q - `Jim Ricchiuti, Needham & Co. LLC `
Okay. Thank you very much.
A - Robert Mehrabian `
Thank you, Jim.
Operator
We'll move next to the line of Michael Ciarmoli with KeyBanc Capital Markets. Go ahead, please.
Q - `Michael F. Ciarmoli, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc. `Hey. Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking the questions. Just before we get to 2016, Robert,
just in the fourth quarter on margins, what – can you just explain what was going in the aerospace
and defense? I mean, the margins were down sequentially even though you guys seemingly had
a little bit higher volume. Was that a mix issue or just trying to understand why the margins
declined from 3Q to 4Q?
A - Robert Mehrabian `
We had some estimates of – at completion that we took down because we thought again it'd be
prudent to do so. We also saw a little weakness in our business in electronic manufacturing
services, which is a very low margin business but we took some charges there. But, overall, I think
there's nothing very significant other than those.
Q - `Michael F. Ciarmoli, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc. `
Okay. And then just going back to what Jim was asking, I guess on the digital imaging, I mean
even in for the full year, it sounds like it's going to be more back-end loaded. You guys usually
have more back-end loaded years. But 5% growth on digital imaging, what kind of line of sight do
you guys have now and maybe what are you even seeing to with the current January trends in
that specific business to give you that confidence?
A - Robert Mehrabian `
Sure. I think the 5% that I noted was about digital imaging and aerospace and defense combined.
Q - `Michael F. Ciarmoli, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc. `
Oh, combined, okay.
A - Robert Mehrabian `
Yeah. I hate to say one would be exactly 5%. But I think combined, it's about 5%, Jim. On digital
imaging, there're really three pieces to it. There is one piece that shouldn't even be counted in
terms of earnings because it's our research lab. We have outside-sponsored research as well as
Teledyne-sponsored research there. So, what happens is that while we have about $40 million in
revenue, there's no profit in it because whatever we get, we plow it back in, plus a whole bunch
from our wholesale (22:50). So in a way, when we look at digital imaging from inside out, we
exclude scientific research labs.
And the second half is our government imaging businesses, the infrared high-end imaging
businesses, which generally are lumpy because we get very large programs – both national
space, classified programs as well as instrumentation programs, space-based and ground-based.
But in general, I think we look at that as a stable, not a big growth business. Fairly flat.
Q - `Michael F. Ciarmoli, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc. `
Okay.
A - Robert Mehrabian `
It's been down this year versus last year.
But the third component, which is our digital imaging DALSA up in Canada, there, we're making
some real progress. We've got some new management. The bigger market there is the mid-range cameras and we have a lot of products there and we have Smart Camera software, and
that's where our x-ray business is, too. And x-rays – our life sciences business is doing really well.
And then, finally, we do have a LIDAR business, which is a laser-based range finding business. We
just really took all of that on recently and we've changed management and we expect that to also
improve. So with all of this, I think 2016 we think while it may be slow growth, we think it'd be okay.
We think longer term between all of that and our infrared businesses, that's a great business for
us.
Q - `Michael F. Ciarmoli, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc. `
Okay. And then just a last one, I guess two housekeeping ones. On 2016, is there any buyback
factored into the earnings outlook that you've given?
A - Robert Mehrabian `
No, no, no.
Q - `Michael F. Ciarmoli, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc. `
No, okay. And then, what about pension for next year?
A - Robert Mehrabian `
Pension actually, I think this year is going to be – while the discount rate is up, the rate of return I
think will be down because of – you see what's happening to the market. So I think it's going to
be relatively flat.
Q - `Michael F. Ciarmoli, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc. `
Okay, perfect. Thanks, guys.
A - Robert Mehrabian `
Sure.
Operator
And we'll next go to the line of Howard Rubel with Jefferies. Please go ahead. One moment. And
Mr. Rubel, your line is open.
Q - `Howard Alan Rubel, Jefferies LLC `
Thank you very much. Couple of things, Robert. First, could you talk – you always tend to think in
long term, so where are you spending a little bit of your R&D dollars and how is that aligning with
the customer? I mean, I can see, and I'll just throw this open a little bit, I can see Department of
Defense thinking a lot more about marine and naval opportunities than it has and also about
long-range strike than it has, and you've got a couple of capabilities there, so could you elaborate
on that, please?
A - Robert Mehrabian `
Sure. Good morning, Howard.
Q - `Howard Alan Rubel, Jefferies LLC `Thank you.
A - Robert Mehrabian `
First, while I do think long term, I also worry about courses (26:10) as you will know. But having said
that, there's really – there are – in the marine space, let me start there, we spent money on
products that – next-generation products, including connectors that will take very high-powered,
high-pressured environments. We also get – surprisingly, we get $15 million of investment in our
marine R&D from our customers even today.
We also are worried about – not worried; we're trying to prepare ourselves for replacements for
the Ohio-class submarines, because we have such a strong position there. Actually, in one
business, which is our ODI business – I mean our DGO business, we had about, I'm going to say,
$50 million decrease in our oil and gas business. We made it all up and then some with our
connectors that go through the hull of submarines. So we make investments there.
Additionally, one area that we're kind of working on pretty hard is position, navigation and time
products for the future in the long term. We do have a Chip-Scale Atomic Clock, small atomic
clock which we've invested heavily and we're going to go into production this year. We won't
make money at it this year, but I know we'll make money at it next year. We have a MEMS gyro
that we've developed here that's now in our MEMS factory in Canada and we're going to
manufacture that. And so, I think the whole position, navigation, time arena is an area we invest in.
We're also investing in new product in our T&M businesses, test and measurement especially in
electric motor drives for a nuclear valve test and a lot of money also going into our new products
for DALSA imaging. We also have, as you may – you know this very well, we do have sole-source
positions for data acquisition so systems on the Boeing aircraft for the next dozen years. And
we're spending quite a bit of money to make sure that we both meet their expectations and hold
our sole-source position in that market.
So, all in all, we spend about $170 million of our money. We get another $100 million externally for
our brand dealers and together over $250 million a year, which is maybe $270 million, which is
12% of our revenue. So I think you're right. We're spending a lot of money, but it's spent because
we expect new products in the future.
Q - `Howard Alan Rubel, Jefferies LLC `
Thank you. And then – so I won't let you off on the quarterly comments. Marine, actually, was a
little bit better than we would have thought and it looks – I mean, when we look around, though,
the bottom hasn't been reached yet. Can you provide a little bit of context to that, how you're
thinking about planning and what your customers are doing or how you're thinking about
surpluses of inventory and so how it will work itself out?
A - Robert Mehrabian `
Now, you touched an area that keeps us up at night. Our customers are obviously suffering,
especially the offshore market as well as the onshore fracking is down significantly. If you looked
at 2015, the oil and gas part of our marine businesses, which is not all the marine. All the marine is
about $600 million. The oil and gas part of it was about the $340 million, $350 million. We think
that's going to go down significantly and we're planning on it to go down maybe as much as $100
million next year.
Q - `Howard Alan Rubel, Jefferies LLC `Thank you, yes.
A - Robert Mehrabian `
And we think the reason for that is very simple, that you know all the reasons; the oil price,
everything. But having said that, we also have businesses in the oil and gas that are onshore.
Here's what I think will happen. I don't know when the oil prices will turn. But turn, they will. If you
look the history, the oscillations in oil prices. They're almost as low as their 2008-2009 timeframe.
They will turn.
When it does, what I think will happen to some of the stuff especially on land where we have a
significant presence, it may go very fast because getting those rigs started, it doesn't have a big
energy barrier. And I know people in the industry that expects that. So we're preparing ourselves
for that and we're also increasing our R&D effort in not just Christmas trees but manifold – under
water manifold where we think we not only have a great market share, but we will gain market
share.
So what we're doing is we are anticipating short-term significant declines. We'll pick some of that
up with our government businesses. So on the average, the marine business will be down but not
as much as oil and gas. But maybe the $50 million that I mentioned in the whole instruments will
come from there. But I think in the long term, when it does come back, we're going to be
positioned really well.
Q - `Howard Alan Rubel, Jefferies LLC `
Thank you for your help.
A - Robert Mehrabian `
Thank you, Howard.
Operator
And we'll go now to the line of Steve Levenson with Stifel. Please go ahead.
Q - `Stephen E. Levenson, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Thanks. Good morning everybody.
A - Robert Mehrabian `
Morning, Steve.
Q - `Stephen E. Levenson, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
In terms of consolidation in your instrumentation business, is that at all like aerospace where you
need customer approval or is it something you can pretty much do as you seek that?
A - Robert Mehrabian `
Unfortunately, Steve, it's something we can do ourselves. What we've done is, if you take the
marine businesses, we have 24 businesses in marine. We have 2,500 employees in marine when
we started the year. We have already taken 350 folks off, which is about 14%, I believe.Additionally, we've taken people out of other areas because total – all in all, we've taken six – we
have had to let about 655 people go. But in marine, it's taken the big chunk of it.
Second, we took the 24 businesses and consolidated them and then one person, management
and one development, one sales and marketing team, and we're taking a lot of money out of this
dispersed leadership. We've taken a lot of supply chain out, SG&A out, and we're consolidating
facilities all over the world, both in the U.S. as well as overseas.
When we come out of this, we'll come out of it much stronger, much tighter, much more efficient,
and I think we'll be fine. We don't need anybody's permission to do anything in this domain. And
we're also investing, as I said before, not only in submarine and other things in the marine domain
but we're also investing autonomous underwater vehicles. So, all in all, our biggest consolidation
in instrumentation is in the marine area.
Q - `Stephen E. Levenson, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Got it, thanks. In terms of concerns over global economic conditions, are you seeing more M&A
opportunities coming out? Are the prices any more favorable? And if your liquidity position, I
would guess, you could be aggressive if that was the case.
A - Robert Mehrabian `
Absolutely. We can be aggressive, yes. It's interesting. Some of the smaller public companies,
reality has not yet shrunk in. Some of them, their stocks are down 50%, 60%, 70% and they're still
thinking they should have multiples of 30 or 40 when their multiples right now are about 25 or so
with hardly any earnings. So reality, it takes a little time but I think eventually, you know set in. And
when it does, we'll acquire companies there.
On the private companies, we have better luck there because these are entrepreneurs that want
to sell their companies to someone that's not going to gut them, they're not going to change the
name, they're going to keep their people and we've done very well there. In that area, I think we
will make some acquisitions. We have some in the pipeline right now, but we have to be very
careful not to overpay especially where our stock is today.
If you look at our stock today, Steve, we're trading at about 9 times, 9.2 times, 9.3 times EBITDA.
If you make an acquisition at 9.2 times, 9.3 times, then it would be slightly accretive. It'll be
somewhat accretive initially, primarily because with our experiences, we take about 25% to 30%
in intangible amortization. But if we improve the bottom line 50%, as we've done with DALSA in
Canada, then it becomes really accretive. It can be as much as $0.12, $0.13, $0.14 accretive.
So, we have to be very careful about that. If we buy a company that's got with it 13 to 14 multiple
EBITDA, then we need to increase the profitability 100% just to break even. So, that's our
dilemma.
Q - `Stephen E. Levenson, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Okay. Thank you. Last one also on marine instrumentation. Is there a market for replacement here
that you think will pick up? I know on some of the other calls, I've heard something similar to what
you said that when energy turns around, it will be bluff.
A - Robert Mehrabian `
I believe so, especially on the land-based systems. In the deep ocean systems, what we have is
longer-term contracts, some of them are going to go on even under the present conditionbecause commitments have been made and you can't stop progress when you got $10 billion
committed and you've already started the work. But there are other areas, especially in the
exploration area.
For example, there are only two players in the world that make air guns, air guns are what
generates the acoustic wave that goes to the ocean floor and comes back. We're one We
bought that company, Bolt, and we have our facilities in this country. They only other competitor is
a company in France. So when that comes back, it's going to be between the two of us and I
expect we'll make a lot of money at it. That's an example.
Q - `Stephen E. Levenson, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Got it. Thank you very much for the detail.
A - Robert Mehrabian `
You bet.
Operator
We will now go to the line of George Godfrey with CLK. Go ahead, please.
Q - `George J. Godfrey, C.L. King & Associates, Inc. `
Thank you. Good morning.
A - Robert Mehrabian `
Good morning, George.
Q - `George J. Godfrey, C.L. King & Associates, Inc. `
Good morning, Robert and Sue. I want to ask about the repurchase program and the
authorization for 3 million shares. You said there's no share buyback planned in the 2016
guidance. What timeframe do you envision starting that buyback or the number of years you plan
to complete it?
A - Robert Mehrabian `
Well, George, let me – Sue might be able to help me here, but let me just say I think we have to
weigh buybacks with acquisitions. The fact is, right now we have capacity to – between what we
generate in cash this year, let's say, $200 million to $250 million, plus the line of credit that we
have – and we really want to stay below a debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 2.5%, we might go a little
higher temporarily but we'd always like to put it in that domain at the high end. That's the high
end. Right now, we're closer to 2.1%.
So, having said that, our first preference is acquisitions. We think that we'll buy some shares back
in 2016. If you ask me how many shares, I can't tell you right now but we will buy some shares.
That's why we got authorization. But we'll weigh the share buyback with the acquisitions.
The kind of attraction, kind of a funny way of describing it, of buying back shares is that it's
accretive, and it's accretive right away. But you've got to kind of be prudent about that and
balance that against acquisitions, which will not only grow their top line, but will contribute
additional EBITDA to improve your debt-to-EBITDA ratio. So the long answer is we'll buy backWe certainly – last year, we bought a lot of shares back. I think we bought about $250 million,
$240 million worth of shares. I don't think we'll go that far right now. But we might buy back, I
don't know, $50 million.
Q - `George J. Godfrey, C.L. King & Associates, Inc. `
Okay. And if I could just follow up on – you talked about the M&A activity or acquisition pipeline.
And in recent years, it's really focused on the instrumentation side of your business within the
four segments. Do you see going after other areas in the acquisition activities going 2016 and
2017 or one particular area or across the board?
A - Robert Mehrabian `
I think we might buy some software stuff in the marine domain. I don't think we'll invest in oil and
gas for a while. We may invest in our test and measurement. That business, while it's down a little
bit year-over-year, its margins – since we bought LeCroy as an example, the margins have
improved almost 250 basis points and it's contributing about 20% EBITDA to our bottom line. So I
like that area as one.
Another area would be in digital imaging, especially life sciences-related area. And the last area
that I've mentioned that we're attracted to is the whole area of environmental instrumentation.
We were very aggressive in that area in the early 2000s, and then prices got totally out of line. So
we kind of had to get on the sideline for a while. But I think things are coming back to – more to
normalcy there and that area is also attractive to us.
Q - `George J. Godfrey, C.L. King & Associates, Inc. `
Great, thank you. Just one last one. CapEx this year of $47 million, $43.5 million a year ago, $50
million a reasonable estimate for CapEx in 2016.
A - Robert Mehrabian `
I'll let Sue address that piece.
A - Susan L. Main `
We're trading around $50 million to $60 million.
Q - `George J. Godfrey, C.L. King & Associates, Inc. `
$50 million to $60 million, okay. Thank you.
A - Robert Mehrabian `
Thank you.
Operator
We'll go now to the line of Chris Quilty with Raymond James. Go ahead, please.
Q - `Chris D. Quilty, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
Good morning. I had a question on pricing, but not M&A but on product pricing and competitive
discount that you might be seeing. How is the pricing environment holding up across each of the
different business segments?A - Robert Mehrabian `
Hi. Good morning, Chris. When we sell things in China, we used to have to take a lot of discount
especially in environmental instrumentation. Interestingly, now that has stabilized. I was just going
to start by saying instrumentation is taking a lot of price hits. But right now, that has stabilized
because the Chinese environmental quality, air quality laws have been tightened so much that
they need really high-end instruments and we don't have to really compete with locally-produced
instruments.
In the test and measurement, there's always price pressure, especially in our oscilloscope
business. In A&D, I don't think we have much price competition. We're actually doing really well,
especially in our aerospace and as well as our government programs. I will say in oil and gas,
we're taking some hits in our prices, but I think overall, I'd say we're neutral.
Q - `Chris D. Quilty, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
So the pricing environment has remained stable throughout 2015 and you expect it to remain
stable in terms of the trend line in 2016.
A - Robert Mehrabian `
Yes, yes. Other than just FX that you never know what's going to happen to the dollars. And if
that starts going down, that will help us. If it starts going up again, that will hurt us. But other than
that, I think it's fairly neutral.
Q - `Chris D. Quilty, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
The FX was actually my next question, which is can you just remind us which areas have the most
exposure to FX movements?
A - Robert Mehrabian `
I think, yeah, I can do that. I think the highest exposure is our instruments and the estimated
impact to our revenues were about 3% last year in 2015. Digital imaging would be next, I'd say
about 1%. In aerospace and defense, much less; maybe 0.3%. And in engineered systems, zero.
So overall last year, I would say our revenue suffered 1.5% because of FX, the most being in
instruments followed by digital imaging.
Q - `Chris D. Quilty, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
And you had those memorized, right?
A - Robert Mehrabian `
I have everything handed to me by my good friend, Jason, but I do have it memorized, too.
Q - `Chris D. Quilty, Raymond James & Associates, Inc. `
Great. Thanks.
A - Robert Mehrabian `
You bet, Chris.
OperatorAnd we have no further question in queue from the telephone lines. Please proceed.
A - Robert Mehrabian `
Thank you, Alan. I'll now ask Jason to conclude our conference call.
A - Jason VanWees `
Thanks, Robert, and thanks everyone for joining us this morning. And, of course, if you have
follow-up questions, please call me at the number listed on the earnings release. And, of course,
all of our earnings releases and the web replay are available on our website.
Alan, if you conclude the call and provide the dial-in number. Thank you.
Operator
Absolutely. Ladies and gentlemen, this conference will be made available for replay beginning at
10:00 AM Pacific Standard Time today, which is February 4, 2016, for one month until March 4,
2016 at 11.59 PM. To access the AT&T executive playback service during that time, dial 1-800-475-
6701 or area code 320-365-3844 and then to the access code 373403. Those numbers again
are 1-800-475-6701 and the area code 320-365-3844, and again the access code is access code
373403.
That will conclude your conference call for today. Thank you for your participation and for using
AT&T Executive TeleConference Service. You may now disconnect.