Q4 2016 Earnings Call

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Teledyne Technologies Fourth
Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time, your telephone lines are in a listen-only mode.
Later, there will be an opportunity for questions and answers, with instructions given at that time.
And as a reminder, today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to your host, `Jason VanWees, Senior Vice President-Strategy, Mergers & Acquisitions. Please go ahead.
`Jason VanWees, Senior Vice President-Strategy, Mergers & Acquisitions `
Good morning, everyone. This is `Jason VanWees, Senior Vice President-Strategy, Mergers & Acquisitions, Senior Vice President-Strategy and M&A at
Teledyne, and I'd like to welcome everyone to Teledyne's fourth quarter and full-year 2016
earnings release conference call. We released our earnings earlier this morning before the
market opened.
Joining me today are Teledyne's Chairman, President and CEO, `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer; COO, Al
Pichelli; Senior Vice President and CFO, Sue Main; and Senior Vice President, General Counsel,
Chief Compliance Officer and Secretary, Melanie Cibik. After remarks by Robert and Sue, we'll
ask for your questions.
However, before we get started, our attorneys have reminded me to tell you that all forward-
looking statements made this morning are subject to various assumptions, risks and caveats as
noted in the earnings release and our periodic SEC filings, and of course, actual results may differ
materially.
In order to avoid potential selective disclosures, this call is simultaneously being webcast and a
replay, both via webcast and dial-in, will be available for approximately one month.
Here is Robert.
`Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Jason, and good morning, everyone. We ended 2016 with our best quarter of the
year. The majority of our commercial businesses, that is, imaging for machine vision and life
sciences, environmental and electronic test and measurement instrumentation, and commercialSales of marine instrumentation declined, as expected, but comparisons are also expected to
ease significantly in 2017. Orders across our government businesses continue to be strong and
contributed to year-end overall backlog, which was approximately $120 million greater than last
year's. GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations were $1.49. Excluding $0.16 of
charges related to the pending acquisition of e2v, earnings were $1.65.
I should note that our fourth quarter earnings outlook of $1.32 to $1.37, issued on November 3,
2016, did not include charges related to the e2v transaction which was announced on December
12, 2016. Finally, full-year cash from operations and free cash flow were all-time record, each
increasing over 50% from last year.
Before commenting on our business segments, I want to emphasize that sales and comparisons
reflect the fact that the fourth quarter and full-year 2016 contained 13 and 52 weeks, respectively,
versus 14 and 53 weeks last year. So, we had one less week this year in both the fourth quarter
and the full year to ship products.
In the Instrumentation segment, fourth quarter sales decreased 15.7% from last year's. Sales of
marine instrumentation decreased 33.2% due to lower sales of interconnect systems and other
marine sensors for energy exploration and production.
Throughout the last two years, sales of marine instrumentation to defense markets have helped
mitigate the decline due to energy. The long-term outlook for our products for U.S. submarine
programs, as well as our autonomous underwater vehicles, remain very attractive.
In the environmental domain, sales increased by 5.7%, and operating margin and operating profit
also increased largely as a result of continued growth in our pollution and particulate monitoring
instrumentation.
Sales of electronic test and measurement systems increased 14.5% overall. Sales of protocol
analyzers used by engineers to troubleshoot data communication systems and test
interoperability continued to be very healthy.
While GAAP segment operating profit declined and operating margin decreased, this was solely
due to lower sales and margins within the marine instrumentations. Margins for both our
environmental and electronic test and measurement instrumentation, product-wise were at
record levels.
Turning to the Digital Imaging segment, fourth quarter sales increased 8.6% and operating
margin increased 253 basis points. The increase in sales primarily reflected greater sales of
machine vision cameras for industrial and semiconductor applications, X-ray detectors for life
sciences, micro electro-mechanical systems, or MEMS, and geospatial software and laser-based
mapping systems. Sales of infrared sensors and government-funded research decreased slightly
year over year, but orders were very strong with our government-based backlog increasing over
45% in this segment.
In the Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment, fourth quarter sales increased 2.2%
organically from last year, primarily as a result of increased sales of commercial avionics. Segment
operating margin increased 410 basis points from last year to 19.2%.
In the Engineered Systems segment, fourth quarter revenue decreased 15.6%, but operating
margin improved 389 basis points. The lower revenue resulted from a difficult comparison and
the timing of deliveries from certain marine manufacturing programs, which were partially offset
by increased sales of cruise missile engines.In conclusion, I am most excited, compared to any time in our history, about our current business
portfolio, and the overall outlook for our end-markets.
Over the last few years, we've endured cuts to the defense spending, followed by a severe
decline in offshore energy markets. Nevertheless, we have responded aggressively by reducing
our costs, and in 2016, we achieved record operating margin in the third quarter. We generated
record full-year cash flow and we were largely able to maintain GAAP earnings, even including
e2v acquisition-related charges. We are a much leaner company today. For the first time in years,
there is no obvious storm on the horizon for Teledyne or our largest end-markets.
In addition, I'm personally also very excited about the pending acquisition of e2v. From industrial
machine vision to space-based imaging, microwave devices spanning radar to radiotherapy, and
specialty semiconductors to micro electro-mechanical systems, our combined markets'
capabilities and engineering-centric cultures are truly a great fit.
Our small acquisitions in 2016 were also significant. We enhanced our software capabilities and
our participation in life sciences markets. We also added key product lines to some of our best
performing businesses.
Finally, we divested a lower-margin build-to-print business we inherited in our spinoff 17 years ago.
Looking forward, and excluding e2v, we currently expect modest overall revenue growth in 2017.
We believe most of our commercial businesses will grow, sales of marine instrumentation
comparisons will be relatively stable, and our government businesses will see a recovery as we
deliver on our improved backlog.
I will now turn the call over to Sue.
`Susan L. Main, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President `
Thank you, Robert, and good morning, everyone. I will first discuss some additional financials for
the quarter, not covered by Robert, and then I will discuss our first quarter and full-year 2017
outlook.
In the fourth quarter, cash flow from operating activities was $63.9 million, compared with cash
flow of $61.1 million for the same period of 2015. The higher cash provided by operating activities
in the fourth quarter of 2016 primarily reflected lower income tax payments, partially offset by
higher working capital. Including a facility purchase with use of restricted cash, pursuant to a 1031
like-kind exchange, free cash flow, that is cash from operating activities less capital expenditures,
was $40.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2016, compared with $45.7 million in 2015.
Capital expenditures, excluding the facility purchase, were $16.7 million in the fourth quarter,
compared to $15.4 million for the same period of 2015. Depreciation and amortization expense
were $22.1 million in the fourth quarter, compared to $22.2 million for same period of 2015. We
ended the quarter with $519.2 million of net debt, that is $617.8 million of debt and capital leases
less cash of $98.6 million, for a net debt-to-capital ratio of 25.0%.
Regarding taxes, while the fourth quarter of 2016 contained discrete tax benefits of $9.4 million
or $0.26 per share, the fourth quarter of 2015 also contained discrete tax benefits, as well as the
retroactive adoption of full-year 2015 R&D tax credit, which collectively contributed $7.2 million or
$0.20 per share last year.
Turning to pension and stock compensation expense, in the fourth quarter of 2016, pension
income was $0.6 million, compared with pension expense of $1.1 million. And for reference, ourexpense was $2.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2016, compared with $2.5 million in the fourth
quarter of 2015.
Finally, turning to our outlook, management currently believe that GAAP earnings per share from
continuing operations in the first quarter of 2017 will be in the range of $1.15 to $1.17 per share. And
for the full-year 2017, our earnings per share outlook is $5.40 to $5.50. The 2017 full-year effective
tax rate, excluding any discrete items, is expected to be 28.0%. Please note that our current
outlook excludes e2v and corresponding transaction-related expenses.
I will now pass the call back to Robert.
`Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Sue. We would now like to take your questions. Allan, if you're ready to proceed with
the questions and answers, please go ahead.
Q&A
Operator
Absolutely. We'll go first to the line of `Greg Konrad, Analyst, Jefferies LLC with Jefferies. Go ahead.
Q - `Greg Konrad, Analyst, Jefferies LLC `
Good morning. In Digital Imaging, you had mentioned that backlog was up and you expected
better volumes for DOD going into 2017. Can you maybe discuss what drove that backlog
increase and maybe the cadence of some of that backlog turning to revenues?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Good morning, Greg. Thank you. There are really two areas. The first one is, as you may recall,
we make laser spectacles for laser eye protection, and we have a fairly large program with the
Air Force on that, which we announced last year.
The second one – the second area, which is of great interest to us, is in the national space, or
what we refer to as classified programs. Historically, we have not participated very strongly in that
domain. And we have made some really very good strides in introducing new infrared sensors
and detectors in those businesses. So those two are the primary drivers. We also have, of course,
significant other programs, but in terms of new increases, those would be the ones.
Q - `Greg Konrad, Analyst, Jefferies LLC `
Thank you. And then just in oil and gas, the comps obviously are better in 2017. What are you
seeing in terms of order activity, and is it too early to call the bottom and maybe modest growth
there or flat going from here?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
I think, right now, if you listen to everyone, people think that at least in the oil and gas domain, we
probably have been – or close to have or have hit bottom. And for example, the number of
subsea trees that are used in exploration and production, especially production, they were at the
lowest level in 2016, and are expected to grow somewhat in 2017.
Our overall book-to-bill in the marine business was about 0.96 for the year. So we still think there
might be a little difficulty in the comps, but nothing like we experienced this past year, partiallybecause what has happened to our marine businesses is oil and gas back in 2014 used to be
60% of those businesses, and science, construction, defense, security and other businesses that
we have underwater with 40%. With the serious declines that we've seen in the last two years,
that has split over. So oil and gas is more like 40%, and the remainder of our marine businesses
are 60%. And as I mentioned in my earlier comment, our Defense businesses in the marine
domain are improving, and we have really long-term contracts.
So I think the comparisons are going to be easier, obviously. We might see a little downside, but
everybody is predicting a pickup in late 2017.
Q - `Greg Konrad, Analyst, Jefferies LLC `
Thank you. And then just a quick housekeeping – sorry if I missed this, but what is your assumption
for pension income in 2017 versus 2016? And then, also, do you have any restructuring included in
the 2017 numbers?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
I think in the pension, we anticipate that the discount rate will go down, and what we know it's
going to go down somewhat. So overall, I would say the 30 or 40 basis points will drive our
pension income down by about $0.05.
On the second part of the question, we don't have any restructuring charges. Greg, as you know
in our history, we've always been a GAAP company. Everything has been GAAP. We've always kind
of swallowed our one-time charges, restructuring charges, and also, acquisition charges. The only
thing I anticipate in 2017 is a significant – from our perspective, significant charges related to
acquisition of e2v and that could be significant for us. It could be as much as $30 million, which we
probably cannot totally absorb as we have with our previously filed acquisitions.
Q - `Greg Konrad, Analyst, Jefferies LLC `
Thank you.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
We'll go next to the line of Jim Ricchiuti with Needham & Company. Please go ahead.
Q - `James Ricchiuti, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `
Hi, good morning. Couple of questions. Robert, I'd be interested in your perspective on the e2v
acquisition. What is it that really excites you about the business? And given that there's a similar
portfolio of businesses at e2v, how should we think about the speed with which this business can
be integrated?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Let me start by saying that while the businesses are similar, they're very complementary. For
example, Jim, in the sensor domain, our focus, historically has been in our strengths, have been in
infrared sensors. For example, we practically are the major player in infrared sensor, both
sensors, both for space imaging, as well as ground-based astronomy. E2v is exactly the mirrorthat I'm currently aware of that we've acted in, we provide the infrared images, sensors,
detectors, and they provide the visible detectors.
The same is true in a number of other businesses, including machine vision. We're strong in
certain areas of machine vision, especially in CCDs and some CMOS, but they're much stronger
in complementary metal-oxide semiconductors. And more importantly, they're very strong into
dimensional imaging, which is the larger market for machine vision.
And then finally, in the medical arena, our strength are in detectors. We've introduced CMOS
detectors that are the most sensitive detectors that reduce the amount of x-ray exposures to the
patient, and are much more sensitive in terms of the quality of the pictures that you get. They, on
the other hand, are the leading providers of magnetrons, which are essentially electron
accelerators of microwave accelerators by traveling wave tubes, except they impinge on a
constant substrate and produce X-rays that are used for cancer treatment. So, in that area, we
have probably a lot of common customers. When you do radiography, we also wanted a
complementary imaging to make sure that you're not damaging surrounding tissues. So, those
are some observations about the complementary nature of our businesses.
In terms of integration, I feel very comfortable about that for the following reasons; first, they are
a public company, so they have a very well-documented financial and other processes, and
second, we have already acquired two fairly large companies, LeCroy and DALSA, in the last five
years, and we've been able to integrate those very successfully, relatively quickly, and the
margins in both of those large acquisitions have more than doubled in the interim period. So, I
think we will integrate these acquisitions, assuming we're successful. We have some more
hurdles to pass in terms of regulatory hurdles. I think we'll integrate it successfully in 2017.
Q - `James Ricchiuti, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `
Thanks. That's helpful. And just with respect to the existing business, Robert, can you give us,
perhaps, a feel for how we might think about the growth across the four business units? I think
you've given us some color as to how we should think about marine instrumentation, but digital
imaging showed decent growth in Q4. I'm not sure what was organic in that. And you also saw a
good growth in the electronic test and measurement business. But again, I don't know how much
of that was organic. Can you give us a feel as to how we might think about growth broadly across
some of the business units?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Of course, let me, actually, just go down the list for you, if I may. Organically, overall, in the
instrument businesses, which would include environmental test and measurement, and marine, I
would say, in 2017, organically, the growth would be about 3%.
In Digital Imaging, it should be higher, perhaps, as much as 4% to 5%. In Aerospace and Defense,
it could be closer to Instruments, 3% to 3.5%. And we have a really good backlog in our
Engineered Systems, and I expect that in that domain, our upside can be closer to 5%. When you
roll all of that up, I think, overall, organically, we should have 3% to 4%.
We do have some acquisitions from 2016 that we should enjoy a little – the full-year benefits of
those. Those may add another percent, so when you do the math, Jim, I think we're talking about
4% to 5% all in. That's excluding e2v.
Q - `James Ricchiuti, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `Okay. And that's really helpful. So, the optimism that you have, entering 2017, is really based, it
sounds like, on both what you're seeing in both the commercial and government business. I think
that that's kind of what you've been saying, as well. So, it sounds like on the commercial side,
perhaps, a little more positive, but you're seeing, I guess, fairly good order intake in the
Engineered Systems business?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, we do. We have good backlog there. We have stronger – expect strong – we know exactly
how many missile engines we're going to be making in 2017. It's going to be one of our better
years in recent history. We have good backlog in our shallow water and underwater vehicles for
our special operations, and we feel good. And this is as good as I've felt about our overall
business portfolio in a very, very long time.
Q - `James Ricchiuti, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `
Okay. Thanks very much.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Jim.
Operator
We'll go now to the line of George Godfrey with CLK. Go ahead, please.
Q - `George J. Godfrey, Analyst, C.L. King & Associates, Inc. `
Thank you. I just want to follow up on the organic growth, and thank you, Robert, for the
commentary outlook on how it looks for 2017. Can you just run through the – over the full-year
2016 organic growth figures by those four product lines?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
I think, in 2016, if I ran through – let me start with marine, because that was the, obviously, the big
negative for us, right? We were down almost 32% from 2015 to 2016 for a hefty $196 million. If
you look at our overall decline year over year in revenue, it was actually less than that. So marine
declined significantly. Everything else together, actually, did grew a little bit, maybe $20 million,
$25 million.
Our environmental businesses were relatively flat. We had ups-and-downs, but I'd say, overall, it
was a wash. Our test and measurement was up about 2%, 2.5%. Digital Imaging, I'm talking
organic only. Digital Imaging was up about 2.5%. If you'll throw in our acquisitions, and it was
higher than that. Our Engineered Systems was down about 5% – about 5% (29:23), 6%, but I'm
not concerned about that, only, as I mentioned, because we had really strong – we've had really
strong orders. It's just – I know everybody talks about timing, but in this case, I can assure you, it
was timing.
So Aerospace and Defense Electronics was a really strong performer. It was up about 5%. With
our avionics business up about almost 18%, which – this is a business that provides data
acquisition on commercial aircraft. And that's been a very strong performer. It almost made up for
the declines that we had in terms of the earnings in our marine businesses. I hope that's helpful.
Q - `George J. Godfrey, Analyst, C.L. King & Associates, Inc. `Yes. That's great, Robert. Thank you very much for that detail. And then, the last question, just
looking at the free cash flow conversion this year based on net income, it was 131%, 83% last
year. So what do you target for cash flow conversion in 2017 as it relates to net income?
A - `Susan L. Main, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President `
(30:42) percent, but about even, about same as this year, a little about – a little less from a
percentage point of view.
Q - `George J. Godfrey, Analyst, C.L. King & Associates, Inc. `
Got it. Great. Thank you very much for taking my questions.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
We'll go next to the line of `Ben Klieve, Analyst, Noble Financial Capital Markets with Noble Capital Markets. Go ahead.
Q - `Ben Klieve, Analyst, Noble Financial Capital Markets `
All right. Thanks for taking my questions here. Just got a couple follow-up questions. First of all,
regarding your commentary earlier on the energy sector, I'm curious when you think that that
business may shift from kind of stabilization to growth, is that going to require in your estimate
further increases in oil prices, or do you think just prolonged stability in the energy market could
facilitate growth as you look late in 2017 or 2018 and beyond?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Ben, if I'm correct, if I'm going to go to oil and gas, specifically, I think what's happened is the
declines have been very significant, and the prognosis right now is that everything is stabilizing.
With oil prices hovering in the $50-plus range, close to $53, on West Texas Intermediate, what
that does is, is it helps, really, the first land-based tracking businesses, which have breakeven
prices of about $50 a barrel. And we're seeing already recons go up. We do have some land-
based products there, so we're enjoying some of that.
When you go to the ocean, then the breakeven prices vary. Shallow water is closer to $60 a
barrel. Deepwater, which is between 1,000 to 5,000 feet, is about $65-plus per barrel, actually
maybe $70, $75 per barrel, is the vary deepwater interestingly, it's better – it's closer to $65,
because the reservoirs are larger, and the breakeven is lower than deepwater. So, having said all
of that, a lot of our products go into deepwater than ultra deepwater, which would be over
5,000 feet deep. And we think that those CapExes will probably not improve until later in 2017 or
2018. We're seeing some pick up, but nothing like we had in prior years
And so, I think you summed it up correctly. The future, we think, is going to be, for us, in
deepwater than ultra deepwater. The only other thing I'll add is that, we don't supply directly to
the final customers like Shell or BP. We supply to intermediary customers that provide, for
example, trees underwater, trees – Christmas trees for oil production, et cetera. And we have
frame agreements now developed with those customers to be able to enjoy 70% to 75% of their
businesses going forward. And those frame agreements, of course, are based on the fact that
we have unique capabilities and product. So, I think when it does come back, we are going to
mean a really good posture.I hope that answers your question, Ben.
Q - `Ben Klieve, Analyst, Noble Financial Capital Markets `
Yeah. Yeah. Very much so. Thank you for the commentary. One other quick question, I know,
regarding the e2v acquisition, given the regulatory issues that you can't really comment too
much, but you said that integration would – is such a (35:19) current in 2017. I'm wondering if you
think if – regarding the timing of that, I mean, are you expecting that in the relatively near term, or
do you think that could be more of a second half event? Can you give any kind of context
regarding timing?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
I think, right now, we expect to close in the first half of the year, but I'm hopeful that we'll be able
to do it in the first quarter. The regulatory hurdles are really – they've already had their general
shareholder meeting, and that both have been successfully achieved. We do have Hart-Scott-
Rodino in this country. They are some German, French and UK authorities that have to clear it. And
then, finally, of course, we have sort of a court hearing in the UK.
I'm very hopeful that we can be – we'll be able to close this by the end of the first quarter, but we
certainly expect, if everything goes right, that we'll be able to do this by – in the first six months.
We don't really know what the outcome of these various questions that we're getting are going
to be.
Q - `Ben Klieve, Analyst, Noble Financial Capital Markets `
Perfect. Thank you very much for your comment there. I will go back in queue.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Allan, thank you. I think we've exhausted that. If it's okay, then, what I'd like to do is turn the call
over to Jason to conclude our conference call.
A - `Jason VanWees, Senior Vice President-Strategy, Mergers & Acquisitions `
Thanks, Robert. And again, thanks, everyone, for joining us today. If you do have follow-up
questions, please free to call me at the number on the earnings release. All our news releases
are available on our website, teledyne.com. Allan, if you could conclude the call and give the
replay information, we'd appreciate it. Thanks, everyone.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this conference will be made available for replay beginning at 10:00 AM
Pacific Standard Time today, February 2, 2017, until March 2, 2017 at 11:59 PM. During that time, you
may access the AT&T Executive Playback service by dialing 1-800-475-6701, or internationally by
dialing area code 320-365-3844, and entering the access code 415431.Those numbers again are 1-800-475-6701 and area code 320-365-3844, with the access code
415431. And that will conclude your conference call for today. Thank you for your participation and
for using AT&T's Executive Teleconference service. You may now disconnect.