Q4 2018 Earnings Call

Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Teledyne Fourth Quarter
Earnings Call. At this time, phone lines are in a listen-only mode. We will have an opportunity for a
question-and-answer session. As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
At this time, I'll turn the conference over to our host, `Jason VanWees, Executive Vice President. Please go ahead.
`Jason VanWees, Executive Vice President `
Thank you, Nick. Good morning, everyone. This is `Jason VanWees, Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President at
Teledyne, and I'd like to welcome everyone to Teledyne's fourth quarter and full year 2018
earnings release conference call. We released our earnings earlier this morning before the
market opened.
Joining me today are Teledyne's Executive Chairman, `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman; President and CEO, Al
Pichelli; Senior Vice President and CFO, Sue Main; and Senior Vice President, General Counsel,
Chief Compliance Officer and Secretary, Melanie Cibik. After remarks by Robert, Al, and Sue, we
will ask for your questions.
Of course, before we get started, our attorneys have reminded me to tell you that all forward-
looking statements made this morning are subject to various assumptions, risks and caveats as
noted in the earnings release and our periodic SEC filings and actual results may differ materially.
In order to avoid potential selective disclosure, this call is simultaneously being webcast and a
replay, both via webcast and dial-in will be available for approximately one month.
Here's Robert.
`Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Thank you, Jason. And good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining our earnings call. I am
exceptionally pleased with Teledyne's results. Fourth quarter and full year sales and GAAP
earnings per share were all-time records. In the fourth quarter, sales increased 6.2%, all of which
was organic. In addition, each business segment experienced growth in sales and operating profit
with the vast majority of our commercial and defense businesses growing nicely. Earnings per
share of $2.45 increased 33.2% compared to last year. GAAP operating margin was 14.9% and
increased 143 basis points from last year.Finally, annual free cash flow of $360.1 million was also a record and allowed us to end 2018 with
the lowest leverage ratio in over four years. Before turning the call to Al Pichelli, please allow me
to digress for one moment. Today, the story of Teledyne is about consistent and continuous
improvement in financial performance, continuous improvement in our operations and prudent
capital allocation.
It is a story about building a portfolio of related companies and related products with common
underlying technologies, but serving different customers and markets. Markets that are
complementary subject to different business cycles and demand drivers, in other words
balanced, balanced in a way to reduce volatility.
For example, within the Digital Imaging, strong sales of X-ray detectors and generators for
healthcare applications more than offset some softness of standard products related to industrial
machine vision.
Within Instrumentation, sales of environmental and electronic test and measurement instrument
increased year-over-year, with electronic test and measurement particularly strong. This again
more than offset a decline in sales of marine instrumentation. However, operating margin in each
of those product lines improved.
Finally, organic sales growth of Defense Electronics was 11.9%, which more than offset some
expected declines and very tough comparisons in our commercial Aerospace markets.
I will now pass the call to Al Pichelli and he'll comment on the performance of our four business
segments.
`Aldo Pichelli, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Robert, and good morning. In our Instrumentation segment, overall fourth quarter
sales increased 3.4% from last year. Sales of electronic test and measurement systems increased
24% organically. Sales are strong across the range of our product lines, but were led by sales of
protocol analyzers.
For reference, protocol analyzers are designed to generate, capture and analyze high-speed
data communications across a range of protocols or standards such as Universal Serial Bus or
USB.
Other less familiar protocols are used in data storage and data movement applications.
And we continue to benefit from growth in solid state disk drives and cloud network storage. In
the environmental domain, sales increased 3.7% largely as a result of greater sales of selected
laboratory and life science instruments, as well as continued growth in particulate monitoring
instrumentation.
Sales of marine instruments declined 7.5% in the quarter, but fourth quarter orders increased
50% year-over-year and full year orders increased 10%. Overall Instrumentation segment
operating profit increased 40% and margin increased 428 basis points as a result of greater
sales of higher gross margin environmental and the electronic test and measurement instruments
and significant prior cost reductions in the marine domain.
Turning to Digital Imaging segment, fourth quarter sales increased 9.3%, which was entirely
organic. Sales of our proprietary medical and dental X-ray detectors increased significantly year-
over-year. In addition, we also achieved robust year-over-year growth in X-ray generators for
cancer radiotherapy. Finally, sales of microelectromechanical systems or MEMS also grew due inpart to increased shipments of consumables for life sciences and extreme UV lithography. GAAP
segment operating profit increased, but margin declined 94 basis points from last due – from last
year due largely to non-operating items such as stock-based compensation and a $1.1 million
purchase accounting gain in the prior fourth quarter.
In the Aerospace and Defense segment, fourth quarter sales increased 2.8% primarily due to
strong growth across the majority of our Defense Electronics businesses, but in particular, sales
of microwave devices for space applications, as well as specialty, high reliability semiconductors.
Segment operating margins increased 81 basis points to 20.5%, primarily due to greater sales but
also a favorable product mix.
In the Engineered Systems segment, fourth quarter revenue increased 16.3% with strong sales
related to missile defense and nuclear, aviation, and marine manufacturing programs, partially
offset by lower sales of cruise missile engines. Segment operating profit increased, but margin
decline 105 basis points solely as a result of lower sales of fixed priced turbine engines.
To conclude, I want to briefly follow-up on Robert's earlier comments. We appreciate that our
business portfolio is balanced, but we also address issues quickly and decisively when market
weakness occurs. For example, over the last three years, we have made variable as well as
permanent cost reductions in our marine instrumentation businesses. These actions included a
30% decrease and the total workforce and the closure of 20 sites, including four manufacturing
sites in 2018. Finally, throughout this period, none of our earnings are adjusted for such cost
actions, which totaled nearly $30 million.
I will now turn the call over to Sue.
`Susan L. Main, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President `
Thank you, Al, and good morning, everyone. I will first discuss some additional financials for the
quarter not covered by Robert and Al, and then I will discuss our first quarter and full year 2019
outlook.
In the fourth quarter, cash flow from operating activities was $125.5 million compared with cash
flow of $126.4 million for the same period of 2017. The cash provided by operating activities in the
fourth quarter of 2018 reflected the impact of higher operating income, offset by higher income
tax payments. Free cash flow, that is cash from operating activities less capital expenditures, was
$106.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2018 compared with $108.4 million in 2017.
Capital expenditures were $18.7 million in the fourth quarter, compared to $18 million for the same
period of 2017. Depreciation and amortization expense was $29.3 million in the fourth quarter
compared to $25.6 million for the same period of 2017. We ended the quarter with $608.1 million
of net debt. That is $750.6 million of debt and capital leases, less cash of $142.5 million for a net
debt to capital ratio of 21.4%.
Stock option compensation expense was $4.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2018 compared with
$3.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2017. As noted in the earnings release, the fourth quarter of
2018 included $2.5 million of pre-tax severance and facility consolidation costs compared with last
year's $0.7 million of similar charges offset by a $1.1 million purchase accounting gain related to the
e2v transactions. The fourth quarter of 2017 also included provisional charges of $4.7 million as a
result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 or the Tax Act.
In the fourth quarter of 2018, the company finalized its assessment of the Tax Act, resulting in a
decrease of $0.8 million to the provisional charge.Turning to our outlook, management currently believes that GAAP earnings per share in the first
quarter of 2019 will be in the range of $1.87 to $1.92 per share, and for the full year 2019, our
GAAP earnings per share outlook is $9.25 to $9.35. The 2019 full year estimated tax rate is
expected to be 22.3% before discrete items, a 100 basis point increase compared to 2018. In
addition, we currently expect significantly less discrete tax items in 2019 compared with 2018.
I will now pass the call back to Robert.
`Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Thank you, Sue. Nick, we'd like now to take questions from the audience. If you're ready to
proceed with the question-and-answer period, please go ahead.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. We'll go to our first question. It's from `Greg Konrad, Analyst, Jefferies LLC with Jefferies. Please go ahead.
Q - `Greg Konrad, Analyst, Jefferies LLC `
Good morning. I was hoping maybe if you could just give a little bit of color around your organic
growth expectations for 2019 and maybe just on a segment basis what the expectations are?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Thank you very much and good morning to you. This is Robert. First let me start with the overall
organic growth for 2019. It's a little lower than what I said in October – in October I said – three
months ago, I said it'd be about 5%. We're now projecting between 3.5% and 4%. So put that as
a bucket for the overall anticipated growth. And part of the slight decrease is because of China
tariffs, government shutdown, currency headwinds, et cetera.
But let me now go to the segments. We think in the Instrument (sic) [Instrumentation] segment,
we will have something of the order of 3.5%, 3.6% in organic growth, marine a little lower. We'll
have a little pickup in marine, but it'll be just below 3%.
In other instruments, environmental, we expect to pick up about 4%, and in test and
measurement about 4.5%. Digital Imaging, while we're enjoying very strong revenues and growth
in our medical and dental products, we have some headwinds in the vision system, machine
vision system. So, overall, we think revenue growth would be of the order of 4%.
Aerospace and Defense, we'll continue to have a little headwind in Aerospace. We expect
Defense to more than make up for it and the two combined in that segment should be about 4%.
And then Engineered Systems, I think we'll see some moderation of the growth from this year to
next, probably about 2% to 2.5%. If you add all of those up, it comes to about 3.7%. So I set the
range between 3.5% and 4%.
Q - `Greg Konrad, Analyst, Jefferies LLC `
Thank you. That's helpful. And then not to harp too much on guidance, I mean just your thoughts
around margins in 2019, I mean I'm just looking at how you exited the year, there was a nice pick-
up in Instrumentation, Digital Imaging and a little bit more volatile throughout the year. I mean
maybe just your thoughts around margins in 2019?Yeah. I think overall if I go to GAAP margin, we – it'll moderate some because we picked up some
really nice margins this year as we mentioned. I think it'd be between 50 basis points and 55
basis points, we anticipate that at this point between 50 basis points and 55 basis points
improvement in GAAP operating margin, but going forward we do have some other headwinds,
some in taxes, I mean below the margin line, some in taxes primarily because we're not going to
have as much foreign tax benefit and we're going to have less R&D benefit. And Sue's guidance
also is based on the fact that we will have about 400 basis points we expect right now, 400 basis
points lower in discrete tax items.
To conclude, I think from a segment perspective, our margins in instruments will improve a little
bit, Digital Imaging will be flat, Aerospace and Defense will be slightly up and Engineered
Systems slightly down, balance all of that we expect the operating margin overall to go up by
about 50 basis points to 55 basis points.
Q - `Greg Konrad, Analyst, Jefferies LLC `
Thank you. That's helpful. And then just last one for me. I mean you mentioned the government
shutdown, is that – I mean I know Defense Department remains open, I mean is there other
exposure I know in the past you've maybe had EPA or just any impact you're seeing from the
shutdown?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Right now, I don't see an impact to Q1. But having said that, if this goes on for a long time, some
of our programs will be affected, we will not get renewals. And we're being a little cautious
obviously, between that and what's happening with the trade disputes that we have. So we're
being a little cautious at this point.
Q - `Greg Konrad, Analyst, Jefferies LLC `
Thank you.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Thank you.
Operator
We'll now go to the line of Jim Ricchiuti with Needham & Company.
Q - `James Ricchiuti, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `
Hi. Good morning. Just given the full year guidance for revenue growth, do you anticipate
stronger growth as the year progresses, starting off a little slower, just given some of the
headwinds you alluded to?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Yeah. I think Jim, both in revenue and in earnings, if you go back, I just went back and looked at
earnings first, going back to 2011 and I noted that every quarter, our earnings in the first quarter
have been lower than the second and most of the time we've had a continuous improvement in
earnings and part of that is because we've had continuous improvement in revenue. So at this
point, sitting where we are, I think that 3.5% to 4% is a good number for earnings. But if things
turn up, if the trade disputes begin to diminish I think our revenues would go up and our earningsshould go up, as it is we anticipate earnings growth quarter-over-quarter anyway. That's how if
you add up the $925 million to $935 million. And the guidance for Q1, you can conclude that we're
anticipating earnings to grow anyway.
Q - `James Ricchiuti, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `
Got it. And then with respect to marine instrumentation, fairly significant increase in bookings in
the quarter. So should we assume that the things have finally begun to turn in that part of the
business, and certainly the comparisons get easier this year? Is that fair to say?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Yes, it is. I'll let Al expand on that.
A - `Aldo Pichelli, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Good morning, Jim. You're absolutely right in terms of the bookings situation. As a matter, if
we look at the book-to-bill ratio for marine for the entire year, it was 1.06, but if you look at just
Q4 out book-to-bill order is 1.27. And well, we look at that space in a couple of different ways. First
of all, the seismic exploration space, our equipment's been there for quite a while. We think there
is a need for replacement, but that's probably another year or so away. So we think that that part
is going to be relatively flat in 2019. And then in the offshore production side, there seems to be
some good activity generating now, but these are large projects that have to be engineered. And
so in terms of actually seeing the sales come from that, likewise, we think that's probably late
2019 and probably next year.
On the positive side, there are a couple of other areas. When we think about the defense and
security, as you know, we provide quite a bit of equipment in areas like the Virginia-class
submarine, and those are orders we have in-house, the content is growing each year. And so that
gives us a pretty healthy growth on that side. That could be as much as 8% to 10% just on that
submarine program.
And then we're looking at other areas, an area of using autonomous underwater vehicles for
science, for infrastructure, for military application, and we have a broad suite of vehicles in that
space, and all of those seem to be doing pretty well. And that's where we see the upside
coming. So the sort of historical deepwater, oil and gas, flattish. The remaining parts of the
marine though we do see some improvements and hence, you see a little bit of the upside that
Robert talked about.
Q - `James Ricchiuti, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `
That's helpful. Al, you alluded to the book-to-bill in this part of the business. I wonder if you can
give us any color on just broadly speaking book-to-bill for...
A - `Aldo Pichelli, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Sure.
Q - `James Ricchiuti, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `
...for the quarter...
A - `Aldo Pichelli, President & Chief Executive Officer `Q - `James Ricchiuti, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `
... and maybe some of the segments. Thank you.
A - `Aldo Pichelli, President & Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Sure. I can do that, Jim. Our orders input were pretty strong for the year. As a company, we
had a book-to-bill of 1.11. And if you go through the math, that means we added about $320
million to the backlog. And of that, segment by segment, I mentioned the marine for the quarter
about 1.27. From there, you go to our (00:23:58) which is environmental and our test and
measurement businesses. And as you know, that's a short cycle, book and burn business, and it's
about 1. I think the environment was just a hair under 1. Our test and measurement centered
around LeCroy is 1. So that doesn't change too much from period to period.
In the Digital Imaging, we have a book-to-bill of a little bit below 1, about 0.97. And again, I'm
talking about Q4 now. It's 0.97 in Q4 and sort of 1.05 for the year. Aerospace and Defense is
where the majority of our orders come, keeping in mind that a number of these programs in this
space are multi-year programs. In fact, I'd probably say half of the extra orders are programs that
will go out for the next three to four years. But in Aerospace and Defense Electronics, we had a
book-to-bill in Q4 of 1.37. That's fairly healthy, and 1.29 for the year.
And then, when you move down to Engineered Systems, keeping in mind, Engineered Systems
has very large programs, so the orders from one month or one quarter are a little bit lumpy, but
the orders in Q4 were 0.81, but for the year, the orders are 1.08. And I think in Engineered, more
so than anywhere else, I think you have to look at the total orders for the year.
So if you add all that up as far as book-to-bill in Q4, we have a 1.09 and for the year a 1.11. Hope
that helps.
Q - `James Ricchiuti, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `
It does help. Thank you and just last question from me. You alluded to potentially some impact
from the shutdown. And I'm just wondering, with respect to the pending acquisition, does that –
do things get potentially delayed there?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Yeah. I'll take that one, Jim. Two things there, first, that part of the government program is
affected. Nevertheless, we're going through the process. We've submitted our HSR filings. We
did that right at the beginning of the year. We have an examiner that's looking at it and asking
questions. But it's – at this point, it's unpredictable. We expect to be able to close the transactions
in Q1. But that's one part that could get affected. Even though so far our examiner seems to be
very engaged with us and we're very pleased with that.
Q - `James Ricchiuti, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `
Okay. Robert, how's the pipeline for other acquisitions looking out over the balance of the year?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
It – not bad – how should I. Let me go back and say, because of what Sue mentioned, because of
our net debt to EBITDA – net debt getting down to about $600 million. You know our combined
EBITDA this year is going to get up to $550 million, $500 million to $550 million. So close to our
net debt. So we don't do anything. We're going to get rid of that net debt by the year-end or wehave it maybe a $100 million or $200 million. So we have a lot of financial muscle this year more
than I've seen in a long time. I think we'll have something of the order – we will have in 2019
something of the order of $1.3 billion to $1.5 billion capability.
So let me put that as being an opportunity for us. We are looking at both small and large
acquisitions, medium size for others, for us large. Having said all of that, we're going to continue
to be fairly disciplined in that process. We have to keep looking at the balance, keeping the
balance of our business, so it does not get out of whack, so that if one market goes down, it
takes the company's revenue and earnings in one direction too much. Having put all of that
together, I think we're going to probably be a little more aggressive than in the past.
Q - `James Ricchiuti, Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC `
Very good. Thank you. Appreciate it.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. At this time there are no further questions in the queue.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Thank you very much operator. I will now ask `Jason VanWees, Executive Vice President to conclude the call.
A - `Jason VanWees, Executive Vice President `
Thanks, Robert. And again, everyone thanks for joining us this morning. If you do have follow-up
questions, my number is on the earnings release, please feel free to call. Nick, if you could
conclude the call and provide the replay details to the audience, I would appreciate. And again
thank you everyone. Bye-bye.
Operator
Certainly, today's conference call is being recorded and will be made available for replay
beginning at 10:00 AM Pacific Time today and running through February 23.
You may call into the AT&T replay system by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and enter the access code of
457983. If you're calling from outside of the U.S., you may dial 320-365-3844. Again those dial-in
numbers are 1800-475-6701 or 320-365-3844 with a common access code of 457983.
That does conclude our conference for today. But thank you for your participation and for using
AT&T Teleconference. You may now disconnect.