Q4 2019 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Teledyne Fourth Quarter
Earnings Release Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we
will conduct a question-and-answer session instructions will be given at that time. (Operator
Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to your host `Jason VanWees, Executive Vice President. Please go ahead.
`Jason VanWees, Executive Vice President `
Thank you. Good morning, everyone. This is `Jason VanWees, Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, and I want
to welcome everyone to Teledyne's fourth quarter and full-year 2019 earnings release
conference call. We released our earnings earlier this morning before the market opened.
Joining me today are Teledyne's Executive Chairman, `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman, President and CEO, Al
Pichelli, Senior Vice President and CFO, Sue Main, and SVP General Counsel Chief Compliance
Officer, and Secretary, Melanie Cibik. After remarks by Robert, Al and Sue, we will ask for
questions. Of course but before we get started our attorneys have reminded me to tell you that
all forward-looking statements made this morning are subject to various risks and caveats as
noted in the earnings release and periodic SEC filings, and in order to avoid potential selective
disclosures, this call is simultaneously being webcast, and a replay, both via webcast and dial in
will be available for approximately one month. Here is Robert.
`Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Thank you, Jason, and good morning, everyone. And thank you for joining our earnings calls. For
the second consecutive quarters, we achieved all time record sales, earnings per share and free
cash flow. Likewise, full year 2019 was by any measure record year, each of sales, earnings, GAAP
operating margin and free cash flow were all-time records. Fourth quarter and full year sales
increased 11.5% and 9% respectively. Organic growth for both periods also exceeded 4%,
including some modest currency headwinds about 0.6% in Q4 and about 1% headwind for the full
year 2019.
In addition, for both the fourth quarter and full year, GAAP operating margin expanded just under
120 basis points. Fourth quarter earnings were $3.06 exceeding $3 per share for the first time anincrease of 24.9%, compared to last year. While we've increased our emphasis on margin
improvement, we are continuing our proven strategy of disciplined capital deployment for
compound growth in earnings and cash flow.
In 2019, we deployed $484 million on complementary acquisitions and earlier this month we
announced the acquisition of OakGate Technology, a software and hardware company focused
on the test, validation and operating performance of solid state electronic storage media. This is
our third bolt-on acquisition for Teledyne LeCroy and allows Teledyne to provide a complete set
of protocol analysis software and hardware used from the design of new data storage devices to
the use of search devices in hyperscale cloud storage networks.
Teledyne continues to benefit from our balanced portfolio of common technologies, serving
different complementary markets. We began 2020 with growth in our defense businesses,
expected to offset declines in sales of OEM avionics. Marine instrumentation continues to recover
with growing sales, but also with orders having exceeded sales for the sixth consecutive quarter.
In digital imaging, we expect to see continued strength in certain high-growth markets like micro
electro-mechanical system or MEMS, and a modest recovery in certain commercial machine vision
market such as the semiconductor industry.
Given the short cycle nature of our environmental and electronic test and measurement
instrumentation businesses, at this point, we're only projecting low single-digit GDP like organic
growth.
Finally, our balance sheet remains exceptionally strong with a quarter end leverage ratio of 1.4x
and we're continuing to pursue acquisition opportunities. Before turning the call to Al, I want to
emphasize that all of our financial results this morning are reported on a GAAP basis with no
adjustments for amortization, stock compensation, acquisition charges, purchase accounting,
restructuring or other charges.
AI will now comment on the performance of our four business segments.
`Aldo Al Pichelli, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Robert. In our instrumentation segment, overall fourth quarter sales increased 14.5%
from last year. Sales of marine instrumentation increased 14.7% organically in the quarter and we
also closed 2019 with the highest year-end backlog since 2014.
In addition, operating profit improved significantly. In the environmental domain, sales increased
31.9%, as a result of our recent acquisition of the Gas and Flame Detection business. In addition,
greater organic sales of pollution control instrumentation were offset by lower sales of selected
process gas analyzer and laboratory instruments. Sales of electronic test and measurement
systems increased sequentially to the highest level of 2019 but decreased 6.8% year-over-year,
given an especially tough comparison. For the full-year sales increased 6% organically.
Overall instrumentation segment operating profit increased 38.4% in the quarter and margin
increased 340 basis points with margins increasing for test and measurement and marine
instrumentation, excluding the Gas and Flame detection acquisition and related purchase
accounting, margins also increased within the environmental instrumentation.
Turning to the digital imaging segment, fourth quarter sales increased 20.1%. Sales of our
proprietary medical and dental X-ray detectors again increased significantly year-over-year. Sales
of geospatial sensor systems and MEMS devices also grew nicely, as did sales of advancedThe strong growth in these businesses more than offset some expected declines in the portion
of our industrial machine vision business, which serves consumer electronics and generally factory
automation markets, especially in Asia.
However, sales of these products did increase sequentially, given some recent recovery in the
semiconductor related inspection systems. GAAP segment operating profit increased 29.8% and
margin increased 131 basis points, generally as a result of the increased sales volume. In the
aerospace and defense electronics segment fourth quarter sales increased 2.7%, primarily due to
strong growth across majority of our Defense Electronics businesses, partially offset by lower
sales of OEM Aerospace Electronics.
Segment operating margin decreased 208 basis points to 19.2%. The operating margin primarily
resulted from product mix differences in Defense Electronics and lower sales of commercial
avionics. In the Engineered Systems segment fourth quarter revenue decreased 1.7% with greater
sales related to space and energy programs, electronic manufacturing and turbine engines, more
than offset by lower sales from missile defense programs and energy systems. Segment
operating profit and margin was flat year-to-year. Before turning to Sue, I want to offer some
additional commentary regarding our 2020 outlook.
Given the points raised by Robert earlier, we believe that total organic revenue growth into full
year of 2020 will be 3% to 3.5%. In addition, the full year contribution from the scientific camera,
Gas and Flame detection, Micralyne and OakGate acquisition will add another $100 million or so
of incremental revenue. This translates to total revenue of approximately $3.36 billion to $3.37
billion for 2020.
I will now turn the call over to Sue.
`Susan L. Main, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Al. Good morning, everyone. I will first discuss some additional financials for the
quarter not covered by Robert and Al and then I will discuss our first quarter and full year 2020
outlook.
In the fourth quarter record cash flow from operating activities was $167.9 million, compared with
cash flow of $125.5 million for the same period of 2018. The cash provided by operating activities
in the fourth quarter of 2019 reflected the impact of higher operating income, cash flow from
recent acquisitions and improved working capital management. Free cash flow, that is cash from
operating activities, less capital expenditures was $144 million in the fourth quarter of 2019,
compared with $106.8 million in 2018.
Capital expenditures were $23.9 million in the fourth quarter, compared to $18.7 million for the
same period of 2018. Depreciation and amortization expense was $29.3 million in both the fourth
quarters of 2019 and 2018. We ended the quarter with $651.1 million of net debt that is $850.6
million of debt less cash of $199.5 million for a net debt to capital ratio of 19.4%. Stock option
compensation expense was $5.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2019 compared with $4.9 million in
the fourth quarter of 2018.
Turning to our outlook, management currently believes that GAAP earnings per share in the first
quarter of 2020 will be in the range of $2.25 to $2.35 per share and for the full year 2020, our
GAAP earnings per share outlook is $11.20 to $11.30. The 2020 full year estimated tax rate,
excluding discrete items is expected to be 22.3%, a 170 basis point increase compared to full
year 2019 due in part to less R&D tax credits as a percentage of taxable income. In addition, we
currently expect significantly less discrete items in 2020 compared with 2019.I will now pass the call back to Robert.
`Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Thank you, Sue. We would now like to take your questions. Greg if you're ready to proceed with
the questions-and-answers. Please go ahead.
(Question And Answer)
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions). Your first question comes from the line of `Andrew Buscaglia, Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
`Andrew Buscaglia, Credit Suisse `
Hey guys, thanks for taking my question.
`Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Good morning, Andrew.
`Andrew Buscaglia, Credit Suisse `
Good morning. I was hoping you could dig a little bit more into marine so, you're on your second
quarter now of -- looks like at the beginning of a ramp. How sustainable is this -- is the growth into
next year? And then, can you also talk a little bit about, I would think given you got marine finally
rebounding here, you got potentially machine vision rebounding here. I would think that your
organic growth rate guidance will be higher than that 3%, I believe you said 3% and 3.5%. So what
can you talk about how that's weighing it down or what's weighing it down?
`Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Sure, Andrew. Let me start with marine. So I think our orders in marine were significant this year.
We ended the year with about 1.1 in terms of book-to-bill. It's been a good run. There are -- the oil
prices hover between $55 and $65 for Brent and a lot of deepwater production is profitable
below $50. So we're seeing both improvements in our seismic activities, those are activities for
oil exploration as well as long-term oil production contracts.
We think that in 2020, marine would have increased revenues in the range of about 6.6% versus
4% in 2019. Now, continuing with the second part of your question which is why we have organic
growth less than 4% or so. This year, we achieved about 4.4%. We're projecting between 3% and
3.5% for next year, that's primarily affected by the 737 MAX, it impacts our revenues by 1%, that's
our best guess right now, which is equivalent to about $30 million.
We anticipated that we would have revenues of over $40 million maybe as much as $45 million.
And because of the delays that you're very familiar with, we expect that would be down about --
affect our revenue about 1% or $30 million.
Having said that, I think it's important to note that with even that hit that we're taking in our
revenue, because of our balanced portfolio, even in the aerospace and defense segment, we
expect revenue to be flat year-over-year, because the defense businesses are going to do much
better this year than they did last year.So, the answer to your question is primarily driven by math when it comes back into production,
we'll pick it up again.
`Andrew Buscaglia, Credit Suisse `
Yeah. That's helpful. Maybe, could you just comment on the -- you said machine vision in the
quarter seems to get a little uptick sequentially here. What's your expectation for 2020, I mean
you got semis market moving higher or there is a good commentary out of those markets so
what are you guys thinking?
`Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Right now, we think that in the machines vision that we will get some pickup from semi, we think
for the year, we'll probably organically grow 3% to 3.5%, but we also made a acquisition, Sci Im
acquisition last year, as well as Micralyne et cetera. I think overall, machine vision would be over
5%, maybe 5.1%, 5.2%.
The digital imaging that includes machine vision is recovering modestly. Where we've done well
really is in the healthcare, which is our X-ray business and our MEMS areas, and we think those
areas will help us as well. We think the sales in that whole digital imaging will increase from what
was this year about $900 million to about $990 million, I'm sorry $900 million to about $1.4 billion,
$1.450 billion so -- I mean $1.045 billion. And so will be positive about machine vision. Of course, if
the business picks up more, especially in the flat panel displays, then we'll do better still.
`Andrew Buscaglia, Credit Suisse `
Yeah. Got it. All right. Thanks for the color.
`Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Giordano. Please go ahead.
`Joseph Giordano, Cowen and Company `
Hey guys. Good morning.
`Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Good morning, Joe.
`Joseph Giordano, Cowen and Company `
Hey, Robert, you answered a bunch of my questions there. But maybe can we just talk about
margins a little bit, and how much -- how dilutive was the M&A in the quarter? And how much is --
how dilutive do you have it into 2020 margins? And maybe we can get a little color on margins by
segment there.
`Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Yeah. I can give you margins first, if I make it by segment and related to '19. Let me start with
instrumentation, instrumentation had full year margin of about 18.1% and that was really good,because it improves about 370 basis points over 2018.
We think that'll go up again in 2020, perhaps as much as 70 basis points. Right now, we think it
would end up at 18.8%. And moving to digital imaging, digital imaging margins were flat year-
over-year at 18% -- was 17.8% '19 were 17.8%. We think we're going to get some margin
improvement there, perhaps as much as 65 basis points.
Aerospace and defense and engineered systems, we don't think we're going to improve
margins, aerospace and defense primarily, because the margins are already pretty high at 20.8%.
But also as I mentioned because of the headwinds from 737 MAX, we think even though defense
will make up for the revenue, margins will stay flat. And then engineered systems, we think
margins would remain about 9.7%.
So overall in the segment, we think that the margins will increase overall about 45% or 45 basis
points, and the company as a whole, it will be about 50 basis points. Regarding the question you
asked about dilution -- accretion, dilution from the acquisitions, the Roper acquisition was the
scientific cameras was non-dilutive.
Right now, Gas and Flame, which is the business we bought from 3M and Micralyne which we
bought, we think they will add about -- they added about 50 basis points in dilution, probably in
Q4, and we think going forward they'll be flat. Most of our acquisitions that we make maybe
dilutive at very early on because of the expenses we have in acquiring them but after a while,
they were created.
`Joseph Giordano, Cowen and Company `
That's very helpful. Just wanted to clarify, I think you said earlier Marine up about 6.5% in 2020
what about the oil and gas, the energy component of marine specifically, I just want to make sure
I'm -- I wasn't confusing which things you were talking about there.
`Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Yeah. Let me just point that out. I think in the oil and gas -- first let me start with a big picture, this
year we ended marine at about $450 million which was a 3.9% improvement over '18. Our
present plans or our present anticipation is that, that go up 6.6% to $480 million. Of that the oil
and gas in 2019 was about $185 million. And we think that'll increase to $202 million, a healthy
increase for us. And we think the rest of marine which is -- has to do with defense and security
and other things that will go up from $265 million to $278 million. So to put it in a nutshell, the
6.6% is balance between oil and gas and the other businesses, especially defense, where we do
have really good programs, especially in the submarine area.
`Joseph Giordano, Cowen and Company `
So maybe last from me. On the healthcare part of digital imaging, that business has been great
for you guys. And what's the outlook and kind of current thoughts around new customers and
new fields like on surgery and mammography and what's the -- what's kind of the pacing and
discussions with big customers there and what's embedded in your guidance for growth in
healthcare in 2020?
`Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
We think, we're going to have a little growth in healthcare, but it's not going to be as robust as
we had in 2020, because we had a lot of new OEM sign up in 2020 and we don't see any newWe have -- in prior years, we had really good extraoral surgery, we had good intraoral, we had
mammography. So we think it's going to be relatively flat, maybe increase another $10 million
year-over-year. I think last year was about $255 million, we're projecting about $265 million or so
this year. But it's a healthy business. We're trying to also move up market with some of our
products.
So as the year progresses, I think we'd be able to project improvement, especially in
mammography and other OEMs as we move closer to 2021.
`Joseph Giordano, Cowen and Company `
Good. Thanks very much.
`Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Thank you.
Operator
(Operator Instructions). And at this time, there are no further questions.
`Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Well, thank you very much, Greg. What I'd like to do is ask Jason to conclude the conference call.
Thank you.
`Jason W. Connell, Vice President, Human Resources, Associate General Counsel `
Thanks, Robert. And again, thanks everyone for joining us this morning. If you do have follow-up
questions, please feel free to call me at the number on the earnings release. And of course, all
our news releases are available on our website. Greg, if you could conclude the conference call
then please provide the replay details for the audience. We'd certainly appreciate it. Thanks
again.
Operator
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this conference will be available for replay after 10 a.m. Pacific
Time today through February 22nd. You may access the AT&T executive replay system at any
time by dialing 1866-207-1041 and entering the access code 1455431. International participants
dial 402-970-0847. Those numbers once again are 1866-207-1041 or 402-970-0847 with the
access code 1455431. That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&T teleconferencing. You may now disconnect.