Q4 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Teledyne Fourth Quarter
Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. (Operator Instructions)
I'd now like to turn our conference over to the host, `Jason VanWees, Executive Vice President. Please go ahead.
`Jason VanWees, Executive Vice President `
Thank you, William, and good morning, everyone. This is `Jason VanWees, Executive Vice President, Executive Vice
President at Teledyne, and I want to welcome everyone to our fourth quarter and full year
earnings release conference call. We released our earnings earlier this morning. Joining me today
are Teledyne's Executive Chairman, `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman; President and CEO, Al Pichelli; Senior Vice
President and CFO, Sue Main; and Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Compliance
Officer and Secretary, Melanie Cibik. After remarks by Robert, Al and Sue, we will ask for your
questions.
Of course, though, before we get started, I want to remind everyone that forward-looking
statements made this morning are subject to various assumptions, risks and caveats as noted in
the earnings release and our periodic SEC filings. And of course, actual results may differ
materially. In order to avoid potential selective disclosures, this call is simultaneously being
webcast and a replay, both via webcast and dial-in, will be available for approximately one month.
Here is Robert.
`Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Thank you, Jason. Good morning, and thank you for joining our earnings call. I'll begin by
discussing our 2020 results, briefly comment on the outlook for 2021, and of course, comment on
the pending acquisition of FLIR.
We concluded 2020 with the best earnings, operating margin and cash flow in the company's
history. Compared to last year, fourth quarter earnings increased 13.7%, operating margin
increased a 173 basis points, and free cash flow increased 50.7%.For the full year 2020, GAAP operating margin increased slightly and free cash flow increased
significantly, 39.1% to $547.5 million. It is worth emphasizing the full year margin and cash flow
performance occurred despite over $33 million in non-recurring charges, record GDP in the
second quarter and the constant challenges faced by manufacturers during the COVID-19
pandemic. For all of their efforts, I want to congratulate our employees as well as offer my most
sincere thank you to them for transforming a difficult year into one of the most rewarding for our
stockholders.
We entered 2021 with a clear improvement in demand across the majority of our businesses. In
fact, we received record orders in the fourth quarter and ended 2020 with record backlog. Q2
orders were $920 million or 1.14 times sales with year-end backlog of $1.7 billion. While it's still
early in 2021, we're expecting continuing recovery in our commercial businesses as well as growth
in our government businesses, in both cases strongest within our digital imaging segment.
Given some caution and conservatism related to the ongoing tug-of-war between shutdowns and
vaccines, we think a reasonable outlook for the total company's organic growth is between 5%
and 6% for 2021. Of course, the largely pre-COVID comparison in the first quarter will be the
most difficult with revenue relatively flat.
Finally, I want to comment on the FLIR acquisition. We've been watching FLIR since we first
entered the space-based [ph] infrared imaging market in 2006 when we acquired Teledyne
Scientific and Imaging. We believed then and we believe now that our infrared imaging
technologies and market segments are uniquely complementary. As both companies evolved,
we've grown to be even more complementary. For example, Teledyne entered the subsea drone
business in 2008 and FLIR entered the airborne unmanned business in 2016, and more recently,
the land-based robotics business.
Perhaps, more importantly, each company exited unattractive businesses, Teledyne in 2011 and
FLIR in 2018. While our respective sensing technologies and market segments are different, the
fundamental desire of our end customers is an image or even better information. This is true for
X-ray imaging, infrared imaging, industrial machine vision and even our underwater marine sonar
imaging and software businesses. In other words, there is similarity and synergy in digitization,
imaging algorithms, machine learning and other related technologies across each of our
organizations.
I will conclude by noting that for 21 years, Teledyne has consistently and predictably compounded
earnings and cash flow, and 2020 was not different. Nevertheless, I have never been more
excited about Teledyne's future than I am today with the pending acquisition of FLIR.
Al will now comment on the performance of our four business segments.
`Aldo Pichelli, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Robert. In our instrumentation segment, overall fourth quarter sales decreased 6.2%
when compared with last year. Sales of environmental instruments decreased 6.7% from last year.
However, sales increased 6.9% sequentially from the third quarter. Compared with last year, sales
of certain products, such as Wastewater Samplers increased. However, this was more than offset
by year-over-year decline in sales of selected industrial products, such as ambient air monitoring
instrumentation.
Sales of electronic test and measurement systems increased 3.7% year-over-year to a quarterly
record of $70 million. Sales of marine instrumentation decreased 11.4% in the quarter, due in partto a difficult comparison with the fourth quarter of 2019. In spite a lower sales, overall
instrumentation segment operating margin increased 262 basis points to a record 22.3%.
Now, turning to the digital and imaging segment, fourth quarter sales decreased 2.3% and
primarily reflected lower sales of X-ray detectors for dental and medical imaging, partially offset
by greater sales of infrared and visible detectors for space applications. GAAP segment
operating margin was 21.6%, an increase of 407 basis points year-over-year and also a record.
Now in the Aerospace and Defense segment, fourth quarter sales declined 14.8% as greater U.S.
Defense sales were more than offset by a 45% decline in sales of commercial aerospace
products, as well as lower commercial space sales related to OneWeb. The GAAP segment
operating margin decreased due to lower sales as well as $5.8 million in severance, facility
consolidation and other contract charges.
In the engineered systems segment, fourth quarter revenue increased 26.8%, primarily due to
greater sales from defense, nuclear and other manufacturing programs as well as electronic
manufacturing services. Segment operating margin increased a 175 basis points compared with
last year.
I will now turn the call to Sue, who will offer some additional commentary regarding the first
quarter and full year 2021 outlook.
`Susan L. Main, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Al, and good morning, everyone. I will first discuss some additional financials for the
quarter not covered by Robert and Al, and then I will discuss our first quarter and full year 2021
outlook.
In the fourth quarter, cash flow from operating activities was $236.4 million compared with cash
flow of $167.9 million for the same period of 2019. Record free cash flow, that is cash from
operating activities less of capital expenditures, was $217 million in the fourth quarter of 2020
compared with $144 million in 2019. Capital expenditures were $19.4 million in the fourth quarter
compared to $23.9 million for the same period of 2019. Depreciation and amortization expense
was $28.7 million in the fourth quarter compared to $29.3 million for the same period of 2019.
We ended the quarter with $105.4 million of net debt, that is $778.5 million of debt less cash of
$673.1 million for a net debt to capital ratio of only 3.2%. Stock option compensation expense was
$5.9 million for the fourth quarter of 2020 compared to $5.7 million for the same period of 2019.
Turning to our outlook. Management currently believes that earnings per share in the first quarter
of 2021 will be in the range of $2.55 to $2.60 per share. And for the full year 2021, our earnings
per share outlook is $11.25 to $11.45. In each case, these do not reflect the pending acquisition of
FLIR and related acquisition and financing costs. The 2021 full year estimated tax rate, excluding
discrete items, is expected to be 22.3%. In addition, we currently expect significantly less discreet
tax items in 2021 compared with 2020.
I will now pass the call back to Robert.
`Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Thank you. We would now like to take your questions. William, if you're ready to proceed with the
questions and answers, please go ahead.
Questions And AnswersOperator
(Question And Answer)
(Operator Instructions) First question will come from the line of `Greg Konrad, Jefferies & Company, Inc.. Please go ahead.
Q - `Greg Konrad, Jefferies & Company, Inc. `
Good morning and great quarter.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Thank you, Greg.
Q - `Greg Konrad, Jefferies & Company, Inc. `
You mentioned 5% to 6% organic growth in 2021, but how are you thinking about that on a
segment basis, just thinking about the different recovery cycles across the business?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Good question. Let's start with instruments. In the instruments, we think our sales would increase
about 5%, maybe just ahead over 5% with our Environmental and Test & Measurement
businesses leading those. In Digital Imaging, the theme for digital imaging for us is recovery. And
even though our revenue only went down 1% this year, we expect next year to recover and grow
up about 9% in digital imaging. Aerospace & Defense, we had a tough year especially in
Aerospace, and we expect some improvement especially in our Defense businesses, I would say
about 4%. Engineered Systems had a great year, the best year among all of our businesses in
terms of improving sales. So their -- we expect their sales to improve very modestly less than 1%.
And the way I've laid it out, Greg, so far it adds up to something like 5.5% to 5.6%. I hope that's
helpful.
Q - `Greg Konrad, Jefferies & Company, Inc. `
That's very helpful. And I mean the other thing that just set out on the quarter and the year, I
mean just looking at free cash flow conversion goes like 136% in 2020. I mean, how are you
thinking about conversion going forward? And maybe this is too early, but just kind of post FLIR
close. Is there any reason to think that level of conversion changes?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Well, let me -- Greg, let me start with -- without FLIR first. We think year-over-year, our free cash
flow is going to be relatively flat, maybe a little down, because as you said the conversion was
phenomenal. There is of course -- we had the benefit of payroll tax about $24 million last year,
even though you put that in, it doesn't affect our really outstanding cash flow. So we got to pay
some of that back next year. But having said that, I think absent the one-time charges and
expenses that come with the FLIR acquisition, our cash flow would be relatively flat maybe a little
down next year, but it will still be very close to the record that we accomplished this year.
Now with FLIR, what -- the way I can describe that is on an adjusted basis, if I may, because it is --
it's difficult for us to right now determine what their cash flow would be. But based on historical
trends, we think together, we would have an adjusted EBITDA after the acquisition of about $1.2
billion, ours and theirs, and that's about the best I can do at this time knowing what I know.Q - `Greg Konrad, Jefferies & Company, Inc. `
That's helpful. And then just one quick clean-up question. In terms of the debt financing for FLIR, I
mean any thoughts around kind of timing and rate on that? Thank you.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Sure. Let me start by noting where we are today and what progress we've made to date. We
have interacted with our banking institutions and we have secured financing for our term loans.
First, we have $1.25 billion of term loans, which we have a commitment for and the remainder of
the $4 billion that we need will come in corporate bonds and that we will do after we have a --
after we will claim the rating for ourselves from the rating agencies, Moody's and S&P, and I think
we will get a investment grade rating after which we will do that for enhancing.
The other thing that's important is that we have increased our net debt to EBITDA, multiple to
$4.8 million and we think this would conveniently put us in a position where we'll have cash on
hand after the acquisition. And our covenants are about $4.75 million to plus -- about $4.8 million
in net debt.
And the last thing I'd say is that we managed to also get a commitment to increase our line of
credit from about what it is now $750 million to over $1.1 billion. So that's about the best I can do.
In terms of weight -- average borrowing rate that you asked about, our best guess at this time it's
going to be 2.25%, maybe 2.3% of that order.
Q - `Greg Konrad, Jefferies & Company, Inc. `
Thank you.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Sure, Greg.
Operator
The next question will come from the line of `Jim Ricchiuti, Needham & Company. Please go ahead.
Q - `Jim Ricchiuti, Needham & Company `
Hi. Thank you. So I wanted to pursue, Robert, if I may just the improvement that you're expecting
in the Digital Imaging business in 2021 is -- are you seeing signs yet of the recovery in the X-ray
detector business or are you just assuming as we get the pandemic behind us that, that business
starts to recover?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Well, there are two parts to that. There is the -- there's the X-rays for dental imaging, which
already are recovering. Then there's the X-ray for cancer treatment both -- in that case we make
components that go into machines, and that's recovering a little slower. But we are seeing some
recovery in our X-ray imaging where we have this CMOS image sensors, we're seeing some
recovery there. So overall, I'm going to say that we will see recovery in our healthcare. I would say
of the order of 6% at least that surge gets right now maybe a little more than that.
Q - `Jim Ricchiuti, Needham & Company `Got it. And what kind of recovery are you assuming in the industrial machine vision portion of the
business?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
I think if you look at this year in the industry -- the total machine vision, which would include
scientific cameras, we expect about a 10% recovery in that domain.
Q - `Jim Ricchiuti, Needham & Company `
Got it. And so the bookings that -- strength that you saw in Q4, was that -- were any of the major
segments unusually strong that later --
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Yes. I think -- yes, I'm sorry. I should let you finish your question.
Q - `Jim Ricchiuti, Needham & Company `
No. Please go ahead.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
I think the strongest this again was in Digital Imaging, it was about 1.2. And that bodes well for us
because it cuts across all of the businesses there including on our Aerospace & Defense
businesses and our microelectrical -- electromechanical systems' foundries.
Q - `Jim Ricchiuti, Needham & Company `
Got it, okay. Thanks very much.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Sure, Jim.
Operator
And our next question will come from the line of `Joe Giordano, Cowen. Please go ahead.
Q - `Joe Giordano, Cowen `
Hey, it's Joe. I'm not sure if that's me -- guys can you hear me?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Yes, we can actually -- we can hear you loud and clear as they say.
Q - `Joe Giordano, Cowen `
Okay. I'm not sure what they meant was. But anyway, thanks for taking the questions. I'll start just
on Aerospace & Defense Electronics. Like, sort of given what's happening in that space and I
know you're being conservative about the ramp back on the commercial side. Like what -- how do
we think about margin recovery in that business given the cost that you took out like what kind of
run rate of revenue do you need to achieve to get back to where we were and margins before?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `Well, the revenue of course is one story. We don't expect that this time much recovery in our
Aerospace businesses. On the other hand, we do expect some improvement in our Defense
businesses. But coming back (inaudible) business, we expect the margins to improve to a little
better than 18% from 13.7% or about 450 basis points approximately, even though we don't
expect much recovery in the Aerospace side of the business. It's just primarily cost take out and
improvement in everything else that we're doing.
Q - `Joe Giordano, Cowen `
Perfect. That's really helpful. I saw that there was an expansion awarded on the switch contract.
So just curious like, I think you mentioned engineered up a good year as kind of a flat outlook.
What's the path over the next few years in Engineered Systems just based on kind of the pacing
of contracts that you've won in the deployment schedule there?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Yes, first let me back up and say what business there is going to shrink. And that's a -- we're
doing -- we make turbine engines for missile, specifically Harpoon missiles, and that will be going
away at the end of the first quarter. So I think that in terms of sales of turbine engines, which are
also our profitable businesses, it should impact our revenue about $20 million next year. So that's
on the contraction side.
On the expansion side, which will keep us hopefully flat year-over-year since we have such a
great year in 2020. On the expansion side, we won a number of contracts, multi-year contracts,
some of which we put out news releases. And we think that we had about $0.5 billion in total of
new contracts or renewal of contracts last year. For example, coming back to this week's, what
we have is we have our existing programs which are about rough numbers, let's say, it'll add up
to about $350 million, then we receive the foreign military sales contract for the new boats, which
is about $35-or-so-million, could be (inaudible) $40 million. And that's a plus in that business and
we're very excited about that business, because as, that underwater vehicle also uses a lot of our
sensors that we develop in our Marine businesses. So that's -- I don't know if that answered your
question as well as you wanted.
Q - `Joe Giordano, Cowen `
Yes. Is the margin profile for that business kind of similar on a similar run rate revenue you expect
next year?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
No, I think margins will go down somewhat. We had a -- we're just a blowout marching year this
year in that business primarily because of turbine engines and some of our manufacturing
programs. We ended the year at about 12%, that's on the very high side of that business. I think
we're going to go down to closer to 10.5% next year.
Q - `Joe Giordano, Cowen `
It makes sense. And then just last for me like, any update on how you're thinking of presenting
FLIR once you close it? Because I think the $1.2 billion EBITDA run rate that you were talking, I
assume that's -- that's kind of like a full year equivalency. So as that comes in at some point
during '21, how do you think you're going to present like this -- the incremental operating
performance plus the one-time cost associated with it?A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Yes, what we'll do Joe is we'll take the one-time cost and put it aside as you know, but that's
going to be significant, it's going to be I'm going to guess -- my guess right now is about $105
million, it could be a little higher than that. So put that aside because there's nothing we can do
about that. Then you go to -- let's assume the merger happens, the acquisition happens on July 1.
Then what we're looking at is you can look at that two ways. You can look at it with as an adjusted
basis. And when I talk adjusted, I'm only speaking about adjustment for intangible amortization,
nothing else. If you look at it that way, then the acquisition is going to be accretive almost
immediately, and the first full year, it's going to be accretive significantly, could be as accretive as
$2.50.
With the $40 million tax take off, cost take off that we're estimating for the first four years, we
think on a GAAP basis, it should be accretive after the first full year, marginally accretive. So the
way we presented is what is the combined revenue going to be at this point? I would say, if you
look at the 2020 pro-forma, you're looking at $5 billion. If you look at 2021 plus FLIR for the first
full year, you're looking at $5.2 billion in revenue. And then we will work on the free cash flow
same as we do now, but probably presented on a non-GAAP basis. Only I say that because, in our
agreement with our lenders in terms of what they have agreed to in terms of our net debt to
EBITDA, they're excluding the one-time costs that we're going incur in that business. So we'll
have a table of free cash flow to lay all of that up.
Q - `Joe Giordano, Cowen `
Thanks, guys.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Thanks, Joe.
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of `Andrew Buscaglia, Berenberg Capital Markets. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Andrew Buscaglia, Berenberg Capital Markets `
Good Morning, guys.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Good morning. Andrew.
Q - `Andrew Buscaglia, Berenberg Capital Markets `
I wanted to ask on -- I believe last quarter you provided sort of a soft target for this year's
margins to be -- to expand about 130 basis points and you kind of walked through a couple
segments. But do you still stand by that initial take?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Well. You said it was a soft target, a 100 basis points improvement. Okay, I think we'll do a little
better than that. I -- for us as a standalone company again, excluding any one-time charges whichwe -- are going to happen, I think our margin should improve about 120 basis points to 140 basis
points in 2021 versus 2020.
Q - `Andrew Buscaglia, Berenberg Capital Markets `
Okay. Okay, and then, Robert, you sounded last quarter a little bit. I guess there are expectations
around Biden administration would not be great for your Defense business. Have you given that
much more thought now that's coming to fruition, broadly, it sounds like defense still has some
legs into 2021, but I guess what's your outlook beyond that?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Well I -- it's very interesting. One of our directors made an observation yesterday, which I agree
with that I don't think by and large democratic administrations have been against the defense
spending, because they -- obviously they don't want to be appear as being soft on defense. And
with the world situation as it is today, we think the defense is going to be stable and we have
long-term programs in very critical areas, including space infrared programs that are going to be
healthy. That's about all I can say about the defense side. There are other things of course that
affect us which would be interest rates, if they went up and of course taxes will hit all corporations
if they were to go up.
Q - `Andrew Buscaglia, Berenberg Capital Markets `
Okay. And last one just might be a little out there, but you guys sounded really excited about
potential M&A this year pre-FLIR and I know you got your hands full with FLIR, but is M&A off the
table completely this year outside of FLIR you -- until you digest that one?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Yes and no, M&A is never off the table. If something really attractive came along and we thought
we could do it while being as busy as we are at this time and going to be integrating, we would
have the capacity as I mentioned. We would have another almost $1 billion that we can spend. But
I don't -- I would say it's not likely at this time, because does the amount of work we have. Now
on the other hand, it is a small bolt on that we can talk to (cid:0) tuck away into one of our businesses,
yes, we do it.
Q - `Andrew Buscaglia, Berenberg Capital Markets `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
At this time, we have no further questions in queue.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Thank you, William. I know I ask Jason to conclude our conference called please.
A - `Jason VanWees, Executive Vice President `
Thank you, Robert. And again, thanks everyone for joining us this morning. Our news releases are
available on our website and, of course, should you have follow-up questions, my number is
there. Please do feel free to call me or send me a note to set up a time to speak. Thanks,
everyone. William if you could give the replay information please, that would be great. Thank you.Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this conference will be available for replay after 10 a.m. today through
February 27th. You may access the AT&T Teleconference Replay System at any time by dialing 1-
866-207-1041 entering access code 5989502.
That does conclude our conference for today. Thank you for your participation and using AT&T
Conferencing Services. You may now disconnect.