Q4 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Teledyne
Fourth Quarter Earnings Call. At this time, all lines are in a listen-only mode. Later, there will be an
opportunity for your questions, and instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions)
And as a reminder, today's conference is being recorded.
At this time, it's my pleasure to turn the conference over to our host, Mr. `Jason VanWees, Vice Chairman. Please
go ahead.
`Jason VanWees, Vice Chairman `
Thank you, Tom, and good morning, everyone. This is `Jason VanWees, Vice Chairman, Vice Chairman of
Teledyne, and I'd like to welcome everyone to Teledyne's fourth quarter and full year 2022
earnings release conference call. We released our earnings earlier this morning before the
market opened.
Joining me today are Teledyne's Chairman, President and CEO, `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; Senior Vice
President and CFO, Sue Main; Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Compliance Officer
and Secretary, Melanie Cibik. Also joining today is Edwin Roks, EVP of Teledyne. After remarks by
Robert and Sue, we will ask for your questions.
Of course, though, before we get started, attorneys have reminded me to tell you that all
forward-looking statements made this morning are subject to various risks, assumptions and
caveats, as noted in the earnings release and our periodic SEC filings. And of course, actual
results may differ materially. In order to avoid potential selective disclosures, this call is
simultaneously being webcast and a replay, both via webcast and dial-in, will be available for
approximately one month.
Here is Robert.
`Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Jason. Good morning, and thank you for joining our earnings call. 2022 ended up
being an excellent year. We concluded it with all-time record quarterly and full year sales andearnings per share. During 2022, Teledyne, as with many other companies, found itself faced with
external forces beyond our control, these were inflation, strong dollar, and parts shortages.
Nevertheless, with continued -- we continued our long history of navigating difficult market
environments, and we ultimately delivered earnings in excess of our own expectations.
Excluding foreign currency headwind, which negatively impacted fourth quarter sales growth by
approximately 2.6%, growth in local currency would have been 5.7%. Excluding ETM acquisition,
core growth in local currency would have been approximately 5%. GAAP operating margin of
19.3% was an all-time record and non-GAAP operating margin of 22.4% increased 95 basis points
from last year. GAAP and non-GAAP earnings of $4.74 and $4.94, respectively, were also records
for Teledyne. Fourth quarter free cash flow was reasonably healthy, but included interest
payments of approximately $30 million, which last year were made in the third quarter of 2021.
While we completed the acquisition of ETM, our leverage ratio continued to decline from 3.8
times in May of 2021, when we acquired FLIR, to 2.4 times at the end of 2022. Finally, our
acquisition pipeline remains healthy, as evidenced by the recent addition of ChartWorld, whose
maritime navigation software and hardware tools bridge a product and technology gap between
our Teledyne Marine and Raymarine businesses.
Turning to our 2023 full year outlook. While still very early in 2023 and with many unknowns,
including projections of a recession, we're inclined to offer an initial revenue and earnings outlook
in line with consensus expectations. On revenue, we see total 2023 sales growth of
approximately 5%, including incremental sales from recent bolt-on acquisitions. For our backlog-
driven long-cycle businesses, we expect growth to be higher than average. For the majority of
our short-cycle commercial businesses, foreign currency headwind will impact the first quarter of
2023 where comparisons are tough and economic uncertainty and export regulations remain
fluid.
We continue to see overall growth, not contraction in these businesses, but expect that growth
will be less than the total company average. On the other hand, supply chain constraints are
improving, albeit modestly. There are a few minor other unknown puts and takes, such as
increased scope on our NASA contract at Engineered Systems equally offset by the 2022
completion of our OneWeb contract in the Aerospace and Electronics segment. But no other
significant items to highlight this early in the year.
Our earnings outlook approximately 50 basis points of margin improvement in 2023 and we
currently think Instrumentation and Digital Imaging will be above average contributors to this,
while margins at Aerospace and Defense Electronics maybe flat or decline slightly, given
especially tough comps as a greater mix in 2023 of Defense Electronics relative to commercial
aerospace aftermarket sales.
I will now further comment on the performance of our four segments. In our Digital Imaging
segment, fourth quarter sales were relatively flat, despite currency translation headwind of
approximately 3.5%. Sales increased year-over-year for our industrial and scientific vision systems,
as well as our low-dose high-resolution digital X-ray detectors. Sales of commercial infrared
imaging cameras and components also increased and were at record levels since closing the FLIR
acquisition in May of 2021.
While total FLIR-related sales increased sequentially from the third quarter, sales of some
surveillance and unmanned ground systems declined from last year on especially tough
comparison. On the other hand, sales of unmanned air systems increased considerably year-
over-year. GAAP segment operating margin was 18.8% and adjusted for intangible assetamortization only segment margin was 23.8%, approximately 50 basis points greater than the
fourth quarter of last year.
In our Instrumentation segment, overall, fourth quarter sales increased 7.9% versus last year,
despite approximately 2.4% of FX translation headwind. Sales of electronic test and
measurement systems, which include oscilloscopes, digitizers and protocol analyzers, increased
3.8% year-over-year, despite a tough comparison with the fourth quarter of last year's. Sales of
oscilloscopes and protocol analyzers remained healthy with continued strength in products for
industry standards, such as Peripheral Component Interconnect Express, or PCI Express, and
Universal Serial Bus, or USB.
Sales of environmental instruments increased 9% compared with last year with greater sales of
both drug discovery and laboratory instruments, as well as air monitoring and process gas
analyzers. Sales of marine instrumentation increased 9.8% in the quarter, primarily due to strong
marine defense sales and the ongoing recovery in offshore energy markets. Overall,
Instrumentation segment operating profit increased 18.4% in the fourth quarter with GAAP
operating margin increasing 215 basis points to 24.2% and 163 basis points on a non-GAAP basis,
excluding intangible asset amortization, which brought the non-GAAP margins to 25.3%.
In Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment, fourth quarter sales increased 8.9%, driven by
broad-based growth of both defense and commercial aerospace products. GAAP and non-GAAP
segment operating profit increased approximately 30% with margins over 480 basis points
greater than last year.
In the Engineered Systems segment, fourth quarter revenue increased 6.7%, but operating profit
declined given lower margins for some of our electronic manufacturing service products.
Before I turn the call over to Sue, I want to make a couple of concluding remarks. First, I was very
pleased that Teledyne was able to overcome issues faced by most companies in 2022. Despite
the macroeconomic and supply chain challenges noted earlier, our results exceeded the top-end
of our earnings outlook issued at any point during the year.
While difficult to predict outcomes in 2023, we are reasonably confident that a number of our
long-cycle businesses serving defense, medical, energy, and aerospace markets will grow. While
demand is more difficult to predict in our short-cycle instrumentation and imaging businesses,
supply chain constraints and the premiums for gray market electronic components have begun to
ease modestly.
Given the strength of our balanced business portfolio and our management's long history of
navigating challenging markets, I'm optimistic that Teledyne will continue on its successful path in
2023.
I will now turn the call over to Sue.
`Susan L. Main, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Robert, and good morning, everyone. I will first discuss some additional financials for
the quarter not covered by Robert, and then I will discuss our first quarter and full year 2023
outlook. In the fourth quarter, cash flow from operating activities was $237.7 million compared with
cash flow of $295.6 million for the same period of 2021. The fourth quarter of 2022 reflected
greater interest payments due to the timing of fixed rate bond interest and increased inventory
purchases compared with the fourth quarter of 2021.Free cash flow, that is cash from operating activities less capital expenditures, was $203.6 million
in the fourth quarter of 2022 compared with $261.6 million in 2021. Capital expenditures were
$34.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2022 compared with $34 million in 2021. Depreciation and
amortization expense was $81.8 million for the fourth quarter of 2022 compared with $86.2
million. In addition, non-cash inventory step-up expense for the fourth quarter of 2021 was $47.8
million with no comparable amount recorded in the fourth quarter of 2022.
We ended the quarter with approximately $3.28 billion of net debt, that is approximately $3.92
billion of debt less cash of $638.1 million. Our stock option compensation expense was $6.2
million in the fourth quarter of 2022 compared with $6.4 million in 2021.
Turning to our outlook. Management currently believes that GAAP earnings per share in the first
quarter of 2023 will be in the range of $3.57 to $3.69 per share with non-GAAP earnings in the
range of $4.37 to $4.47. And for the full year 2023, our GAAP earnings per share outlook is $15.80
to $16.10, and on a non-GAAP basis $19 to $19.20. The 2023 full year estimated tax rate, excluding
discrete items, is expected to be 23%.
I will now pass the call to Robert.
`Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Sue. We would now like to take your questions. Operator, if you're ready to proceed
with the question-and-answers, please go ahead.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thanks much. (Operator Instructions) We'll begin today with a question from `Greg Konrad, Analyst, Jefferies
representing Jefferies. Please go ahead.
Q - `Greg Konrad, Analyst, Jefferies `
Good morning.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Good morning, Greg.
Q - `Greg Konrad, Analyst, Jefferies `
Good quarter. And then maybe just to start, given your commentary around supply chain and
long-cycle outperforming in 2023, can you maybe just update us on your expectations for
defense across the businesses? I mean, it seems like peers have called out somewhat
underperformance on supply chain this year. What are you seeing just in terms of the supply side
and also in terms of demand?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Frankly, we think defense, while the growth was relatively modest in 2022, was 2% to 3%, that's
our -- generally, our US government businesses. We think, in 2023, it would be about 5% organic
growth. So we're relatively optimistic.
Q - `Greg Konrad, Analyst, Jefferies `And then I mean I was pleasantly surprised with just margins in the commentary, I mean, some of
them seem very outsized across the segments. Just in terms of your margin commentary for this
year, what are some of the assumptions around price and inflation, FX, and just looking at that Q4
outperformance, anything unusual in that just when we think about the opportunities for 2023?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I think basically, in 2022, we hit just about every cylinder at the end of the quarter, especially
the last month, month-and-a-half, so things turned out very favorable. On 2023, we think Q1 is
going to be softer just like we had in 2022. Mostly, we have some headwinds from FX in first
quarter. We think there'll be a decline in our revenue maybe as much as 10%, but we don't know.
It's too early. Maybe 1% of headwind, maybe 1% of revenue decline, I would say that. On the other
hand, I think we will pick up in Q2, Q3, Q4, just like we did this year. Right now, early in the year in
the first two weeks, we had some slower orders in some of our short-cycle businesses, but the
last two weeks, they seem to be picking up. So overall, Greg, I'm optimistic about 2023
altogether.
Q - `Greg Konrad, Analyst, Jefferies `
And then maybe just sneaking one last one in. I mean, how are you thinking about free cash flow
in 2023 just given top line growth, margin expansion, and any working capital needs? I mean, in
the past, you've talked about a target. How are you thinking about 2023 in terms of free cash
flow?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I think just pausing for a second, because this will be asked, in 2022, we were a little short
on cash, well, a little, $200 million to be exact, and we think that's not going to happen in '23. We
think our cash in '23 is going to be higher, approximately $900 million in cash, whereas in '22, we
really had to be very careful, we build a little more inventory than we wanted to, primarily
because of the shortages. We fell about $30 million short on revenue in the fourth quarter
because of shortages. Also in '22, there was that lack of R&D deductibility, which everybody's
referred to, that cost us about $40 million. We had about $60 million of more cash taxes, which
brings us to this $200 million. We don't think that's going to repeat itself in 2023. So we're
optimistic.
Q - `Greg Konrad, Analyst, Jefferies `
Thank you.
Operator
And next, we're going to go to the line of `Elizabeth Grenfell, Analyst, Bank of America representing Bank of America. Your
line is open.
Q - `Elizabeth Grenfell, Analyst, Bank of America `
Hi, just a couple of questions. One, in the 5% revenue growth guidance, can you break out what is
price and what is volume in that?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I think it's a little too early to do both. But I'll tell you, that's about 3.5% of organic growth and then
1.5% from our acquisitions that we made, including the most recent one that we announced. If youlook at projections from GDP and inflation, at the current time -- I'm one of those people that
doesn't really believe in this projections at this point, but the projections are that real GDP in the
US will only grow 1.4% in '23 and inflation will drop to about 2.7%. Overall, developed markets,
probably GDP rate will grow 1.1%, that's where the projections are, maybe a little higher in
inflation. But Elizabeth, it's a little too early for me. I don't think the economists know either. So I'll
just say that we expect to have an organic growth of 3.5% at this time. If things move like they did
in '22, hopefully, we'll increase that, and of course, we'll make more acquisitions, too.
Q - `Elizabeth Grenfell, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay. And can you give us a little more detail on your outlook by segment and where you see the
most opportunity for upside?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. First, I think in the Instrumentation, which includes marine, environmental, and test and
measurement, we expect growth to be about 5% or average of the Company. Of course, that
doesn't have acquisitions in it. In the Digital Imaging segment as a whole, we, again, expect a 5%
growth, maybe 5.1%. Aerospace and Defense, maybe 4%. And Engineered Systems, maybe a
little over 5%. Part of the reason for Aerospace and Defense being a little less than the average,
last year, we had that OneWeb program that we ended successfully, which contributed about $20
million in revenue. On the other hand, in Engineered Systems, we think we'll be a little above the
average, because we won that very -- successfully won the NASA MOSSI contract, which adds
about $20 million. So that's -- at this point, that's all I can say about that.
Q - `Elizabeth Grenfell, Analyst, Bank of America `
Thank you very much.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure, Elizabeth.
Operator
And we'll go to the line of `Jim Ricchiuti, Analyst, Needham & Company with Needham & Company. Please go ahead.
Q - `Jim Ricchiuti, Analyst, Needham & Company `
Hi, thank you. So is it the short-cycle commercial business where, if you looked at '23, Robert,
where there might be some upside or are there some parts of the long-cycle business that could
drive the upside versus the 5% that you're talking about for the Company as a whole?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I think if I broke it down, the marine businesses have a little longer look at them. We think
marine as a whole -- also because the energy -- offshore energy markets are improving and our
projections for that are over 7%, maybe as much as 7.5% in marine, then the short-cycle
businesses, which is environmental and test and measurement, we think that would be about
3.5% together. We think that -- I've already talked about some of the others. In Digital Imaging,
where we do -- did have a really good year and a really good fourth quarter which was in DALSA
and e2v, we think we're going to be relatively flat organically, but we made some acquisitions, so
that should give us about, with acquisitions, maybe 3.8%. We think FLIR would do better last --
next year, maybe a little over 5%, 6%. So -- and the -- it's split between Defense and Aerospace.Defense is longer-cycle than Aerospace. If you discount the $20 million that we don't have in
Web, we think Defense will grow some, Aerospace maybe flat, more short-cycle. And I've already
talked about Engineered Systems and the MOSSI, which we won, which are longer-cycle
businesses. We feel comfortable there.
Q - `Jim Ricchiuti, Analyst, Needham & Company `
So Robert, it sounds like you're relatively positive on -- or constructive on what you're seeing out
in the market. If I look at your commercial businesses, you alluded to some variability in bookings
trends in some parts of the business and maybe you can provide a little bit more color on that.
But is there anything that you're seeing in the commercial areas, whether it's test and
measurement or machine vision that might be consistent with a slowing economy?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, a little bit. I think you hit it on the head. Just a sliver, I'd say in -- if you look at marine, our
book-to-bill in the fourth quarter was 1.15, that's why I said it's longer-cycle. We feel good about it.
But just going to specifically what you said, environmental and test and measurement, while for
the whole year our book-to-bill is about 1, in the fourth quarter, it dropped down to 0.96. Now, to
me, that's a sliver lower. So we're a little cautious about that. So DALSA, e2v dropped even
further a little bit, and I think FLIR would be okay, but some of our vision systems and scientific
cameras, we just hit it out of the park in the fourth quarter. And we think we're a little cautious
about predicting. At the other side, I mean, just to cut the chase, the other side is that it's very
early. Everybody is predicting one thing or another. All we're doing is, we're going to hunker down
and we're going to do what we always do. If we have to cut, we'll cut. And if we have to hire, we'll
hire. And we'll do what we have to do to make our numbers.
Q - `Jim Ricchiuti, Analyst, Needham & Company `
Was the book-to-bill -- last question, was the book-to-bill around 1 for the Company as a whole?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, just under 1, about 0.96, 0.97, but that has Engineered Systems in it, which was 0.9, but
that's very lumpy. For the year, Engineered System was 1.12, which is a long-cycle business. For the
year, the Company was closer to 1.
Q - `Jim Ricchiuti, Analyst, Needham & Company `
Got it. Thanks very much.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
For sure.
Operator
And our next question will come from the line of `Joe Giordano, Analyst, Cowen with Cowen. Please go ahead.
Q - `Joe Giordano, Analyst, Cowen `
Hey, guys, how are you?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `Good morning, Joe. Very well.
Q - `Joe Giordano, Analyst, Cowen `
I've been hearing more people talk about risks what maybe in the second half of the year from
prices actually going down, just given some of the deflationary characteristics you're seeing in
prices paid and things like that. Is that something that you're seeing? Like, how do you think about
price and your ability to continue to raise or is it more about supporting where they are now?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, in 2022, we added -- Joe, we added about 4% in pricing. And then if you hold against that
what we ended up spending, we had wages go up 4.5%, overall buying stuff about $2.5 billion of
direct and indirect materials, that went up overall about 6.7%, of course, that's on the cost of
goods sold. I'm only saying this because I want to put this in perspective. So we increased prices
across the board 4%. Our materials inflation was 3.7% negative. Our wages were 1% negative to
sales. So when you add those two, sales, materials inflation was -- and wage inflation was 4.7%
negative. We increased prices 4%. So net-net, we suffered about 60 basis points of decrement
between the two.
Now, going forward, we expect to increase prices. How much? It's difficult to predict, because as
you said, some people are talking about decreasing prices in the second half, but we have to
increase prices somewhat because we're going to have more inflation that we inherited and
we're going to have to -- with giving our employees about 4% raises across the board. So to
make up for that, we have to increase prices somewhat. It depends on how the market behave
itself, but we're right now saying our overall margins are going to improve 50 basis points versus
last year. That's pretty good.
So we'll have less broker premiums. Last year, we paid $90 million excess fees to our brokers for
parts. We think, in 2023, that will maybe be half. So I mean, it's a long answer to a short question.
There's a lot of unknowns, but I feel, we'll maintain our prices and maybe increase on that level.
Q - `Joe Giordano, Analyst, Cowen `
If I think about your -- the bottom-end of your guide, I mean, it's a pretty narrow guide, but if I
think about the bottom-end of that guide, how protected you think you are if there is like -- what
kind of recessionary outlook does that have? If we do -- some of these macro indicators are
pretty bad. If we do go into a recession, do you feel like you have coverage there at the bottom-
end of the guide? And like, which businesses like do you -- are you anticipating declines at certain
businesses at the bottom-end?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, the longer-cycle businesses are less cyclical, which would be our government defense
about 25%, medical, scientific, energy, aerospace overall, which constitutes about 40% of our
portfolio. I don't think those are going to be affected. On the flip side, the short-cycle businesses
would constitute 60% of our overall portfolio. If the world macroeconomic really suffers,
obviously, we're going to have to take some hits. As you said, we have a very narrow range that
we came out with primarily because we're not sure what's going to happen. We could have
probably had a larger range, But coming out of 2022 as strongly as we did, we feel okay about
that.
Q - `Joe Giordano, Analyst, Cowen `Last one from me. Have you internally started adding things? Like have you started to be a little
bit more judicious on expenses and travel and things like that in anticipation of things weakening
or is that you'll adjust as necessary?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
No, that's a mode of our operation. It's something we do day in, day out regardless of what the
macroeconomics are. We control everything. We control expenses in travel. We eliminate square
footage of our manufacturing facilities. Everything we do we're vigilant, and that's the only way
we made it through '22 as well as we did, and we're going to continue that.
Q - `Joe Giordano, Analyst, Cowen `
Thanks, guys.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
For sure.
Operator
(Operator Instructions) And we'll go to the line of `Guy Hardwick, Analyst, Credit Suisse representing Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Guy Hardwick, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Hi, good morning. So it's been about 20 months since Teledyne closed on FLIR. Can you give us a
bit of insight as to how to combine the portfolios is progressing, whether there is any -- have you
seen some revenue benefits from combining the two technology platforms. I mean, in the past,
you've done the same with DALSA and e2v. I'm just wondering if there's any comparable success
stories or potential success stories to come from that.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Guy. Good question. The answer is yes. We have some new products. We are -- we
have some new markets, especially in machine vision, and for example, also mapping. FLIR has
this Raymarine business, and we've had this geospatial business where we do a lot of
hydrographic mapping. And the most recent acquisition that we made, ChartWorld, bridges the
gap between those two. I don't know if we would have bought ChartWorld, if we didn't have FLIR,
if we were just all geospatial. So those are really good.
The other thing is that FLIR has really exceptional products in the unmanned air vehicle domain.
And we have had historically good products at Teledyne legacy in the underwater domain. FLIR
also brings now ground-based vehicles. So now, you look at the combination of the two
companies. We have about $450 million or so of revenue in unmanned vehicle; unmanned air
vehicle, unmanned ground vehicle, unmanned underwater vehicle. And there's a lot of common
technologies between those three in terms of control, in terms of software, in terms of
digitization and imaging. So those are some examples, Guy, at this -- after 20 months, but that
will, of course, grow as a function of time.
Q - `Guy Hardwick, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Okay, thank you. Just a quick follow-up. I'm just trying to understand the FX guidance implied in
your guidance, because it looks like at current rates that FX actually could be a tailwind in thesecond half.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
It could be. As we think in the first half, certainly, first quarter, we think it's going to be a 1%
headwind versus the 2.1% to 2.5% last year. Having said that, I don't think anybody knows, I don't
think the economists know, they might say, but they don't know. I don't think anybody knows
what's going to happen. I certainly don't, let me put it that way.
Q - `Guy Hardwick, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Okay. But can you just clarify the rates (Multiple Speakers) -- what rates you perhaps -- what dollar,
euro rate you have currently?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, currently, it's 1.09 (Multiple Speakers).
Q - `Guy Hardwick, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
That's not what you're using in guidance, though, right?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
We're using about 1.06.
Q - `Guy Hardwick, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
Okay, thank you.
Operator
And there are no other questions queued up at this time.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much. Operator, I will now ask Jason to conclude our conference call.
A - `Jason VanWees, Vice Chairman `
Thanks, Tom, and thanks, everyone, for joining. Of course, if you have follow-up questions,
certainly, feel free to call me or email me. My phone number is on the earnings release. And Tom,
if you could give the replay information on the call and conclude, we'd appreciate it. Thanks, all.
Operator
Absolutely. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this conference will be available for replay starting
at 10 AM Pacific this morning and running through February 25th at midnight. You may access the
AT&T playback service at anytime by dialing 866-207-1041 and entering the access code of
3472355. International participants, you can dial 402-970-0847. Those numbers again are 866-
207-1041. International participants, please dial 402-970-0847 and enter the access code of
3472355. And that does conclude our conference for today. We thank you for your participation
and using the AT&T Event Services. You may now disconnect.