Q4 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Welcome to Teledyne's Fourth Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call. Here's our first
speaker, Mr.`Jason VanWees, Vice Chairman.
`Jason VanWees, Vice Chairman `
Good morning everyone. This is `Jason VanWees, Vice Chairman, Vice Chairman. I'd like to welcome everyone to
Teledyne's fourth quarter and full year 2024 earnings release conference call. We released our
earnings earlier this morning before the market opened.
Joining me today are Teledyne's Executive Chairman, `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman; CEO, `Edwin Roks, Chief Executive Officer;
President & COO, George Bobb; Senior Vice President and CFO, Steve Blackwood; and Melanie
Cibik, EVP, General Counsel, Chief Compliance Officer, and Secretary. After remarks by Robert,
Edwin, George, and Steve, we will ask your questions.
But of course, though, before we get started, our attorneys have reminded me to tell you that all
forward-looking statements made this morning are subject to various assumptions, risk, and
caveats as noted in the earnings release and our periodic SEC filings, and of course, actual results
may differ materially. In order to avoid potential selective disclosures, this call is simultaneously
being webcast and a replay both via webcast and dial-in be available for approximately one
month.
Here's Robert.
`Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Thank you, Jason, and good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining our earnings call. In
fourth quarter, we achieved many all-time records. Record sales increased 5.4% and accelerated
from the third quarter. Fourth quarter and full year non-GAAP earnings per share were records as
were fourth quarter and full year non-GAAP operating margins.Finally, our record annual free cash flow, given that we ended the year with a very low leverage
despite $1.1 billion of capital deployment in fiscal 2024. We successfully closed the Micropac
acquisition at the beginning of fiscal 2025, and we continue to expect the completion of the
Excelitas carve-out transaction in the first quarter.
We entered 2025 optimistic about our business portfolio in both commercial and defense
markets. Our short-cycle commercial businesses improved throughout 2024, and comparison
eased in 2025. We also believe our defense businesses, which favor purchase orders versus
protected appropriations, unmanned versus manned platforms, and standard products versus
highly customized solutions are well-positioned in the current environment.
Nevertheless, especially given the very strong U.S. dollars, we believe it's prudent to be a bit
cautious in our 2025 outlook. Including the acquisition of Micropac, but excluding the Excelitas
carve-out, since this acquisition has not yet closed, we believe 2025 sales may grow
approximately 4%, with non-GAAP earnings double that amount at approximately 8% at the
centre of our outlook range.
I will now turn the call over to Edwin, who will further comment on the performance of our Digital
Imaging segment.
`Edwin Roks, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Robert. This is Edwin, and I will first report on the Digital Imaging segment, which
represents approximately 54% of Teledyne's portfolio.
Fourth quarter 2024 sales were a record and increased 2.5% compared with last year. The
performance of Digital Imaging last year reflected record sales as Teledyne FLIR with healthy
growth across FLIR's commercial and defense infrared imaging systems, unmanned and counter
unmanned air systems as well as maritime hardware and software. While sales to industrial
machine vision markets declined year-over-year, quarterly sales were at the highest level in 2024.
Our legacy space-based imaging business continued to grow. While some healthcare businesses
such as cancer radiotherapy were resilient, sales of X-ray detectors for more consumer
discretionary dental markets declined year-over-year. Non-GAAP operating margins improved
sequentially and year-over-year primarily due to the contribution from FLIR, which more than
offset the year-over-year decline in higher contribution margin machine vision sales.
George will now report on the other three segments, which represent the balance of Teledyne.
`George C. Bobb III, President and Chief Operating Officer `
Thanks, Edwin. The Instrumentation segment consists of our marine, environmental, and test and
measurement businesses, which contribute a little under 25% of sales. For the total segment,
overall fourth quarter sales increased 10.1% versus last year with growth in each major product
line.
Sales of marine instruments increased 21.1% in the quarter due to both strong offshore energy
and subsea defense sales. Sales of environmental instruments increased 1.7%, primarily due to
greater sales of laboratory instrumentation as well as air safety instruments.
Sales of electronic test and measurement systems, which include oscilloscopes, protocol
analyzers, and Ethernet traffic generators sequentially improved for the third consecutive quarter
and increased 2.3% year-over-year. Instrumentation operating margin in the fourth quarterIn the Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment, which represents roughly 14% of Teledyne
sales, fourth quarter sales increased 6.8%, driven by growth of defense electronics products.
Overall segment operating profit increased year-over-year with GAAP and non-GAAP segment
margin increasing over 150 basis points.
For the Engineered Systems segment, which contributes approximately 8% to overall sales,
fourth quarter revenue increased 11%. However, segment operating profit decreased due to
higher cost to complete estimates on certain programs.
I will now pass the call back to Robert.
`Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Thank you, George. I'll conclude with a few comments on capital allocation. In 2024, we continued
our tradition of prudent and flexible capital deployment. That is, we opportunistically repurchased
stock, when we felt our shares were very undervalued. While at the same time, we were willing to
forego large acquisitions, when we thought price expectations were unreasonable.
But then, as our own valuation partially recovered and M&A markets became more rational, we
pivoted by stopping repurchases and were pleased to announce the Micropac and Excelitas
acquisitions. Given over $1.1 billion of free cash flow in 2024, our balance sheet capacity is the
highest in years, and our M&A pipeline remains healthy. Nevertheless, we will continue to exercise
discipline and flexibility as we have always done.
I will now turn the call over to Steve Blackwood.
`Stephen F. Blackwood, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Robert, and good morning. I will first discuss some additional financials for the quarter
not covered by Robert, and then, I will discuss our first quarter and full year 2025 outlook. So
again, our fourth quarter non-GAAP earnings per share reflect the removal of $16.6 million of FLIR
acquisition related tax benefits. Remaining tax benefits of $13.6 million were approximately half
offset by a higher tax rate.
In the fourth quarter cash flow from operating activities was $332.4 million compared with $164.4
million in 2023. Cash flow that is cash flow from operating activities less capital expenditures was
$303.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2024 compared to $124.2 million in 2023. Cash flow
increased in the fourth quarter primarily due to lower income tax payments, but also due to
improved working capital performance.
Capital expenditures were $29 million in the fourth quarter of 2024 compared with $40.2 million
in 2023. Depreciation and amortization expense was $77.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2024
compared with $77.4 million in 2023. For the full year 2024 free cash flow was $1.11 billion. We
ended the year with just under $2 billion of net debt that is approximately $2.65 billion of debt
less cash of approximately $650 million.
Now turning to our outlook, which includes the acquisition of Micropac, but excludes the Excelitas
carve-out, which is not yet closed. Management currently believes the GAAP earnings per share in
the fourth quarter of 2025 will be in the range of $3.90 to $4.04 per share with non-GAAP
earnings per share in the range of $4.80 to $4.90. And for the full year 2025, we believe the
GAAP earnings per share will be in the range of $17.70 to $18.20 with non-GAAP earnings per
share in the range of $20.10 to $21.50.`Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Thank you, Steve. We would now like to take your questions. Paul, if you're ready to proceed with
the questions-and-answers, please go ahead.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. We'll now be conducting a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) Thank
you. Our first question is from `Noah Poponak, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Noah Poponak, Goldman Sachs `
Hey. Good morning, everyone.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Good morning, Noah.
Q - `Noah Poponak, Goldman Sachs `
Robert, you referenced 4% growth top line in the 2025 guidance. Is that 3% organic and a point
from Micropac or is that 4% organic?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
No, it's what I mentioned is as you said, a little over 4%, 3.2% organic and about 1% through
acquisitions. Acquisition include Micropac, Noah, but they also include part of Valeport, which we
acquired for our marine businesses, and a part of Adimec that we acquired earlier in the year for
the Digital Imaging. Those add up to about 1.1%, so 1% total is 4.2%, yes.
Q - `Noah Poponak, Goldman Sachs `
Okay. And if Excelitas closes on schedule, can you talk about what that adds in revenue, EBITDA
earnings to the year?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Yes. I think it depends on when it closes, as you can appreciate, but I'm going to say about $15
million a month, Noah.
Q - `Noah Poponak, Goldman Sachs `
Okay. Okay, great. And then maybe if you could just talk about the 3% or slightly over 3% organic
assumption. I mean, we've had this discussion for a few quarters now of your short cycle versus
your long cycle. I guess in the release it sounded, it looked like you referenced kind of long cycle
still strong. It looked like you were saying short cycle better. Hard to tell how much better.
All the leading indicators there still look a little kind of better, but a moving target. So what are
you seeing in those businesses and machine vision and instrumentation? And how did you go
about deciding what kind of recovery to assume in the guidance in those businesses?A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Okay. So let me start with, if I may, I'll do it by segment, which is should make it clearer. On an
organic growth basis, as you and I agreed, our target's about 3.2%. If you go to instruments,
which includes marine, environmental, and test and measurement, we expect all three of those
sub-segments to grow with a combined organic growth of 3.8%. In Digital Imaging, we believe
the total Digital Imaging organically will grow just under 3%, maybe 2.8%.
Aerospace and Defense, right now we're targeting it at 4%, but once you include that Micropac
acquisition, which is closed, that will then jump up to 8%. Engineered Systems, we assume it'll
grow about 2.3% organically. So that kind of is the summary of the segments and the growth. So
in other words, Noah, we expect everything to grow organically in the lower to lower single to
mid-single digits.
Q - `Noah Poponak, Goldman Sachs `
Okay. I appreciate all that detail. Thank you.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
For sure, Noah.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from `Greg Konrad, Jefferies with Jefferies. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Greg Konrad, Jefferies `
Good morning.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Good morning, Konrad. Right?
Q - `Greg Konrad, Jefferies `
Yes, I don't know what they called me upfront, but maybe just starting with the Digital Imaging
outlook. I mean, a lot to unpack in the quarter, and you have both short cycle and FLIR. Can you
maybe just put a finer point on kind of last year into next year, how you're thinking about vision?
What you're seeing out of FLIR defense? And maybe stuff like healthcare that was a little bit
weaker in 2024? How you're kind of thinking about that recovery?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Yes. Let me do '24 and then '25. And I'll break it up between FLIR and what we call our historical
Digital Imaging before FLIR. So in '24 over '23, we had a little growth in FLIR overall. Primarily it
was held back by a small business that we have, which deals with mid market two dimensional
area scan, which is kind of a machine vision business that declined about $40 million.
So if you take that out, the rest of FLIR actually increased about $70 million year-over-year, and it
increased in almost all areas. It increased in our cores, which we sell microvoltmeter as well as
indium antimonide cores. It increased in tomography, both infrared instruments and cameras, and
our Raymarine businesses kind of held steady. They were down a little bit, but not much.So overall, FLIR increased. Defense in FLIR did really well. And it increased about 9% in all of its
various sub segments did well. So FLIR now going to '25, we're assuming about a 2.8% to 3%
overall increase, because we're still a little cautious about the commercial businesses. But forgive
me, FLIR by itself will increase about 3.9%. But we're still a little cautious about the camera
businesses. But we think the defense businesses that are very, very healthy because we have
really good backlog.
If you go to what we call our traditional Digital Imaging before FLIR, we think the growth is going
to be modest. Overall growth would be about 3.1%, but some of that comes from the Adimec
acquisition that we did in mid-year. So if you subtract that out, it's closer to 1.2%. So when you add
those two up, it's overall growth both through acquisitions and organic for the total Digital
Imaging would be about 3.6%.
We have part of the reason, we're being a little cautious, especially in the commercial Digital
Imaging, especially the legacy part is because while we had a little bit of tailwind this quarter from
foreign exchange, we think, we're going to have headwind right now with the dollar being strong,
about 1.3% going into 2025. And if that doesn't change, of course that's going to affect us. So,
we're kind of programming it into our projections as we go forward. I hope that answered your
question, Greg.
Q - `Greg Konrad, Jefferies `
Yes, that's good. And then maybe a follow-up. I mean, it implied EPS, it seems like you have good
margin expansion into 2025. I think in the past you've maybe talked about mix of some of that
short cycle markets, which it doesn't seem like you're embedding any big increases in 2025. Can
you maybe just level set the margin outlook and maybe the drivers, just given it doesn't seem like
mix would be that much of a tailwind given volume expectations?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Yes, let me go to the overall company. We finished the year at 22%. We expect that to grow by
80 basis points. Now, if you look at the segments, it'll be more like 70 basis points. So it'll go from
what is now 23.4% for the full year 2024 to 24.1% in '25. So there's growth there.
If you go to the larger business, which is obviously segment Digital Imaging. We finished the year
from a segment non-GAAP operating margin at 22.2% for the year. We think, we'll get about 80
basis points, which is significant. Next year, maybe a little less, but between 70 basis points and
80 basis points.
Some of the other segments, we've had very strong margin growth since 2022. For example, in
instruments, our margins between '22 and '24 grew 310 basis points. So, we're being a little
more cautious. Maybe it'll grow in 2025, 45 basis points.
And the other thing is that when you go to aerospace and defense, where we've had really
excellent growth also of 150 basis points in the last two years, we're a little cautious going into
2025, primarily because the Micropac acquisition is not going to initially have the kinds of margins
that we enjoy there, which were 28.6% in 2024.
So we're dialing in maybe 14 basis points, 15 basis points increase, because of the Micropac
effect. Of course, once that thing is tucked in properly, you'll start enjoying margin expansion like
all of our acquisitions do. I hope that answered your question, Greg.
Q - `Greg Konrad, Jefferies `That's perfect. Thank you.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
For sure.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from `Andrew Buscaglia, BNP Paribas with BNP. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Andrew Buscaglia, BNP Paribas `
Hey, good morning guys.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Morning, Andrew.
Q - `Andrew Buscaglia, BNP Paribas `
I'm just trying to understand with 2025, so you're talking about 3.2% organic. Now just to be clear,
that would include some FX in that organic number. And then do you assume some -- and how
much short cycle recovery do you assume as the year goes on? Can you talk a little bit about the
cadence of your estimate?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Yes. First, yes, we do account headwind from FX. As I mentioned, at the present time, it's 1.3%.
So we've dialed that in, because we don't know what's going to happen, obviously because this
year, it was not bad. This year, actually FX was basically 20 basis points tailwind, so we have a big
headwind. So that's that.
The second part of your question was short cycle. We think that most of our short cycle
businesses should be growing, but modestly, because of FX partially like test and measurement
and environmental in the low single digits. And as I mentioned before, while we think FLIR will
grow about 3.9% for the year, a lot of that comes from defense. The non-defense part would
grow a little less. And then, of course as I mentioned, our historical Digital Imaging would grow
modestly.
Q - `Andrew Buscaglia, BNP Paribas `
Okay. And on the Excelitas or Excel, or however you say it acquisition, what do you -- should we
assume some accretion to non-GAAP earnings in 2025 once that's closed?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Yes. I think, well, it depends on when it closes, but I think if I look at the full year, as I answered
Noah's question, we think we'll bring in about $15 million a month in revenue. And we think for a
full year, if we were to have it for a full year, it should give us about $0.15 to $0.20 of accretion.
Again, it's just tucking in an acquisition, not doing a whole bunch of things in margin expansion,
which we always do in subsequent years.
Q - `Andrew Buscaglia, BNP Paribas `Got it. Okay. Thanks, Robert.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from `Damian Karas, UBS with UBS. Please proceed with your question.
Q - `Damian Karas, UBS `
Hey, good morning, everyone.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Good morning, Damian.
Q - `Damian Karas, UBS `
Morning. I appreciate all of the color, you've provided. I was wondering, if you could maybe just
give us a little bit better sense for the order trends that you've been seeing. Are there any areas
that have maybe picked up more meaningfully that you had expected three months ago or vice
versa?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Yes, Damian. Let me start with book-to-bill, and I'll go to the most recent quarter, we just finished
Q4. Overall, book-to-bill for the company is about 1.04x. So it's positive, but it varies between the
various different businesses. In instruments, for example, book-to-bill is 1.12x, which is pretty high
for us. Marine businesses leading that by 1.23x. And then environmental is positive 1.09x. We're a
little cautious on T&M, we think it's just a little below 1x, maybe 0.95x, 0.99x for the whole year.
Digital Imaging, FLIR is positive at 1.03x. Our historical imaging is slightly below 1x at 0.97x. AD&E is
0.96x, but we have to take into consideration the orders that are a little lumpy as they are in our
engineered system, which is at 1.16x. So overall, we think we have a positive trend in our book-to-
bill.
Now, if you go to some of our commercial, where we have the headwinds, and we've had it last
year is in very specific areas of Digital Imaging. As Edwin mentioned, primarily in machine vision
and machine sensors. Machine vision is recovering, though it's recovering slowly, but it is
recovering. We've had order increases throughout the year. Machine sensors, where we make
the detectors for other folks, that always lags behind six to nine months, so we think that
recovery will be closer to the second half of 2025. I hope that answers the question.
Q - `Damian Karas, UBS `
Yes, that's very helpful. Thank you. And my second question, so obviously, quite a bit has changed
since last quarter with an election and a new administration that's come in. Could you maybe give
us updated thinking about potential policy implications?
There's the question of tariffs in China and Mexico, and the U.S. government is certainly an
important customer of yours, and there's this new Department of Government Efficiency. So
could you maybe share your thoughts on how you're thinking about all of that, and what it mightA - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Yes, please remember that I am not any more knowledgeable than anybody else, but I can relate
it to our businesses. Let's talk about tariffs first. If you look back a couple of years, at 2022 where
we had all these shortages, right?
Coming out of COVID, we had experienced a peak supply chain challenges, that cost us about
$100 million in 2022. What did we do? We increased prices, not only in some of our businesses
that we could, but also we improved margins. So, we made up for it between those two, and
then our own efficiencies.
The way the tariffs are laid out at least initially, the Canada, Mexico, China, we think the impact of
those would be less will be less than what we experienced in 2022, maybe half as much. So, we
think we can deal with that. The other thing is the sophistication of the tariffs. We have to yet dive
into it, because we make products in different countries. Let's say, we make products in Canada
that then we finish off in the U.S. sometimes we export, sometimes it's for domestic
consumption, so the value add changes. But having said all of that, we think we can deal with that.
In terms of the dodge efficiency, I think it kind of would favor us partially because compared to
others, partially because most of our defense businesses, as an example, its purchase order
businesses with products that we have rather than protracted appropriations. We also are in
unmanned platforms.
If you take our unmanned air vehicles, ground vehicles, and underwater vehicles, which we have
all three, it's almost $400 million plus. Our platforms are unmanned, lot of our sensors go on
those versus manned platforms. And a lot of our products are also standard products rather than
very highly customized solutions. So I think, we will do okay.
Q - `Damian Karas, UBS `
That makes sense. Appreciate all the color.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
For sure. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question is from `Jordan Lyonnais, Bank of America Merrill Lynch with Bank of America. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Jordan Lyonnais, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hey, good morning.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Good morning, Jordan.
Q - `Jordan Lyonnais, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
On the defense outlook, the 4% organic growth, how much of that is conservative? Just when we
look at outlays being up 26% from FY '23 to '24, I would expect the momentum to continue. So
are there programs that are ending or it's just a mixed bag?A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Well, I don't know if I fit the 4% number. As I mentioned in FLIR, we think it'll be higher than that,
our growth. It was approximately -- our FLIR defense businesses in Q4 grew almost 9%, we
expect this next year to grow another 6%. So that's not as conservative. Now problem is that,
really, we don't know what's going to happen to the various programs yet.
But as I mentioned, if you take the fields that we're in, which are the unmanned systems primarily,
and then, of course electronic warfare, and then of course observations using the EO/IR, those
favor us, by and large, regardless of which programs go forward. So I'm pretty bullish about the
defense part of our businesses.
Q - `Jordan Lyonnais, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Got it. Okay. Thank you so much.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
For sure.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from `James Ricchiuti, The Needham Group, Inc. with Needham & Company. Please proceed
with your question.
Q - `James Ricchiuti, The Needham Group, Inc. `
Hi. Thanks. Good morning. Hey, Robert, are you at all surprised by the slow recovery in that legacy
Digital Imaging business?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Yes. To be very honest, I am. Part of it is really people are very cautious in building up inventory,
especially our distributors. Partially, it's the China effect both in terms of their import.
Even though we don't export as a total company that much to China, we do in Digital Imaging.
And partially because they are building their own systems and their own sensors. But by and
large, Jim, these are short cycle businesses, they can turn on two, three, four weeks. So we don't
have a lot of visibility.
And I can only talk about what happened. It's very hard to predict where things are going. But
overall, if you look at the book-to-bill, even though when your billing is low, book-to-bill looks
healthy. We've been enjoying book-to-bill, positive book-to-bill in our camera businesses for the
last three quarters. So having said all of that, yes, I was surprised on why it's not recovering as
fast as we should. I think, it's partly because other people are conservative in building inventory as
are our distributors.
And so last question I'll answer -- add to is, some of our customers are trying to lower their prices
that they pay us. And frankly, we won't take those orders, because the business is what the
business is. And we're not going to lose margin just to get revenue.
Q - `James Ricchiuti, The Needham Group, Inc. `
Yes, that's helpful. And it appears that within that commercial business, and I think you indicatedIf you were to look at areas that have the potential to maybe do a little better, would you say it
would be some of the Instrumentation business or potentially in the Digital Imaging business,
maybe things starting to come back as we get through some of this destocking that people have
been talking about for a while now?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Yes. I think, I would start with Instrumentation. Some of the conservative is Instrumentation and
primarily in test and measurement. We're assuming the growth there is going to be 2.5% or so,
but it could be a lot more, because it's been doing better and better as the year's gone on in
2024.
In Digital Imaging, frankly, we have a slew of new products going out, which you think will be much
more competitive. So yes, we are being conservative. Having said that, at this time, it's prudent to
be conservative. But we've always been as you know us, we've always been conservative in
everything that we do or say, so you have to take that into consideration.
Q - `James Ricchiuti, The Needham Group, Inc. `
Understood. Thanks a lot.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
For sure.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question is from Joe Giordano with TD Cowen. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Joseph Giordano, TD Cowen `
(Inaudible)
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Hi, Joe. I think you got cut off the first sentence. I didn't get it.
Q - `Joseph Giordano, TD Cowen `
I'm just asking about a free cash flow outlook for the year.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Yes. Just to reiterate, I like bidding this one, because we did so well. We got free cash flow of $1.11
billion, as Steve mentioned. We think, it'll be over $1 billion. If we hit $1 billion again, I'll be happy.
We had some lower taxes, but we also enjoyed some improvement in our working capital and
inventory. We had some advanced payments on some programs. Those may not happen. But
having said all of that, I think a $1 billion is a good number.
Q - `Joseph Giordano, TD Cowen `
And then, I know this question's been asked on other calls, and you've been consistent with your
answers, but it's a question we get from investors fairly often who want to look at Teledyne. But
given the free cash flow generation you have, and that you've shown the ability to be a bit moreflexible with buybacks lately is the dividend of it all interesting to you guys to bring in a new class
of investors, who can't currently invest in the shares?
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
That's a tough one. Just a little dividend, I don't think will do us a lot of good, although I know
companies that do that. Right now, I think we're better off if we can use our money to buy
companies, especially since our acquisition pipeline seems to be richer than it has been. Having
said that, when our stock was what we thought undervalued, we bought back stock, which is
another way of returning cash to the investors.
Q - `Joseph Giordano, TD Cowen `
Yes. Thank you. For what it's worth, from what we're hearing, people will be fine with a small
dividend if there is a view that it could get somewhat larger over time. But that's just the
feedback we're getting. So thanks, guys.
A - `Robert Mehrabian, Executive Chairman `
Thank you for that input. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. There are no further questions at this time. I would like to hand the floor back over to
`Jason VanWees, Vice Chairman for any closing comments.
A - `Jason VanWees, Vice Chairman `
Again, thanks everyone for joining us this morning. If you have follow-up questions, please feel
free to call me at the number on the earnings release. And again, a replay of this is available via
webcast and by dial-in. Thank you, operator. If you could conclude the call, we'd appreciate it.
Thanks, Paul. Bye.
Operator
This concludes today's conference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your
participation.