Q4 2014 Earnings Call
Company Participants
Björn Scheib, Vice President & Head-Investor Relations
Bodo K. Uebber, Member of the Board of Management of Daimler AG, Finance &
Controlling/Daimler Financial Services
Dieter Zetsche, Chairman-Management Board, Head of Mercedes-Benz Cars
Wolfgang Bernhard, Head of Daimler Trucks Division
Other Participants
Adam B. Hull, Analyst, Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. KG (United Kingdom)
Charles A. Winston, Analyst, Redburn Partners LLP
Dominic O'Brien, Analyst, Exane Ltd.
Frank Biller, Analyst, Landesbank Baden-Württemberg (Broker)
Fraser E. Hill, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker)
Jochen Gehrke, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker)
José Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Michael Raab, Analyst, Kepler Capital Markets SA (Germany)
Mike M. Dean, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd.
Scott Sheridan, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd.
Stefan A. Burgstaller, Analyst, Goldman Sachs International
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Björn Scheib
So, good morning. This is Björn Scheib speaking on behalf of Daimler. I would like to welcome you
all here in Stuttgart as well as on the internet for our Full-Year Investors and Analysts Conference.
Today, we are very happy to have with us the Chairman of the Board of Management and the
Head of the very successful Mercedes-Benz Car group, Dr. Dieter Zetsche; our CFO, Bodo
Uebber; and also, the Head of our quite successful Daimler Trucks, Dr. Wolfgang Bernhard.
Yesterday, at the Annual Press Conference, Dr. Zetsche and Bodo Uebber presented our financial
figures as well as the strategy in details. I guess, all of you have found the slide decks on our
Internet. And just to be precise, the missing appendix is on the web since yesterday morning. So,
you will find the full set also in respect of the walks for the quarter and the full year on the
website.
Therefore, we will begin this conference with a short introduction by Dr. Zetsche in order to
provide you with the maximum time later on for Q&A. Now, only one logistic remark. We would
like to remind you that this investor conference is governed by the Safe Harbor wording that you
find on our published documents.
Please note that all our presentations contain forward-looking statements that reflect
management's current views with respect to future events. Such statements are subject to many
risks and uncertainties. In the assumptions underlying any of these statements prove incorrect,
then actual results may be materially different from those expressed or implied by such
statements. Forward-looking statements speak only to the date on which they are made.Please be aware that this conference will be recorded and broadcasted on our website. Later on,
I would also like to have you all giving your name and institution that you're representing before
asking your questions. And from a technical point of view, please switch off your mobile phones,
because they may disrupt the interference with our systems over here.
With this, I would love to hand over to Dr. Zetsche.
Dieter Zetsche `
Yeah. Good. Thank you, Björn Scheib. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to our
analyst and investor conference. We made our 2014 business and financial results public
yesterday. I assume you've already fully digested those numbers. So, I will only sum up the
highlights.
That said, I trust you'll agree with me that our results speak for themselves. In 2014, we achieved
all-time best in sales, revenues and earnings. This progress is a result of a lot of disciplined work
we are building on the strategic decisions and plans we made years ago.
Now, we're getting the payoff. In every corner of this company, it's clear, Daimler is on the rise.
Let me briefly discuss some of the highlights that defined this past year in our business. I'll begin
with Mercedes-Benz Cars, where we continue to renew and broaden our product lineup in 2014.
One of our most-important products was the new C-Class. This new model may have plenty of
competitors in a segment, but in the opinion of many automotive journalists has no real
competition. That's especially true in terms of perceived value.
Our C-Class not only sets a new benchmark in the segment, it also sets one for our production
network. For the first time ever, we are concurrently building a car in Germany, the U.S., South
Africa and China. In 2015, we benefit from our first full year of global C-Class sales.
Next, with our new GLA, we expanded our line of compacts by one SUV. Both the compact and
SUV market segment have high growth rates. That is truer still for the combination of the two;
compact, SUVs. The GLA helped to push our total compact vehicle sales to roughly 472,000 units.
That number is 23% higher than in 2013.
Successful compacts are an important part of our overall strategy. They are key to achieving our
sales goals. They ensure a balanced capacity utilization. And perhaps, most importantly, they are
conquest cars.
Now, what does that mean? Consider the average frequency with which customers will switch
brands when they purchase a new car. In the S-Class segment, it's about 25%. In the compact car
segment, it's about 50%. And with the CLA, our conquest rate is up to 80%. Obviously, getting
conquest sales in compact segments in which we previously did not compete is important to us. It
means we are winning over entry level and first-time premium customers to the Mercedes brand.
And then, we have the opportunity to keep them, because the customer who buys an A-Class
vehicle today might buy a C-Class tomorrow and, perhaps, an E or S-Class in the future.
Of course, we are not just focused on the compact end of our lineup. Again, the proof is in the
numbers. In 2014, we sold more S-Class cars than ever before in the long history of this model
series.
In addition to the sedan and coupe, we are growing our family of flagship cars with addition of
the Mercedes-Maybach S-Class. The top model is the S600. Its V12 powertrain generates 530
horsepower. However, the S-Class also offers a completely different drive mode. As a plug-inhybrid, the car has the performance numbers of a V8, but the fuel efficiency of a compact. You
can drive more than 30 kilometers completely emission-free.
2014 was also a big year for smart. We introduced two new models, the fortwo and forfour. They
retain all the traditional smart strengths; first and foremost, the unique size and maneuverability.
These are the first vehicles we've developed with Renault-Nissan from the ground up. They show
it's possible to achieve both synergies through joint development and, at the same time,
absolutely separate vehicle characters (07:12). Nearly one million people attended smart's
introductory road show. In 2015, we expect a significant increase in sales.
Turning now to our commercial vehicles, the most-important event to the year was the IAA in
Hannover. The highlight of our show was the Mercedes-Benz Future Truck 2025. We revealed the
design of this autonomous truck, following a demonstration drive in Magdeburg back in July. With
our autonomous driving Future Truck, we provide a realistic look at where long-haul trucking is
heading, and to a future that will be even more efficient, safer and better networked.
At IAA, we also showed the breadth of our commercial truck portfolio. With six brands and 54
models, our lineup in all important markets is broader and stronger than ever before. Add to that,
the trucks we produce and sell with local partners through joint ventures in China and Russia. So,
we are able to offer customers in every region of the world products tailored to their specific
needs.
For the year 2014, our truck business was shaped by very different regional developments. In
Europe and Latin America, weak economic outlooks and political uncertainties weighed on
markets. In contrast, in North America and Japan, we benefited from very strong demand for
trucks. Business was especially dynamic for Daimler Trucks in the NAFTA region, where sales rose
by 19% to a new record level. With the lion's market share of 37%, Daimler Trucks North America
was, once again, the clear market leader in Class 6-8 trucks.
In October, DTNA booked about 31,300 orders for Class 6-8 trucks. That is the highest monthly
order rate ever recorded, not just for DTNA, but for the U.S. truck industry altogether. That's
thanks in large part to a Mercedes Cascadia Evolution. This truck is the most fuel efficient in its
class and, therefore, has a very competitive total cost of ownership.
Over in India, we've built up our new brand, BharatBenz, in a short amount of time, with new
products, a new production facility and a new distribution network. In 2014, we launched five
additional BharatBenz trucks. We now have all of the important market segments in India covered
from 9 tonnes to 49 tonnes. BharatBenz trucks are sold through a network of approximately 80
dealers and very successfully. 2014 sales increased by 4,100 units to total of 10,300 units.
In the meantime, BharatBenz has conquered third place in the Indian heavy-duty truck market with
a market share of over 5%. What's more, FUSO trucks, made in Chennai, are also exported to
other countries. More than 1,000 have already been sold outside of India.
Daimler Financial Services also recorded its most-successful year in 2014. Growth came from both
traditional and new markets. Chinese customers, for example, are increasingly turning to
automotive financing. In 2014, we had nearly twice as many finance contracts signed in China as in
the previous year. Worldwide, we closed more new financing agreements than ever before. With
a total of more than 3.3 million current contracts, we also set a new record. At the same time, our
loan default costs have not been lower in more than a decade.
Of course, no discussion of Daimler's performance 2014 would be complete without Formula 1.
This past season showed, once again, that determination and perseverance pay off. Over thepast years, our motorsports colleagues in Brackley, Brixworth and Stuttgart worked their way, step
by step, to record-setting 16 of 19 checkered flags and 11 one-two finishes.
Capturing both, the Formula 1 driver and constructors' titles is an important achievement. It builds
awareness and endorses the performance aspects of our brand. This is true both in traditional
and growth markets that are key to Daimler's future, because four of five of our passenger car
sales are in countries in which Formula 1 races take place.
There is also significant tangible value. Due to the hybrid rules, the technology in the sport is
developing in the same direction as the automotive industry. That results in synergies in
development as it concerns, for example, batteries, electric motors and controller logic. We'll be
happy to describe this hybrid technology to you in detail. Later on, one of our colleagues from
R&D will be available to provide you with more information.
So, from smaller cars to large trucks, from financial services to Formula 1, 2014 was a very good
year for Daimler. And now, we're setting out to build on our momentum through 2015. At
Mercedes-Benz Cars, our product offensive continues. By the end of this year, we launched a
total of eight more new or renewed passenger car models. The focus in 2015 is in our high
margin SUVs, including our new GLE Coupe. It combines the sportiness of a coupe with the
versatility and robustness of an SUV. But you probably already heard that from Thomas Weber
and Gorden Wagener yesterday evening, when they gave you chapter and verse on our SUV
plans. So, I'll leave it at that.
Our new CLA Shooting Brake will arrive on the compact end of our product portfolio. This fifth
model completes our compact car family. Deliveries begin in March. There will be also an AMG
version of the CLA Shooting Brake. And for good reason, the tremendous success of our
compact AMG models has contributed to AMG sales nearly doubling in the past two years.
Over the next three years, we plan to double our 2013 AMG sales again. Virtually, all new
Mercedes models will also be available as an AMG model. Mercedes-AMG's positioned as a
dynamic sports car brand gets even stronger with our new GT. This is the second sports car
completely developed by AMG, and orders are exceeding our expectations.
Another arena in which we define performance is electric mobility. And here, we also have a well-
defined strategy. Our technology of choice is plug-in hybrid. The S-Class was our first plug-in
hybrid. Four weeks ago in Detroit, we took another important step forward. Our new C-Class
plug-in hybrid boasts a total power output of 279 horsepower, a combined torque of 600
Newton meters, but fuel consumption of just 2.1 liters per 100 kilometers.
The plug-in hybrid concept offers the lion's share of advantages of electric driving. Thanks to the
combustion engine, it also eliminates the disadvantages pure electric drives will still have today,
namely a limited range and recharging infrastructure.
Hybrid models have the strongest growth in the electric car market, and we assume the segment
will continue to grow significantly. By 2017, we'll have introduced 10 new plug-in hybrids to the
market. Before you reach for your calculators, that's an average of one new hybrid model every
four months.
So, across the spectrum of models and technologies, with our new vehicles, we expect to take
sales to a whole new level. With our current product offensive, we aim to be in the top-premium
manufacturer in sales by 2020. That is our strategic objective. We are convinced that by building
the best cars, we should win over the most customers.But we're not going to chase sales at any cost. We are targeting profitable growth, driven by
growing demand. On top of that, we will use the coming years to make structural changes to
sustainably raise our profitability. We secured earnings for the short term in the first phase of Fit
for Leadership. Now, we're entering the second phase called Next Stage. Our objective is to
improve our business structure on a sustainable basis.
Our planned growth does come with an increase in fixed costs and net assets. However, the
structural changes we are targeting will significantly limit this increase. In this way, we'll be more
profitable and less vulnerable to external volatility.
We know that meeting this corporate challenge will determine the long-term competitiveness of
our company. An important key to profitable growth for us continues to be China. We are now
back on track there, as our 2014 sales rose by almost 30%. 2015 should be even better with
continued double-digit growth and significantly more than 300,000 in car sales.
The market potential in China remains huge. That's why we continue to invest in our product
range. We're expanding our local production. In the coming years, two-thirds of the cars will
sell/resell in China will be built in China.
We are also intensifying our local development efforts. By year's end, about 500 highly-qualified
engineers and designers will work for us there. And we continue to further develop our Financial
Services business in China. To that end, we are increasing our equity base by €0.5 billion as a
portion of customers who finance their car purchases through DFS will increase.
Clearly, China is not just any market for us. In China, the race between premium manufacturers
will be decided. And Mercedes-Benz has plenty potential for improvement there. China is an
absolute key market for Daimler Trucks as well. And here, the development of the market
structure plays right into our hands. Demand in the years ahead will significantly shift from more
simple to middle and high-grade trucks.
Still the standard for truck technology will continue to be set in the triad. It's here that customers
are most demanding. The most-important selling point is fuel efficiency, as diesel alone accounts
for about 30% of the total cost of ownership. That's why, we optimize our trucks for fuel
efficiency, and it pays off. In each and every triad market, we are the champions of efficiency.
Japan, our new FUSO heavy-duty Super Great V is the only truck in the market that betters the
new 2015 fuel efficiency standard by as much as 5%. In North America, our Freightliner Cascadia
Evolution uses 7% less fuel than its predecessor model and less than any of its competitors.
And here, in Europe, we've sent our Mercedes-Benz Actros into the so-called Fuel Duels. We put
Actros up head to head against the most-fuel-efficient truck in our customers' fleet in real world
use. We did so nearly 600 times last year. Actros won the full 90% of these match-ups with an
average of 11% fuel savings.
We intend to build on Daimler Trucks global leadership through the continued rollout of our
platform strategy. When it comes to modules and platforms, Daimler Trucks is years ahead of its
competitors. We will fully exploit and expand this advantage. Until now, the platform concept in
the truck business has primarily been focused on the drivetrain. We will roll out our platform
strategy across the entire vehicle as far as regional requirements permit. By 2020, we will use our
current modules and components in a large number of markets. That saves money in
development and through volume price advantages in purchasing.But saving costs is not our only objective. The platform strategy enables us to offer our
customers everywhere the desired technology with optimum quality. Take just one example,
automatic transmissions in trucks were once rare in the U.S. Thanks to our experience at
Mercedes-Benz Trucks, in Europe, we could offer our proven DT12 automatic transmission to the
American market with high quality and a reasonable cost. We transformed the market. Today, U.S.
demand for automatics has exceeded our expectations. One in four of our new Cascadia Trucks
is equipped with a DT12. Soon, we'll launch its production at our plant in Redford.
In addition in the U.S., we established the concept of integrated powertrains. For decades,
American customers purchased trucks as follows; the engine came from manufacturer A, the
transmission from manufacturer B, and the axle from manufacturer C. We fundamentally changed
this business model. We convinced more and more customers of the advantages of buying a
complete driveline from one source, the chief argument being that you get better fuel efficiency
through perfectly-matched components.
Next, through modernization and fuel efficiency that have shaped our vehicle business for many
years, autonomous driving is a focal point of our development work. It runs across our divisions at
Daimler. Autonomous driving is one of the most-exciting topics in our industry. And no other
company has a broad of a base in this area as Daimler.
Last year, on the heels of our autonomous S-Class, our Future Trucks served as the next proof
point of our leadership in this field. It is the world's first self-driving truck. At CES in Las Vegas, this
January, we again raised the bar in autonomous driving with our new research vehicle F 015.
This technology leadership position did not simply fall into our laps. It is a result of many years of
persistent development work. We've already made partially autonomous driving possible today in
the C, E and S-Class. In coming years, we'll take more steps forward. In terms of technology, a car
such as our research vehicle F 015 is realistic within a decade.
Due to autonomous driving, the automobile will radically change. The car will grow beyond its role
as a means of transportation. Technology breakthroughs can also create new business models.
Our position is clear. It's of no value to create lines of defense throughout business. As new
concepts evolve, Daimler wants to shape them. For example, car2go has become the largest car
sharing service in the world. Our rental transactions tripled in the past year. And in some cities,
we're already profitable.
At Daimler, car sharing is a business model. This year, we launched car2go in China. It's our first
step in the Asian market. Another mobility solution we are pioneering is moovel. This smartphone
app compares different modes of transpiration and determines the optimal path from A to B.
Our moovel Group already has over 1 million customers. We hope to get a few more today. Our
colleagues from moovel are here and will gladly assist you.
Now, what does all of this mean for our expectations for the year 2015? For starters, the global
economy is currently experiencing moderate growth. For 2015, we anticipate growth of about 3%.
In auto markets, there are signs of slight improvement. We expect global demand for passenger
cars in 2015 to increase by around 4%. We also anticipate growth in demand for commercial
vehicles.
Concerning our sales, we expect significant growth at Mercedes-Benz Cars, Daimler Trucks and
Mercedes-Benz Vans. At Daimler Buses, we expect slightly higher unit sales. At Daimler Financial
Services, we also aim to significantly increase our contract volume and new business. Based onour expectations for market developments and the planning of our divisions, we except to, once
again, significantly increase our group EBIT from ongoing business in the year 2015.
Overall, we do not expect too much help from tailwinds in markets, except for passenger cars in
China and trucks in NAFTA. The significantly-improved earnings performance is mainly a function
of our strong product portfolio and the disciplined execution of our efficiency programs.
For Mercedes-Benz Cars, Daimler Trucks and Mercedes-Benz Vans, we expect EBIT from ongoing
business significantly above last year's level. At Daimler Buses, we expect results slightly below
the previous year. Daimler Financial Services should be slightly above prior-year level. We
continue with execution of our divisional strategies. This, of course, includes our sharp focus on
achieving the margin goals of our divisions. These are the core tasks of our management team.
And with that, ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate your attention and welcome your questions.
Thank you.
Björn Scheib
So, thank you very much, Dr. Zetsche. And we're now moving on to the Q&A session. If you want
to ask a question, please use the microphone in front of you. And in respect of fairness, we
would kindly ask you to limit, if you ask questions, to raise three questions only at once. You
probably have time for the second round. And in addition, please give your name and the
institution that you're representing. Please be aware that this Q&A session is also being
broadcasted on the internet.
So, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to start. Horst?
Q&A
Q - Horst Schneider `
Yeah. Good morning. Horst Schneider from HSBC. Then I'll start (27:28) with my three questions.
First of all, on currencies, Mr. Uebber, maybe you can clarify a little bit the impact that you
mentioned yesterday at the press conference, the €500 million. Is that including transaction and
translation effects and maybe you can split the effect up into these two elements? And then, also
maybe you can quantify what is the €500 million impact that you mentioned, including – I assume,
that's including Russia, what would be the impact excluding Russia, basically, for 2015?
Then, the second one, I want to know what is the trade-off between price and mix this year, so
maybe Mr. Zetsche, you could, yeah, tell us your thought, what do you think about pricing this year
for Mercedes? And against that, what the mix is doing? I can't see that the SUV sales are
increasing this year, so probably mix should be negative?
And the third question that I have is on trucks. Can we expect this year then, finally, again, positive
other cost changes, like in 2014? And what do you think, Mr. Bernhard, how will the pricing
develop in 2015?
A - Bodo K. Uebber `
Sure. I'd take over the first question, we have announced for 2015 an impact – positive impact of
€500 million against 2014. Actually, it's coming from FX. That includes of course all – not only the
U.S. dollar and renminbi, but also includes ruble development, the yen development, but also
South African rand and so on and so forth, so all currencies. That is split up mainly to the two
divisions, trucks and cars, evenly, so the main impact goes to trucks and to cars. And within trucks,it is mainly related to translation effects; and in cars, it's mainly related to trends, actual (29:19)
exposure effects.
The ruble impact is a substantial one. As you can imagine, the same holds true for the year 2014,
and that is the information we give to the currency side.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
Perhaps, Bodo can't be more specific as far as the ruble impact is concerned, because we have
to find the equilibrium between rising prices and losing volume. And therefore, if you just focus
on the by-car currency effect, you don't get the full story, so it doesn't help you much anyway.
Overall, for cars, we see prices in our planning for 2015 stable. This is transaction prices, of
course, all included. The mix will deteriorate, based on further strong growth on the compact side
and smart. On the other hand, we have the year of the SUV, one of them being a compact one.
So, we have offset, but overall the mix will be negative. The mix effect will be negative.
Q - Horst Schneider `
Sorry. Small follow-up on this pricing and currency issue. You don't think that the currency
advantage will result in a negative pricing eventually in the market, because all the three Germans
have got this currency tailwind effect.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
Yeah. But they are markets which are heavily impacted in their pricing structure in the market by
the exchange rates. That is true for Russia, for instance. That is definitely true for Switzerland. This
is much, much less to almost not true for the U.S. as there's a broad competition, which includes
all kinds of exchange rate impact and, therefore, these markets are not driven by exchange rates
in the first place.
Q - Horst Schneider `
And the FX impact is excluding these price measures that you mentioned in Russia, right?
A - Dieter Zetsche `
Yes. Yes.
Q - Horst Schneider `
Okay.
A - Wolfgang Bernhard `
For trucks, we also can expect in 2015 other cost changes that will positively impact the EBIT, so
another year of successful work on the cost side of our business. Pricing will be a challenge this
year, very different in the different regions; very tough in Europe and also in Japan. But overall, we
think that we can even out all negative impacting price effects. So, by the end of the day, we
expect that pricing will be stable this year.
A - Björn Scheib
Okay. So, the next one will be José and Jochen.Q - José Asumendi
Thanks. José, JPMorgan. A couple of questions, Dr. Zetsche, as you look at the business in China
over the next five years, where do you want to take the business unit sales wise? Which vehicles
would you like to introduce? And how do you monitor, control growth in the region? I mean if you
can maybe also comment on where the bottlenecks are; engines, axles, transmissions?
Second question for Dr. Bernhard, could you comment on the Brazilian situation, the work you
have been doing over the past years to reposition the car plant into a truck plant there, the level
of local content on the heavy-duty front? And also, on the cost savings front, what are the next
steps on cost savings? There was some comment from Dr. Zetsche. So, what are the next steps
in order to squeeze more cost savings from the machinery? Thank you.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
Thank you for the question. We generally do not give forward-looking sales numbers, and that
applies to China as well. But clearly, we want to grow our business there. And certainly, the
success of our competitors is a guideline for us what is possible in this market. As far as specific
models are concerned, in general, basically, all products being launched on a global basis will be
launched for China as well. There are a few additions to that, as you know, and that's not just by
us, like an extended C-Class or an extended E-Class. There might be with future product
launches as well as specific longer wheelbase versions for China, we'll come to that when we will
launch this product.
Of course, as I said, parallel to growing the overall sales volume, we are growing the share of
product being produced in China. So, the growth percentage in our plants is even higher. We
have made significant investments in our plant, which basically are now three plants in China,
between a front-wheel drive, a rear-wheel drive and an engine plant. And we have, overall, for
our business bottlenecks as far as transmissions and engines are concerned. And we are working
hard in opening these bottlenecks with further investments across the board in components,
including China.
A - Björn Scheib
Next one is Jochen...
A - Wolfgang Bernhard `
I will answer the question on Brazil, if I may. The Brazilian market was fairly weak last year. It went
down 13%. And now, after the election, what we see is that the new government is basically
pulling back all subsidies on truck financing. In essence, we have a new FINAME financing scheme
for trucks now that ask for a 10% down payment and doubles basically the interest rate in the
vicinity of 12% to 18%.
So, overall speaking, we get the impression that basically the government is determined to pull
out of any truck sales support on the financing side. And that will have a heavy impact on sales –
truck sales in Brazil. In the first month of this year, in February, we saw an overall market in Brazil of
7,000 trucks being sold. That is a very, very, very low number.
We don't expect that this will change anytime soon. So, basically it's hangover time after getting
the subsidies out. And we are anticipating for this year, as we said, around 10% minus. It might be
that, at the end of this year, the Brazilian market might recover, but it's a farfetched expectation.With respect to our operations, as you know, we have taken over Juiz de Fora from the
passenger car side in order to have another manufacturing point and manufacturing base there.
This plant has been fully converted. It is up and running and is producing vehicles and cabins –
painted cabins. So, this is all set up now.
With respect to localization, also our heavy trucks are now fully localized. And we are now – now
that FINAME is going away, we are fully complying with FINAME. So, there's a little bit of an irony
here. However, what's also important to say that we have, last year, been able to improve our
market share in Brazil. After many years of decline, we now finally turned the corner. We inched
up 1 percentage point of market share. And this is particularly interesting because the needed
product changes that we will make to our vehicles are just coming, they're just in front of us.
So, with those changes that we introduced throughout the course of this year, we see even a
better chance to compete in the Brazilian market. So, now, we have to wait until the market
comes back. And basically, the same weak market applies for Argentina, where the market is
going down. The trade between the countries, Brazil and Argentina, is very difficult, as you know,
because there is not much reserves available – foreign currency reserves available in Argentina.
So, this is a – Latin America is in a very unstable and a very precarious situation right now. And we
don't expect this to change anytime soon.
So, we have a very – gives us the opportunity to restructure and do the things we need to do to
get the business right. So, this is the situation in Latin America.
Q - Jochen Gehrke `
Jochen Gehrke, Deutsche Bank. Three questions, if I may. Just, first of all, on the Chinese
situation regarding parallel imports. Dr. Zetsche, could you just quickly comment on how
Mercedes wants to tackle that? How can you control your dealers outside the country from selling
cars and, therefore, competing with your footprint in the Chinese market?
Secondly, I mean, obviously, we've seen very solid improvement at Mercedes over the last two
years or three years. Where do you now see the gaps left that you want to close in, say, the new
two years, three years regarding both on the product side, but more importantly on the vertical
integration of the business, if you could give us an update there?
And then, finally, on trucks, Dr. Bernhard, your guidance on the European market stands out to be
a bit more cautious than your Swedish competitors. I appreciate the uncertainty. But could you just
out-ly (39:44) this year how you look at the European market? Obviously, we have seen dramatic
changes in oil prices and the FX. To which extent that offers an opportunity in the marketplace to
see accelerated replacement demand? Thank you.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
Partly, you already gave the answer to your first question in the sense that there is very little you
can do in controlling grey imports in China. You have to look at your dealers outside and that's
what – exactly what we are doing. And there are a number of – first of all, you have to have
transparency. You have to realize where the sources are. And when you accomplish that, then you
have to have definitions in line with your dealers, which makes it less attractive for them to do this
kind of business. I think, we are, in both aspects, relatively successful. And so far, grey imports are
no source of concern for us at the current time. Doesn't mean that it doesn't pose a risk going
forward, but at the current time it's not a significant issue.Secondly, you were asking about gaps left to our competitors, both obviously being slightly
differently positioned. In both cases, China is the main source for the remaining gap, just based
on volume, which is significantly different between the three of us still. There, obviously, is
remedies to grow our volume.
The vertical integration, more recent numbers and analysis we try to pursue suggested that
there's not too much left as a difference in this regard. Of course, we know there are obvious
differences like, for instance, transmissions as a significant one, not all of them we're doing
ourselves anymore. But overall, we're pretty successful underneath to reduce the in-house
production to the main parts and assembly and outsource a lot underneath. We will continue this
process. So, there might still be a little impact.
And as far as transmissions are concerned, we are pretty sure, especially for the rear-wheel
automatic transmission, overall, this is not a profit burden on our side, even though it's a higher
vertical integration.
Downstream, of course, we have the issue with own retail. We're addressing that. We might not
close the gap to our competitors. But certainly, we will move into the right direction with a
significant step. Without highlighting that, probably, the impact of mini versus smart is different as
well on the bottom line.
So, on the other hand, we have advantages, of course, as well, like strong S-Class sales and
things like that. But we are getting closer. We're looking at all the productivity numbers. We see
there are some areas where we still might have some work to do. You know that on the sales
side, our costs were higher. On a comparable base, still some room to move. We're addressing
that as well with significant structural changes. So, we have a relative good transparency, but we
think we are closing these gaps and, as a result, we should close the margin gap as well.
A - Wolfgang Bernhard `
With respect to Truck Western European guidance, what the market concerns, we have guided –
we see you see the market as a plus/minus zero, basically, which basically means we will stay at a
relative – stable on a weak level that we had last year. If you look back a couple of months,
European market did not have much positive momentum, basically, not much growth in European
countries. Still a lot of uncertainty whether France will be able to turn a corner. With the election in
Greek – in Greece, questions about the ripple effects to the financial institutions are still there. So,
there's not much good things to go around and this was the case until a couple of months ago.
Now, for the first time, we see two good effects coming through. The first one is exchange rate,
which might result in the better export opportunities for Euroland. And the second one is lower
fuel prices, which will give more purchasing power to Euroland. And on top of it and as an effect,
for some of our logistics companies, our customers with lower fuel expenditures give them some
money and some financing opportunities to renew their fleet.
We don't believe that these two effects will come through the first half of this year, so it will take
time until these things trickle through. It might be that in the second half of this year, we might
see the positive effects to it. But at the same point of time, we might also have a war in our hand
with Ukraine. So, there is positive and negative things, basically, still out there. Euro is very much
of a difficult thing right now to estimate. So, we believe that for this year, the market will be flat
with an opportunity at the second half.
A - Dieter Zetsche `Just a very brief addition to the first question. Obviously, the structural changes we are very much
focused on are aiming at the structural competitiveness, of course. And our policy is here to act
and not to talk too much, because that in itself improves our chance for action. And especially, in
the plants, quite a lot of things have happened more recently and quite a lot of agreements have
been made, which will show the impacts in the time going forward.
A - Björn Scheib
Next one will be Michael and then it's Adam.
Q - Michael Raab `
Yeah. Good morning. I'm Mike Raab from Kepler Cheuvreux. I got a question for each of the three
of you. Perhaps, first of all, for Dr. Zetsche, being close to 0.5 million units with your compact
family and that being quite successful, what sort of peak volumes should we expect for the family
in its entirety and its current shape?
Then one for Mr. Uebber, please. Could you please remind me, because I think I missed out on
that number yesterday, what the profit contribution of your joint venture with Beijing Motor has
been in 2014 and how that compares to 2013? And then, finally, one for Dr. Bernhard, how far
away is, from your standpoint, the next tougher set of emission regulations in Europe for trucks,
call it Euro 7, Euro 6b, whatever you want to give it as a name? Thank you.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
To your first question, this year, as you know, we will introduce the fifth and last member of this
generation's compact car family. We were adding and continue to add significantly capacity,
namely now the Chinese capacity, which goes online this year. So, in the past, we didn't have the
full family available and we were significant capacity-constraint.
This year, we basically can exploit, I would say, to the maximum, the opportunities of that
generation, which will produce another significant increase in that segment. From there on, I
would say, the normal life cycle effects start to impact sales. So, 2016, 2017 would be, at best, flat
and then starts to decline towards the replacement of the generation, the current generation.
A - Bodo K. Uebber `
We will disclose at the 17th of February our annual report, where you get all the details also about
the joint venture developments. But as an information, we went slightly up in the BBAC joint
venture net profit. It is something what you see in the accounts then. And for 2015, we plan also
an increase, not a big step forward, because you have to account for also the GLA introduction,
for example. So, therefore, more improvement is in the years to come, the higher improvement.
A - Wolfgang Bernhard `
Emission schemes for trucks, right now, Euro 6 governs particulate matters and NOxs. On top of
it, CO2 is another emission standard that we have to look after and we have to look at. Right
now, we don't see any discussion on the Euro 7 right now. We are just in the process of digesting
and getting fully through with the transition to 5 and 6. On NOxs and particulate matters, the
levels are so low that it is very difficult to measure. So, it is hard to see that we will go anywhere
beyond the current levels that we have on NOxs and particulate matters.
Different story with CO2. CO2, we expect regulations that at some point of time. We are right
now in the process with the European Commission to see how we can measure CO2 emission ofa truck. That is very difficult, because trucks are very different from each other. They come in all
shapes and sizes. It's very difficult to make regulations for that. So, right now, we are working with
a scheme with the European Parliament – with the European Commission to measure CO2 on
different trucks. And we expect at some point in the future, but not before the year 2020, a
discussion will start how can we put values and limits to CO2.
This is all not threatening, because our customers are also interested in reducing the fuel
consumption of their trucks, even more so than with passenger cars. So, as long as these
regulations are in line with what our customers want and as long as those – the costs that we
have to put into the vehicles and the effect of it is a positive business case, which on the trucks is
much more likely than on passenger cars, it is a good thing it doesn't bother us anyway.
A - Bodo K. Uebber `
Right.
A - Wolfgang Bernhard `
So, we will see how this comes out. But CO2 – in short, no Euro 7 right now on the horizon. CO2
regulation pending might come up after 2020, if that is not disruptive regulation, forcing us to do
something that does not make, from a business – doesn't make business sense, is not an
economic case. If that is, that means we have problem, but we don't see that coming.
Q - Adam B. Hull `
Hi. It's Adam Hull from Berenberg. Two questions on Mercedes and then one on free cash flow.
Firstly, on MRA. I don't know if you can give us a bit more of a feel for the timing and size of the
cost savings, how much relates to 2016 and 2017 and how much you're roughly getting in sort of
2014 and 2015? I mean is it sort of 70%, 75% in 2016 and beyond?
Secondly, on Mercedes, considering the FX tailwind, which seems to be much more coming
through potentially 2016 and beyond and considering the negative – a high proportion of plug-in
hybrids, et cetera, I mean, should we be thinking about a 10% margin? In terms of timing, is it
feasible you could get that in 2017 or is that too hopeful?
And then, finally, on free cash flow, you seem to be guiding to sort of roughly €3 billion to €5
billion for free cash flow in 2015. Maybe you can give us a bit of a feel for why that's a bit down
and why it's such a big range, in effect? And should we be expecting that to clearly rise beyond
that, in 2016 and onwards? Thanks.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
What we said is that there are commonality between the C-Class and the E-Class is developing
its full positive impact after the launch of the E-Class. Now, to put a number to that is somewhat
difficult, because it very much depends on what you want to use as a base case for that.
Independent of that, with all car lines, but certainly with MRA as well, we are focusing on
continuous improvement measures, both from a technical point of view as much as from a
commercial point of view with our suppliers.
We have stated there a strategic target of 10% margin, which is absolutely valid. We have said
that we will get there step by step. I think we have shown some significant steps in recent times.
And you will see the next steps going forward. I would like to leave it with that.
A - Bodo K. Uebber `With regard to your question with regard to cash flow, of course, the math you did I do think is
reasonable. You know that cash flow has volatilities within year-end numbers and quarterly
numbers, as you know. And therefore, I do think it is quite smart also to give kind of a bandwidth,
so to say.
With regard to 2014, I do think we did a good job in our cash flow management. It's not only
coming from earnings, but also from a disciplined working capital management, supply chain
management and also investment efficiency and R&D efficiency, which we installed in the
divisions, had their impact also in 2014.
What we are doing 2015 is to increase substantially the R&D and invest the total funding. We have
given you, yesterday, in some slides, some indication for the year 2015, which of course will have
an impact on the cash flow side, on the one hand. Of course, on the other hand, we will increase
earnings, so to say, with the positive impact for the year 2015. And we have to keep in mind, we
are growing the company. And therefore, some working capital investment, if I may say so, is also
necessary. So – and again, with the volatility, we stick first in the beginning of the year to a bigger
bandwidth.
Q - Adam B. Hull `
Could I just check, the directive on working capital, that negative effect was all taken in 2014, is
that right?
A - Bodo K. Uebber `
All taken. So, we are growing the company not only one year, but over many years. So, therefore,
it should be year-over-year working capital increase.
Q - Adam B. Hull `
Yeah. Thank you, guys.
Q - Charles A. Winston `
Good morning. Charles Winston from Redburn. It's a difficult topic for you, but is there any
comment or are there any comments you can make about negotiations of the NDRC in China?
And sort of, even if nothing else, perhaps, your thoughts on timing as to where we might get
some resolution on that?
And linked to that, bearing in mind that there is fairly widespread expectation that at some point,
the pressure to reduce pricing in China for Mercedes towards more world levels, do you think any
of your competition might use the current strength of the renminbi to effectively start, perhaps,
adjusting that China pricing towards a global norm, because after all, it could be done in a
reasonably profit-neutral way given that tailwind? Just any sort of thoughts you could say about
competitive behavior in that environment would be useful. Thank you.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
To your first question, you're right. We will not be specific in our comments. But you already gave
me a hint how to answer. I expect, in the very near future, answer to that question. As far as
pricing is concerned, there is very good transparency to the pricing development of all
competitors available to everybody. I guess you know these numbers as well. And there, you can
see that we, as Mercedes, have very positive development, both on our historic – own history asmuch as in comparison to our two main competitors. But for all of them, for instance, in January,
we saw positive pricing development in a significant way.
First of all, the assumption take the customer price in China and the comparable vehicle in the
U.S., and you will see their potential for price reduction is very much misleading. Otherwise, we
would make obscene profits in China, which you would see in the balance sheet. So, there are
many more effects included and, therefore, the pricing potential is not as significant as when you
would come from that simple analysis.
I don't see any interest or initiative at any site, as far as pricing is concerned. Yes, some
competitors have been or are in a significant push mode with their dealer body, which then has
impacts on dealer's profitability and pricing. But overall, I do not see any intended moves. I'm
speculating, because I don't know the plans of my competitors in the industry.
Q - Scott Sheridan `
Hi. Good morning. This is Scott Sheridan from Barclays. First, on trucks, in NAFTA, you had a book
to build (59:16) in Q4 in excess of 2. I just wanted to get some indication of how confident you
feel that those orders will translate into sales and what kind of criteria do you use to make sure
that one of those orders is real.
Also, on trucks, you were losing market share in Europe in Q4 with a book to build (59:38) of 0.8.
And could you just give some color on why that dynamic is different from the U.S.? And then,
finally, on trucks, with the provision of €600 million in the year, do you have any indication of when
you'll have further clarity on whether that provision is enough or whether it might need to be
increased? Thank you.
A - Wolfgang Bernhard `
Okay. First question on the order income in NAFTA, we are very confident that those orders are
very solid. It's always been the case in the past that especially the orders still (01:00:16) far out
might be a little bit softer than those in the near future. But at this point of year and this point of
time, we can – we are very confident about those orders coming in that it will all translate into
sales.
Second one, market share in Europe overall, we could not only hold our market share in Western
Europe last year, so we also could improve it. Last quarter, in Western Europe, a slight drop in
market share which is basically coming back to the position of pricing. We will not make it easy on
our competition. And at the same point of time, we're not just going for volume and forsake our
margins. So, by the end of the day, it's basically attributed to the fact that we holdfast on our
pricing and are willing to take our premium as we have been doing that in the past.
We don't think that a 0.8% of market share is substantial and is always driven by big fleet sales
that might come in or not come in, in a particular quarter.
Q - Scott Sheridan `
Sorry. And just on the provision?
A - Bodo K. Uebber `
Sorry, to say, I (1:01:40) come to your point. Your third question, as previously announced, we have
increased the relevant provision by €600 million in the fourth quarter. In December, we
announced that. And on the whole, we assume that we have made adequate risk provisioning.More than this, I can't give you more details and I can't talk with you about timing or other topics. I
ask for your understanding.
A - Björn Scheib
It's Frank, it's Mike and then Fraser.
Q - Frank Biller `
Yes. Hello. Frank Biller from LBW. Three questions. The one is on your restructuring charges of the
sales organization in Germany. So, in Q4, you had an amount of €116 million divided in four
divisions. And you announced another €0.5 billion in the next two years to come. Maybe you can
elaborate a bit on that. What is this related to? And what is the timing here? Is the bulk of these
expenses in 2015? Or is it 50/50?
And then, on other special items, in 2015, here you mentioned €50 million in the truck division. Is
there any other special item in 2015? And on the merger and acquisition side, do you plan any
acquisitions or sales of some parts of your company or are you feeling comfortable with your
current situation here?
A - Bodo K. Uebber `
Yes, we have announced, first of all, the risk provisioning in the first quarter. It's €116 million and it
divides up into the different divisions. Main part – piece here is Mercedes-Benz Cars with over
€80 million and we plan for another up to €500 million for the next two years. The main portion
of the €500 million will be related to the year 2015. So, directionally.
Related question is do we think that we sell something? Of course, piece of the own retail
restructuring is that we'll partially sell some of our own dealerships, so that is related to M&A.
Other than this, we have nothing in mind currently, which is as big that we should talk about here.
And to trucks, what can we do? What we did in Germany and Brazil, going forward, so we have
planned for our restructuring programs, another €50 million for the years 2015 and 2016. That's it.
As you know, we have spent in 2014 roughly €150 million for the restructuring charges of
Germany and Brazil. The main piece in 2014 was in Brazil.
A - Wolfgang Bernhard `
And it's primarily workforce changes that we have.
A - Bodo K. Uebber `
Yeah.
Q - Frank Biller `
And the positive effects coming from this restructuring in Germany, what are you expecting on
the positive side here against these €0.5 billion losses?
A - Dieter Zetsche `
All together, of course, we have our NPV calculation on this overall step. And without considering
improvement of the performance of the network, which we definitely expect, we come to a
positive net present value, which, I guess, basically answers your question.A - Bodo K. Uebber `
And it lowers our fixed cost base, makes us less vulnerable.
A - Björn Scheib
Now, it's Mike and then Fraser.
Q - Mike M. Dean `
Good morning. Mike Dean from Credit Suisse. Adam asked my free cash flow question, but could
you give us some guidance on CapEx for this year? And then, just on pricing discipline and the
weaker euro environment, in the U.S., we've seen Japanese premium brands at around $1,000 of
free content in response to a weaker yen. Are you concerned that Euro OEMs will follow this
trend?
A - Dieter Zetsche `
To the second part, what I said about China holds true for U.S. as well. We always have seen the
one or the other competitor, in certain situations, to be more aggressive on special programs.
But I don't see an overall trend in this regard. And we had seen, in particular, Lexus in a much
stronger performance some years ago. They have recovered and, of course, these discussions
on recalls on their vehicles were damaging to them. We have seen them recovering. But we do
not see a new quality of competition, including pricing against the Japanese competitors. And
therefore, our plan clearly is not changed as far as going for value pricing and creating demand
rather than creating volume by negative pricing.
A - Bodo K. Uebber `
We plan to spend €5.6 billion in average for the next two years. And you'll find a breakdown of
this number on page 41 in our appendix for property, plant and equipment.
Q - Fraser E. Hill `
Good morning. It's Fraser Hill from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Just got a couple of questions
on China, returning to your dealership structure. You achieved a pretty successful level of dealer
growth last year, I think over 100. Can you just outline your plans for how we should see that
progressing over the next couple of years? Will we see a similar level of expansion in the dealer
network this year?
And just following on from that, there has been a lot of news flow over the past two months
regarding bonus top-ups, dealer support, dealer subsidies from many participants in the industry,
not just premium, but also mass market. How has that dynamic affected Mercedes? Have you
also made top-ups or is there a different dynamic for you within the market?
And then, on a separate topic, for Dr. Uebber. On the balance sheet, we have a substantial net
cash position, I think that's well understood, and you're expecting to generate excess cash in
return of your dividends going forward. What do you see as a minimum level of cash now? And at
what point do you start to think about further shareholder returns? And how would you think
about that in terms of special dividends or buybacks or, perhaps, not at all, just conceptually?
Thank you.
A - Dieter Zetsche `As you rightfully said, we increased our deal count last year, actually, by almost 110 versus the
planned 100, so that we're successful. The focus in that expansion, as you know, were second,
third-tier markets. We see meanwhile there are some additional capacity need. In first-tier major
markets, major cities, the number increase will, by far, not be as large as in 2014. We do not have
a specific number for you. What we see is that while, for instance, Audi's dealer count is not that
much different from ours anymore, the capacity per dealer is significantly higher. So, in the future,
we might see more of, you might call that, qualitative growth than quantitative growth on the
specific dealer sites, and this then will be less visible in statistics.
The second part, as I said before, the more push marketing you do, the higher the dealer
discounts will develop and the less profitable your dealer body will become, and the more
demanding they will be at the end. Now, you could, in the best case, address that by having a
more pull marketing strategy, which we try to establish. You always try that; sometimes more
successful, sometimes less successful with our new product. We have a much better opportunity
there.
Secondly, you could change your provision scheme with your dealers to include that in the overall
provision from the get-go. The disadvantage of that strategy is that the tendency to spend the
money in the market is even higher. So, it's kind of a withholding, which is included in these late-
year negotiations strategy, and that might be reasonable.
We try to avoid that in the first place, as I said, by not overstretch our volume intentions to the
dealer body, and this work pretty successfully. You have heard very little on our side, and this
relates to very little money being involved in this regard as well. So, I think we were one of the
least involved in this part of the business.
A - Bodo K. Uebber `
To your question with regard to dividend and net liquidity, the year 2014, of course, we ended up
with €16.9 billion net liquidity in the industry, which is a very comfortable level. But we also plan to
keep on this high level due to the high volatility we see in financial markets and end markets
where we are doing business. And as you have seen that we also have the plan to increase our
total funding for R&D and CapEx on top. So, we will invest further into products, which is the best
return you can get finally also as a shareholder.
Other than this, you have to keep in mind that our underfunded position on the pension side is
€11 billion currently. So, we have invested another €2.5 billion, but the low interest rate
environment let us almost offset this impact during the year. So, we are currently at 62% funded
status.
Having said this, of course, we are – I do think we demonstrated also in 2014 that we are passing
over, of course, also substantially to our shareholders. We increased our dividend from €2.25 to
€2.45, and we will keep our payout ratio also for the future further with our 40% – to 40%, not
only in a sustainable manner for the absolute terms, but also for the relative terms. So, you can
expect us to act further when we have a good environment also in the interest of shareholders.
Q - Stefan A. Burgstaller `
Stefan Burgstaller, Goldman Sachs. Two questions; one, lower oil prices, on the first glance,
should be a positive. I'm not so sure. Could you just talk a bit about how low oil price might impact
your ability to price for fuel efficiency measures in the truck division? And then, on the car side, it
might drive mix up near term. But then how does this impact your plans to comply with the
various regulatory CO2 regulations and targets in place?And then, the second question is more broader. And auto industry historically has enjoyed a place
of political and economical importance. When I look at these days, I'm worried about the
importance or dependency of China – or on China. And I'm also worried about the influence or
the attention the industry now gets from big data, big technology companies. And I was just
curious on your thoughts how in a period of substantial technological change and challenges you
face, how these two pressure points might influence your strategic developments. And could it
be that at the end, the auto industry finds itself in a relatively weaker spot in the next decade?
A - Dieter Zetsche `
As far as oil prices are concerned, of course, there are a number of markets, Russia, obviously,
being one, but Middle East as well, where oil prices have a negative impact on car sales, oil price
developments. But the majority of the markets can get a lift from that. You're obviously right that
the deviation between market demand-driven product mix and regulation-driven product mix is
increasing. And more specifically, all of us need to sell at least partially-electric vehicles in order to
meet their CO2 requirements, and there is very little amount for these vehicles. And that's
obviously not a good situation.
On the one hand, we have to see how we can make these vehicles, beyond their fuel efficiency,
even more attractive, one example being the boost function of our hybrids for the power, which
is a different aspect. And on the other hand, we have to drive the cost down when the market is
not willing to pay for these CO2 reductions based on this technology.
So, that's a whole mix. And I agree with you that the oil price reduction overall is positive, but has
its challenges including as well. China depends – and you want to make this point first, that's fine.
Okay.
A - Wolfgang Bernhard `
Just one comment on the costs – the truck side with respect to fuel prices. When our customers
make their decisions, fuel prices are high on their minds. So far, we see no effect from lowering
fuel prices on decisions on products, because right now we believe that our customers have the
perception that these price changes are transitionary, that they might go away and possibly go
away in the next years to come.
So, I don't believe that there is an expectation that fuel prices will stay at these low prices and oil
will be – sustainably will be at a $50 per barrel or even below. The widespread assumption is that
after some point of time, these prices will go back where they fundamentally are perceived they
should be and they will be. And nobody, none of our customers would like to be caught with a
fuel-inefficient truck with high fuel prices. That's something nobody wants to be. So, basically, the
purchasing decisions that we see right now are not based on current spot prices. They are based
on long-term beliefs where the oil price will be. And right now, the oil – that expectation is still a
high – continued high fuel prices.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
Passenger car buyers in the U.S. seem to be more short-sighted. And there, you always see a
direct impact on the mix between light trucks and passenger cars. And the resurgence of the U.S.
manufacturers, to some extent, relates to that oil price development.
Dependency on China, every coin has two sides. So, our relative weaker position in China so far
makes us less dependent on China than the others. First of all, I would say, before China
becoming a major market, we were dependent on fewer markets than we are today. Andtherefore, we are better balanced today, which is a positive. But of course, at least, for some
manufacturers, the China piece has their significant portion of the total sales; meanwhile, still less
so for us. I don't see the risks in China are significantly different from other major markets. Yes,
the growth could come down or even the market could be flat, but I don't see bigger risk for the
reduction of sales in China than in the U.S. or in any other market.
Technology, the entire world is heavily influenced by their tech development, the digital world
with many disrupting technologies resulting from that and changing overall business systems,
Uber is just one of many examples in this regard, the more recent one. And of course, we see –
and we think in our cars, there has been technology before, the Silicon Valley popped up. But
anyway, the conversion of the traditional, if you want, automotive technology with this new
technology from Silicon Valley provides tremendous additional opportunity, autonomous driving
and so on.
My understanding is the main strategy or the main objective continues to be very different
between the Googles of this world and the automotive industry. When Google bought Nest, I
don't think their main interest is to control the temperature in the rooms, but to get more
information about what people are doing at home. And there are basically three places; it's
home, it's car, it's office, where people spend their time. And car is one of these three. And
therefore, Google and the likes want to get involved there, I don't think, in the first place, to build
vehicles. And we have to understand that. And then try to find our roles to which extent we are
complementary, to which extent we become dependent, to which extent we are competitors.
And I think one major element in that is that we must be able to collect data independent of
Google, because we want to use this data exclusively to serve our customers on their demand
and with their release.
So, when we talk about high safety with Mercedes, this does not apply specifically for protection
accidents or from accidents. But this means safety of their personal data as well. And to be able
to provide that, to track this (01:20:49) data, we have to keep control. And we can't do that when
it's collected by Google. And that's where we see a major task for us to provide this kind of
platform, which is not in existence today. Beyond that, we'll see how this all sorts out. There are
risks, but I don't see from the, as I said, main business strategy, the intention of these tech
companies to take over the auto business.
Q - Dominic O'Brien
This is Dominic O'Brien from Exane. And quickly on FX, could you give us some idea of how much
of your 2015 exposure is currently hedged? And secondly, if we stayed at current spot rates,
would this €500 million tailwind in 2015 change? Thank you.
A - Bodo K. Uebber `
No, because it is done on the current spot rates, so that is the number I already announced. The
hedges for all these currencies are roughly between 70% and 80% in 2015.
A - Björn Scheib
So, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for being with us today. Thank you very much for
your questions. I also would love to thank management for sitting down with us today to discuss
the numbers and the Daimler strategy. With this, the official part of the investor conference ends.
Good-bye. Stay tuned, and we look forward to see you soon.