Q4 2015 Earnings Call
Company Participants
Björn Scheib, Vice President & Head-Investor Relations
Bodo K. Uebber, Member of the Board of Management, Finance & Controlling/Daimler
Financial Services
Dieter Zetsche, Chief Executive Officer
Wolfgang Bernhard, Head of Daimler Trucks Division
Other Participants
Adam B. Hull, Analyst, Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. KG (United Kingdom)
Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI
Harald C. Hendrikse, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc
Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker)
José Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Michael Raab, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux
Mike Tyndall, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.
Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG (Broker)
Stefan A. Burgstaller, Analyst, Goldman Sachs International
Stephen M. Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (Broker)
Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker)
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Björn Scheib
So, good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This is Björn Scheib speaking. On behalf of Daimler, I
would like to welcome you all here in Stuttgart, as well as on the Internet, for our Full Year 2015
Investors and Analysts Conference.
Today, we are very happy to have with us the Chairman of the Board of Management and the
Head of the Mercedes Benz Passenger Cars, Dr. Dieter Zetsche; our CFO, Bodo Uebber; and
also, the Head of our Daimler Trucks and Buses, Dr. Wolfgang Bernhard.
Yesterday, at the annual press conference, Dr. Zetsche and Bodo Uebber presented our financial
figures as well as the strategy in details. All relevant materials and respective presentations can
be found on the Daimler website. Therefore, today, we will begin this conference with a brief
introduction by Dr. Zetsche in order to provide you with the maximum time later on for your Q&A
session.
Having said this, we would like to remind you that this investor conference is governed by the
Safe Harbor wording that you can find on our published documents. Please note that all of our
presentation contain forward-looking statements that reflect management's current view with
respect to future events. Such statements are subject to many risks and uncertainties. If the
assumptions and underlying, any of these statements prove incorrect, then actual results may be
materially driven from those expressed or implied by such statements. Forward-looking
statements speak only to the date on which they are made. Please be aware that this conference
will be broadcasted, recorded, and will be available for replay on our website.For our Q&A later on, I would also like to have you all please giving your name and institution that
you're representing before asking your questions. Last but not least, in order to grant everybody
of you this opportunity to raise a question, we would, again, limit the number of questions to a
maximum of two. From a technical point of view, please now switch off your mobiles because
they may interfere with our audio equipment. Thank you very much.
And with this, I hand over to Dr. Zetsche.
Dieter Zetsche `
Thanks, Björn, and good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to our analyst and investor
conference. We've just put the best year in our 130-year history behind us with all-time best in
sales, revenues, and earnings. But our goal isn't just to get back on top but to stay there with the
successful strategy, with industry-leading technology driven by highly motivated people.
All of this is manifested in the strong 2015 business and financial results we made public
yesterday. As investors and analysts, I know you've already gone through those numbers with a
fine-tooth comb, so I'll simply review the major highlights.
Let's begin with Mercedes-Benz Cars. In 2015, we once again significantly increased sales to
more than 2 million passenger cars. We substantially built on the strong momentum of the prior
year with an increase in sales of 16%. Once again, Mercedes-Benz was the strongest growing
premium brand. Major contributors to this success were compact cars, the new C-Class, as well
as our SUVs. For further growth, we renewed our entire portfolio of SUVs in 2015 and even
expanded it with the addition of the GLE Coupé. Occasionally, we'd introduce two new Maybach
models, along with the CLA Shooting Brake, the Mercedes-AMG GT, and the new C-Class Coupé.
When it comes to new product introduction at Mercedes, the past is truly prologue. In other
words, the speed of our model offensive will remain high. Meanwhile, what once was regarded as
the Achilles heel of Mercedes has been converted into our strength, China is now our largest
market. In 2015, Mercedes sales grew in China by a full 41%. Many observers now take a very
skeptical view of China. However, we remain confident that we can differentiate ourselves from
the competition based on our attractive product portfolio, our strong financial services support,
and the localization of our production.
Our product portfolio in China is more attractive than ever. In 2015, we added 15 new or renewed
model series, mainly developed specifically for the Chinese market. Furthermore, nearly two-
thirds of the cars we now sell in China are built in China. That allows us to be far more flexible in
reacting to any changes of the market. In every respect, we've built strong momentum in China,
and we're optimistic that we will maintain this positive dynamic in 2016.
Our cars division's financial results grew over proportionately. EBIT from ongoing operations
improved by 40% to €8.3 billion, and with a return on sales of 10%, we hit our margin target.
Sales growth was largely responsible for the positive development in our financial results at MBC.
They were further boosted by the efficiency measures we've implemented along with currency
exchange effects. Offsets were attributed to investments and expanding production capacity,
technology, autonomous driving, and digitalization.
Let's turn to Daimler Trucks, where we delivered on our promise to exceed 500,000 units in
sales. This is all the more remarkable as developments in regional truck markets varied greatly. In
the NAFTA region, all went exceptionally well for us, and we were also able to increase sales in
Western Europe, Japan and India.In contrast, truck sales in Latin America declined significantly largely due to the overall market
slump in Brazil. Still, thanks to our global presence, we were able to compensate for the
weakness in specific regional markets. Revenues increased by 16% to €37.6 billion. The market
success of our products and currency exchange effects both contributed to this growth.
EBIT from ongoing operations amounted to €2.7 billion, well above the prior year level. Return on
sales climbed to 7.3% compared to 6.4% in the previous year. Improvement in our financial results
at Daimler Trucks is largely due to increased sales in the NAFTA region and Europe. In addition,
further efficiency measures on currency exchange effect also made a positive impact.
A burden on earnings can be attributed to the already mentioned decline in sales in Latin America
and Indonesia, as well as higher costs for warranty and goodwill. Furthermore, expenditures for
capacity expansions and up-front costs for new technologies and vehicles, all investments in our
future also put some downward pressure on our results.
Overall, Daimler Trucks performed very well in 2015 and reinforced its position as a world leader.
That's also the position we claim in autonomous driving. We've provided impressive proof of our
leading role with the world's first licensed vehicle of any kind in the United States in Nevada and
the first road test of (08:19) truck in Germany.
Every second vehicle that we sell today is either financed or leased by Daimler Financial Services.
In 2015, new business grew by 21%. Total contract volume today is now at €117 billion. Worldwide,
more than 3.7 million customers put their trust in DFS. Our finance business is growing in every
region of the world. New business growth continues to get stronger, especially in China.
In 2010, we only financed 1 in 10 vehicles in China. In 2015, it was 1 in 3. The strong performance of
our business units all adds up to the strong performance of our group. Thanks to the market
success of our products, we were able to increase group revenues by 15% to €149.5 billion. Group
EBIT from ongoing business increased overproportionally by 36% and came in at €13.8 billion.
Consolidated net income reached €8.9 billion.
Free cash flow from our industrial business, adjusted for M&A effects and the extraordinary
pension contribution was €5.9 billion, surpassing not only the prior year's number, but also the
proposed dividend distribution for 2015 by a significant margin. This led to an increase in net
liquidity of our industrial business. With €18.6 billion at the end of the fiscal year, we reached a
level that will enable us to continue our strong investment offensive.
That briefly sums up Daimler's 2015. In the past years, we've executed our strategy with a sharp
focus on great purpose. The result is our current success. To allow our shareholders to share the
success of our company, the Board of Management and Supervisory Board will propose to raise
the dividend to €3.25 per share, by far the highest dividend in our company's long history. That
will bring the total dividend distribution to €3.5 billion.
Based on the current share price, our proposed dividend represents a dividend yield of more
than 5%. In the current interest rate environment, this corresponds to a very attractive rate.
Moving forward, we intend to remain on this track. We will continue to strengthen our core
business, grow globally, lead in technology and drive digitalization.
So, now, let's look ahead to 2016. At Mercedes-Benz Cars, all of the products we introduced in
2015 will have their full market effect in 2016, such as our SUVs. Most importantly, our product
offensive will continue. In 2016, we'll introduce another dozen new or renewed passenger car
models. With that, Mercedes-Benz will have the youngest product portfolio among premium
carmakers.The biggest premiere of this year already took place in Detroit, that of the new E-Class. 1,200 of
our engineers worked on this car over 48 months. The results speak for themselves. The new E-
Class is the most intelligent business sedan in the world. We believe the intelligence of a
Mercedes should not end when our customer leaves his or her vehicle. That's what Mercedes me
is all about. The goal is to create an entire ecosystem for our customers to meet all of their
needs, and this is just the beginning. Mercedes me will never be complete. It will be continuously
updated with new content, especially the combination of autonomous driving and car-sharing
services will make fascinating new service offerings possible.
Meanwhile, in alternative drive technology, we are forging ahead with plug-in hybrids. In 2017, we'll
have 10 plug-in hybrids in the market. We believe this concept provides the best everyday utility
of all alternative drives. That's why we see it as the most successful autonomous drive technology
over the next decades. With it, we will further decrease our vehicle CO2 emissions. At the end of
last year, our average emissions in Europe stood at 123 grams per kilometer, meaning we already
overachieved the 2016 target in 2015. At the same time, we are working on a dedicated
architecture for an electric car with a range of up to 500 kilometers. That's part of that €4.7 billion
in research and development we invested in our passenger car business in 2015.
For our commercial vehicle, the aim is to stay on the chosen route and continue to accelerate. In
terms of technology, it's all about safety, efficiency and connectivity. With our autonomous trucks,
we've already set the bar high. Throughout this year, we are going to set it even higher, in
particular, at the IAA Commercial Vehicles show in the fall.
We continue to build out our global presence. In October, we opened the first of six planned
regional headquarters to move closer to our customers. Next week, two more will follow. And
we'll further enhance our platform strategy. After localizing our automated transmissions, we'll
also introduce our middle-duty engines in the NAFTA region. In addition, we're investing in the
local production of these engines in Detroit in 2018.
The key word here is investment. In 2016, we'll increase our tangible investments, particularly in
the planned expansion of our product offerings, building out additional production and
distribution capacity, and digital networking the entire value-added chain.
To force a sustainable and profitable growth, we both continue to invest and continue our efforts
to structurally optimize our business. Even as we see our strategy in past investments bearing
fruit, we will not give up any ground on improving our flexibility and efficiency. We'll continue to
ensure the robustness and sustainability of our business model, examples like the joint acquisition
of HERE or contracting Valmet to produce the GLC improve our focus on flexibility and capital
efficiency.
So much for the outlook. Now, what does all of this mean for our expectations for the year 2016?
Global demand for passenger cars is expected to pick up from the current high level by another
3% or 4%. The traditional markets are anticipated to show only slight increases, whereas the
Chinese auto market is expected to keep on growing significantly, thanks to the government
stimulus.
The commercial vehicles markets will probably shrink in total in the regions that are relevant to us.
While the European truck market is expected to slightly grow, the market in Brazil shows no signs
of improvement and is likely to decrease again in the magnitude of 10%. The NAFTA truck market
is likely to drop by 10% versus the very high previous year's level but we have sufficient flexibility
in our plants to quickly react and adjust capacity. However, we are planning to keep our sales of
trucks and buses stable, thanks to our leading products and strong sales team.In Cars and Vans, our goal is to once again significantly increase sales. Financial Services will also
pursue further growth. On this basis, we expect to slightly increase group EBIT from ongoing
business in 2016. For individual business units, we've set the following EBIT goals. Cars, Vans,
Buses and Financial Services, slightly above the previous year's level. Trucks plans to stabilize the
EBIT at the high level of 2015.
In the current year, we expect positive currency exchange effect of €400 million in our
automotive business. Add all of this up and everything points to another good year for Daimler in
2016. Today, we published the first indicator of that, our car sales figures for January with more
than 150,000 units; our Mercedes-Benz retail sales increased by 20%; in China, we grew by 52%.
So, we've shown that we can step on the gas. Now, we show that we can maintain our high
speed.
And with that, ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate your attention and welcome your questions.
Thank you.
Björn Scheib
Thank you very much, Dieter, for the introduction. Before we start, I hope you all have seen in
your mailboxes the sales release that we published for this January where all regions are, again,
up double digit and the Mercedes-Benz passenger cars as a whole is up by 19% and Mercedes
itself around 20%. With this, I would now open up the discussion and we would then start with
Stefan.
Q&A
Q - Stefan A. Burgstaller `
Good morning. Stefan Burgstaller, Goldman Sachs. Yesterday, you guided up the CapEx outlook
significantly. Maybe you can talk a bit about the rationale behind that and how do we think about –
is this the new norm for the auto industry? Is this the new norm for Mercedes-Benz? And do we
think about it in absolute terms going forward or in relationship to the revenues?
And my second question is – could be probably a very long question but about emissions. As you
had a track record of reducing the emissions, you've just added a lot of SUVs to the product
portfolio, so you're probably giving yourself a bit of an obstacle achieving the tough targets given
by the regulators. But my broader question here is the plug-in hybrid strategy is clearly your
chosen strategy to deal with the emission targets. On the one side, the regulator will force you to
adopt a certain mix, a richer mix of the plug-in hybrids. And so, technically, it's feasible, I get that.
But the question I'm asking myself, how do you manage today the anticipated cost offsets given
the significant higher cost of the plug-in hybrid? Thank you.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
Thanks for your questions. As far as CapEx is concerned, there's one element of that coming
from the Vans division where we are investing into an additional fourth product line which is not
part of our business today. So, this is basically growth into the future.
On the commercial vehicle side, we are more successful than we ever could have anticipated in
turning our component truck into an integrated truck in North America, which means that we are
step-by-step replacing first, and this has well advanced already, the heavy-duty engines and now
in the future the medium-duty engines from suppliers to our own brands, and with this,
significantly improving the margin potential in our trucks on top.The transmission has been introduced in the market where automated transmissions were a no-
go, and we surprised the market that demand by far exceeded our capacity. So, we have to
invest into the capacity of componentry for the drivetrain mainly for the North American market.
On the car side, I don't want to go into their nitty-gritty, but talk about the main lines. On the one
hand, we are a growing company. We – obviously, the growth we have seen in revenues this year
is higher than the growth we have foreseen in CapEx for the coming year. So, there, the ratios
basically don't change. But – not but. The one element is that we have worked hard throughout
the last 10 years to bring us back to very strong competitiveness in our classical business, if you
want.
By today, the leading KPIs, be design, be quality and so on, we think we are in a very good
position. The result is strong demand for our products which you most recently could have seen
in January again. Part of that is a widened product portfolio which, of course, requires more R&D
to expand the portfolio and to keep it fresh from generation to generation.
But that is only the one part of the story. I do believe we are at the brink of being the leader
within our peers there in the premium automotive market. But that's not our yardstick anymore.
Looking forward, digitalization is driving the world, changing the world. And we see many
industries where this leads to the almost extinction of their former leaders and puts new players
in the field which are taking over.
That's not what we intend to see. We intend to lead this change, and that is a whole new world of
technology where we again do not want to be followers but drive the change. And that is the
second part of our investment offensive. We think it's prudent when we are in a very strong
position to think about further changes, if you want, or restructuring not in the sense of, whatever,
cutting workforce, but driving from a traditional automotive world into a digital new world.
That's exactly what we want to do. Of course, parallel, the change in the drivetrains to non-
emission drivetrains in their midterm, longer term is another driving factor for our investment.
So we do believe that we are very well advised in times when we can do so to not only be happy
about our current successes, but build the foundation for our future success. And we are
absolutely convinced that is the only successful way to take.
I already slightly touched here on the second part of your question, emissions. Obviously, you're
right. There, we have our significant deviation between the legislative force by the regulator into
lower CO2 emissions and, on the other hand, the demand of our customers.
We have never seen higher demand for our AMG vehicles, (24:16) we see, again, last December,
light truck sales being above 60% of the total market. In the financial crisis, it was more like 40-
some percent. So the customer enjoys great cars and likes to drive.
The regulator asks us, and for very good reasons, we do not argue with that, to reduce our CO2
emissions which, to some extent, can be accomplished by ever better conventional combustion
engines. And our new OM 654 or 654 engine is a great example for that, a new diesel engine,
four-cylinder, which has unseen levels of CO2 emission, but at the same time, there are sets –
there are technological basis for the fulfillment of the new requirements.
Euro 6 or RDE Step 1, Step 2 which have just been decided yesterday, we are ready for that with
our technology. This engine has just been introduced in the E-Class and, of course, then will be
rolled out. But this is not enough. We need a growing electrification of our fleet as well, be it
through plug-in hybrids, be it through full electrical vehicles.Of course, of course, there are additional costs involved. They cannot be seen as being
compensated by additional price tax the customer is willing to pay for these parts of our overall
vehicles. We have been in a very similar situation four, five years ago where we told you that
we're seeing additional content in our vehicles of about €4.2 billion, was our calculation at that
time, to meet the current CO2 emission level limits. I'm now talking about Europe, but basically
the same applies in U.S. and China. And we said that we'll work on reducing this number by being
more efficient in these new technologies.
We try to get a little piece from the customer and we try to offset the remaining part by further
efficiency gains throughout our portfolio. That's exactly what we did. And that's why in this time
where this content is in our vehicles by today, we have a lower bill of material than we had in 2011.
And going forward, we have exactly the same challenge. Now, we can't give you every single
element of how we will compensate it, but we have a clear objective to acknowledge these
additional burdens and at the same time maintain our level of profitability. So, that is the story to
your question.
A - Björn Scheib
The next is Arndt. Then it's Patrick and then José.
Q - Arndt Ellinghorst `
Yeah. Thanks. Thanks, Björn. It's Arndt Ellinghorst here from Evercore. Good morning. One
question for Dr. Zetsche. And then I'll leave the truck questions to others. Really, you must be
sitting in a bit of a dilemma. You've led the probably best self-help turnaround story in the
industry over the last four, five, six years. The product is amazing and everyone applauds you for
that. Yet, you're in an environment, in an industry where OEMs are devalued constantly at the
stock market and the valuations are moved from OEMs to suppliers literally every day.
So, given you're running Daimler for another number of years, I would really like to see where you
stand on creating shareholder value in the next years, what's the equity story for Daimler. And in
that context, it is a question that has to be asked because it's quite huge. We talked in 2010
about the structure of the group, cars and trucks, there's still a hidden value of give or take €20
billion to €30 billion. Could you talk about this today again? Because you said at that time if we
deliver all our targets and our valuation is still as mediocre as it is today, which it is today still, we
will think of more structural issues.
Just talk a little bit about your view of the equity strong, how do you want to create shareholder
value, and would you just forever completely rule out carving out trucks at least partially? Thanks.
A - Björn Scheib
Through the first part of your story, on the one hand, of course, the value is always a reflection of
the expected future of our company not of our past. So, the one task we're having is to comment
to you that what we have shown you this or last year, what we have shown you the year before is
not the peak and end of the story, as some of you or others have suggested two years ago, one
year ago, again, this year and will – such as next year again by continuously delivering on these
targets. And one element to that is that you still think – or some of you still think in the traditional
cycles of launching a new vehicle. The vehicle is successful. The general sales goes up, and then
the vehicle gets older, and then the story comes back again.This was in the times when I'm saturating when we had C-Class and E-Class and S-Class, and
then we had these strong discontinuities in our product offerings. Today, we are going from 30 to
40 different vehicles. So, every year, when you divide that by seven, we have in average six
launches. Of course, these are not all volume launches, but there are significant number of
volume launches in that. And, of course, the SUV story is adding to that that you are – based on
many more pillars of strong volumes within your portfolio.
So, we will not show these strong cycles as we did in the past, and that is, once again, under, if
you want, traditional side. So, what we do today should be seen as can be continued into the
future. But when you talk about a fantasy for the future, I was indicating that before, I am
convinced that we are in a phase of changes we have never seen before. And this can be seen
as a tremendous opportunity or as a challenge. We see that as a tremendous opportunity.
Our task is to separate ourselves from the peers in the automotive industry and to compare
ourselves to the merging industry between the tech world and the automotive world. And that's
exactly our vision that we can, at the strength of these two worlds, and therefore, provide our
customers unseen products and services they have never even (31:35-31:42) of our automotive
peers. And that is the future story we are working on. That's what I was relating to before when I
was talking about investments. And we see that very few of our peers even can afford to go into
this direction looking at the resources.
Our best (32:00-32:06) corporate value versus the sum of the parts is to compare their capital
market values of the two most comparable peers in these two industries which is (32:22-32:28)
the value of these two companies, you will see that when, in the past, we were seeing a huge
gap in this comparison, today, we are basically in parity.
So, I don't do – know where you deduct this assumption that there are €20 billion that are hidden
value by splitting up. We don't see that. We see that the industry altogether is depressed, that's
why the comparison reflects that and that our task is to get rid of this pessimism about the future
of our industry, especially about the future of Daimler.
Q - Patrick Hummel `
Patrick Hummel from UBS. Can I ask Dr. Bernhard about Trucks business? You're expecting U.S.
market obviously to decline 10%. Order intake in the market, the latest decline rates are much
steeper actually. Brazil, you see negative territory. I'm just curious if you can add a bit more color
why your confidence actually comes from first to keep U.S. sales flat year-over-year in 2015.
And then second of course also EBIT, also bearing in mind that I would assume with U.S. Class 8
being your most profitable business, and in the market at least, very steep order intake declines,
we should expect some pricing pressure as well. So maybe you can give a bit more color on that
and also about the offsetting items that you expect to help EBIT staying stable year-over-year.
A - Wolfgang Bernhard `
Here we go. Okay. First of all to U.S. market, with a decline of roughly 10% in the marketplace and
a 15% especially for Class 8s, we are in line with many of our competitors. We are not seeing a
different world. With a 10% to 15% or 10% decline for the market, we are still above of our 2014
year. So, you just look it in – put it in perspective, it's not that the sky is falling. We don't see the
sky falling for 2016 in the U.S., but we see a moderate decline from very, very, very high levels
that we've seen last year. So, if we take a balanced view to this, yes, we are going back a little bit
with the market back and it's going back a little bit, but it's not a steep decline as many of the
participants might anticipate.When we look also at the order intake, you have to look at the absolute levels over time. So, if
you look at 2015, order intakes that might indicate in some part was going to happen. In 2016,
you will see that these are still above what we took in in 2014 and 2013. So, in absolute numbers,
these are still very healthy order intakes that we see.
And so, it is not – I would like to take a balanced view and I would like to caution you as – a little bit
in the marketplace, there's the attitude that this whole thing is falling completely. No, it's not the
case. We still think that the market will be above 2014, which was a good market.
Secondly, the big question is how do we think we will perform in this market? With now, with the
full availability of capacity of our heavy-duty engine, we believe that our penetration rate in U.S.
will go up from roughly 80% that we had so far over 90%. This will boost margins as these trucks
are very much in demand.
Secondly, so far, we, in our Class 8, we had a penetration rate, I would say, roughly 40% of our
heavy-duty captive transmission. As we make more capacity available and we are investing in
capacity on the transmission, we'll see higher penetration rates, I would say, in the vicinity of 60%
next year. So, this is also another margin boost.
Based on our limitations we had last year, which have gone away, we believe that there is
opportunity to grab market share without damaging the margin or net price levels. So, we believe
that our story for U.S. and especially in NAFTA is still in place. You also could look – you could look
at Mexico where we see that you – we have now a really good streak in Mexico. So, overall, I
believe, yes, the market is weaker, but overall, we don't think that this will have a huge impact on
us. We'll still be very strong.
There also has been some speculation in market about dealer inventory. I would also share some
highlight on that one. When we do calculations and we do those on three-month rolling averages,
and we look at us and our competition, it is true that one of our competitors is with a roughly 1.8
months very, very lean. We are at 2.5 months which is little bit on a high side. And other
competitors are roughly at 3.5 and 3.8, the other one. So, these are, I would say, rather richly
stocked in dealer side. So, we believe that, yes, we are a little bit on the high side, but this does
not mean a big problem for us.
Now, let's talk about the other markets. Obviously, there is – one more thing for the U.S. market,
higher captive share also means better service business and parts business. So, to keep that in
mind, after the new vehicle business have considerable revenue and profit stream and margin
stream coming through parts and services, and as in the past, now we're also reaping and
harvesting the seeds that we set with our captive component strategy. Now, we're also getting
continuously more and more sales in service parts which is good business.
Now, with the respect to the other markets, obviously, we have invested heavily with respect to
our technology. I think we are greatly positioned in the European market where we expect some
growth in Europe.
And in overall, I would say, also in Japan, we are flat. With our strengths of our products and our
good sales performance, we believe that we have the opportunity to grab market share. That
means markets going down, grabbing market share, we want to keep our sales flat basically
through this year and also keep our earnings flat to good performance. So, this is basically the
story that we would like to tell today.
A - Björn ScheibThank you. José Asumendi, JPMorgan. Over here.
Q - José Asumendi
Thanks. Couple of questions, the first one on China. If you could please comment a little bit, when
you look at the market, what makes you so confident that the market will continue to grow? In the
overall market and premium demand, 2016-2017, what are the metrics you tend to look at? And if
you could comment a little bit also on the business model of Daimler, where do you stand on
capacity, capacity utilization, engine capacity and also dealer expansion plans over 6-month to 12-
month timeframe? If you could comment a bit on that.
And the second item, I'm very interested on this COMPAS project with Renault-Nissan in Mexico,
Aguascalientes. So, could you maybe just comment a little bit, as much as you can, what is this
project about? Which vehicles are going to be produced? And it sounds like there is sort of a €1
billion investment there that's going to be invested. Does this explain maybe a little bit the delta
also on the CapEx plan for MBC in 2016-2017? Any details you could provide there? Thank you
very much.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
Thank you very much. China, I do not want to participate in the speculation how the GDP growth
development will continue and what is services and what is industry and so on. We are basing our
assumptions on the Chinese forecasts on the market development, which used to be pretty
precise in the past, which foresees about 8% there, even higher forecast, an 8% growth for the
total market.
We do see significantly better chances for us that are again based on our product offerings. In
some of our portfolio parts, we were still capacity limited. The GLC is a good example which just
most recently has been introduced in China as a local product, and is a striking success
throughout the world where we have waiting times which are getting unhealthy already.
The next we see today that the C-Class, for instance, now in January was sold more than 10,000
units which are levels we haven't even dreamed of most recently. The S-Class continues to be
strong. The SUVs are extremely strong. And now comes the new E-Class. We have – not even the
S-Class did represent a bigger step of innovation to their prior model than the new E-Class does.
So, we are extremely confident that the position we have taken with S-Class, we are now taking
with the C-Class, we will take with the new E-Class in this market as well.
So, beyond the market development, based on our product, based on fixing their dealer
network, the distribution continues to give us significant growth potential compared with our
peers who, as you all know, have much earlier tapped into the potential of this market. So, we
had a catch-up to play, no doubt. But we do believe the potential going forward is significant. And
I think the first month in this year is not really a damper on this optimism. I'm seeing more than
50% growth we have shown in the first month.
Renault-Nissan, we are, as reported, investing together into a plant which will build compact cars.
There are two models for us which are supposed to provide in the first place, of course, the
North American market but not exclusively. And the partner will get different products from this
plant as well. So, there's of course, an efficiency gain in doing that from a common platform.
The investment there is of course part of the overall investment going forward. And, once again,
we are in growth mode. So, when you are asking about utilization of our capacities, we are here in
Untertürkheim with our components basically running almost every Sunday, getting into troublewith our community here of Stuttgart whether we're allowed to do so or not, because at all of our
plants, we are going all extra shifts we are allowed to do. And so, we have a technical capacity
utilization of, I don't know, 120% or something like that. I haven't calculated this. But we are far
beyond the calculated numbers before. And we have to invest into capacity expansion
throughout the world. And Mexico is one example of that, but definitely not limited to Mexico.
A - Björn Scheib
So, the next is Mike. Then, it's Harald, and then Horst.
Q - Mike Tyndall `
Hi there. It's Mike Tyndall from Citi over here. Just a question about the new products. You've
done a great job at adding content and basically taking share in all of the segments where you
refreshed. And we can see that in the volume numbers. I guess what I'm curious to know is, with
the new cars, what are you seeing in terms of price erosion over the life cycle? Is there a step-
change versus the way it was previously? Or is this a factor that's really driven by competitive
environment?
And then, the second question for Dr. Bernhard. Just in relation to profitability, you've spoken a
lot about captive powertrain and how that's going to help. If I look at the margins of Navistar
versus Paccar, I see I guess an indication of what captive powertrain can do. Can you just give us
some sense of the order of magnitude?
Yeah. I thought you might say that. I can only try. Thanks anyway.
A - Wolfgang Bernhard `
Nice try.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
To your first question, which I will answer. On the one hand, we have talked about this intention to
increase content, driven by CO2 regulations and by the intention to really set our vehicles apart
from the competitors as far as the overall value perception is concerned, and on the other hand,
offset these by efficiency gains to get all of that together at at least zero.
What we have accomplished in recent years is not only that, but we have compensated the
increases we saw on the years 2010, 2011, 2012 by reductions in our bill of material including this
growing content, so that we are now at 2010-2011 levels in this range we are now. That is the one
side.
The other side is pricing. And yes, of course, we still see vehicle pricing potential, which is very
strong in the beginning and decreasing until mid-cycle refreshments, and going up and then
decreasing to the end of the cycle.
If you take the portfolio altogether with these different effects for the different car lines, last year,
again, while growing 15%, we had a net pricing increase of several hundred millions. So, that
obviously shows that we are not growing our volume by giving our vehicles away but by creating
demand. And that's exactly what we want to go for.
And then, we're talking about the strive for the number one position. This is because we think we
have to have the best offering in the market. And if that's the case, on election day, the voters
have to put their cross on the right side. So, the volume lead should be a consequence of thebest offering driven by demand and not an objective in itself, where we would push with any
gains or incentives.
A - Wolfgang Bernhard `
Maybe allowed to shed a little bit of light in the direction of the question you just asked. Just an
example, Class 8, you know that we have our own engine in there, our Detroit Diesel engines
that we share across the continents. So, as opposed in the past, where basically the engine
manufacturer was carrying the economies of scale across many vehicle manufacturers, right now,
we are basically creating those synergies in-house. We're changing the whole business model in
United States. So, this is a completely different way of operating.
So, because of the superiority of the powertrain as a whole, because the engine is much better
attuned to the transmission and to the axle, which we all manufacture basically and engineer by
ourselves, the performances of truck is much better and the margins are much better, the price is
higher. So, if you compare a Freightliner with a Cummins engine and with a captive engine, you
see uptick in margin – you see an uptick in price, sorry.
So, second point is on the cost side because while now we're having economies of scale and our
platform strategy working, it means that with respect to our heavy duty engines we're getting
from numbers almost into passenger car territory in terms of the economies of scale we're
getting, so far, above 100,000. So, these are huge – we're getting into huge numbers. These are
huge numbers by truck – from a truck point of view. That means also on the cost side, despite the
fact that we're putting a lot of technology into those trucks, we are also getting, once the
capacity investment basically is done, the piece cost is really good. We get good prices from our
suppliers and so on and so forth.
So, there is a really good margin in there and when Stefan Burgstaller asked about what are you
guys doing with your CapEx trying to continue to do this recipe for success with CapEx, we've
seen it pays off to invest in technology to come up with engines and transmissions that are
superior to our competition. It pays off to spread them around the world, use the synergies within
the house, which is what we always say our platform strategy, and by that get better margin. And
for that, you need to invest and this is exactly what we intend to do this year, 2016, continue to
invest in capacity of HDEP; continue our powertrain story, our platform story with the medium-duty
engine, which is now rolled into United States.
So, this is HDEP 2.0 so to speak. We're rolling into the medium duty and repeating the success
story that we did in the heavy duty and the medium duty that also means better margins by the
end of the day, and economies of scale across the globe, and upping our transmission capacity,
and continue to push on technology. So, don't believe that we're resting on our laurels and
waiting for competition to keep up. We are upping the ante as we speak.
And right now as you see at the end of this year, the next generation Cascadia will be introduced.
This will be another big, big entry into the Class 8 market where we're making our mark and we
don't intend to rest. So, this is basically the story that we try to do in the United States. So, if that
shed some light on your question, I'm happy.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
And Wolfgang just talked about the impact of scale to the supplier base on Mercedes car side in
the past driving factor for supplier to want to work with us versus being part of the reputation
Mercedes as a brand had. Today, based on our platform strategy where we bundle all the
volumes on very few architectures and the growth we have seen and we continue to see, we aregoing out and asking for quotes for 5 million, 6 million life cycle volumes. These are big volumes
where, in some cases, even one supplier can't live up to the total volume. So, we are volume-
wise now among the gorillas as well which has a significant impact on our access to the potential
of the supply market.
A - Björn Scheib
So, next is Harald. Then, we've got Horst, and then Adam.
Q - Harald C. Hendrikse `
Yeah. Thanks, Björn. It's Harald with Morgan Stanley. Can we just turn this conversion around a
little bit, please, and say, look, the market isn't entirely silly. The market's clearly saying that they
don't believe the good conditions that you've had in 2015 are going to continue. That may be
right or wrong.
But I think it's important for you to talk about how resilient the company can be, how can you
mitigate against the more difficult conditions that may well lie ahead, very similar to the sort of
situation in 2008 when, again, at that stage, it wasn't so difficult, so easy to see what was coming.
So, specifically, clearly the market is very worried about the level of renminbi and the impact that
would have on the company.
Secondly, overall economically, Europe is still looking pretty good. But if you look at the
performance of the European banks, that's telling a very, very different picture. And then thirdly,
especially with respect to yesterday's results, investors are worried that you're increasing your
level of investment into what they see as becoming a more difficult market.
So, can you talk a little bit more about the flexibility of the company? How you'll mitigate the
situation in case things do get more difficult. And particularly with all of the challenges in
technology that you're talking about, and I think you're absolutely right to face them head-on, but
clearly, investors want to understand how flexible that could be in a more difficult environment.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
Let's not talk about the likelihood of these scenarios you're describing. It is as it is or it will come
as it will come. But it's about our capability to react to the volatility of the market. The headline of
our efforts in recent years, namely in the last phase of our efficiency programs, was reduce our
fixed cost basis. Not absolute, but as a percentage.
And with all the growth we have seen, our objective was to, yes, grow but very, very minimal,
grow our fixed cost basis, almost entirely driven by amortization. Of course, even though we
have, in comparison, rather lower than higher capitalization ratios in our spendings but still, of
course, this can be changed going forward when we grow.
But beyond that, as far as vertical integration is concerned, we have not done the big splashes
and say, we stop building engines or whatever, even though with our partnership with Renault, to
some extent, we did even that. But we have worked diligently under the surface in the vertical
integration and made significant progress in this regard.
As – if you look at our labor side, on the production side, for instance, the growth of the last two
years was accompanied by a few thousand growth in people. So, our – if you turn that around, our
HPVs are improving fast. Everywhere where fixed cost is involved, we have done everything
possible to improve the ratios all the time. That, of course, in combination with the high alertnessour inventories are much more healthy than the ones of our competitors. When you look to
China, we have almost no inventory because we can't follow the demand. I'm exaggerating a
little bit.
So, at that point of time, our inventories across the board are very good. One exception is that
we have pre-built some 212 E-Class vehicles of the old generation, not to totally run out of stock
after changing to the new generation, which will be launched to the market in April. But generally
it's true what I said.
So, have low inventory levels, be very alert to any changes in any place. And if that happens, don't
push with pricing to overcome the market weakness but adjust in supply that we stay on our pull
mode. Of course, pull is a big, big word. We all try to encourage the markets to buy our product
as well. But directionally – and with that working extra shifts everywhere, still having a significant
number of temporary workers in our German plants and flexibility in other parts of the world. We
are in a totally different situation than we were before the financial crisis. And I hope we don't
have to prove, but if we have to prove, I'm sure we will confirm what I just said.
A - Wolfgang Bernhard `
Maybe one more word. One element before you start with trucks. Just to complete the strategy
we have done, the localization today is totally different. So, we have in China brought up a higher
share, you heard. It's about two-thirds now it's locally produced and sold. I do think that is part of
the last year story.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
And this two-thirds used to have less than 40%, right? And it is now at...
A - Wolfgang Bernhard `
Nearly to 60%. And of course targets are...
A - Dieter Zetsche `
Higher.
A – [066K1Z-E Wolfgang Bernhard]>: Even higher. Second example in localization is United States.
Tuscaloosa, we have invested a lot to do more in the United States. And I do think this decade
also of the engine side. So, of course, by speaking, of course, there are more examples. And I do
think that is part of the bigger strategy also into the future looking to the future to Brazil. But we
have already decided. Aguascalientes, on the other hand, is another example of this strategy.
Maybe one more word with respect to our guidance, talking to some of you, you mentioned that
with a softer market and the world how it's been seen, it might be a very bold segment to say we
will keep earnings at the level we have in the truck business. And I tend to agree. It is a
challenging task to make sure that despite the fact that markets are softening, you keep your
sales numbers and you keep your earnings. That's a very challenging task ahead of us.
We make it very clear. We are not looking at the scenario of 2008 in everything we say, right? We
don't, right? So, this is not what we're talking about here, okay? The question now comes is our –
would we be able to react if something happens? And I would like to point to some things that
might escape your attention. But these are things that we did in the past, first of all, in Brazil.As you know that – you know that the market basically collapsed last year, again, by another 50%.
We let – and the most difficult things to adjust and you all know that is also – always personnel and
labor. How can you adjust because that's a tough part? You can let go of suppliers. You reduce
delivery rates. You all can do that. But letting go of people is always the difficult part. Brazil, in the
last two-and-a-half years, we let go of 3,000 people. You haven't heard much of that.
And there's more need for adjustment as we move forward. The softening in the market in U.S.
has already – indicated at the late – last quarter, the last months of last year. We were able to
adjust our capacity already in the United States. Might have escaped you, but we let go of 1,000
people roughly. And this all goes – and we are able to do that without much noise together
because we have a way of doing this in the meantime.
So, we are able – and we continue to adjust our production in the United States, for example, as
we see the orders coming. So, we are able to adjust our production system and adjust towards
the need of the market. That was not always the case in the past. But we think we are much more
flexible and much more determined to do so if needed.
A - Björn Scheib
So, the next one then is Horst, and then, Adam; and then after this, Michael.
Q - Horst Schneider `
Yeah. It's Horst from HSBC. I have got more model-related questions, not that much strategic
ones. Can you please give us an update again on the one-offs that we should expect now for
2016? And also, could you specify if the R&D capitalization remains rather stable or you want to
increase that a little bit since your expenditure increased in general?
And last but not least, the main difficulties always was forecasting these other cost changes and
you say, oh, it will increase some hundred millions. Could you please specify that as well? So, for
example, it would be already helpful to say if it will increase by several hundred million, for
example, compared to the number you have reported for 2015, and that is not for example, in
Mercedes Cars again four-digit million euros like in 2014?
A - Bodo K. Uebber `
Thank you for your questions. One-offs, there's one – of course, you know, our strategy with
regard to our own retail strategy in Germany but also European-wise and worldwide. So, we plan
for another €100 million of charges in 2016. There are some opportunities because we are doing
well in our own retail. So, therefore, that might be the upper limits in 2016.
In CapEx – in R&D capitalization rates, we had a 34% Mercedes-Benz Cars capitalization rate in
2015, of course, a very low one in trucks because we are not fully developing truck. We're just
doing adjustments, so to say – as we say, so a pretty low number. In average, it's 27%. It does not
change a lot in 2016. So, we foresee almost same numbers, 30%, 35% forecast in 2016,
somewhat higher numbers in Daimler trucks in 2016.
On the cost side, as we have pointed out that our total funding is going up for R&D and for
CapEx. CapEx is related to depreciation, on the other hand. So, we're planning for €500 million
roughly, so a couple of hundred is precisely, so to say, around €500 million in cost changes.
These are purely related to R&D. On the one hand, Dieter pointed out the strategy in terms of
electrification and digitalization, and of course, the portfolio which we are – the bigger portfolio inpassenger cars leads to, of course, higher R&D, and of course, higher depreciation; all of that
together, €500 million.
Q - Horst Schneider `
That is just Mercedes, not trucks right?
A - Bodo K. Uebber `
Trucks, of course, it's – to complete the story, of course as Wolfgang pointed out, we are
investing into capacity. And that leads also to a very low three-digit number in trucks.
Q - Horst Schneider `
Okay. That's (01:05:20).
A - Dieter Zetsche `
We should mention one element being ingrained in these numbers that is a change for three,
four years. Then we have, again, unstable situation where we shifted the development cost of
our suppliers from being financed by the suppliers to being financed by us, which means prepaid
by us. And that, of course, increases this – our R&D numbers, increases the R&D bill which is just a
structural change in reporting it and in acting on it.
Q - Adam B. Hull `
Adam Hull at Berenberg. Two questions, please. Firstly, on the diesel emission, you showed us, I
think, the modular engine yesterday, OM 654. Could you just tell us exactly what the strategy on
this is? And could you sort of help us with regard to the NOx emissions? I understand this will
have an 80% cut in the real-world NOx emissions. Does this mean you're really confident now
about achieving this latest EU Commission target in real world? And with regard to The
Netherlands situation on the diesel emissions and in the discussions there, has that been fully
resolved and where are we on that?
And then secondly, on the electric vehicles and the timing of the rollout, I think you're talking
about a 500-kilometer range vehicle. What's the timing on that? And can you just help us in terms
of your sort of thoughts on the timing of releases of EVs? Have you delayed this just to maintain a
gross margin? What do you see as the overall market conditions for EVs in terms of pricing and
profitability? And just help us on that, why has it not come earlier? Thanks.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
I'm talking about modularization on the engine side. [Foreign Language] (01:07:15)
A - Björn Scheib
[Foreign Language] (01:07:16)
A - Wolfgang Bernhard `
Okay. Whatever. I just tried to get the English word for the German [Foreign Language] (01:07:24)
but I can explain without that. We are going forward in bringing the 4- and 6-cylinder engines –
cloverleaf, okay. We're going for cloverleaf, which means nothing else but having the 4- and 6-
cylinder engines in gasoline and diesel being one family.So, that we have total flexibly benefits in engineering, but more so, flexibility in production
between these four parts. This, of course, requires a change from our V-shaped to an in line on
the 6-cylinder side which is taking place. So, that is a major tool again of reducing fixed cost or
letting fixed cost grow slower than our revenues and, at the same time, improving our flexibility
to volatile market situations.
As far as the 654 in itself is concerned, this is their latest and greatest technology which nobody
has applied to an engine the way we do it right now. This engine of course is Euro VI. We
introduced Euro VI up to three years before the legislation was requiring it. And we are with that
engine, in a position – even though they two days ago approved new definition of RDE with step 1
and step 2. It's very challenging, and your 85% number is correct in reduction of NOx.
We have the technology already built into this new vehicle, the E-Class, with its new engine, to
accomplish these levels latest at the time required but certainly before the steps are asking for it.
Yeah, so that is already invested, already developed, and already built in to the vehicle price cost
by today.
Netherlands. Since decades, there are some parties interested in challenging the diesel for a
variety reasons changing every other year. These groups, of course, see great opportunity at that
point of time to try to kill the diesel. By repeating false accusations again and again, they don't
become any more true.
Netherlands, that's a case which goes back three months or more. So, this is very much old news.
And while, in different parts of Europe, different official institutions are measuring emissions of
different vehicles. They try to understand what they are doing and how they should cope with the
results and enter into discussion with us for interpretation, and not just with us but with
everybody. And that happens everywhere.
And again, three months ago, that was in the Netherlands. We looked into these results. We
came to similar conclusions and they confirmed to us that these engines are totally within the
regulations, as much as the same as in France and other places. So, what we have said five days
after the whole story popped stays valid. We have and we are and we will adhere to all legislation
in emissions which are in existence.
But again, this will not stop these voices or perhaps at some point of time people get bored, I
don't know, but we have to cope with that. The electric vehicle development, on the one hand, as
we told you, we see an important element of the electrification in the hybridization, plug-in
hybrids. We told you by 2017, 10 different models. Six of them are in the market by today. With the
GLT, the E-Class will be the seventh, so we deliver on that.
Secondly, full electric vehicles up to ranges of 500 kilometers. We are working on two
generations. One being out, let's say, a couple of years directionally. Obviously, I do not want to
announce our launch dates. And the other, twice as long, something like that. So, we will have –
because things are changing there fast, the available technology for the first timeframe and then
the available technology for the next timeframe, I mentioned into our platforms, and then offer
vehicles with these kind capabilities fully electrical.
And there is nothing delayed. If we would act in this area based on the quarterly result
requirements, we wouldn't do anything because, as far as I know, nobody is getting any returns in
these activities. But I think we have proven in the past that our investments in the future are not
driven by the next quarter result but by our long-term needs. And of course, at the same time,
we want to deliver at least satisfying results on our current business.A - Björn Scheib
Now, it's Michael. Then we've got Tim, and then Stephen.
Q - Michael Raab `
Hi, gentlemen. I'm Mike Raab, Kepler Cheuvreux. First of all, I'd like to raise a question concerning
Mercedes-Benz, Dr. Zetsche. I do remember that, staying on stage, Ola Källenius at the Frankfurt
Auto Show explained that specifically in China, the S-Class mix seems to be extremely rich with a
lot of Maybach versions being sold there.
So, one could perhaps argue that on one hand, the S-Class is going to feel a bit more headwind
from the new BMW 7 Series this year. But on the other hand, the family has been broadened and
apparently the mix is rich. So, could you tell us a little bit where you expect the mix to go
specifically for the S-Class this year?
And then, one question for Dr. Bernhard, and please forgive me, sir, if I missed out on the
information already being given, but with all of what you said, where do you see truck pricing go
notably in the U.S. market this year? Thank you.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
What Ola said (01:14:20), of course, always true like for all of our colleagues. And as far
specifically the S-Class in China is concerned, yes, of course, like with every vehicle, there is a
cycle – the lifecycle development. The start of the S-Class has been phenomenal and going far
beyond our expectations in volume. For a long period of time, we sold twice as much as the two
competitors combined in this segment.
Now, as the new competitor has arrived, so far, we have not seen impact on our plant numbers. It
was a very smart move to introduce the Maybach, in hindsight, because that's exactly the
differentiation where nobody competes and can compete with us. And we continue to sell about
500 a month only in China with almost list price transaction prices. So, it's amazing how successful
this vehicle is especially in this market, but not limited to this market.
And therefore, we are very sensitive. We saw some pricing pressure in that segment midyear last
year. We immediately pulled back volume, adjusted (01:16:01). And saw the prices recover
afterwards. So, we have seen in the second half of the year increasing transaction prices for the
S-Class, which obviously, in that forward-going lifecycle is not unnatural. We will continue to do
that. Exactly, the pricing gives us the definition for our supply and that's what we will continue.
So, it's healthy. Of course, we appreciate the efforts our competitors are doing. And they are
smart people. And they come up with good cars, no doubt. But we do not see our singular
position with the S-Class being challenged with that.
A - Wolfgang Bernhard `
Pricing in truck world, Europe, as I said we expect a little bit growth in the European market, so we
don't foresee much pricing pressure in Europe. And we expect prices to be flat. In United States,
you might anticipate some pricing pressure. But so far, due to our competitiveness of our vehicle
lineup and our capacity limitations that we had so far, we believe that we can also continue with
the pricing that we have in United States. So, we also anticipate flat prices because right now, so
far, we could not deliver all the vehicles and all the engines that were demanded from the
market. Now we can. And we believe that, also in this respect, market prices will be flat for us.In other markets like Brazil, we do not see any help in reducing prices because the market is just
not there. So, we don't believe that getting prices down will give us any lift in the market as
there's just no market. So, we don't believe much change there. And in Japan, we were very lucky
so far to – in spite the fact that we're, for the first time after many years, we were able to lift a
little bit the market share. We could do this without pricing. So, in all these markets, we do not
primarily entice our customers through pricing but much more through the vehicle advantages
that we have, to the superiority of our vehicles with respect to competition. And our sales force
continues to tell the story. And our customers continue to believe it.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
Basically, a common denominator through all of our divisions, the same applies to the vans
segment and the same applies to buses that we try again to create demand and not sell
overpriced.
Q - Tim Rokossa `
Tim Rokossa, Deutsche Bank, over here. I will have two questions. One for you, Mr. Zetsche, I
guess. You said that thinking in cycles is still very much an old world phenomenon. Probably some
people would argue that always chasing volume and wanting to be the biggest one is equally
something out of the old world. Is chasing volume still really the right strategy in the current
environment with all the changes that we have seen? Do you need it to offset the incremental
costs, for example?
And then, also somewhat related to this, with R&D and CapEx spending going up even more and
it feels like profitability becoming even more capital-intensive, you already started to do this, but
will we see more cooperations in the auto industry like in the Nokia HERE case, for example, on
battery manufacturing? And then also, could you perhaps think that at some point, we might see
outsourcing of at least the least profitable models to the full extent for Daimler?
And then, a follow-up question to you, Mr. Uebber. Just modeling when we had this Manager
Magazin article on FX, could you perhaps update us on your hedging rates, and in particular also
following up to Harald's question how much significantly weakening renminbi would really hurt you
at this point? Thank you.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
I tried to explain that before. In our company, everybody was convinced that with that brand, we
have no choice, and of course, it's our will as well, but to offer the best vehicle in the competitive
setup. And at the same time, the majority saw it as a given that others who are not that good
grow faster than we do. That's just the nature of law.
And then, I announced this Mercedes 2020 and there were many voices saying, okay, now that's
the end of the company. We finally lose our distinction. And we have to be small and fine, and
then we have the best vehicles. And I said that's stupid. I mean, if we believe we have the best
product and the best customer experience, then the customer is the final proof of the pudding.
And once again, if at election day, a bigger portion of the customers say, no, I prefer the package
of someone else, then we might tell us, as long as you want that, we are the best, but this is just
wrong. And therefore, again, we are not chasing volume. We are chasing to be the best offering
to the customers. That's true if we accomplish that. It's a natural consequence that more
customers will decide for us. And that's exactly what's happening right now. So, people said this
will create pricing pressure. This will erode our margins and so on. Exactly the opposite is true.At the same time, of course, we are a business where scale has an impact. And therefore, for
instance, doing – even at the very upper end, doing an S-Class Maybach, and the Coupe, and the
Convertible, very few can afford that. If you have a smaller volume to start with, you cannot
differentiate into two or three or even four different models. We can, based on scale. So, there is,
first of all, it's again a natural consequence. But it enables us to do things which we otherwise
couldn't do. So, we are not chasing volume. We want to build the best cars. And therefore, we will
be number one in volume as a consequence.
Batteries, Nokia HERE I think was a very prudent move. We want to give our customers data
protection. To be able to do so, we have to be control of the data being generated by the future
cars. And we only can do that when we have our own platform. But this doesn't mean BMW and
Audi, and Mercedes, and whoever. But that means joining our forces there I think was a very
prudent move.
We are totally convinced that this is a good thing to do. And this is open, so we invite others,
either shareholders or as customers to join us. But we are in control of the destiny of this data. At
the same time, we can drive the development of the company to support the needs for our
autonomous cars, the best, and most focus possible.
Batteries is a different story. First of all, we all do our batteries in-house but we cannot join there
because the battery is – because it's such a huge machine, very inherent part of the vehicle
architecture. And you cannot standardize that and you would get far too many compromises for
your architecture. So, everybody does that on his own.
The cell itself, I would claim that within the industry, we are the only ones who know what we're
talking about. And when different parties that are great build a plant together in Germany, then
we finally have the cells here. This is a commodity. I mean we did it and we have had technically
the best cell. But because it became our supplier market (01:24:31-01:24:36) at the best cell which
no customer could feel because the differences are minimum – minimal. But we had far too high
costs.
There's a big overcapacity in battery plants. These plants require tremendous investments. And
the dumbest thing we could do to add to that over capacity (01:24:57-01:25:02). This is a research
phase. We are participating there, but nobody knows who will get the breakthrough. And then,
around this new technology, you can look in the feasibility of going for production, that might
make sense or not. But today, it's a loss of time to even discuss that.
A - Bodo K. Uebber `
Your question with regard to hedging policy. Of course, the policy has not changed. As we always
explained, we have a couple of year kind of policy in hedging. We are at 80% for next year and
45% for 2017 for the key currencies.
Of course, you can imagine for some emerging market currencies, you cannot hedge or you
should not hedge for longer period of time because it's too expensive. And therefore, for
example, for the ruble or other emerging markets, you are just only one year hedged, so to say,
with a certain percentage, which I will point out later in terms of effects of 2016.
Of course, you have quarterly effects in your currency hedge book with regard to the sales
development, and therefore, the exposure development and the currency movements. But
normally, they are offsetting each other over the quarters ahead.For 2016, we have pointed out that we will see a positive effect of €0.4 billion in currencies. There
included is a high amount – we say, a high three-digit amount for emerging markets currency,
especially for the ruble but also, for the Brazilian real and the Turkish lira. And these are the
currencies which are currently, by far, weaker over the last couple of years. And as I've said
before, the hedge book there is, percentage-wise, somewhat lower.
And therefore, due to the open exposure, so to say, and running into the next year of weakness
of these currencies, there's a higher amount of effect in the €0.4 billion. It's north of €500 million,
which is included in the guidance of 2016.
A - Björn Scheib
So, now, we are taking the last question by Stephen.
Q - Stephen M. Reitman `
Thank you. Stephen Reitman from Société Générale in London. You talked about convincing the
market about the sustainability of Mercedes margins, perhaps – so possibly that being one of the
factors behind the relatively low rating of the company. In the past, Mercedes was seen to be a
lagger in platform development. And clearly, you've more than caught up and possibly leading
now with bringing the E-Class in on the MRA platform. So, in a sense that completes that part of
the MRA piece.
And you always said that with MRA, when you bring the E-Class in, you will then bring MRA pretty
much to its full potential. So, maybe you could talk a little about what that actually means in terms
of the economics across the group because, obviously, it impacts on C-Class and other vehicles
on that platform as well. And maybe that gives us also some comfort about the sustainability of
margins going forward.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
I think the best I can say is that, that means that we are 10% margin. And that means, what I said
before, that with our bill of material, we have seen, I think, the fourth consequential year of
reduced bill of material, including the additional content which continues to be close to €1 billion
per year; offsetting that, plus the inflation across the board, of course, raw materials are no
inflation this time. They are helping. That is clear. But overall, we see declining costs in the bill of
material.
Offsetting the content that this is, of course, the consequence of bundling all these different
vehicles on one platform, and MRA 2 will even give us further potential in this regard. So, we are
really very consequent and we have – within this platforms is architectures, common parts with
rates up to 70%, 80%. So, that is definitely one of the driving factors which allow us for the kind of
profitability we are showing.
A - Björn Scheib
So, gentlemen, thank you very much for taking the time this morning to answer all these
questions. Thank you to everybody in the room to come to Stuttgart and joining us for today's
Analyst and Investors Conference. Also thank you very much to everybody on the Internet for
listening in. Enjoy the weekend. Enjoy this Friday, and have a safe trip back home. Thank you. Bye-
bye.