Q4 2016 Earnings Call
Company Participants
Björn Scheib, Vice President & Head-Investor Relations
Bodo K. Uebber, Member of the Board of Management, Finance & Controlling/Daimler
Financial Services
Dieter Zetsche, Chairman of the Board of Management of Daimler AG. Head of Mercedes-
Benz Cars
Wolfgang Bernhard, Member of the Board of Management of Daimler AG, Head of Daimler
Trucks & Buses Division
Other Participants
Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Evercore ISI Uk Ltd
Harald C. Hendrikse, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc
Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG (Broker)
José Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Michael Raab, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA (Germany)
Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS
Philippe Jean Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd.
Stefan A. Burgstaller, Analyst, Goldman Sachs International
Stephen M. Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (UK)
Stuart Pearson, Analyst, Exane Ltd.
Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG (Broker)
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Björn Scheib
So, good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This is Björn Scheib speaking. On behalf of Daimler, I
would like to welcome you all here in Stuttgart as well as on the Internet to our Full Year 2016
Investors and Analyst Conference. We are very happy to have with us today, Dr. Dieter Zetsche,
the Chairman of the Board of Management and Head of the Mercedes-Benz Passenger Cars; as
well as Bodo Uebber, our CFO, and Member of the Board of Management, responsible for
finance and controlling, and the Financial Services; and Dr. Wolfgang Bernhard, Member of the
Board of Management, responsible for the Daimler Trucks and Buses.
Yesterday, at the end of the press conference, Dr. Zetsche and Bodo Uebber presented our
financial figures for 2016, as well as the strategy in details. All relevant materials and respective
presentations can be found on the Daimler Investor Relations website.
In order to give you maximum time for your questions on our today's conference, we will begin
with a short introduction by Dr. Zetsche, directly followed by Q&A, where Dr. Bernhard and Bodo
Uebber will be available to answer your questions.
Having said this, I would like to remind you that this investors conference is governed by the Safe
Harbor wording that you can find on our published documents. Please note that all of our
presentations contain forward-looking statements that reflect management's current view with
respect to future events. Such statements are subject to many risks and uncertainties. If the
assumptions underlying any of these statements prove incorrect, then actual result may be
materially different from those expressed or implied by such statements. Forward-lookingstatements speak only to the date on which they are made. Please be aware that this conference
will be broadcasted, recorded and then will be available for replay on our website.
A few practical points for our Q&A session later on. Before asking your question, please identify
yourself with your name and the name of the organization that you are representing. Please ask
your question in English and as a matter of fairness, please limit the amount of questions that
you're about to raise to a maximum of one, okay, accepted, two, and so we have everybody with
a chance to raise questions.
Last but not least, please don't forget to switch off your mobile phones. With this, thank you very
much and I would love to pass on to Dr. Zetsche.
Dieter Zetsche `
First, switch off this mobile phone. Okay. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to
our analyst investor conference. First things first, Daimler did better in sales, revenues and
earnings than ever before.
But equally important, in the best year in our company's history, we also embarked on the
greatest change at Daimler. Anyone who wants to shape the future of the car needs both
financial strength and innovative power. In 2016, we proved that the combination of both factors
is stronger Daimler today than ever before.
As investors and analysts, I know you've already gone through our numbers in detail, so I'll simply
review the major highlights. Let's begin with Mercedes-Benz Cars. We've already achieved our
2020 goal in 2016. Mercedes is on top of the premium segment. Our positive sales dynamic is
largely the result of the strength and attractiveness of our products including, for example, the
newly introduced E-Class of GLC Coupé.
In total, Mercedes-Benz Cars sold 2.2 million passenger vehicles, 10% more than in the previous
year. We're able to gain market share in almost all regions and we continue to move forward on a
profitability path. Adjusted for special items, EBIT climbed 7% to €8.9 billion and with a 10% return
on sales, we hit our margin target. Higher sales, along with improved pricing, were key to the
higher earnings. Expenditures for investments in new technologies were counter-effects.
Let's turn to Daimler Trucks. Our commercial vehicles were on difficult turn in 2016. We maintained
our leadership in important markets, but overall, sales declined by 17%. Positive impulses came
from Europe, while sales in Latin America sharply declined again, largely due to the recession in
Brazil.
Asia was also a mixed bag. In Japan, we were able to slightly increase sales. In India and in the
once again strongly declining Indonesian market, our sales decreased. In the NAFTA region, sales
were significantly below the exceptionally high level of the previous year. But with a market share
of 39%, we maintained our strong market leadership position in Classes 6 to 8.
We have responded to the market changes in the NAFTA region and Brazil by taking steps to
adjust our production capacity. As a consequence to the market-related sales declines, Daimler
Trucks was unable to sustain its prior year's results. Adjusted for special items, EBIT fell from €2.7
billion to €2.1 billion.
In view of the overall very difficult market environment, our Truck division achieved good results in
2016. We're aiming to bring Daimler Trucks up to its target level of profitability on a sustainable
basis. To that end, we continue implementing measures to increase efficiency and optimize ourMercedes-Benz Vans also continued its success story, exceeding previous year's sales by 12%.
We'll expand our van portfolio this year with the first premium pickup. Sales will start at the end of
this year. Adjusted for special items, EBIT reached a new high of €1.3 billion. And with a 10.1%
return on sales, we overachieved our target of 9%. Those results were shaped by positive sales
growth particularly in Europe, the NAFTA region and China, as well as efficiency improvements.
Business developments at Daimler Buses were affected by difficult market conditions especially
in Latin America. Therefore, sales declined by 7%. At the same time, we managed to increase our
adjusted EBIT to €258 million and with a 6.2% return on sales, we were above target. Daimler
Financial Services had yet another very good year. 2016 new business grew by 7%. For the first
time ever, we financed more than 4 million vehicles. Total contract volume is now at €133 billion.
The acquisition of the leasing specialist, Athlon, contributed to the increase in contract volume.
This strategic investment makes us a strong player in the European fleet business. The increased
contract volume and our disciplined risk management led to a return on equity of 17.4% and
earnings of €1.7 billion. That brings me to our 2016 fiscal year group results. Group revenues
increased by 3% to €153.3 billion. Group EBIT was €12.9 billion. Adjusted for special items, it was
€14.2 billion. With that, we confirmed last year's guidance and were able to slightly increase our
earnings by more than €400 million.
Due to the fact that the decline in truck and bus markets alone had a negative earnings impact of
around €1.6 billion in 2016 that our research and development activities increased by around
€500 million. This is a remarkable result. Net profit reached €8.8 billion in 2016. Free cash flow
from our Industrial business amounted to €3.9 billion in 2016, slightly lower than in the previous
year, but above the 2016 dividend payment.
To allow our shareholders to share in the success of our company, we will propose a dividend of
€3.25 per share, equivalent to the previous year's dividend. We will bring the total dividend
distribution to €3.5 billion. This is a dividend yield of more than 4.5%. In the current interest rate
environment, this corresponds to a very attractive rate.
So, now to our outlook. Looking ahead, we'll continue to work hard on the things that have made
us successful today. We're making targeted investments in new products and services. We are
focusing sales and production on global growth and we continuously improve our efficiency. At
the same time, we see several fundamental changes in the auto industry. Connectivity,
autonomous driving, sharing and electric mobility, any one of these has the potential to set our
industry on its head. At Daimler, we aim to lead in all four fields.
In terms of electric mobility, we have flipped the switch. Daimler will invest €10 billion in electric
vehicles and another €1 billion beyond that in our worldwide battery production. With our new
Mercedes brand, EQ, we are creating an entire electric ecosystem from inductive charging to
private energy storage. By 2025, we will have introduced more than 10 new electric models to
the market. By that time, we expect 15% to 25% of all newly registered cars for Mercedes to be
powered by electric drive.
But our understanding of fascinating cars goes far beyond a new drive system. We are convinced
it's all about having the best overall package. In Mercedes, we are focusing on two strategic
pillars. We will consistently optimize our core business and with our new unit case, we will
approach the four future key topics at Mercedes in an integrated way.
The same is true for Daimler as a whole. In all areas, we want to not only enhance today's
business, but also heavily invest in our future business. At the beginning of next decade, our firstheavy-duty electric truck will be ready for production. Meanwhile, 300 of our colleagues are
working on new ideas for the connected trucks.
Our Van division is transforming from a manufacturer to a provider of holistic logistics systems.
Our Vision Van shows how we aim to connect the entire delivery process. To this end, we will
invest around €0.5 billion in digitalization, automation and robotics by 2020.
Our largely autonomous future bus shows how our public transit system could look in the future.
In addition, we will launch our first electric bus in 2018. And beyond that, we're expanding our
mobility services.
In the long term, the greatest potential lies in combining the topics of connectivity, autonomous
driving, sharing and e-mobility. In order to drive this forward, we're also strengthening our
cooperation with external partners. The most recent example is our announcement to join forces
with Uber in terms of autonomous driving. At the same time, we are reinventing ourselves at
Daimler. For this reason, we are further developing our corporate culture.
So much for the outlook, now, what does all of this mean for our expectation and guidance for
the year 2017. Global demand for passenger cars is expected to pick up by another 1% or 2% in
2017. In the case of Vans and Buses, we expect slight market growth across our core markets.
Demand for trucks will likely remain challenging in the regions that are relevant to us. Overall, we
aim to slightly increase our unit sales. Financial Services is also looking for further growth. On this
basis, we've set the following EBIT goals for our individual business units. Cars, significantly above
prior year level; Trucks, slightly below prior year level; Vans, significantly below prior year level;
Buses, slightly above prior year level; Financial Services, in the magnitude of the prior year.
Overall, we expect group EBIT in 2017 to again slightly increase. In other words, Daimler will
remain in the fast lane.
Yesterday, we've published the first indicator of that. Our retail sales of Mercedes-Benz increased
by more than 18% in January. In China, sales grew by nearly 40%. The basis for our success today
is change, from the renewal of our products to our repositioning in China. The basis for our future
success will be the even more fundamental changes we are making now. 2017, we continue with
implementation of our growth strategy, with our work on the technologies of tomorrow and with
the transformation of our entire enterprise. The mobility of the future offers a whole universe of
opportunities for Daimler and we will take full advantage of them.
And with that, ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate your attention and welcome your questions.
Thank you.
Q&A
A - Björn Scheib
Thank you very much, Dieter. Now, we are going to start the Q&A session. So, we will start with
Patrick and then we take on.
Q - Patrick Hummel `
I hope you can hear me. Patrick from UBS. My two questions relate to R&D. First, you're increasing
your R&D budget for the coming years compared to what you spent last year and what you
budgeted before for 2016-2017. Can you give us a better understanding where the incremental
spend goes into, what has driven the decision to go even higher with R&D spending and what the
time horizon is that we should expect to see returns on those investments? Is it all of very long-term nature when it comes to autonomous driving, et cetera, without any immediate returns or is
there something that also yields a near-term return?
And the second question just links the R&D budget to your expectations for profitability of
Mercedes Car Group. Is it fair to say that you're doing this increase in the R&D budget as a result
of your confidence that you can maintain a 10% MCG margin anyway in 2017-2018? Thank you.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
Thank you. Thank you for this question. When we were in the financial crisis or the world was in
financial crisis, we decided to maintain a relatively high level of spending in R&D and in CapEx.
And the good development we took over the recent years is to quite some extent due to that
positioning of ourselves that we do believe the long-term success of our company has to be our
priority. We are now in a different situation. We are in a position of strength, but we'll see lots of
change driven by new technology opportunities ahead of us. And we want to make sure that in
this transition, we are leading the change and are not driven by the change. That's why we
increase or let me say start the other way around in our, if you want, traditional field. Our
objective is to ever increase our efficiency and effectiveness, that means our growing portfolio of
soon 40 vehicles within the, if you want, traditional Mercedes Cars portfolio. We developed these
vehicles per vehicle ever more efficient and in combination at a flat rate.
But on top of that, we're investing into the future and these are with an acronym of CASE, the
four main areas I don't have to explain here. And yes, of course, when we talk, for instance, about
sharing, I think nobody here would responsibly tell you yes in 3.5 years, we get a return of 7.8% on
the investment we are doing there. I think this would be totally unrealistic.
And when I hear from some of the colleagues who say that with their services, mobility services
that will have, that will make half of their profits in three years or something like five years,
whatever, this can only be a statement about the remaining profits because nobody can tell at
that point of time how this will develop.
But we have to understand what's going on there. The potential disruptive nature of some of
these fields, we have to understand and if they are disruptive, we have to be the disruptors. And
we do believe that we are in a position of strength that we can afford to be sure we are ahead in
these fields even if we then get criticism at the day of our reporting because we think the long-
term future is more relevant.
Clearly said, this does not mean that we are changing our strategic profitability targets. They are
valid and they stay valid and we are working hard to make that happen.
Q - Arndt Ellinghorst `
Okay. Thank you. It's Arndt Ellinghorst from Evercore. Dr. Zetsche, I think it's fair to say the
Mercedes-Benz turnaround product and brand-wise has been one of the most impressive ones in
most of the German brands over the last year, so that's been really, really fantastic to see. But
the question I have is in the past, you talked about this year, next year, the coming years, the
brand being on a bit of a plateau. And with the knowledge you have today, you think that's still
fair? Or do you think you can further outgrow your peers and more importantly, you can do it in a
really profitable way? So, for us to assess, when we try to forecast your volume, mix and pricing
momentum for the coming years, how would you describe that?
And then for Bodo, you've given guidance on the currency with more than €0.5 billion tailwind this
year. How conservative is that assessment? And secondly, if you patch in raw material headwinds,how would the balance look like? Thank you.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
We had this discussion when we launched our then U.S. class current generation that after that
things might go south (17:38) when we launched the C-class that after that, things might go south.
Of course, beyond the economic cycles, we have our product cycles. But as I said, going from 30
to 40 products, of course, this is much more stabilized now, plus it's pretty interesting that for
instance if you take our compact cars, last year, we were, I think, in the fifth year of the lifecycle of
this generation. And in the fifth year, we were again selling more compact cars than the year
before, which is not a classical product cycle.
So, because of both reasons, one that there is, even in years where we are launching less new
products, still a number of new products to be launched. And secondly, because we see the
same with our SUVs, the lifecycles, the classic lifecycles of starting a decline after the second year
are, by far, not as pronounced, if at all, anymore in many of our car lines, we have a much better
feeling of a constant growth opportunity, parallel to our target of profitability in the range of 10%.
Yes, there are years where it's easier to get both growth and profitability in the years where it's
little more challenged. That is, for instance, when we change our compact car, which meanwhile
has a pretty big part of our total business. The good news is new compact cars will be even more
attractive and will be even more profitable. But yes, we have to go through this changeover
which, at least as capacity of our plants is giving us some limitation in the growth we can do there.
But overall, I'm very confident that this is not a onetime nice event, but that we are constantly
growing at this level of profitability.
A - Bodo K. Uebber `
On to your question of currencies, of course, from a current point of view, to our best estimation,
we can do it to reflect the current environment of the currencies. And as you had seen, they are
very volatile when you see the dollar development in the last three months occurred, it
strengthened on the last couple of days. Of course, the euro strengthened again a bit, but on a
lower level. So the volatility is high, so this is our best estimation.
Keep in mind that we have also an exposure in the emerging markets ,which gave us a big
headache last year. That should stabilize this year as the currencies stabilize somewhat, ruble, for
example. So our best estimation is more than €500 million for this year as a guidance – tailwind.
From – raw materials, our headwind, over couple of €100 million for Daimler.
A - Björn Scheib
So, next would be Michael and then it's José.
Q - Michael Raab `
Yeah. Hi. Mike Raab, Kepler Cheuvreux right over here. I have two questions. First of all, when we
look at your outlook, it's suggesting you're yet bound for another year of earnings growth. A year
ago, with a fairly similar outlook, you flanked it with what we thought was positive dividend
signaling. This time around, you have the 2016 dividend going sideways.
I understand you're facing, like the rest of the industry, a tsunami of upfront spending for future
technologies. But besides this, is there any other reason why you kept the dividend flat year-over-
year in 2016?And then secondly, a question to Dr. Bernhard. Could you please explain what exactly happened
with the margins of the Truck division in the fourth quarter specifically? I'm asking because I think
trend-wise, the direction to be taken was to be expected. However, we have one competitor out
there who went exactly into the opposite direction. I'm just trying to understand the discrepancies
here. Thank you.
A - Bodo K. Uebber `
Michael, with your question to dividends, last year, when we were here, I do think we did not
know about a lot of headwinds in Trucks on the market site which we have pointed out this €1.6
billion but on top, we had a somewhat special reporting items which we reported which we
haven't had (21:55) in mind.
I'll remind you a little bit on the Takata development, for example, and others on legal
proceedings. On top, of course, we tried also to offset this with a strengthening of the pension
asset, as you know. So the flat development of the dividend from my point of view shows you the
confidence in our business. Also for the future, as Dieter Zetsche pointed out, we are very
confident to grow the company further and the dividend reflect this. And of course, we are
sticking to our 40% – slightly above the 40% policy which shows you, again, that we are confident
about the future.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
The earnings in the Truck division in the fourth quarter do not reflect any substantial changes in
profit margins from products. So, these things were primarily driven by things that always happen
at the fourth quarter and some special items that we had to book, so there's no special
development on the Truck margins, not in Europe, not in America, these are basically flat.
Q - Michael Raab `
In this context, if I may follow up, could you remind me again what those items are that usually
occur in the fourth quarter on the spending side? Just a few examples. Right over here. Oh,
yeah?
A - Björn Scheib
Can you one more time please speak?
Q - Michael Raab `
Yeah. Yeah. Sure. Of course. Since you mentioned, there's a couple of things that usually occur in
the fourth quarter. Could you please refresh my memory what those items are that you spent on
the fourth quarter and that led to this decline or contributed to it?
A - Dieter Zetsche `
We always get in the fourth quarter update on the final year closing with respect to Brazil, for
example, where things, basically, in the fourth quarter were even more difficult than we ever
expected. And obviously, then, we adjust our forecast – our view on things like quality
development and so on, so forth. So these are the things that we do by the end of the year.
Q - Michael Raab `
So, in a way, you have like provisioned additionally...A - Dieter Zetsche `
Yes.
Q - Michael Raab `
...to account for upcoming risks you perceive in 2017, notably in Latin America, perhaps, also
NAFTA?
A - Dieter Zetsche `
No.
Q - Michael Raab `
Okay. Thanks.
A - Bodo K. Uebber `
But maybe to give you some – a little bit of transparency for the first quarter in trucks, of course,
we are mainly hurt by the sales development in the first quarter. As you have seen, the decrease
in sales was the major one we had in the first quarter on the one hand. On the other hand, our
after-sales business always has in the first quarter not 30 days or 20 days of income, it closes
roughly, I don't know, mid of the month, so to say. And that is also a reflection which you have
always in the first quarter.
Q - Michael Raab `
Very helpful. Thank you.
A - Bodo K. Uebber `
Thank you.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
On top to talk about their company altogether on the car side, they are typically higher spending
on dealer payments which they accrue and earn by their performance. And therefore, this is
something which is not paid on a monthly basis, but quarterly and especially in the end of the
year.
Q - José Asumendi
Thank you. José Asumendi, JPMorgan. Couple of questions. To start off with, on Trucks,
Wolfgang. So when I think about the structural improvement of the Truck division, I think I've got
three buckets. So one, the work you're doing on components and the modules across different
brands.
Second, maybe the potential you have to reduce the vertical integration across – the reduction of
the vertical integration across some of the regions and the third bucket, which is the reduction in
fixed cost in Europe. Can you comment on those three opportunities you have and how much
floors (25:59) have you done since the Capital Markets Day last year.
And then the second one is for Dr. Zetsche, please, as we think about the electric car and what it
means for the supply chain and your production internally, can you comment on whichcomponents do you think are core for Daimler within the electric car, especially thinking about
transmissions, pathway technology and electric motors? And then, would love to get some
comments on if you have decided which suppliers are going to be core and basically what it
means for Daimler and also the workforce of Daimler? Thank you.
A - Wolfgang Bernhard `
You're right. First of all, let me little bit talk about last year in respect to volumes. Obviously,
Dieter already said it that last year, we had, in most of our markets, significant headwind starting
with NAFTA, but also Brazil that we thought cannot get lower, proved that it can get lower.
And last year was, in most of the markets, in most of the areas, we had to work hard with respect
to efficiency. So, we reduced our workforce in Brazil by another 2,000 people. And we are
continuing since 2012 to work in all our plants.
When you look at the numbers, you can see that the downfall of the markets in the Truck
accounted for roughly €1.6 billion of basically margin decrease and we were able, with €600
million, €700 million, to counter that. These are basically true to all those programs that are
running since 2012.
What we do here is basically in our plants in Europe, we are working hard to reduce our vertical
integration. Here, we are getting rid of parts manufacturing that we do not think are strategic and
important where we can make a difference and that we sold a foundry in South Africa. We
reduced manufacturing areas where we do parts. This is ongoing stuff in our German plants as
well as the plants in Brazil.
Our new manufacturing in Brazil footprint will be like this: In Juiz de Fora we will do only body and
paint. In the main plant in São Paulo, we will do all the assembly. Most of the powertrains that we
do axles, transmission and engines, we will get rid of the machining parts of those main
components. We will maintain a stronghold doing our own engines. We will be doing our own
transmissions because we believe that we have a competitive edge there and we proved to
have that in Europe and in the U.S. And these operations will be basically reduced to assembling
the parts.
On top of it, in the European plants, we are also streamlining our operation. We're getting rid of
operations, let's say, logistics, that we don't think we have to be in, where we can make a big
difference. We're also streamlining across all the plants. And when you put that together, that
resulted in the €600 million that we have been able to – and other cost changes where we
believe we're able to counter those margin decreases.
These efforts will continue through the next years. And on top of those efforts, there will be
another effort, especially targeted with respect to Mercedes-Benz Trucks. That means Europe
and Brazil, where we try to find another €400 million in efficiency improvements. For that, we will
reserve throughout this year, in the second half of this year, up to €500 million to make sure that
any one-time cost that we might incur throughout the year that we are covered. We believe at
the end of this exercise, not only the American, but also the European and Brazilian business
system will be much, much stronger and much more profitable than it is today. We will be then
right-sized and perfectly prepared if those market might come back at any time – point of time.
So, this is what we're trying to do. That means our suppliers will play a much bigger role, not only
as part suppliers, but also as service suppliers. And with that, we are maintaining our strategic
competences at the same time.A - Dieter Zetsche `
As far as electric cars are concerned, the assembly part of our manufacturing system is basically
not affected as, for flexibility reasons as well, we will design these cars in a way that we can
produce them in our more and more flexible assembly, existing assembly lines. This is different
for the component side, of course, for the powertrain. Here, we do not only see that an electric
powertrain has less labor content than our combustion-engine powertrain. But we see as well that
their chance for differentiation between electric motors, for instance, is much smaller than with
combustion engines. And this should be the guiding principle for us what we do in-house and
what we don't. And therefore, they are certainly not total agreement. We do believe that we will
not increase our vertical integration in a declining powertrain business, which obviously the labor
representatives would prefer, but we do the opposite, which will compound the impact.
The good part of the story is that, we have time. It's a longer period. And that's why we are
starting this adjustment by now. We do not hire any people with increasing sales volume for
powertrain either. And we will use every opportunity of reduction there as early as possible, which
means we see a responsibility to safeguard the future of the people onboard. But we do not see
a responsibility to safeguard the jobs there onboard.
And that's where we are in a constructive discussion making our way forward. You might have
noticed that their significant volume growth in recent years at Mercedes has not been paralleled
by a similar or almost any headcounts growth either, driven on the one hand by really satisfying
improvements in productivity and secondly, as Wolfgang just described on the truck side, parallel
on the car side, continuous reduction of vertical integration. Not with big items, now we stopped
doing axles, but with continuous reduction of all the parts we're doing underneath this assembly
level across the board and this is a very effective way, which we intend to continue.
A - Björn Scheib
So the next is Tim, and then it's Horst.
Q - Tim Rokossa `
Yeah. Tim Rokossa at Deutsche Bank. Thank you for taking my questions. I will have two, please.
The first one refers to Trucks as well, Mr. Bernhard. When we think about the fourth quarter, you
have underperformed Volvo in almost every region.
First of all, I've been curious to understand if we should read anything into this. Are you using your
technological edge or was this just a year-end impact or were they more price-aggressive,
something like this? But more importantly, we have actually seen quite a good order intake from
the European region particularly. You are guiding for slight decrease in the full year. Might that be
too conservative? Are we on an opposite position compared to early last year where you were
relatively positive on Trucks and particularly on the earnings side of things, turned out to be
slightly worse. Now, you appear to be a little bit more cautious. Maybe this year, it's the other way
around.
And then my second question, just on the investment side, coming back to that. Mr. Zetsche, I
think it is clear that you are impressively showing that you are at the forefront of technology for
most megatrends, whether this is autonomous driving or electrification. This obviously also comes
at a cost, you're developing a lot of things at the same time. When do you think it is time to focus
again?And maybe, Mr. Uebber, as well, you are printing a record earnings results, but obviously, your
free cash flow, while it is covering the dividend, impressive considering all the investment, cannot
really be what you have in mind printing these sort of EBIT numbers. Will there be a point in time
post 2017, 2018 maybe where we start to see an improvement in the conversion rate again and
where you can focus your investments? Thank you.
A - Bodo K. Uebber `
So let's start with Trucks. I would like just to keep for everybody in mind what the outlook for the
market is this year. We think that Europe will slightly decrease. Brazil is not going anywhere for this
year, we'd just say a little bit uptick, but not much. In the NAFTA region, we believe that it might
be slightly down with the Class 8, even further down 10%. This is what we believe was going to
happen. Also, Japan is slightly down and Indonesia is basically around prior year level. That
basically means when we look into the future, we don't see great tailwind. We just see primarily
headwind.
You're right when you're saying that book-to-bill rates have been improving. And we have started
into this year quite promising. When I look at NAFTA, we see that our January order intake was
very, very, very good, which surprised us to some extent. We don't know whether this is a one-
timer, whether this is an industry thing or it's just us, we don't know yet. We will find out in a
couple of days.
Also, the order intake in Europe has been good in January. So, we were happy to say that the
start into this year has been positive and we're not starting with a deficit on years that we're
having – we're basically having a little bit of a good start in this year.
However, I need to say there is a lot work that needs to be done, especially when we look at
Brazil, we still don't believe that we are where we should be and we have to continue to right-size
the business. And also in Europe, we see opportunities with respect to our fixed costs. As I said,
this is where we have to work on.
So, is there a chance that the world will develop much better than we anticipate at this point of
time? Yes, there is. Is there a chance that things might happen adversely? Yes, there is. So, we
don't know yet how it's going to be, but I can assure you that at this point of time that the start
into this year has been promising.
Q - Tim Rokossa `
And on Volvo perhaps, for the Trucks?
A - Bodo K. Uebber `
Normally, we don't comment too much our competitors in our press conference.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
You have been asking when we start to focus again. I can tell you we are pretty focused and what
we are doing, we are doing consciously. Two years ago, there were some discussion going on if
R&D rate of less than 5% would be sufficient and if we would not set the stage for another
fallback against our competition. Now, a year later, 5.3% is perhaps too high. I'm totally fine to
discuss that. And of course, a turn rate on our cash flow side higher than the one we're having at
that point of time is desirable on the one hand. On the other hand, I think our task is to invest into
the future – profitable future. And one problem of this world is that in many places, people don'tan idea what to do with it, to earn more money with it, this is part of our problem in the GDP
development on the global basis. So, we have at least proven in the recent history that the
money we invested turned into growth and growth at a profitable level and the same is our
intention going forward.
I have to admit and I said that before that there are some areas where we cannot clearly define
today the exact return and the timing of the return. And this is mainly true for areas, as I
mentioned, like mobility services, and sharing, things like that. But in all the other areas, we are
knowing very well what we are doing. And we do believe that we are on a very high investment
phase as far as R&D and CapEx is concerned and that the ratio will get better again, but we do
not want to constrain us at that point of time because we think we have the strength to do that
from opportunities, which we can plant a seed today and harvest tomorrow.
But of course, an absolute mandatory for us is that we pay an attractive dividend out of our cash
flow and intend to, on top of that, maintain some cash, as we obviously did in the last year and
this gap can even grow, is certainly a target we share.
Q - Horst Schneider `
It's Horst from HSBC. My questions would be, first of all, when we think yesterday to the market
direction regarding the share price, I mean, the suspicion was that consensus is too high, et
cetera. When I hear you talking this morning, you get the impression rather that the things could
be eventually better than thought.
So from today's perspective, would you say that there's – maybe the risk is more on the upside
or rather on the downside, maybe some indication would be helpful. And in that context also, last
year, you explained that H2 going to be stronger than H1 in terms of earnings performance. It
would be helpful to get such a statement also this year.
My impression is that for Mercedes, for example, H1 going to be stronger than H2? Just for life
cycle reasons, for Trucks, it is the opposite because you do more cost cutting, which could have
an impact in H2.
And last question is on volume structure net pricing. Q4 was a little bit weak – weaker than the
quarters before, at Mercedes in particular. Is there any particular reason for that? And in that
context, do you think that the net pricing can get, at all, any better than it was in 2016? Thank you.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
Answering first about passenger cars, which of course covers a significant part of the Daimler
piece altogether and then adding what can be added in the other areas. Of course, our objective
is to give you a guidance which is, and we only know afterwards, as realistic as possible. Not
positive, not conservative, not aggressive, but as realistic as possible, again. Afterwards, we will
see if that's true or not.
At the same time, and we have said that, the year is starting very good. Starting very good and
certainly rather supporting an upside than a downside. That is just one month, it's 12th of the year,
but that's what is already in the pocket. And on that basis, we do not see any developments
which would be controversial to that start at that point of time, whatever events might happen
tomorrow. And therefore I think after January sales, our confidence into the year has certainly
grown and not been reduced. I think that's a fair statement.
On the Van side, we have a special effect. First of all that last year was unbelievably good andbrand has ended at the end of the year, plus with the start in their new pick-up and their heavy
investment phase in the next printer, we are – and in Vans, we still have pronounced cycles
because the life cycles are much longer and the number of vehicles is much smaller. We have a
heavy spending year in 2017. So, that is independent of the market where we are looking very
optimistic into the future and impact on our earnings in 2017.
Trucks, you can hear directly. I don't quite understand if I got you right why we had not so good
fourth quarter on the passenger car side.
Q - Horst Schneider `
Don't me wrong. It was an excellent result. I just – when I just divide the earnings change coming
from volume structure mix by the revenue change in Mercedes, it is a fairly low operating
leverage compared to the quarters before. And when I see at the time that the E-Class share has
never been higher than in Q4, I ask myself why is that? Right.
A - Bodo K. Uebber `
This, to look at this ratio, of course, makes a lot of sense. Perhaps, not necessarily on a daily or a
weekly or a monthly or even quarterly basis. Of course, we're looking to try to understand very
clearly what is our net pricing doing and there, again, we were talking about fourth quarter
effects. You look at your leasing book at the fourth quarter, more severely than throughout the
year, all of these things have an impact which is not ongoing. Altogether, as you have mentioned,
we had a positive net pricing in 2016 and we have striven for that in recent years. We are striving
for that in 2017. There, obviously, the completion has a major saying if ultimately we will
accomplish that. And we are looking very strongly at the mix of our sales, which is on the one
hand, a product mix where we have higher margin, lower margin product and which is on the
other hand, a regional mix where we have higher margin region – less – high margin regions. We
do not see negative developments in this regard going forward.
Q - Horst Schneider `
But at least you want to improve the net pricing in 2017, that's right. Yeah.
A - Bodo K. Uebber `
That's what we wanted to do in 2015. We have accomplished it. That's what we wanted to do in
2016. We have accomplished it. That's what we wanted to do in 2017, and we will tell you in the
year from now...
Q - Horst Schneider `
Of course.
A - Bodo K. Uebber `
...if we have accomplished it.
Q - Horst Schneider `
Of course. But at least the aim is there.
A - Bodo K. Uebber `We will see both in trucks and in cars more seasonal developments in 2017. Q1 will be not as
pronounced in cars as it was last year. We had a very weak Q1 in 2016. Other than this, we have
seasonal developments as you know in trucks, for example. The first quarter is always a weaker
quarter, but you have to be careful because we get this one-time gain from the sale of the
premise in Japan, which is roughly €250 million. But we do not see a reverse of our first half-
second half pattern of recent years in this year.
Q - Horst Schneider `
Okay. Thank you.
A - Björn Scheib
So, the next would be Philippe and then it's Stephen.
Q - Philippe Jean Houchois `
Yeah. Good morning. Got two questions. The first one is on the border tax adjustments in the U.S.
I'm assuming that you've done simulation about what the impact of that would be on your...
A - Dieter Zetsche `
Sorry. I can't understand you, might be my ears.
Q - Philippe Jean Houchois `
Right. I got two questions. One is on border tax. First one is on border tax adjustment in the U.S.
Trying to understand, I'm assuming you've done simulation of what the impact would be. I
assume you're probably a gainer of that because you're a slight net exporter. But I'm just
wondering it is an environment where the dollar would appreciate, which is what people are
talking about in those adjustments, would that put at risk your strategy of being the net exporter
out of the U.S. especially in terms of single sourcing, some of your SUVs are single-sourced out of
the U.S. for export to world market. Would that put your strategy at risk there?
And the other question I have is on Financial Services. I know you're going to talk to us more
about this in a couple of weeks, but for several years, we've seen – years ago, Financial Services
business used to pay a dividend to the parent and then they stopped a few years ago because
of the crisis and then because of having to retain cash for capital ratios. This year, part of your
cash came from a dividend from the Financial Services. Is that a trend that we're going to see
going forward or is it a one-off? Just trying to understand if the Financial Services will become
maybe less capital-intensive or if that was just a special situation for 2016. Thank you.
A - Bodo K. Uebber `
To your first question, I ask for your understanding that we do not discuss particularly the impact
of border tax and so on and so forth. We do our job internally. We are discussing things. And once
we do have facts or alternative facts less (49:27), we will come up with something and make
decisions of whatsoever, but please understand that it's not a public discussion about it.
And secondly, in Financial Services, normally, Financial Services, we get from Financial Services a
dividend to the industry because we don't need the net profit totally to strengthen our equity
ratio. So, you might need half of it or so.We do special contributions for China, for example, because it's a fast-growing market in
Financial Services business and the legal requirements are higher than in some other markets or,
for example, the Mercedes-Benz Bank is regulated here in Germany. Therefore, we need to
provide, once in a while, this capital contribution. But normally, we get dividends.
Last year, it was about €700 million. So, we had roughly €900 million of dividends going to the
industry and we put in €200 million in equity. So, net €700 million. That is – you see that in the net
liquidity walk, it's strengthened the net liquidity of the industry. For 2017, I don't expect this
amount of money because we need to put in equity for China and for the Mercedes-Benz Bank
to support regulatory requirements and growth. The equity ratio is currently 7.4% end of the year
and we have €10 billion of equity in the Financial Services portfolio.
Q - Stephen M. Reitman `
Thank you. Stephen Reitman from Société Générale in London. Question about capacity utilization
in China and the United States. Obviously, the growth that you've had in China has been
phenomenal from a retail perspective and you must be bumping against the capacity limits you
have in your production base in China. Could you talk about the utilization rates you have at the
moment and do you think you need to put in more capacity in China?
And secondly, obviously in the United States, as the primary source of SUVs for the rest of the
world, I would guess also there you must be running at very high utilization rates. And so it must
be quite tempting to put in extra capacity there as well, which will also be, I guess, well received
by the new administration.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
Talking about China, we have seen significant growth in China. And at the same time, during last
years, the percentage of sales that are being locally produced has grown as well. So obviously,
the production in China has almost exploded, probably not the right verb.
We are constantly adding capacity and even plants, we have a north plant, we have a south plant,
we have all the activities in componentry there. And it's almost surprising how smooth this buildup
of huge manufacturing units is going both in the sense of supply as much and that is as important,
in the sense of quality. And let's say the last two years, we are, on top of that, focusing on
productivity. We are making huge strides forward in getting closer to levels of productivity we're
having at other parts of the world. It is a very strong focus by today as well.
I apologize because I just don't know it that I can't give you a specific utilization rate. That is
mostly due to the fact that both parameters are changing all the time, the existing capacity and
the production. But of course at some point of time, we have to even discuss if we would have to
look at other location or an additional location. There is certainly some specialty in our case that
our partner, that the main shareholder of our partner is the municipality of Beijing, which so far, is
certainly not to our disadvantage. And we have a very, very positive collaboration with our partner
and with our partner on the shareholder side. But having said that, we have to see to which
extent we can further leverage that location or if we have to wherever look for further locations
as well. But this is not something which we would be deciding right now.
Yes, we are obviously very successful with our SUV. We have all together a strategy of global
production networks, where every car line, and yes, you're right, the GLE is an exception from
that, typically is produced at different places in the world and we exchange, we cannot produce
40 cars at every place and every market where we are selling them, but we are exchanging of
course throughout this link network which is very flexible in itself.And we develop our plans, what to do where all the time. As far as the GLE is concerned, we are
adding capacity all the time and this affects of course our plant in Tuscaloosa in a positive way.
So next would be then Harald and then after this, Stefan.
Q - Harald C. Hendrikse `
Just quick questions again on the outlook. You're investing a significant amount of money into the
new technologies that your presentation had last night. I know you were (55:42) before. One of
your competitors this week in an interview highlighted the potential difficulties with diesel engines
meeting future regulations. What you haven't talked about what I think is an interesting thing to
think about is how the consumer is going to react. Are you going to be able to replace the diesels
in terms of the emission standards with petrol in the meantime or you are going to rely entirely
on these electric vehicles to start taking up the slack to meet those emission standards of the
future. And once you do put in EQ, a very attractive brand new EQ into the showroom and you
put that next to an existing diesel or petrol product, how do you think the consumer is going to
react and how would you be able to deal with that when your initial electric vehicle production
capacity is going to be reasonably limited at the start of the (56:32). Presently how are you
thinking about that? There is a huge amount of change coming (56:37) and probably it is going to
be tough to match.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
That's what we are paid for. As far as your first part of your question is concerned, we are
introducing a new generation of engines which we internally call Fame. And they're famous about
their flexibility. So we finally are reaching a state which would have been nice if we had it earlier
where manufacturing-wise, we have almost total flexibility between four-cylinders, six-cylinders,
between gasoline and diesel engines. These are all cells where all of these things are produced
and not huge transfer lines and we can almost, without limits, shift back and forth, whatever the
need be.
At the same time, we are seeing so far since September 2015 no significant change in the take
rates of diesel in Europe. And it's a European issue, what we are talking about. And yes, we have
sold very, very low volumes of diesel engines. And we are talking about 200, 300 basis points in
change in the take rate at almost 50% levels or over 50% levels.
So, this is marginal, especially when you know that typically when you have low fuel prices, the
ratio of diesel take rates goes down because it's an economical consideration at the end of the
day. And while we had low fuel prices, we still saw an almost flat development of diesel. So, the
customer so far doesn't care about the discussion which is going on.
Is that true tomorrow or the day after tomorrow? I don't know. If my colleagues continue to tell
the public all the time that tomorrow, they might not do diesels anymore, we might end up in a
self-fulfilling prophecy. I don't understand that. But we see nothing of that.
And at the same time, I think third parties have confirmed that our new diesel engine, OM 654, is
an extremely clean engine. As far as NOx is concerned as well and whatever kind of definition for
measurements you want to take, and it continues to be true that a diesel engine has 15% to 20%
advantage in CO2. And even though today the entire world talks about NOx, CO2, I think, stays
being relevant. That is what we're talking about climate change. And the climate change is what
COP21 in Paris is all about. And we try to contribute in this regard, not just as a company, but I
think as an economy and as society. It would be stupid to waste the benefits diesel can provide
because of things which went wrong in one area which we are fixing all together as an industry,but ultimately, will not be decided just by us. I can't just say we base our future on the diesel
engine in Europe as well. And we do not see a different reaction from our customer base so far.
As far as electric vehicles are concerned, it is our objective to put a vehicle like this one sitting
here aside of our combustion engine vehicles and making it a very hard choice for our customers,
ideally making them want to buy this vehicle no matter what because we do believe that is
ultimately the direction we want to go and we have to go.
And we do not want to go there because people mandated and don't allow us to sell gasoline or
diesel engines, but we want customers to prefer these vehicles and that's what our, all the €10
billion we're talking about are going towards.
And how this will play out is very difficult to forecast and that's why we're talking about ranges
and that's why we're trying to put flexibility in our manufacturing facilities as I mentioned before.
But our objective is to accelerate the ramp-up of these vehicles as a percentage of the total
sales. And as we told you, our current internal planning is something between 15% and 25% by
2025, but it's not just dependent on us if that is the right range we're talking about.
Q - Stefan A. Burgstaller `
Yes. Stefan Burgstaller, Goldman Sachs. Dr. Zetsche, you talk about strategic margin target of
10%. Most of us have come to learn that with the product age of your product portfolio and the
mix, the margin has a certain cyclicality. Can you just share your thoughts how you think,
everything else equal, in a, let's say, steady market environment, let's assume that the regulatory
headwinds can be compensated for cost measures. How do you think about the margin spread
as you walk through your aging process of your product portfolio?
A - Dieter Zetsche `
Of course, we were aware some time ago that relevant part of our growth would be driven by
the Compact segment. And that's what was happening. And therefore, on the one hand, with our
current generation, we have very attractive, especially, family members, which command pretty
attractive margins. That's not true for all of them. And we have put very, very strong emphasis on
the development of the next generation where our objective was to improve the overall
profitability of that family significantly over the current one.
And we are still more than 12 months before the launch of the first product. But all we can see
today is very encouraging. This does not mean that the new generation of compact vehicles will
be on the upper side of our strategic margin, but the downside will be significantly reduced
compared with our current family. So, this is all about that we try to understand how our mix will
develop. And with this impact on the mix, how we can safeguard the 10% as our strategic target.
And that's not an easy one, but that's why we're working every day. And so far, we have made
good progress.
A - Björn Scheib
We take then the last question from Stuart and then...
A - Dieter Zetsche `
Just one element. Why the compacts are growing, not just for us? It's true as well that on a global
basis, the share of SUVs is growing. And that is, generally speaking, something which is not a
burden on our margins.Q - Stuart Pearson `
Okay. Stuart Pearson from Exane BNP. So, two questions. One just following on maybe from the
mix point and I wonder how you would see that developing if and when we finally get to a rising
interest rate world because if we look at the financial services balance sheet of whether it's
yourselves or the whole industry, it seems there's never been a time when the Industrial business
has been more dependent on Financial Services than it is today.
So, I just wonder what happens when interest rates start to happen. Do we see consumers start
to get down-traded a little bit in terms of mix? So, wonder how you think about that on the
Financial Services side.
And then certainly separately for the second question, just on electric vehicles. There was a
question earlier about where you see you being in the value chain. I think you said before you
don't plan to be in cell manufacturing, for instance, but I wonder what your strategy is in terms of
securing a battery supply that you and your peers will really need in 5 to 10 years' time because
clearly, somebody has to put a lot of capital at risk here for some very uncertain volume forecast
for EVs in 5 or 10 years. So, I'm wondering what the strategy is there? Do you have to commit to
some take-or-pay agreements of certain volumes in 5 or 10 years to convince the battery players
to invest?
A - Dieter Zetsche `
Why don't we start with the first question? When we exclude for a moment the Chinese market,
which used to be a market where you felt ashamed when you didn't pay for your new car in cash
and is developing in more a normal pattern relatively rapidly over time. If you exclude that effect
for a second, my best understanding, and Bodo can correct me immediately, is that our
penetration is more or less flat over the time as it was in higher interest rate phases as it is now.
And therefore, of course, the financing is very attractive today for good reasons, but of course,
somewhere else, people get as attractive rates as well. I do not necessarily see mix impact on
high interest rates, which certainly would be for the total system an additional cost, no doubt,
which might have a total volume impact. But the rate of financing, especially, leasing is more
regionally different than from the car lines, to some extent as well, but not so pronounced. And at
your more in-depth in our Financial Services business, Bodo, but I don't think that this would
change our business system significantly. As far as our electric, where were we there, electric car
was the other point you made.
Q - Stuart Pearson `
On the battery supply sourcing and what capital at risk that you might have to put commitments
to.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
Sorry. We are confronted with the situation where in spite of the starting growth in the field, we
see excess capacity. And we see an ever-growing number of suppliers coming to us in a
significant or interesting reduction of price per – or cost per kilowatt-hour in that area. Many new
competitors are adding now coming to the game in China and some of them being very capable
already by today.
So, at that point of time, we have no visibility of a shortfall in supply. As far as the cells are
concerned, we ourselves, as you know, are investing in the batteries which is not the cell, but theentire – the assembly of the batteries including all the other parts beyond the cell, that's our part.
But once again – eight years ago, this was the discussion and we set up our own cell production
because everybody said, you will be strangled by the Koreans or whomever who will not give you
cells when you need them, the opposite is true. It was just money – a lot of money in that field.
And it only prevented us from picking the best supplier technologically and especially
economically. And we are in this game today in a very favorable way and this development is
encouraging.
A - Bodo K. Uebber `
So, I don't have to correct Dieter because he is right. What you said, there's no...but by definition,
but usually of course, he is very knowledgeable in many things. But just to add a little bit, when
you go back 10 years or 15 years, we had interest rates developments up and down. It was a
normal course of business for a couple of years.
And normally what happens is that you pass over it to the customer after a certain period of time.
You lose three to six months in Financial Services to adapt to the situation. When we now, from
my point of view, simulate rising interest rates, I do think that the GDP development will go in line
with this and somewhat inflation also. So keep in mind the whole system might be different. And
then of course in this, Dieter is right, the penetration rates are, more or less, kind of the same. So
for this, I don't see a huge impact.
On the other hand, I do think we are a well-run company. You know our rating is a very positive
one and that helps also to do a very good financing for our customers and you will get even good
news during the day. There will be another announcement from another rating agency which
moves us in a little bit of better position, which I like and we will use to do better support for the
divisions.
A - Björn Scheib
So, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your questions and being with us today. For
the ones of you who are listening via the Internet, thank you very much for joining in. Also, big
thank you to the management team for comprehensively answering all your questions. As a
friendly reminder, you're being informed that we're going to host Capital Markets Day on
Financial Services mid-February in London. For the ones of you who haven't signed up yet, make
use of the opportunity you've seen today. There seems to be some interest on this business.
And with this, have a lovely day. Safe trip – travel back to your homes. As always, IR stays at your
disposal. Have a lovely day. Bye-bye.