Q4 2017 Earnings Call
Company Participants
Björn Scheib, Head of Investor Relations
Bodo K. Uebber, Member of the Board of Management, Finance & Controlling/Daimler
Financial Services
Dieter Zetsche, Chairman of the Board of Management & Head of Mercedes-Benz Cars
Martin Daum, Head-Daimler Trucks & Daimler Buses Division
Other Participants
Adam Hull, Analyst, MainFirst Bank AG (UK)
Georges Dieng, Analyst, Natixis SA
Gerhard Wolf, Analyst, Landesbank Baden-Württemberg
Harald C. Hendrikse, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc
Horst Schneider, Analyst, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG
José M. Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Jürgen Pieper, Analyst, B. Metzler seel. Sohn & Co. KGaA
Max Warburton, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein Limited
Michael Raab, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux SA (Germany)
Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS AG
Stefan A. Burgstaller, Analyst, Goldman Sachs International
Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (UK)
Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG
Tom Thorpe, Analyst, Evercore ISI
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION
Björn Scheib
So, good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This is Björn Scheib speaking. On behalf of Daimler, I
would like to welcome you all here in Stuttgart, as well as on the Internet, here to our Full-Year
2017 Investors and Analyst Conference. We are very happy to have with us today Dr. Dieter
Zetsche, the Chairman of the Board of Management and the Head of Mercedes-Benz Passenger
Cars; our CFO, Bodo Uebber, Member of the Board of Management responsible for Finance and
Controlling and the Daimler Financial Services. I also welcome very much Martin Daum, Member
of the Board of Management responsible for the Daimler Trucks & Buses.
Yesterday, at the annual press conference, Dieter Zetsche and Bodo Uebber presented our
financial figures for 2017 as well as the strategy in details. All relevant materials and respective
presentations can be found on the Daimler website. In order to give you maximum time for your
questions on our today's conference, Dieter Zetsche will begin with a short introduction directly
followed by a Q&A session where Bodo and Martin will also be available to answer your
questions.
Having said this, I would like to remind you that this investors' conference is governed by the Safe
Harbor wording that you can find on any of our published documents. Please note that all our
presentations contain forward-looking statements that reflect management's current view with
respect to future events. Such statements are subject to many risks and uncertainties. If the
assumptions underlying any of these statements prove incorrect, then actual results may be
materially different from those expressed or implied by such statements. Forward-lookingstatements speak only to the date on which they are made. Please be aware that this conference
will be broadcasted, recorded, and then will be available for replay on our website. And last but
not least, please switch off your mobile phones.
And with this, I would love now to pass over to Dieter Zetsche.
Dieter Zetsche `
Thank you very much and good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to our Analyst and
Investor Conference. I know you've already gone through our numbers in detail, so to start off, I'd
simply review the major highlights.
Mercedes-Benz Cars remains on a profitable growth course. In 2017, we sold nearly 2.4 million
cars, an increase of 8% over the prior year. The biggest contributors to our growth were our new
E-Class and SUVs. In the second half of the year, the new S-Class provided additional sales
momentum.
In 2017, Mercedes-Benz Cars once again not only sold more cars than our direct competitors, we
also grew stronger. On a retail basis, it was an increase of 10%. That means we continue to build
on our leadership in the premium segment. To be specific, we are 10% and more than 20%
respectively ahead of our two main competitors. One key reason for this is our success in China.
Mercedes-Benz sales there grew by 28% to 595,000 vehicles. Mercedes-Benz Cars' EBIT
increased to €9.2 billion. That is 13% more than last year. Our return on sales reached 9.7%.
Daimler Trucks sales amounted to 471,000 trucks in 2017. With little support from the markets,
that is a remarkable result. We're able to affirm or build on our strong market position in almost all
markets. We are also able to raise Daimler Trucks EBIT to €2.4 billion. With efficiency measures
we've introduced, particularly at Mercedes-Benz Trucks, there's a good chance to achieve our
target level also in terms of profitability.
In Mercedes-Benz Vans, the year was marked by continued strong growth. With a 12% increase in
sales, we surpassed the threshold of 400,000 units. At €1.2 billion, EBIT was nearly exactly at the
prior-year level. In 2017, we also showed in real terms how innovation is changing from a van
manufacturer to a system solution provider. This ranges from ride-sharing to new delivery models
with transporters and drones.
The Daimler Buses business developments were shaped by an improved economic situation in
Latin America. In total, we sold 28,700 buses and chassis last year, 9% more than 2016. The
operating result of €243 million was at the same high level as in the prior year.
Daimler Financial Services had another very good year. New business climbed by 14% to €70.7
billion euros and contracts volume rose by 6% to nearly €140 billion. This led to earnings of €2
billion and a return on equity of 17.6%.
Mobility Services also belongs to DFS core business. Today, we have an entire portfolio of digital
services. Nearly 80 million people in more than 100 cities worldwide already use these Daimler
services. Compared to prior year, the number of customers doubled and we continue to build on
this leadership position.
This brings me to the key figures of the financial year. Revenue increased to €164.3 billion in 2017.
Group EBIT reached €14.7 billion. At 40%, profit increased twice as fast as revenue. So, we have
grown very profitably. At 9% return on sales, we achieved our target profitability in our
automotive business.Free cash flow from our industrial business fell to €2 billion compared to the prior year. This was
due to the fact that we contributed €3 billion to the German pension plan assets of Daimler AG
as part of an extraordinary allocation. Without this effect, free cash flow would have increased
despite the much higher investments we have made in advance in new products and
technologies.
Net profit came to €10.9 billion, or €9.84 per share. On this basis, we will propose to the Annual
General Meeting that the dividend be raised to €3.65 per share. This would allow us to distribute
a total of €3.9 billion to our shareholders. This is a dividend yield of roughly 5%. In the current
interest rate environment, that is a very attractive rate.
Our 2017 results show our company is fundamentally healthy and highly profitable, but that's no
reason to stand still. We are driving change in all areas at Daimler. We are changing to stay what
we are, number one in auto mobility. In doing so, we are relying on four closely linked strategic
building blocks that result in a whole. We all call it our 4C approach.
First C is CORE business. The focus on our CORE business is the foundation of our current
success. It's Daimler's economic backbone. That's why we will continue to strengthen it. Above all,
we're investing in new products. In January, for example, deliveries of the new versions of the S-
Class Coupé and Cabriolet began, and the new CLS will be launched in March. Just over two
weeks ago, we unveiled the new addition of the Mercedes icon in Detroit, the new G-Class. In
this very day, we will present our new A-Class in Amsterdam. In total, we will introduce more than
a dozen new passenger car models in 2018.
We're using the technological knowhow and profitability of our CORE business to tackle the big
issues facing the future of our industry in a big way. We define them with the term CASE. That's
the second C and is about nothing less than the reinvention of individual mobility. One example is
our commitment to autonomous driving. Step by step, we have been introducing automated
driving functions into our production cars. This allows customers to gain increasing confidence in
these technologies. At the same time, we are working on Level 5 autonomous driving fleets for
metropolitan regions. As the trend for organization continues to grow, so does demand for
convenient individual mobility services. That is exactly what we are highly motivated to provide.
We know we are not alone. The entire industry is talking about robo-taxis right now. But to create
such an ecosystem, one must first master several things. It starts with the technology in the car
and software platforms and extends to smart fleet management and financing. We've put
ourselves in an excellent position in all these fields over the past few years. In the early 2020s,
we aim to put the first self-driving taxis on the road.
The pace is also fast on the topic of electric mobility. Over the next few years, we will invest more
than €10 billion in the expansion of our electric fleet. By 2022, we will electrify the entire
Mercedes portfolio. We'll offer at least 50 variants of electrified vehicles. By 2020, we will
transform smart into the first car brand in Europe and the U.S. to completely switch to electric.
We're also electrifying our vans, trucks and buses with the same determination and rapid pace. All
of this goes to show, we'd already flipped the switch in the direction of e-mobility some time
ago, and we have much more to come.
At the same time, we are also reinventing ourselves at Daimler. For this reason, we are further
developing our corporate CULTURE. CULTURE is C number three. And we want the
entrepreneurial spirit we're promoting to be reflected in the fourth C, our COMPANY structure,
because the inner mind-set and the outer organization should complement each other. We,
therefore, plan to transform our divisions into legally independent units, which will improve bothtransparency and accountability for all three divisions, and provide us with more flexibility moving
forward. We are convinced giving more responsibility and a broader scope for action to our
divisions, will make us more agile and allow us to work with an even sharper focus on the specific
needs of each respective customers.
Our divisions will be able to adapt quickly to industry-specific market developments. In addition,
the planned structure should support our ability to cooperate with new partners. The next few
months will be marked by a thorough and careful examination of the economic, physical, and
organizational implications of the envisaged new structure. If the results of these studies are
positive, the board of management and supervisory board will give the go ahead for the
reorganization in the course of this year. The new structure would have to be approved by our
shareholders with a majority of at least 75% at the Annual General Meeting in the spring of 2019.
Considering the extent and complexity of the project, we are well on schedule.
CORE, CASE, CULTURE, and COMPANY structure, these are the four fundamental components
of our future strategy. But one C is still missing, our customer. The customer is at the center of it
all. After all, we can only be as successful in the future as our products and services are on the
market. What benefits our customers is also good for our employees, business partners, and
shareholders.
So much for our outlook. Now, what does all of this mean for our expectation and guidance for
the year 2018? This year, the global economy could develop in a similarly favorable manner as it
did in 2017. We expect growth of well over 3%. Global passenger car demand is expected to
slightly increase. Truck demand overall is likely to significantly increase in the regions most
relevant to us. For vans and buses, we also expect positive market momentum. We want to
slightly increase our car sales in 2018, and thereby achieve another record. Trucks, vans, and
buses aim to significantly grow.
Financial Services is also aiming for further growth. On this basis, we expect the following results
from our individual business units. Cars, at the same level of the prior year; Trucks, significantly
above the level of the prior year; Vans, slightly below the level of the prior year; Buses,
significantly above the level of the prior year; Financial Services at the same level of the prior year.
Taken together, in 2018 we expect to achieve group EBIT in the magnitude of the prior year.
Daimler is and will remain an attractive investment. We offer a strong balance sheet,
comprehensive strategy, and prospective flexible structure. We are confident we will achieve
further profitable growth and, given our attractive dividend policy, we are confident investors will
appreciate the valuation potential of Daimler. In recent years, we have fulfilled our promises. We
have delivered. Now we are designing and building our future. We are doing so from a position of
strength.
With that, ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate your attention and welcome your questions. Thank
you.
Q&A
A - Björn Scheib
Thank you very much for the introduction, Dieter .A few practical points for our Q&A session
before we start. With this, now we're going to start, and we'll start with Tim.
Q - Tim Rokossa `Yeah. Tim from Deutsche Bank. I would have two questions. One is on R&D and CapEx spending,
and one is on trucks. Last night we had a chance to see that you are probably the most advanced
when it comes to mobility services among your peers. So, Dieter, you also spoke about
electrifying the portfolio. All that obviously costs money. You're also guiding for R&D and CapEx
spending to go up again. Will there be a period of time where those ratios will start to come
down again in the future, or given that emission standards are always continuing to tighten, will
we just always continue to spend a bit more?
And, Mr. Daum, on trucks, your previous home market, North America, is probably running very
well this year. Europe is still fairly stable. Brazil is finally coming back. You have your cost-cutting
program in place. Is there a reason why you shouldn't achieve your midterm margin this year
already? Thank you.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
Typically, you always see your R&D spending and your investments going down in the future,
mostly because you don't know what you will do then. Having said that, we think it's very realistic
to believe that we can cap our R&D and investment at high levels and at the same time continue
to grow, thereby take our R&D ratio down again. I think that is a very realistic perspective.
A - Martin Daum `
And you are absolutely right describing the general overall situation on the truck side. It's indeed
all of the bus, and the North American market is doing extremely well. Our programs we started
in 2017 are going very, very well. So, we'll have this year a much better fixed cost base than we
had in the years before.
And, yes, Brazil comes out of the tank or will most likely come out of the tank in 2018. So, given all
of the above, that leads to a significant better result than the prior year. And whatever the final
number is, significantly better means it will be a higher number than it was in 2017. And it's very
early in the year, so a little bit further down through year, and we have ample opportunity to
meet. We might confirm a higher number.
Q - Patrick Hummel `
Yes, hello. Patrick Hummel, UBS. Good morning, everybody. My first question relates to the
mobility service business. I'm not going to ask now about car2go and DriveNow. But what I would
be interested in for the other activities that you're the sole owner, would you consider these
assets also for potential candidates for partnership with others? I.e., is scale more important, or is
the edge that you have built? Because you are certainly one of the leading OEMs in that area of
mobility services, is that more important to you, leadership and exclusivity or partnership and
scale?
And my second question, I would appreciate a bit more color on the passenger car division.
You're guiding for flat EBIT on the positive side. You have the slight volume growth, but you have
a very big €1 billion headwind on the FX side. Commodity is another couple hundred million
headwind, and R&D, as mentioned, is also going to go up. Can you help us with the other positive
drivers, price mix, what do you see, or other cost changes that would help offsetting that
pressure and would yield a flat EBIT for the year in passenger cars? Thank you.
A - Dieter Zetsche `Just very generally on your first point, of course, in this mobility services, scale is a very important
element. And the more significant your position in a market is, the more likely you will gain new
customers. And therefore, the number one priority is to continue the very positive development
in this regard of the recent past. To the extent we can do that on our own, we'll do it on our own.
To the extent it would be more promising to do it in any kind of partnership we would go for that
road. So it's not a value in its own to be the singular shareholder of this kind of activity.
As far as cars is concerned, first of all, we see an ongoing tremendous demand for our cars. You
will see in a very few days from today an excellent start into the year with January. And we have
to face the fact then this year, which is on the one hand very good. We start to launch the next
generation of the very, very successful compact car family, which, in its last full year, continued to
run on various times increased capacity limit. Their changeover automatically or necessarily leads
to some restrictions there in the capacity. We are adding capacity with new plants. But in this
changeover, we have some constraints as far as capacity is concerned.
Having said that, we will see sales growth in this year and we'll see a healthy structure. We have
seen in the past years continuously either a positive pricing or at least a flat pricing. We see rather
chance of some positive pricing, especially having said that we are running at capacity with
basically all of our products.
We will continue to work diligently on our productivity in all value adding areas of the business. Of
course, we are aware of the headwinds you were talking about, and therefore, we think as well
that our target and we feel confident as in past years that we'll deliver on our target to keep the
profits or the results flat. It's an ambitious one, but we are committed to it.
Q - José M. Asumendi
Thank you. José, JPMorgan. Just two items, please. The first one for Martin on trucks. Can you
share with us a little bit how far have you reduced the fixed cost base in Europe and how far can
you go reducing the fixed cost base in 2018? And then with regards to the U.S., how much more
capacity can you put or production can you add in Saltillo to support the 1.4 book-to-bill ratio you
have in the U.S.? And if you could speak a little bit about the orders you're seeing from
competitors in terms of the semi-truck from Tesla. That will be a first point.
Second point for Dieter, please. On battery technology – and I think, for me, at least the concern
that I have around not seeing a major German champion on the battery front being able to
produce cells, what are your thoughts with regards to this element and how do you think about
solid-state battery technology? It sounds like some suppliers are going to develop solid-state
battery technology, sounds like they want to have a start of production by 2024. Do you consider
this an interesting technology you'd like to change too? I'd love to hear your thoughts there.
Thank you.
A - Martin Daum `
José, that was a pretty tricky question. You have one question and you put an A, B, C into it. So,
potentially, the easiest one is about the production capacity, and this is true for – I would say, for
all, would be true for all regions, but especially for NAFTA we have an extremely flexible
production network. So we can ramp up as the market demands it. And it's not just the Saltillo
plant. It will be our North American U.S. plants as well. So I'm absolutely not concerned about – at
the moment about production capacity. There's certainly the sky not the limit, but the sky is pretty
high, so I'm not concerned about that.Fixed cost-wise, we want to save significant amount of money. So we spent a considerable
amount of onetime cost this year to reduce our employee – excuse me, last year, certainly, 2017,
to reduce it. So we want that money back, and so I see €700 million per annual as a saving
received, and already a significant amount of that will be impact our this year's, 2018's results
already, which then the full effect in 2019 as we then realize the employee and personnel
measures, which are associated with that.
The last one with Tesla, we take all our competitors serious. But I have – we are neither arrogant,
nor afraid of anything. And I can only point out that we launched last year with eCanter the first
truck out of series production, which is a huge step further than just putting a prototype on a
stage. We will have several launches with the Mercedes brand in the bus and truck side this year.
So I have absolutely no doubt that in the game of the electrified trucks and buses, we will play a
significant role.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
As far as cells are concerned, you know that we have a decent insight in this topic, as we were
one of the very few OEMs who were involved in cell production and cell development
themselves. On the one hand, the current technology has evolved quite positively in the sense of
cost down and performance up. Of course, like in any technology or most technologies, you have
kind of an S-curve, and this development is flattening out. So, we are all hoping for and expecting
the next technology to take us further.
There's still no final breakthrough and no clear evidence which one of potential different
technologies will be the one. Probably the majority who would have to bet money on that at that
point of time would go for solid-state, but that is not a safe bet. And the expectation is that
sometime around 2025, we might see beginning of production of availability of the next
technology, but not even knowing today which one it is. Obviously, that is not a safe bet either.
The good thing is that we are not involved in the production of these sales. Yes, we do research
as well there and, theoretically, we might come to this breakthrough how likely that ever might
be. But it's very good at that point of time to have the flexibility to react depending on where
technology takes us, and that's exactly what we will do. We know that beyond the technological
and financial considerations, there's another one which is some mandates, like in China, where
you only can use wireless batteries, which means they are produced in China. So there are further
considerations you have to make and, therefore, it's even better and even more important that
you can adjust to whatever the demands there are and certainly not have a disadvantage to
anyone else in this regard.
A - Björn Scheib
So the next one then Stephen, and after Stephen, it's Horst.
Q - Stephen Reitman `
Thank you. Stephen Reitman with Société Générale in London. A question to Mr. Daum. You've
said before that when it comes to benchmarking, you can actually host benchmark internally and I
think you took your North American operations as the sort of benchmark operations within the
truck division. What lessons can be learned from that in the operations outside America then and
how easily are they absorbed and how welcome you find the teams to take these on board?
A - Martin Daum `It's like in any other part of the automotive world. You need absolutely exciting products, where
the customers happily separates from his money to get your product. You have to have
continuous work on your variable cost, so your margins are not negatively impacted, and then you
have to run a lean operation with low fixed cost. So it's that easy. And that attitude we have in all
areas of the world, and that's the job of the management team to make sure that this attitude
really bears its fruits over the years. And so, we are working heavily on that.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
Perhaps Martin is not the best position to qualify it in a way I would do it. This very simple task has
been fulfilled the best in North America within our operations. And as he has some insight how
that has happened, it's certainly not harmful to apply the same knowledge to Europe and Asia,
and that's exactly what we are doing.
Q - Horst Schneider `
Yeah. It's Horst from HSBC. I have got many questions on Mercedes Cars. First of all, on
Mercedes EBIT, when I see for 2017 this other cost change amount of minus €1 billion and I see
your statements for 2018, I get the feeling that we maybe should expect minus €500 million as
cost changes in 2018 just due to wage rises, raw material price increases, higher R&D. But I
cannot assess what are the efficiency gains that you might be book in this line. So, a little bit more
color on other cost changes, what we should expect for 2018 would be helpful.
In that context, also, when you say that you are constrained in terms of capacity and if you see
that volumes outside China probably grow less and probably more flattish, is it fair to assume
that the impact on volume/structure/net pricing will be rather also flattish in 2018?
And then the last question that relates also to pricing is, I realize more and more that BMW and
Audi, they get annoyed about your good performance. So, therefore, BMW says they want to
catch up with you until 2020. My concern is that we see on the back of that a tougher pricing in
the premium market just because the PSA pay more attention to market share. Would you share
this view? And if not, why you're not concerned about that and how important is market share for
you in particular?
A - Dieter Zetsche `
Cost changes, we have told you that we plan to increase our R&D spending again in 2018 over
2017. We have a year with significant additional content into the vehicles based on CO2
improvements, which we need, mostly based on that. And on the raw material side, we rather
see kind of a flat situation in 2018. Let's leave the FX aspect outside of that consideration. And
we are very, very determined to continue the strong improvements on the operational side in the
sense of productivity and efficiency. So that, overall, we will have another significant three-digit
million number in – at least three-digit million number on the other cost changes, in the higher
range there, up to all together perhaps €1 billion.
So this is part of our plan. We, as I said, are so much faced with demand for our products, that
there's not that much uncertainty. Of course, tomorrow the world can fall apart. But to a high
extent, certainly in the first month, which you already know, our volume development is defined
by our capacity and, therefore, there's not that much risk to it.
But again, as I said before, for the very same reason, we feel good on the pricing side. You see
what kind of growth we have shown in recent years. And as I told you, the pricing was positive or
at least flat, which I think proves very clearly that we have not bought market share, but that wehave offered attractive product, which our customers or customers of our competitors wanted to
buy. And that's exactly the path we will follow, so we will not do anything stupid in order to get
market share.
For instance, you have seen last year for 11 months, we have been number one in China. That, of
course, was due to the problems Audi had in the beginning of the year with its dealer body. But
we, by no means, try to do any stupid race to keep that position in December, because we just
don't care. It's for us important that in the long run, we solidify and continue the appeal our
products have to the customers, but what that means in a single market and a single year in
terms of market share, or number one or number two, we don't care.
Fortunately, our sales people do care and try to become number one in all the markets. They
have a real strong fighting spirit, but they have limited budgets. That's what they are working with.
So, again, all these things you mentioned are part of our planning for this year. And what we want
to accomplish at the end, we told you, with a flat EBIT, which, at that level again, I think in this
environment and with all these investments in the future, there is a pretty decent performance.
A - Björn Scheib
So, next is Harald and after this is then Michael.
Q - Harald C. Hendrikse `
Yeah. Morning, guys. It's Harald at Morgan Stanley. Two questions. One, can we go back to the
battery cell question, because it's not just the technology, but it seems to me you're relying on
the suppliers to make sure that the capacity is going to be available. And I know in the past, you
said you'd rather buy. I think that makes a huge amount of sense.
On the other hand, I don't think it's very likely that you're going to buy all your batteries from
China or Korea, and there seems zero evidence that anybody is investing a significant amount of
money in German battery manufacturing. Can you maybe explain why that is and also maybe is
there a risk that the industry is going to be forced to put money into this? Because, obviously, it's
a very heavy capital commitment you're asking your suppliers to make. It feels like if these
decisions don't get made quite soon, you might have to become more involved yourselves.
And then, secondly, not the favorite question, I'm sure, but your comments on diesel this week,
it's pretty clear the industry doesn't have much stomach for a hardware fix. On the other hand,
we have a huge number of cars on the road that clearly are causing a pollution problem that the
courts need to fix, and we don't want a ban. So, we don't want a ban, we don't want a hardware
fix. I mean, what other solutions are there? Maybe can you give us a little bit of context there,
because it's pretty obvious that the industry has some responsibility there?
A - Dieter Zetsche `
Starting with batteries, we were in a situation where there was a significant amount of unused
battery cell capacity, which, of course, had an impact on pricing. We are not in that situation
anymore, at least looking forward to the orders which are being placed now for the years to
come, which in itself, of course, has an impact on pricing again. At that point of time, I do not
foresee any kind of shortage, and the companies who are engaged in that business are
continuing to invest. Of course, their scale is an important aspect in this regard as well. And in
their existing technology, as you said, the likelihood that new players would start the game is not
high. And, therefore, their game might become different if there were a breakthrough in the
technology, but there's no speculation. There's lot of ifs in that.Yeah, but as I said before, they're assuming that would there be a fantastic new technology and
would be found in – whatever – in some place in Germany and someone would build a huge
capacity to provide these fantastic cells, we would continue to sell Chinese-produced cells in
China, because they're just the mandate. So, it's not just the market and the technology we
explain here.
Beyond all the other news which are filling the paper every day, you have, perhaps, seen as well
that the number one position in this pollution discussion is held by Stuttgart at the famous
Neckartor. At the Neckartor, we have seen declining NOx and particulate values for years. And in
last year, compared to allowed number of – please don't nail me on the last digit – let me say, 40
days, we have seen 44 days of exceeding the limit.
So, it was very close to getting within the scope. And this is mostly driven by the replacement of
old vehicles by new vehicles, which we have altogether accelerated with the programs we are
running, even though the media do not give any value to the software fixes we can or
improvements we can deliberately add to our vehicles and we are committed to do. This is a
range of 25% to 30%, which we can improve the NOx performance of these vehicles, which is
significant as well.
So, if we were to go for this development in a rational way, we would see – and the discussion
kind of suggests that the last years, all the cities became terribly bad and, now, we are in this
terrible situation. As I said, the fact is just the opposite. It is getting better all the time, and it just
takes a few more years with all the measures which have been decided to come below the limits
across the board.
Will this patience exist? Will the public and the political discussion allow that to happen? I can't tell
you. We have some dates like now in February, some court decisions and so on, which I can't
foresee the outcome. We are convinced the best way is – and I do not want to start even to
discuss the downside of a hardware fix, which is not just a financial issue. It goes far beyond that
or the negative aspects of it. So, we will know more in a month from now and we'll go from there.
As I said before, having listened to this entire discussion, our customers have bought in 2017
more diesel cars from us in Europe than in 2016, whereas the share has declined by 3
percentage points in Europe, because we sold more and more gasoline-powered vehicles. This
shows that our customers are more rational on their decision as well.
A - Björn Scheib
Next one is Michael and after this is Tom.
Q - Michael Raab `
Yeah. Hi. Mike Raab, Kepler Cheuvreux. When I look at the two components that make up the U.S.
dollar-related FX effects in this year, I think it's fair to presume that the translation effect element
is going to be a negative one. But when I look at the transaction effect of it, is that going to be
still a positive one, and if so, perhaps lower than the previous year or which direction, which
magnitude is it going to take?
A - Bodo K. Uebber `
We have already given guidance to the 2018 FX effect, which is about €1 billion. There are, of
course, negative and included is a translation effect, mainly on trucks. And just for information, it is
not only the U.S. dollar. It is the Chinese renminbi. It is the Turkish lira. It is Japanese yen, and theBritish pound. So pretty evenly distributed, which shows you that there is a major effect from
these smaller exposures. And, of course, due to the euro appreciation, that effect accounts for €1
billion.
Q - Michael Raab `
Sorry. Okay. But when I look at the transaction rates you're going to use with your dollar-related
contracts this year, are they still better than the previous year or already worse?
A - Bodo K. Uebber `
Of course, we don't go specifically into the hedge rates due to – they're just competitive data, so
that we are not disclosing. We give guidance on the effect and I do think that is something you
can work on.
Q - Michael Raab `
All right. Thanks.
Q - Tom Thorpe
Hi. Good morning and thank you. It's Tom Thorpe here from Evercore ISI, here in the front. Just a
quick one on mobility, if I may. You've noted in some senses partnership makes sense, and in
other senses go alone makes sense. And if I can just ask one on your ride-sharing, your potential
tie-up with BMW. Can you maybe elaborate on why BMW makes sense as a partner, given the
scale is questionable and you don't necessarily have a complementary skill set? So, why does
BMW makes sense as opposed to pursuing a partnership with a bigger, more prevalent mobility
provider or even considering a partial IP or of the whole mobility services business as opposed to
just the ride-sharing part? Thank you.
A - Bodo K. Uebber `
As you know that it's a pure speculation in the media about partnering with BMW. On the other
hand, Dieter pointed it out. There are two main objectives. One is to strengthen the market
position, which is finally also to increase the customer base and the transactions. And on the
other hand, to get all the capabilities you need for the future for running a platform in the future
of autonomous-driving robo-taxis.
The levers we do have to support this strategy is organic growth, which we have demonstrated
last year, by another 100% growth in the KPIs. Secondly, we go for M&A transactions, no doubt,
just to complete our position wherever we can, we go. We look into partnering on top. And, of
course, we also do not exclude that we go for third-party equity funding or external funding. So
we need always to consider in moving forward what supports our strategy most, and you will see
us then deciding on the one or the other or combined elements of what I said right now.
A - Björn Scheib
So, next then would be Jürgen, and then it's Max.
Q - Jürgen Pieper
Hi. Jürgen Pieper from Metzler. One question on demand. With all this diesel discussions, with
possible gasoline discussions, we would read sometimes that fine particulate emissions of
gasoline cars could become a problem with a wave of electric cars starting 2020. Isn't it likely thatthe consumer at some point goes into a wait-and-see attitude and simply waits for the new
technologies and we get a recessionary environment, at least in some regions?
A - Dieter Zetsche `
You have forgotten to mention the critical comments about electric mobility, from cobalt to
infrastructure to recycling to what have you, which are valid, of course, as well. On the other hand,
I just told you that being bombarded by 20 articles per newspaper for years, our customers
provide us with best sales number since 59 months, I think including January. And on top of that,
we should not look at the world purely from a German perspective. There small impacts we are
seeing in their take rates between diesel and gasoline are basically limited to Germany, Great
Britain, and to a less extent France. Italy, for instance, has never shown any reaction to it, many
other countries, the same.
So, we are a little bit overwhelmed by the media and the political discussion fueled by elections
on top of it. The customer, as I said, before has a little more rational approach to these issues. Is
there a risk? Of course, there are always risks, and I can't exclude by 100% any other
development. I just can say what happened so far, and we are confident that we will continue to
offer so many attractive products that the customers will decide for one of our products and
going forward more and more they have the chances, if they want to, to include electric vehicles
in their choice.
A - Björn Scheib
Next would be Max.
Q - Max Warburton `
Yeah, good morning. Max Warburton at Bernstein. Could I look to 2019 and beyond and ask two
questions about electric vehicle demand? Mercedes-Benz, obviously, has a very sophisticated
market research organization, and you're probably spending a lot of time trying to figure out
what's real demand going to look like. What are your latest thoughts on that? I mean, it occurs to
me that we seem to have Tesla Model 3s being sold in the secondary market at the low list price
in the States in recent weeks, which seems odd. Jaguar's claimed orders for the I-PACE seem
quite modest. How are you feeling about electric vehicle demand in 2019 and 2020? Is there a
risk that with all Germans bringing – all premium carmakers bringing vehicles to market, we're not
going to have enough buyers for these first-generation vehicles?
A - Dieter Zetsche `
I'm not sure if the customers we can ask in these polls know by themselves what they will do next
year and the year after. On top of that, we can ask all the different institutes, who are driven by
whatever ideas in their expectations. I said it all the time, it's like a bottle of ketchup, it will come,
you don't know when and to which extent when you shake it. And therefore, the number one
priority we have to follow is flexibility. So, whatever we do in this regard, we have to be able to
react. And that's exactly our main guidance.
Of course, the money we spent, we have spent and we can't pull it in anymore. That is clear. And
we will need these investments. We will need these products. There's no doubt whatsoever. Our
best guess is that, by 2025, we'll be between 15% and 25% of our production full battery-electric
vehicles, but that's our best guess, and I can't confirm that by any market studies in any form.
Perhaps the one thing I could say a little closer to the market we get when we ask our sales
organization and while in the beginning, these numbers were purely top down, we are seeingmeanwhile a confirmation, in some cases, even a little demand going beyond these top-down
numbers by our sales organization. This is still not the customer, but this is one layer closer to the
customer.
Plus, of course, the development will be heterogeneous. We'll be different in different parts of
the world and the bet that we will continue in China, even though there were some – a little bit
more hesitant comments by a minister more recently. But that, in China, we'll have significant
development in this regard. This bet is pretty safe. And especially, in China, it's good to know that
more than one – or about one-third of all the sales of electric cars are supplied by two
manufacturers, which is BAIC and BYD, and these are our two closest partners. So, we know very
well what's going on there and have the best insight into that market as possible.
Q - Max Warburton `
Sorry. Just the second part to it, the follow-on to this, you talk about this 15%, 20% estimate for
2025, what's the worst outcome for profitability, if it's lower than that or higher than that?
A - Dieter Zetsche `
Let's first say, we told you in our last Capital Markets Day for Mercedes Cars that we are putting
all these parameters together, taking this planning assumption and seeing that this, of course,
based on investments and based on lower margins or contributions on these vehicles and burden
on our profitability from the sales of these vehicles as well, burden in the sense of less profitable,
not of not profitable. And we told you as well that by now, we are working to compensate and
offset these effects and we told you that our realistic objective is to keep our profitability in this
range of 8% to 10% in this transition – in this transformation.
Now, when the assumption on electric vehicles will be too high, they would come in at lower
rates. This would have a positive impact on our profitability as a logical consequence of what I just
said, but it would certainly have a negative impact on our capability of further driving down our
CO2 footprint and vice versa. So, that's what we know to-date.
The good thing is that we are preparing ourselves today for these challenges, which are – which
we talk about 2025, seven years down the road, of course, it starts earlier and, therefore, have a
lot of preparatory time and therefore we are very confident as in the past where sometimes that
burden came shorter that we will deliver on what we told you in this regard.
A - Björn Scheib
Next one would be Georges.
Q - Georges Dieng `
Yes. Hi. Good morning. Georges Dieng, Natixis. Two questions. One, on China, if you could maybe
elaborate a bit on the outlook you see for China, especially the longer-term trend in terms of
margin – potentially margin erosion as you are heading for more investments, especially in
electrification.
Another related question on China is how you intend to address the NEV quotas. My
understanding is that, at least in 2019, you will not be able to meet the requirements and, I guess,
you will have to buy credits to get there. Is that an issue at all?
And last point, if I may, on the U.S. tax reform. Did you make – let's say, have you fine-tuned, let's
say, the assessment of the U.S. tax reform in 2018 and beyond in terms of effective corporate taxrate or other items that might be relevant? Thank you.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
We continue to see significant growth dynamic in the Chinese market overall. We continue to see
the premium market to outgrow the general market and we have built for ourselves a very solid
platform to benefit from these opportunities. As anywhere else in the world, it's true in China as
well that electric vehicles are below the average of our profitability. Perhaps one thing we should
mention when we talk about contribution margins, we have lower vertical integration for electric
vehicles and, therefore, we need lower contribution margins, which doesn't mean that the
profitability would be the same. But this is one aspect we have to consider on this regard. So, this
applies for China, of course, as well.
As far as the quotas are concerned, some people misunderstand when they hear 8%, 10%, or
12% that we would have to sell 8% or 10% or 12% of our production with battery-electric vehicles.
The fact is that you get credits per vehicle, and this changes over time. But, let's say, for full-
battery electric, you can assume five credit, so you can divide by five when you want to come to
the share of your production, which you have to sell electric, which makes these targets more
achievable.
Our plan, of course, is to fulfill, but we have access. As I said before, talked about our relationship
to the two main most successful electric vehicle manufacturers in China, we have access to
credits, if need be. But overall, our objective is to fulfill, of course. Perhaps just when you talk
about the pressure on margins in China, I think their bike numbers, bike motors numbers are
public and you can see that they had a very nice development there in recent years as far as
profitability is concerned. Or is that true that they are public? They are listed.
A - Martin Daum `
The bike motor numbers are public and you can see the BBAC performance very much is
contributing to the operational performance of this company.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
It's not, in the first place, the indigenous bike brand, which is responsible for these numbers. So
this is an indicator that this is not only a volume game, but it's a nice game overall. Clearly, you
know the structure for us in China is different both as far as the revenue are concerned as much
as well as how the margins are concerned because of this partnership situation. But overall, China
is not only from a volume perspective but from profit perspective, of course, an important
contributor for us as well.
A - Björn Scheib
So, taxes.
A - Bodo K. Uebber `
Just for your information, on the 13th of February, our Annual Report is available, so you can also
look into the detailed development of, as Dieter said, of BBAC. You see all the details of our joint
venture. The corporate tax rate, which was between 31% and 32% is now reduced by 3% due to
the U.S. tax reform. We will go now into a range of 28% to 30% with the respective cash effects in
the future. Of course, the tax reform had no effect now in 2017 on the cash, but on the net
income, as you know.A - Björn Scheib
Next one would be Adam.
Q - Adam Hull `
Hi. It's Adam Hull at MainFirst. I just wanted to drill down a little bit more on trucks and particularly
around one of the midterm perspective. When you benchmark yourselves against your peers,
could you talk a bit about where you're really falling short and where your opportunities in terms
of self-help are? I think back in September, Martin Daum, you're indicating that you're 8% over the
cycle, might even rather be a minimum in your mind, you really ought to potentially be doing
more. Reserve losses, I think, are coming down, greater sharing of your parts, using the scale,
India margins. But could you really help us on the self-help measures that you can really achieve
over the next sort of two to three years or so? I realize you've got the Capital Markets Day in
June, but maybe you can give us a little bit more sort of feel on that self-help for your business,
which is of course by far the largest truck business in the world? Thanks.
A - Martin Daum `
You basically answered the question while posing the question. So, the one big item which we
have disclosed in the past and I think we did a formidable progress in the last couple of years and
especially last year is Brazil to get the brand, the structure of the company right-sized, to get the
products far more attractive. We gained significant market share there 2016-2017. I think we are
coming back on the cost side and then now and with the market rebounding that certainly was an
important step to get back to profitability.
Another long-term investment from our side, which puts pressure on the profitability, was
certainly India, where we started – where we decided to go with a greenfield approach. That
means doing everything new from the factory over to the product, to the team and building it up.
And we bet when we started eight years ago and that shows you how long you have to look in
the future. We betted that at one point of time this market converts to a more technology-driven
market when it comes to emissions and it converts the customer side to a more Western
utilitarian friendship in logistics where in time and in cost is more important than just arriving.
Here we saw a big breakthrough in last year with the regulations concerning Euro IV and we see
that the government is clearly serious about to modernize the complete Indian market and now
the game is completely different. Now, we have the right product. Now, our global scales and
technology help can be of a tremendous help on the local side and I think we are absolutely great
positions to serve that – it's a building market. And I'm not talking just about the entire market
size in India. I talk about that segment of the market where the values we sell all over the world,
quality, reliability, fuel efficiency, total cost of ownership, advanced emissions technology, safety
technology, where those things come to fruition and then we can serve that. So I see here a very
positive outlook in the years to come. It's still a long journey there, so that will be a big driver in
2018.
Very important is for us, Western Europe, just by the size, and here we started intense work on all
aspects of the cost side. And I'm sure that in 2018 we can reveal significant steps forward, which
then will be showing in our bottom line. When we launched that program – and I don't know the
time when it was disclosed here to you, but we put €1.4 billion target on top of everything. So, we
want to improve our profitability in this area and I would say – Europe and Brazil together I would
say we are pretty much on track to get that money in. So I'm really positive about it.Q - Adam Hull `
If I could just ask on NAFTA, with the market rising now, can your margins in NAFTA, which I think
are at pretty good level, double-digit margins already, can that drift higher? Will you get a bit of
operating leverage there with a rising market, you think, into 2018 and 2019 maybe?
A - Martin Daum `
First of all, I don't know. We never disclosed margins in regions, so that's pure speculations from
analysts. But certainly rising market always helps with margin while a declining margin always puts
some pressure on margin. So the rest is, again, calculation from analysts, so you should talk to
them.
A - Björn Scheib
So we've got now two more people on the list. And after this, we may have room for one or two
more questions. The first one would be here and then after this.
Q - Gerhard Wolf `
Gerhard Wolf, LBBW. We have heard that diesel sales figures are up. I guess it's not only a
question of product. Obviously, it's also with regard to prices and finance conditions. So my
question is, what is the current situation regarding residual values? And second part of this
question, how do you manage residual value risks in the future? Because when we see in three to
four years, the cars sold today are coming back and in an environment where we maybe see
increasing electric car sales. Thank you.
A - Dieter Zetsche `
So, in general terms, no, as we have disclosed already our numbers yesterday, we have no
material effects on the residual value, not in the respective regions, not in the specific area of
diesel, but also not in the specific area of any other car, so to say, of course, our risk
management focus on any kind of development. As, for example, in the U.S., you have
developments between SUVs and sedans. As you know, we have in Europe a diesel discussion
and we are watching all these developments.
For the future, of course, we do the same as we do today. So, there's nothing different in terms
of how we approach the residual values from a process point of view or from an assessment
point of view, and that will hold true also for the electrified cars there. So, there is no difference.
Of course, we might go and we go sometimes for in the early beginning of electrification. For
example, we took over the battery, for example, as a separate piece of the financing product
because due to new technologies, for example, you have to take out this kind of risk, so to say,
for the customers. But other than this, we're doing the same in the future as we do today.
Q - Stefan A. Burgstaller `
Yeah. Good morning. Stefan Burgstaller, Goldman Sachs. I've got two questions. One, just wanted
to hear your perspective on pricing power. So, you talked about your capacity constraint, you
clearly have a good product, people want it. And when we think sort of strategically forward,
there's a question about the impact on the car market demand from mobility services. And is this
not an opportune moment to really try and limit your capacity expansion, increase the flexibility
and really test the pricing power of the Mercedes brand in this period of structural change? Am I
just dreaming? Is it just not that much of a premium brand? That was my first question.And the second one, I sort of live under the impression that the industry, particularly the premium
manufacturers, have expanded down the value chain into compact cars, partially because there
was an economic strategy to comply with CO2. Again, if I think forward and imagine a world of
electrification, in a more electrified world, it should be easier to comply with CO2. So, how
strategic is a compact car segment when you think about the next decade for a premium car
manufacturer like Mercedes?
A - Dieter Zetsche `
Let me start with the segment question. You know that there're formula how the CO2 fleet
requirement per manufacturer is calculated, is a weight-based formula. And our objective and our
target internally is that every single segment of our vehicles complies with its own CO2
requirement. And I can tell you that this challenge for compact cars is not necessarily an easier
one than the same for bigger cars.
So, if it were – and I don't know that, if it would have been the motivation for entering the
segment, it would not have been a good decision on that basis. It was a very good decision
overall. And I am beyond the profitability which we accomplish in that segment with the current
generation and we will accomplish with the next generation and that is clearly highly value
generating in a sense of DCVA.
I am totally convinced that the coolness factor of the brand, of Mercedes, which helps even the
sales of Maybach S-Class vehicles has a significant component coming from the compact car
development, which we have shown in the market. And, again, even the high-end customer
wants to relate to a relevant brand, which is in the current stream of developments. The
customer base we had before was running the risk that it would be in – go for extinction. And,
therefore, it's very nice that we changed our average age by 10%. This is with all respect to all of
our customers. Of course, I'm part of them.
So, there are many benefits, which we're having from them, and some scale aspects are coming
from that as well where others therefore our vehicles benefit. So, the compact cars are not a way
to accomplish our CO2 targets. They are serving a much broader purpose. Of course, you always
have to try to find a good balance between pricing and volume.
Before I set the target of becoming number one volume-wise in the market, I would say we were
caught in this trap. We said we are a different kind of animal and that customers don't buy our
cars or has no relation to the fact that we are the best car company for premium cars and nobody
is better than us. And I'm convinced that at the end of the day, we have election day every day
and the voters tell us who has the best package. And when they go for other vehicles, therefore,
other brands, then we don't have the best package. And this notion that the smaller your brand,
the better your pricing power I think is limited.
Of course, every day and every single tactical and strategic movement you make in any market,
you have to find the best balance. And I cannot exclude that there's perhaps a little bit more
upside in pricing, which would overall have a positive impact on our profitability versus volume. I
cannot exclude that. But as a general strategy, you say, well, let's not build any plans anymore and
be satisfied with what we have. I think at the end of the day we would go again for extinction. We
are not in a different league. It's not a separate market for us where we're the only ones and
then there are these dumb guys who are called competitors. That's not the situation.
A - Björn ScheibOkay. It seems that we have pretty much covered your open questions. With this, thank you very
much. So, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your questions and for being with us
today. For the ones who are listening on the Internet, thank you very much for also joining in. Also,
very big thank you to the Daimler management team for answering all these questions.
As we already told you, we're going to host the Truck Capital Markets Day on the 6th of June in
Portland, Oregon. So, please if you're interested in trucks, make sure that note this date in your
calendars. Our Investor Relations and the Daimler management team remains at your disposal to
a couple of more further questions. And we wish you all safe travels back home and wherever
you have listened. Thank you very much for joining in. Bye-bye.