Y 2019 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Bjorn Scheib, Head of Investor Relations & Vice President
So, good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This is `Bjorn Scheib, Head of Investor Relations & Vice President speaking. On behalf of Daimler, and
the entire IR team, I would like to welcome you all here in Stuttgart, as well as on the Internet for
this year's Full Year 2019 Investors and Analyst Conference. To all of you, who have been able to
get here despite storm Ciara, I hope that travels have not been too rough. Unfortunately some
flights have been canceled and therefore, some of you have to follow us here via the webcast.
We are very sorry about this.
Today we are happy to have with us `Ola Kaellenius, Chairman Of The Management Board, Head Of Mercedes-Benz Cars, Chairman of the Board of Management of
Daimler AG and Mercedes-Benz AG, our CFO `Harald Wilhelm, Member of the Board of Management Finance & Controlling, Member of the Board of
Management of Daimler AG, responsible for Finance and Controlling and Daimler Mobility, as well
as `Martin Daum, Member of the Board, Daimler Trucks & Buses, Member of the Board of Management of Daimler AG and Chairman of the
Board of Management of the Daimler Truck AG.
This morning, we released our full year 2019 results and all relevant materials are available on the
Daimler website. Today's conference starts with a brief introduction by our Board members,
outlining the developments in 2019, as well as to give you an outlook and our agenda for 2020.
Directly afterwards Ola, Harald and Martin will be available for your questions.
Having said this, I would like to remind you that this investors conference is governed by the safe
harbor wording that you can find on our published documents. Please note that all of our
presentations contain forward-looking statements that reflect management's current view with
respect to future events. Such statements are subject to many risks and uncertainties. So if these
assumptions underlying any of these statements prove incorrect, the actual results then may be
materially different from those expressed or implied by such statements today.
Forward-looking statements speak only to the date on which they are made. Please be aware
that this conference will be broadcasted, recorded and then will be available for replay on ourwebsite. And last but not least, please switch-off your mobile phones.
With this I would like to pass over to Ola. Thank you.
`Ola Kaellenius, Chairman Of The Management Board, Head Of Mercedes-Benz Cars `
Thank you, Bjorn and a warm welcome to this conference. And also to all of those who join us via
live stream. Going into this conference today, I was thinking that before I actually start with the
presentation, I wanted to reflect a little bit upon the situation. And think about what has
happened over the last few months and looking forward into the future.
When we met with many of you at the Capital Markets Day in November, we laid-out the situation
that we're facing. We presented to you a plan how we're going to deal with this situation and we
initiated a whole lot of measures in 2019 that are starting to gain traction. Of course, there are
many things that we can be proud of. I'm looking at these products here, great product pipeline,
brand that is admired around the world. Number one premium position on the Mercedes-Benz
car side. But if I look at the financial results, where our stock is, this is not something that we can
be satisfied with and certainly not something that I'm satisfied with.
Yes, it's true. What we said, that we would do in the second half of 2019 in terms of stabilizing the
underlying performance. Yes, we did that and as you will see when we present the numbers here
in the next few minutes that those measures have largely worked. And if I take out the material
adjustments and I look at the underlying performance as a whole, yes, it is not as low as if you
look at the all-in number. But it's not good enough, it's not what this company deserves, it's not
what these brands should stand for. We need to aim for more.
We understand that we are in transformation. Yes, the auto industry in the next years, next
decade is going to change fundamentally. This company is going to change fundamentally. We
are prepared to take the actions and the measures that we need to take to make sure that we
come out as a winner of this transformation.
I have no illusions about the next two years to three years, the number of heavy-lifting that we're
going to have to do to put the financial numbers right. To unlock cash flow, so that we can finance
the investments that we need to get ahead in electrification, to get ahead in digitization and
software architectures for our products. I know, it's not an easy task, I look around we meet,
sometimes it feels like from morning till evening in meetings, in the board and in other
management circles. It's not just me, this management team is 100% determined and dedicating
to making this happen.
We are going to restore the financial health of this Company. We are going to take the measures
that we have to take to get back on track. Some of them we have initiated, we'll go through them
division-by-division. Yes, it will take some time. So of course, on some of the issues, there are no
quick-fixes but the dedication is 100% there. I will work 24x7 with this management team to make
that happen. So that the numbers that we are presenting today hopefully represent somewhat of
a turning point and the plan that we presented in the Capital Markets Day, with the
transformational cost that is included over the next three years.
That we put that as a floor and that we start rebuilding from there. So you are seeing people that
are determined. I am determined and we are going to make this happen. Because this Company,
this team and these brands they deserved that.
That's just an initial reflection. For you to get a feeling of my state of mind and what I want to
achieve with this Company. If we then jump in and look at what happened. Let's just look at someof the highlights first and also come back to some of the things that we said actually starting in
our roadshow after Q2 that Harald and I went on in July of last year. Yes, in the second half of the
year, we turned the sales around of Mercedes-Benz Cars and we'll put our back -- put ourselves
back in a position of growth, after having a first-half of 2019, where we are down 5%.
Yes, we have retained the Number One position in the Luxury segment. Although, I want to
underline, it's not volume for the sake of volume that we are going for here -- going forward,
profitable growth is what matters. Yes, the underlying performance that we did set out and the
measures that we took in the second half of 2019, they did yield what we expect them to yield
and we met our investment targets and our cost targets. Although, as I mentioned in my
introductory speech for the mid-to-long term, that's not an underlying performance that we can
be satisfied with.
And yes, very important, we protected our net industrial liquidity, we're sitting at about EUR6
billion at the mid-year and taking measures both on the performance side and on the working
capital side. We ended-up above the EUR10 billion that we drew as a line in the sand for the end
of 2019. We didn't only make fundamental commitments for a road towards carbon-neutral
mobility, we are very quickly ramping-up our activities in our industrial footprint in terms of putting
electrification on the road and we will get to that in a second.
And of course, the whole mindset of looking at the cash flow in relation to the EBIT has started
because part of the story of these next three years is to get the cash conversion rate up,
especially on the car side. And the 2020 outlook that we presented at the Capital Markets Day,
we will confirm here today.
Just looking at the numbers. Sales around last year's level, revenue up EUR5 billion. The EBIT is
down significantly, of course we have material adjustments. If you take those out, the EBIT is still
down sitting at EUR10.3 million compared to EUR11.1 million last year. We have the same thing
reflected in the cash flow with cash conversion rates. In this case, there is still below what we are
seeking for the mid-to-long term. If I step in and do the first division here with Cars and Vans,
before I hand over to Martin on the truck side. Let's look at the few things that happened in
Mercedes-Benz Cars.
As I already mentioned, leading luxury brand, perhaps one thing that is important. It was the first
time that we took the Number One position in China. While at the same time watching our
discount level, so that we keep healthy price premiums in that market. Around 700,000 units, if I
think back five or 10 years ago, I don't think, we could have imagined what had happened in China
and the amount of growth that we have been able to capture there. And looking forward for our
strategy, China will remain a very, very important pillar of that forward-looking strategy.
I know that many in the room are thinking, what's going on with the Coronavirus, what's
happening. We started-up slowly our factories again in Beijing yesterday and we'll gradually ramp-
up both on the production side and on the retail side. I think, it's too early to say what the whole
effect of this Coronavirus will be. All I can say is that our partners in China and the team that we
have there at BBAC with BAIC, the amount of effort that this team has put in to gradually get
back into an orderly production manner must be applauded. I've seldom seen that kind of
dedication and determination to make that happen.
We talked about last year that we had some launches. I'm looking at the vehicle to my left, here
the GLE that had not gone a smooth as we have gotten accustomed toward Mercedes. We fixed
those operational problems in the second half of the year. We are now in stable operation in our
Tuscaloosa factory, actually at all-time high levels, which is what we had tooled up for. We've alsostabilized our operations in Mexico, together with our joint venture partner Infiniti here. And we
have also stabilized our battery production activities. That are mainly in Germany, but are
spreading around the world.
I already mentioned carbon-neutral mobility and I will get to that when we talk about CO2 later.
We redefined the smart business model, we've moved it into a new joint venture. It's going to be
done out of China. The products are in development and Smart will be redefined as of the
second half of 2022, when the new products come. And of course we have -- I would say left no
stone unturned to look at how we can improve cash flow, including significantly -- significantly
reducing inventories from the end of June last year till the end of December of 2019.
Financials, you saw them already in our press release. Slightly up on sales, slightly up on revenues,
the EBIT burdened about mainly by the material adjustments, if you look at the underlying, it was
EUR5.8 billion with a return on sales of 6.2%. If you look at the transition from the 2018 results to
the 2019 result, what is it done? Yes. The net volume structure and pricing was a slight positive,
not as positive as we had planned, we had smooth launches and more availability of products in
high demand. But a slight positive nevertheless.
Foreign exchange rates last year hit us relatively hard in the wrong direction with about EUR670
million. And the billion other cost changes are mainly in conjunction with the technology that we're
putting into our products and the spend that we're doing for technologies going into the future
that we need for transition. And the disclosed items have been commented on mainly diesel
related but also with regard to the recall with Takata. If you take those out, you come to the
EUR5.8 billion that I just mentioned.
Then we come to Vans. Many have been puzzled with what's going on at Vans. Pretty healthy
business, maybe a little bit in the shadow of the passenger car and the truck business. But a
healthy member of the Daimler family. And suddenly you end up with a year, where you have a
horrendous loss, what happened with Vans. Let's break that down. First of all, we don't have a
product problem. We actually reached a new sales record, the newSprinter that we launched has
been very well received. It's a great product.
We face-lifted the V-Class, which we introduced a few years ago and has really taken that
segment of the passenger car side of the people mover by storm. Especially in Europe, but not
only in Europe and we presented the first electric version of that has been quite a buzz around it
and we're going to launch that in the market this year. Also here, we had a new plant starting up
in Charleston in the United States, which faced similar challenges to the other operation in the US,
that has also now been stabilized. And we're looking at a much more healthy situation in 2020.
But that burdened our cost level with excess of start-up cost.
And equal to what we're doing on Cars, efficiency measures and cash flow measures have been
taking across the board. And we have to make one tough decision, one big and tough decision
that the X-Class that we launched now about three years ago. It's a product that didn't work in
the market, the way we had expected. And when you look at the investments going forward, are
you going to put in more money into something where you don't have the market prospects that
you originally thought. Or are you going to make a hard cut. We decided to make a hard cut, this
hard cut of course burden the results of last year.
If I look at these results. Sales up, revenue up, EBIT minus EUR3 billion, an unbelievable number
coming from EUR300 million the year before. And even if we adjust it, we come to EUR300
million, a number that we cannot be satisfied with, a number that won't stay like that something
that we will change and the measures that we have taken. I believe we are already starting tobear fruit. Also here looking at the transition. Volume structure net pricing slightly up. Foreign
exchange rates, not as significant on the Van side as on the Car side. But nevertheless cost us
EUR120 million.
Other cost changes due to measures that were taken, in spite of the fact that we had high start-
up cost in the US plant. We almost kept neutral minus 30 and then we have the disclosed items
with mainly regard to diesel, the discontinuing of the X-Class and Takata. Putting that back up, we
would get EUR284 million. It's not a level of profitability that you should have with Vans and it's not
a level of profitability that will stay with Vans. The measures that we initiated in the second half of
2019, they will start to bear fruit in 2020 already.
Similar to the story of Cars, even though, I described the tough three years that we have ahead
of us 2020, 2021 and 2022. The Vans will follow suit in the same fashion that we are doing with
Cars and we're going to put that right.
With that, I would like to hand over to Martin, that will give us an update on what went on with
Trucks in 2019. Martin, over to you.
`Martin Daum, Member of the Board, Daimler Trucks & Buses `
Thank you Ola. And we change from the World of Passenger Cars and Vans to the World of
Trucks. 2019s, we continue to be the world largest leading truck manufacturers by far. We all know
that size is not the only thing that matters, it's ultimately profitability. But on the other side, it gives
us a unique market positions.
Our strategy with global presence, with global platforms and is driving the industry through
cutting-edge technology, all worked-out in the last year and gives us -- in my opinion a great
platform on which we can build-up our success in the future. We had a strong performance in the
NAFTA market. At the beginning of the year, we decided not to follow the overheated market
with expanding our capacities, which proved-ride [ph] then in the second half, suddenly the
market cooled-off and we had in the fourth quarter despite still on the retail side, a pretty strong
quarter. But on the factory delivery side, from my competitors for scheduling the weaker 2020,
we were well-equipped to adjust to that coming, I wouldn't call it market downturn but market
normalization.
And that accompanied by absolutely benchmark results in this market segment. So we have the
blessing to have two market benchmark in our own family that we know all the details how you
run as very successful trucking company and we just have to transform that to other parts of the
world and everything will be fine, which is more difficult to do then to say. In Europe, we launched
our new Actros, it was rewarded as Truck of the Year 2019, a huge honor and a huge reward for
that cutting-edge technology, we go do it for of the mirrors, improving fuel efficiency as well as
safety as visibility.
High take rates, but we had a delayed launch because we do it right. If you bring out into the
market something completely new, you don't want to flied this quality problems you want to have
it absolutely picture perfect. And that happened. We have good take rates, we have the reward
from the press, we have the reward from our customers. And I'm very confident that this Truck,
will really rock the market in 2020.
We had on the other side, in Europe a significant deterioration of the market environment, we
have to reduce our production rates in our plants in Germany, as well have to adjust, we are used
to that cyclical business. We have the measures in place the-braked [ph] was basically a good
adjustments. When it comes to transformation that will come in our industry as well. I see us verywell equipped. We are absolutely committed and I'm convinced that in a couple of years ahead,
let it be 10, let it be 20 the number of CO2 for the zero emission tax will be much, much bigger
than today, will become the major source of electricity and we have these days of discussion
whether this will battery electric or fuel cell trucks and my answer is it's both. It's an electric truck.
It's just a different power source and in trucking, it will be both. In short distances rather battery
electric on the longer distances, rather fuel cell. We are in both -- we are in both areas very well
prepared, we've worked -- we have with the eCitaro, a great electric vehicle already in series
production in the market is very good customer results. We are following suit with Mercedes-Benz
trucks, with Freightliner Trucks and on the FUSO side, with eCanter already on the market. So
electric is a very, very important area for us and I feel not afraid of the years to come. And I would
say 2025 to 2030 will be the crucial years when you need to be prepared. So we have the time
to prepare, us and our customers for that.
Secondly, we acquired in 2019, the majority stake of Torc robotics in Blacksburg, Virginia, which
(inaudible) on the top of the autonomous driving. In the trucking industry, since last summer, we
have our trucks on the road testing and with very, very good results. It takes traction. We focus
solely on the US on Highway case because in our opinion, Crucial for success in the autonomous
driving is that you focus is you've cut every distraction of a everything which proves to be too
difficult, cut we are very focused on that, what is possible. That's enough to get already a viable
and great business case that supports future business of our customers.
So 2019 was a very important year, with lots of future directions said and I come to the topic of
profitability on the next slide and I have to click. So sales 2019 slightly down. As I said, when -- if
you would have ask me after the second half, it would be certainly, I would still predict a very
good year. But the cooling-off the North American market and the wholesale side and the cooling
off of the European market didn't allow us to get out with to be the 2018 numbers, 489,000 still
a high number in revenue, we are slightly above prior year.
That is mainly due to a higher mix of the United States and less tax in NAFTA, so the problem is,
certainly in our side the EBIT, we are not content with the EBIT, it's not a bad EBIT, it's
accompanied by a cash conversion of eight times front around one times. And so we are here in
a healthy position but it can and it has to be more. What had been the reason for this EBIT
development? On the volume structure side is what we gained on the structure higher NAFTA
volume we lost through the lower number of sales. So that was basically a (inaudible) exchange is
for us. Mostly the translation impacts when we translate the US dollar results into euros which we
report here. So, that was a positive. On the other side, in the other cost changes, we are flat on
material cost, what we gain an efficiency was eaten up by raw material, especially in the NAFTA
region. On fixed cost we had been flat, which was a good achievement, but it's not enough. So
we'll work heavily on that one to turn it around, and even get its lower fixed cost. But we had two
burdens which are covered here in the minus 400 million. One was, we had to adjust our used
truck inventory in Europe to the tighter market conditions. And secondly, we ramped-up
significantly our investments in new technologies, e-mobility and autonomous trucks, which is part
of that number.
All-in-all, it's a class which I would rather consider half empty than half full because we have clear
plans in place to make that class half full. We have all the ingredients, we have the people, we
have the markets, we have the brand reputation, we have the technology, we have the products.
Nothing should stop us to show here, a much better number.
When I go to the second area. The Bus area. Bus continues to be the benchmark in profitability in
that market segment. Truly global business in every major market except NAFTA. We are verywell positioned, we maintained the leading position, we have this eCitaro, in my opinion a cutting-
edge product, out the best electric bus, money you can buy these days for best in Europe. Very,
very good results in the first cities, we are there and we are re-ramping up steeply in 2020 and
we deliver in our target margins, but we continue with our efficiency efforts.
The financials on the Bus side, about the same as last year same 2000 more sales, slightly more
revenue and then EBIT of EUR283 million which translates and it was -- of 6%, which is benchmark
in that industry. Here it is dollar cash conversion rates even from slightly larger than one, which
reflects the possibilities we have leveraging on our technology, on the truck side for the bus
business. How did the numbers develop? I go shortly to it. I think. it was something of everything.
And then on the other cost changes we have again less capitalization of development costs. We
have a very low -- very low rate of capitalization of development costs.
So all -- the future is not burdened by the past and that basically gave us this result of EUR283
million and I see here even on the bus side room for improvement on the profitability and we're
working on it. I can pass it on to Harald.
`Harald Wilhelm, Member of the Board of Management Finance & Controlling `
Thanks. Things a lot Martin, and hello, and good morning to everybody. So what happened in
Daimler Mobility in 2019. First and foremost, again a strong support to the core business, which
means each and every second vehicle of the Group got supported by DMO in 2019 via
competitor for the financing and leasing solutions. That means the portfolio is now at 5.4 million
vehicles at the end of 2019. At the same time attractive returns, got generated in Daimler
Mobility.
I'd like to highlight that, I mean in particular, against the backdrop of that -- we had to put
additional equity, due to the regulatory requirements, in particular in Germany and in China for
approximately EUR2 billion, which means that the equity ratio moved from roughly 8% in 2018 to
now closer to 9% by the end of 2019. What else. We retained the prudent risk management in the
course of 2019, Overall, I think, I mean that allowed us to contain the net credit losses in a
reasonable envelope. I mean, we had a moderator move, thanks to that prudent policy and that's
definitely what we want to retain moving forward. Another highlight certainly was the creation of
the NOW family jointly with BMW in 2019. First on the business side, the customer base is
expanding nicely.
So I think, I mean. Good progress is made over there. At the same time, we looked at, I mean the
set up throughout the year, we prioritized the activities into three verticals. The ride hailing, the
car sharing, the parking and the charging. We clearly set strategy for each of these. We clearly
agreed jointly I mean the business plans. So we're clearly set for action in this field to moving
forward.
Overall, let me re-ensure you also the Daimler Mobility efficiency and gaining efficiency also by
digital effort is on the top of the agenda, certainly for the benefit for the convenience of our
customer base, but also to drive efficiencies in the bottom-line, and that helped to improve the
cost income ratio in Daimler Mobility in 2019.
Looking at the numbers. Well, the new business grew by 3% chiefly in Europe, North and South
America. The contract volume now is at EUR163 billion, so that support of EUR9 billion increase
was also helped by an FX impact of EUR2 billion. I would emphasize that had happened, mainly in
Europe and in the Americas. On the EBIT side, we see the EBIT reported at EUR2.1 billion. On an
underlying basis, we see that at EUR1.8 million. Let me explain that shortly. I mean, how we camefrom 2018 to 2019 numbers. First, I mean the volume impact was favorable. We had on the other
side, I mean, -- the moderate increase of the cost of credit risk, as I've just outlined before.
We invested more in the scaling of the NOW family. That's what sits here as a tailwind. And then
we had I mean, numerous one also. I mean EUR700 million from the creation of the NOW family,
due to the restructuring -- the re-prioritization we had to record impairments of EUR400 million
and bear in mind that in 2018 we had a EUR400 million capital gain from the Toll Collect.
So that explains here the disclosed items of EUR700 million, but as well the adjustments of
EUR300 million, which means by the end of 2019 -- or 2019 we see the adjusted return on equity
at 13%. What happened at the Group level in 2019. First and foremost, the new Group structure
got implemented went live on November 1st. The benefits of that I think, you know, we outline
them. They will give more flexibility, more empowerment therefore more speed and efficiency
into the business, which is crucial against the challenges Ola outlined at the beginning of the
meeting.
And overall will also give us more strategic flexibility for the future. At the same time, we went
back and also had a look at what is the role of the Parent Co against more empowerment of the
divisions. So it shouldn't be just the same as what it is today, which means we focused the role of
the Parent Co on governance, on capital allocation and access to the financial markets. That's not
implemented. But we clearly decided on that and we're moving forward.
However, we could already achieve, I think, I mean first benefits in the course of 2019, at the
Parent Co level. Well, I'm not that long with the company, but as I'm told that since quite many
years, I'm reported 10 years. It's the first time we see that the cost evolution of the Parent Co
going down actually year-on-year, which means a 4% cost less in the headquarter in 2019 than in
2018 and that comes along, also with a couple of 100 people less in the headquarter than in
2018. So you can see we are moving, we started to move.
On the Group financials, just to wrap-up, I mean the numbers we saw at the division side we see
the EBIT adjusted at EUR10.3 billion, I think that's important. We highlighted that quite a lot as this
is a base, how we see the underlying performance, that's a base also to look forward. The
reported is at EUR4.3 billion impacted by material adjustments and that translates I mean into a
net profit of EUR2.7 billion, where we also recorded some impairment on deferred tax assets.
All-in-all, after minority interest, that leaves us with an earnings per share of EUR2.22. The tax rate
is at 29.3%, this is in the expected range for the mid-term. Looking forward, you should expect
the tax rate to be at about 28% to 30%. On the free cash flow side, yes, I think, we achieved the
goal to turn the cash flow in the second half of the year, full year was EUR1.4 billion positive that
includes in particular the payment to the German authorities and (inaudible) of EUR900 million.
The adjusted free cash flow is at EUR2.7 billion for 2019. And with this we could lock in the net
industrial liquidity at EUR11 billion, which was our target for 2019. Looking at the EBIT walk on the
group level. I think, we touched based on all of the key building blocks, if you just want to wrap up
globally. I think, continued strong demand remains for our products. That's what we can see
reflected also in the pricing, also in mix, so that at the Group level it is a EUR400 million tailwind.
However, on the FX side in particular to hedging activity that got compensated or washed-out by
the hedge rates effective in 2019.
And then, yes, I mean, due to the investments into new technology into the future and higher
product cost, we have a headwind of cost increase of EUR1.5 billion year-on-year. What does it
mean? The efforts we're putting into our future and the efforts we're putting into technology, thetherefore, it weights on the bottom-line. That's why we're not satisfied with this performance,
that's why we have to attack the cost harder, even harder than we would, we started to do in
2019. And we clearly are separating that from the numerous disclosed items and the
adjustments, which we recorded in 2019.
Talking about these adjustments. Here you have the details of them, EUR6 billion all-in-all. EUR5.4
billion of them are related to the -- our assessment of the true and fair risk from today's
perspective related to legal and regulatory proceedings, that also includes the Takata airbags.
Then the other chapter is on the stop of the ex-Cars as Ola pointed out already before, and also
in this section of the restructuring, you see the adjustments on the NOW family from the
restructuring are outlined before.
And in the last column you see the benefit of the capital gain from the NOW family creation. Just
a warning before we move into the Q&A later. On the legal proceedings as you know, we cannot
comment further as these are ongoing proceedings and further information will be contained in
the Annual Report, which is coming out next week.
Looking at the net liquidity. We started the year with EUR13 billion not EUR16 million, as you know
about the adjustment from the IFRS 16. So EUR13 billion being the starting point for the year, than
what happened the free cash flow of EUR1.4 billion all-in-all. What can we see here, cash from
operations I mean EUR7 billion, including the settlement payment of EUR900 million, as I pointed
out before. Then working capital burden, what actually happened in the last quarter. A significant
decrease in inventories. So with this over the year all-in-all, basically we could level-out the
inventory, beginning of the year till the end of the year.
We had a strong sales in December but then we leveled-down the production level. So we had
some headwinds coming from payables and could not collect all of the cash from the sales in
December, which means we left traces in the working capital in December from receivables and
payables, that's why you see EUR2.1 billion charge here. Moving forward, definitely we want to
attack that and do better on that. The other key observation I think, on this is the investments
compared to the depreciation level. You still see that -- due to the significant investments in the
future at EUR10.6 billion, the cash flow is burdened by the mismatch of the investment and the
depreciation level, with the emphasis on capital allocation and scrutinizing the investments
moving forward, we will bring that gap closer together. And then last but not least you'll see the
dividend, which got paid. So, that leaves us with EUR11 billion of net industrial liquidity. Now let's
move to the dividend proposal to the AGM for 2019. First, the basis for the dividend obviously is
the net profit reported the EUR2.7 billion and the earnings per share of EUR2.22.
During the CMD, I think we said we want to honor the dividend policy of the company with a 40%
payout ratio. At the same time, we want to make sure that any dividend to be paid is supported
by cash generated. Well, I think, the proposal here of EUR0.90 a share, recognizing that it is a
significant drop compared to previous years. However, exactly reflects that. It -- on as a
commitment in terms of the dividend policy and to supported by the cash generated.
And I think, that's an important message for the investor community, not only the equity investor
side but in particular also the debt side. As it demonstrates that we want to protect, I mean, the
balance sheet with a EUR10 billion nil, as we discussed several times. At the same time, I think it
also demonstrates the confidence we have into the cash generation potential of the business on
an underlying basis, moving forward I.e. for 2020 and beyond.
One thing I cannot size and you will see it when we discuss, I mean the guidance, obviously is the
exact timing of cash-outs related to legal risk, however, we altogether want to protect on the oneside, is return to shareholders and the investments into our future. And protect the balance sheet
of EUR10 billion. Now moving to the outlook to the guidance section for 2020. First, I really like to
remind you to read carefully the assumptions, the key assumptions, which are stipulated on the
top of the page.
In the interest of time, I think, I will not read them out, I mean altogether. But I think, they are
important in particular in the current business environment in these days. On that basis, what do
we see for sales at Mercedes-Benz Cars, for 2020 slightly below 2019 level that is basically
reflecting the change over in the fully electric smart business model. And it also reflects some
limited risk associated to the situation on the Coronavirus, which could impact the supply chain as
well as the Chinese market. However, on the other side and I think here we really feel strong
about that. We expect a strong demand for the brand new GLB, the GLE, the GLS due to the
increased availability of these SUVs from our operations in Tuscaloosa as well as in
Aguascalientes.
On the sales of the Vans, we expect a slight decrease. On the Trucks margin, I think, a slight
decrease, but it's important to remind that a more material decrease in the NAFTA, and also in
Europe, whereas we expect Asia to improve compared to 2019. On the Buses, we see a slight
increase, because of the good product portfolio and market trends, DMO in-line with the rest of
the business, should see some slight decline with overall stable contract volume.
Now on the return on sales. Let me put that very blend and straight here. We confirm what we
had been saying at the CMD in November. What did we say? We want to achieve more than 4%
on Passenger Cars and Vans, we want to achieve more than 5% on the Trucks, we want to
achieve more than 12% on Daimler Mobility. This is what we're seeing here today, there are some
facilities I think to German disclosure requirements, why we cannot have the more van but it's
exactly the same message.
If anybody of you has a question on that, please let's clarified here in this room, but this is exactly,
I mean, the message we want to give you today. The second point, which we alluded to already
during the CMD, was that we want to guide on an underlying basis. So that's what we're doing for
return on sales and return on equity. Now moving forward but we also do it for cash conversion
rate on an adjusted basis.
So this being said, what that does it mean for passenger cars and vans 4% to 5%. Let me remind
you, what is the key evolution '19 to '20. So what are the key building blocks, the walks which we
showed in the CMD are perfectly valid I mean from today's standpoint. We see a strong, I mean
demand. I mean for our products, so that should have favorable volume mix and pricing impact.
But the headwinds from CO2 from the higher level of depreciation are material. We're trying to
compensate that in 2020 with the cost measures, the material cost, the fixed cost reduction, the
personal cost reduction, but we cannot overcompensate it and that's why we see the margin
dropping basically by 100 basis points also so between '19 and '20. What is different that we
moved ahead. I mean, two to three months, and so the targets have been supported by actions,
by plans, accountabilities assigned to the teams and therefore, yes, we went ahead in maturing,
in securing these targets for 2020.
On the Daimler Trucks and Buses sides, 5% again what happens here. The expected market drop
in NAFTA in Europe, I mean is significant and we want to compensate that as much as possible by
fixed cost reduction, by the product availability of the Actros 5 in the market and also by
improving the variable and the material cost of the product.At Daimler Mobility 12%, what does that mean. We see, I mean the volume roughly in-line with
previous year, we have to expect a bit of headwind from the cost of credit risk, normalization, as
well as in current environment. Maybe a bit of margin pressure, that's why we see that roughly
100 basis points, down for 2020. On the cash conversion rate adjusted. First in terms of, I mean,
what is it. It is the -- EBIT at the division level on an adjusted basis over the EBIT, adjusted at the
division level.
Again, if there is any question on that, I mean let's kill that and knock it off here. Where is it, where
we want to be in 2020 was it. For Cars and Vans in the corridor of 0.7 times to 0.9 times and on
the Trucks and Buses between 0.8 times and 1 times. So I would say, compared to 2019 some
material improvement, How do we want to get there, prioritization of the investments, we put
the investment cap into place in all of the operational plans and we will work on the working
capital further in 2020.
What does it mean at the Group level, So first on the underlying performance at the Group level.
Obviously, I mean the three units are down. So at the group level, we should see the same. So
we discussed that, I think before I don't need to repeat that. If we look at the EBIT reported,
however. We see the EBIT reported significantly up and that is chiefly due to the significant
material adjustments recorded in 2019. If I look into the EBIT reported for 2020, we expect
restructuring charges from the personnel cost reduction program in the order of magnitude of
EUR1.2 billion. At this stage, we size the overall program slightly above EUR2 billion. Looking at the
free cash flow of the industrial business in 2020, we will definitely continue to put significant and
important investment into our products and technologies for the future.
But 2019, was a peak, so we cap it for 2020 and we'll put additional efforts in terms of
prioritization for the years beyond obviously. What we can say for the cash flow all-in, for 2020
where it will be significantly above 2019 level. I have to make one exception to it, which is the
possible cash-out related to legal and regulatory proceedings, just as absent final settlements on
this, we cannot give any timing of them based on the current sizing as we recorded in the books.
On the restructuring charges, I just mentioned before, we rather see them hitting the cash flow in
2021 and beyond not in 2020.
So can wrap it up on the guidance here, we clearly put the line in the sand with what we said at
the CMD here and today we confirm these targets, but we initiated actions to secure them and I
think, that's what you want to talk about moving forward now Ola.
`Ola Kaellenius, Chairman Of The Management Board, Head Of Mercedes-Benz Cars `
Thank you, Harald. So if we sum up what is the 2020 agenda, what's on our jobs list if you will, for
this year. Much of this, we have talked about in terms of cost efficiencies, cost restructuring, cash.
Maybe two things I want to highlight beyond what we have mentioned already. On the one hand
because most of the head with this on the variable side, through electrification and measures
that we need to reduce CO2 on our products.
That means it's on the material cost side that we have to do the most work to outweigh this.
Needless to say, in 2019, we started a comprehensive program together with our suppliers and
also in our own engineering to find ways to improve products and take cost out and complexity
out. But next to that immediate exercise, which is focused on the next few years. We are looking
for a new architectures to fundamentally rethink, complexity of our products. Those are things
that will yield results further down the road, when we introduce new architectures 2024, 2025
and beyond. But it is a dual exercise not just focusing on the short-term, but looking at what does
our business model require in the long-term. So both is happening.And as Martin mentioned, I think, especially for the European truck side to improve the variable
cost of the Actros Truck and the other products there is one of the key pillars to restore healthy
profitability for trucks. With regard to personnel cost reductions and other measures SG&A, it's of
course and across the board. We have now initiated the program for personnel cost reductions.
We have set ourselves a target that we communicated when we met with you at the Capital
Markets Day in November to have the run rate reduction of EUR1.4 billion for the Group by the
end of 2022.
We negotiated with the labor side with our social partners to put together a framework how to
execute this. Many things you can do without that framework in terms of not replacing fluctuation
and so on of course, all of those measures that we can take unilaterally. We have already started,
but that won't be enough. We need packages for termination as well and this process is starting
now this spring, will continue for the next couple of years.
So also, this has been initiated and will be a priority in 2020, but also in 2021. There has been
much discussion and speculation on CO2. In November, I showed you a picture of an estimated
fleet average based upon NEDC at the end of '19 of 138, the actually ended up at 137 and we
need to get down to a target. We know that the generic target for the EU is 95. Based upon the
size of your products in your portfolio, that number is different for each car maker. In our case, it
will be north of 100. We can only make an estimation at this stage based upon the sales profile
that we have in our plan. But the actual sales will then determine what the final number is.
How are we doing this? It is electrification across the Board. Should we -- many years ago when
we had -- when we started these projects -- started earlier, yes, we should have -- we in the last 2
years -- 2.5 years significantly, significantly ramped-up our efforts to make sure that we can meet
these targets and double down on investment both on the engineering side and also on the
production side to be able to meet this. Yes, we have. We are looking at a very, very big year in
terms of industrialization of electrification to get into the target vicinity.
So as I mentioned, in November it is possible to get the target achievement. I realize that 2020
and 2021, are most challenging years. I feel much more comfortable with 2022 and beyond. With
the product pipeline that we have, but I also want to state clearly, as a matter of principal, we
have flicked the mental switch, we are on the road to CO2 neutral mobility. This is a core element
of our business strategy, we're going to execute, the every architecture decision that we make,
now going forward is electric first.
So mentally where on the other side, although we have industrially a big task for 2020 and 2021
what does this industrial task look like? On the electric car vehicle, ramping-up production of EQC,
we have very healthy demand. If you look at xEVs in total, so a fully electrified smart portfolio the
EQC, the EQV there is being launched this year.
We are presenting the EQA also to the market even though we are launching it next year.
Alongside with a range of other electric products, we are going for a very steep ramp on fully
electric vehicles. Plug-in hybrids, I don't think, there is any manufacturer, premium manufacturer
that has a more comprehensive portfolio than we have. We also have some unique positions for
some of the vehicles that others don't have that fits particularly well to the German market. Such
as some of the diesel hybrids from top-to-bottom, we are significantly increasing ranges for our
vehicles, in terms of plug-in hybrids. So the play for a plug-in hybrid for the customer becomes
more sensible. For a compact cars around 70 kilometers using WLTP and for our new GLE that is
over here up to 100 kilometers.And you can see now in terms of interest particularly for business and fleet customers, they're
really keen on this. What does it mean industrially, in this year we want to more than quadruple
the number of xEVs that we're going to deliver in the market. And more than double the number
of 48 volt mild hybrid systems.
So it's a very, very steep ramp-up and we are going global on this. The electrification will follow all
our plants around the world. Investing a 1 billion plus in our operations in Tuscaloosa as one
example. And we just started our first full-scale battery plant at our operations in Beijing at the
end of last year. Next to the strategic move of turning Mercedes into sustainable modern luxury
and also on the truck and commercial vehicle side, pivoting towards CO2 free mobility. The other
major strategic move that the industry and we as a Company will make in the years to come is
the full utilization of digitization, for the product, as well as for the Company.
For the product, it will be a fundamental change of how we think about Cars. It's not a mechanical
package where you put a bunch of ECUs that you buy from suppliers, including software
packages and then you integrate that. That's the world where we come from, that world will
continue to exist. It will become more open and you will be able to over the air, download into
these software and electric/electronic architectures. But we're on a path to a fundamental shift
where we are separating the software architecture from the hardware architecture, where you
can put a software architecture into any one mechanical product that you put on the road.
That effort has started at Mercedes. In fact a couple of weeks ago, at our software Company in
Berlin, where we are programming this new operating system if you will, actually drove the first
rough prototype, what such a system could look like. This is the path that we're on. That's why,
when we talk about personnel cost savings, we have not pulled out the lawn mower and just
mow-down every department in the same manner. In the area of software, we are going to grow
and we are going to grow significantly because we believe that this is a hugely important future
profit pool for the auto industry.
Next to that, of course, our MBUX that we launched a couple of years ago that have received
tremendous feedback from customers and product press around the world. The next level is
already in the pipeline, stay-tuned for the S-Class that we've launched at the end of this year, you
will see the latest and greatest MBUX taking that to the next level, and 2021 we have even more
ideas coming. So I feel very excited about this future.
If you want to be successful making strategic moves, pivoting the company towards
electrification, pivoting the Company towards a software future, on top of a strong mechanical
heritage. You need to work on culture. We started three or four years ago, with what we call
Leadership 2020. We'll hear, we are, it's 2020, it came around a lot quicker than I thought we're
taking an evolutionary step of 2020 calling it 20X, the next decade, the decade this industry will
change fundamentally, and the decade this company will change fundamentally. Many of the
things, the core of leadership 2020 will carry forward, using empowerment, trying to turn the
company even if it's a 300,000 people company into a more agile company, using new ways of
working, in product projects and other parts of the company. But it comes with accountability.
If we can't deliver on the financial performance and unlock the cash flows that we need to invest
into the future that bright future will not be as bright. So it is a dual play. Financial performance,
accountability of the different management teams around the divisions, and in the different areas
to meet their targets and deliver these numbers. And at the same time think big. At Mercedes
we say as our purpose first move the world, think about what is going to move the world in the
next 10 years, and deliver that to be as successful in 2030 as we have been leading up to thispoint. That's what our leadership transformation is all about. And that's a marathon, not a quick
sprint. Something that needs to be a mindset issue for the whole company.
And even though our plans do not quite reach to the year 2149 on Pandora, our dream reaches
that far and I can only reiterate what I said at the beginning, behind what is sometime viewed as a
cool, slightly reserved Nordic personality, there is a fire to make this happen and I will use that
fire, and as a management team, we will use the fire to put this great company in the place it
belongs. Thank you very much.
Questions And Answers
A - `Bjorn Scheib, Head of Investor Relations & Vice President
Gentlemen, thank you very much. It took a little longer than expected. So therefore now we need
to rush a little. Therefore a few practical points before the Q and A session starts. Please identify
yourself, as always with the name and the organization you're going to represent, understood.
It's in English and as a limit of fairness, okay, because the gentlemen need to rush onto the press
conference one question only. Okay. If we start with Patrick, Tim and then, Angus.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS Investment Bank `
Okay, thanks. `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS Investment Bank, UBS. So I'll stick to that one complex, which is CO2 then. We've
heard about potential delays with the EQC related to battery supply. I just wanted to reconfirm is
that 50,000 unit number for 2020. Still, what do you expect to happen, or do you expect to sell
more plug-in hybrids and can you remind us if that EBIT bridge that you gave at the CMD, about
CO2 compliance costs, whether you factored-in any pass-through of plug-in hybrid content cost
to the customer, meaning through pricing or do you assume the full P&L hit for the plug-in hybrid.
And as a final part, the battery supply in general, we've seen some OEMs that entering joint
ventures. For example, GM recently did with LG Chem, Volkswagen has a direct stake and a joint
venture with Northvolt. And battery cell supply doesn't look quite as stable and reliable as maybe
people have thought a year or two back. So was it may be a mistake, not to invest Euros directly
into cell-manufacturing in the form of joint ventures or whatever or why do you think it's still the
right decision to stay out of this business.
A - `Ola Kaellenius, Chairman Of The Management Board, Head Of Mercedes-Benz Cars `
That was a very long one question. Let's start with answering. The underlying plan that we
presented in 2019, at the Capital Markets Day, which is the fundamental for putting us in a
position to be able to also reach the targets in 2020. Although, we cannot with certainty say,
exactly how the market will behave. That underlying assumption is intact.
So we are on that plan. We have not changed that plan and that reflects -- it is going from a 2% to
a 9% xEV and it's a mix of battery electric vehicles and of course plug-in hybrids and then we have
the 48 volt as also another measure. So that plan remains robust. We don't have a individual
shortage of cells to be able to make that happen. I have to make short comment on EQC, we did
at the end of 2019 from a supplier on another component, have [ph] a supplier raise his hand and
said, one of their sub-suppliers had a component that have been produced out of spec. So
before we launched, we of course, pulled the produced volume back and had to refit those cars
towards the end of the year and the beginning of this year that held us back somewhat that had
nothing to do with cell supply in its own right.Our supplier set for cells, we have five suppliers for cells, they have confirmed their supply for the
next few years. Whereas, we don't have a joint venture with them, just to mention one even
though we don't talk about individual suppliers. One of those, one of the biggest, that we have
picked for the next generation Electric Cars to start in 2021, are building dedicated, initially
dedicated cell manufacturing plants for us both in Germany and in the United States. Obviously,
they will leverage those assets down the road to capture other customers as well. But we feel
that sourcing strategy is robust. At this point in time as the market is so dynamic in terms of
technical development, to take the scarce capital that we have, and put billions into potentially --
if you want to do it really at scale billion plus into a full-scale cost competitive cell manufacturer,
we believe that that capital is better spent on cars, software, architecture, of course the battery
systems that we do, and so on.
So to go all the way down into that vertical integration at this stage being, I guess the only
manufacturer does actually once done it ourselves at some years ago, it's a matter of capital
allocation and that's where we start.
Pricing, of course we pass on as much in pricing as we can. So it's not a full hit. But it's fair to say,
otherwise, the numbers would have been the way they are that we cannot pass on the whole
cost. It is one of the headwinds that we have in the next couple of years that lead to this path that
we presented in November.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Yeah. `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank, Deutsche Bank. Ola, I didn't think that you came across Nordic cool at all, I
think you actually came across highly encouraging and with very strong words saying that this is
the floor and then you going to move on from here. I think that's very encouraging and good to
see. A lot of investors will appreciate that. But in order to judge whether or not that journey will
be successful after all these disappointing quarters now, it's very important to understand how
you get to where you are right now. And you touched on some of the building blocks.
But I must say I still struggle a bit to really understand the underlying problems. When we just
think about the three major items we're talking Mercedes, you have the highest-selling prices in
the market. You have by far the lowest margin. Were you too bullish on your sales assumptions? Is
-- are you over engineering the product with things that your customers are not paying for? What
is the underlying problem?
Also, when we look at Vans, 2% adjusted, everyone else prints money in this segment at least in
Europe, but actually also globally given the relatively low content and good pricing. Why are you
not at 10%, but only at 2%, and when we think about diesel, why, almost 4.5 years after
Dieselgate are we still talking about this every single quarter? Why are you not finally settling and
then move on and take all that management power that you have to dedicate to this to be finally
fixed and focus on the future and moving on rather than just fixing the past? Thank you.
A - `Ola Kaellenius, Chairman Of The Management Board, Head Of Mercedes-Benz Cars `
I'm going to start from the back. If it would have been a very straightforward easy thing to analyze
and put behind us, we would not have spent 4.5 years discussing this with authorities. So I think
that highlights the complexity of the situation. It has been our policy and it is wise, while you're still
in proceedings with authorities. To be very scarce with the information because opening up there
does not support that process. As we mentioned last year, we are focused on getting to
resolution, that focus has never been higher than it is now. In these type of circumstances as a
Company, you don't always control the timeline. We were able to put one of these proceedingsjourney to final conclusion and we must, as discussions progress make a fair assessment of what
we think the risk can be.
According to a process that you know, is very clear in detail and it's something that we do with
our auditors. Do I wish that we could have done that quicker? Of course, I do. But the only thing I
can say there, I can assure you that we're trying to get this to a good resolution as soon as we
can. I'm going to put that to the side because that has very little to do with your question, going
forward. To be frank, I have to agree with you, if you have the highest sales and the highest
prices, you should have the highest profitability. I don't think, you need a PhD in Economics to
understand that you don't have a cost problem and that is what we are tackling, both on the
variable side and on the fixed cost side.
The reason why we have to re-size for instance personnel cost is the fixed cost suite [ph] is too
big. Yes, maybe we were too optimistic on what the revenue side could yield, as some decisions
were made in the past. And if you don't have the full revenue line to support that, you can only
respond with tackling cost. Those are the measures that we're putting in place, both variable and
fixed. And of course, if you make large, largest, -- largish luxury cars, the road then -- the CO2
compliance is perhaps a little bit longer but that's, I don't want to use that as an excuse.
We are going to us, we have outlined in this plan step-by-step, tackle the cost to start
outweighing some of those headwinds. So it is primarily a cost issue that we are dealing with.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Same was true for Vans?
A - `Ola Kaellenius, Chairman Of The Management Board, Head Of Mercedes-Benz Cars `
Yeah vans, Vans is little bit of a special story 1.9% unacceptable. We're going to start changing that
number this year. 10% I don't think, we have ever had that -- that would be phenomenal number.
But we are going to start changing Vans this year. And there was of course some of those
material adjustments that burdened heavily the result in '19, but even the EUR300 million is not
acceptable. And it's a combination of portfolio mix and cost, but primarily also cost and similar to
passenger cars, we're going to tackle that as well.
Operator
So the next one is Angus then it's Jose and Horst.
Q - `Angus Vere Tweedie, Analyst, Citigroup Inc `
Angus from Citigroup. Hopefully a straightforward number one. You talked about the GLE is now
going at full speed in the US. When we think about the inventories, are you happy with where you
all particularly on GLE inventories and when we think of the 2023 free cash flow guidance, can you
give us any guide on how much for working capital benefit we should assume in that?
A - `Ola Kaellenius, Chairman Of The Management Board, Head Of Mercedes-Benz Cars `
I can start, you do payables and receivables. I do the physical stuff. As you know, when we did the
road show after Q2 because of the issues that we had in the launch, we were sitting on too high
inventory middle of last year. That was brought in to balance by the end of 2019. So now we are,
let's call it at normal healthy operational inventory levels in that operation. That doesn't mean that
we're going to stop. Of course, we're looking at the range, the stock range on every single one
of our Vans and Cars to see if we can optimize stock range.When you launch a new plant, which is very far away, like the one in Mexico automatically due to
supplies to the plant and so on, you take take like a step up on inventory. Now we're looking at
from the end of 2019 to 2020, in spite of our ambition to wanting to grow, can we dampen that
and then start moving in the other direction that we're looking at. If you see the numbers for 2019
the EUR2.1 billion up on working capital that was mainly receivables and payables issue, not so
much an inventory issue because we largely put that right by the end of 2019.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Member of the Board of Management Finance & Controlling `
As we do the work-share on the working capital, physical and financial no, I think the remain is not
just financial. Actually you can see in the numbers, if you look at the sales and the production level
by the end of 2019, a healthy sales production has been leveled out. We have actually pretty
short payment terms on the payable side, which means the payable plummet at the end of 2019
and receivables went up. I mean that's chiefly in the burden of the EUR2.1 billion. Once the
balance sheet is out next week you will see it clearly over there.
Do we want to do better than that, yes we want. But let me clarify one thing, when we give the
cash conversion target of 0.7 times to 0.9 times for MBC in Vans, and 0.8 times to 1 times for
trucks and buses, we see that as an underlying cash conversion moving forward. We do not
expect that any call it more one-time benefit which we could harvest from working capital and
then it's extremely important to differentiate.
The underlying cash conversion rate we want to achieve by putting more emphasis on capital
allocation and on the investment cap and have a more, I mean, natural balancing out of the
working capital. On top of that, yes we do believe there is potential to improve our net liquidity
situation. Also, and the perspective was some remaining risk of cash-outs, which I referred to
before. So that's our strategy.
Q - `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Thank you. Jose from JP Morgan. Just a question on Trucks Base for Martin. Martin can you talk
about your inventory levels in Europe and North America. And also, how far have you adjusted the
workforce in Europe and North America in order to reflect the current book-to-bill ratios that we
have across both regions. Thank you.
A - `Martin Daum, Member of the Board, Daimler Trucks & Buses `
When you look at inventories, you can look at that three-four [ph]. First of all, it's the new trucks
that are in our possession. We had record lows in North America, we adjusted our production very
early to it. We have very, very low levels in Europe. So, that's fine. The second level is the
inventory level, what you see in the marketplace especially in North America in the hands of the
dealers and the body builders. Therefore we push the breaks fairly early in the fourth quarter.
So that inventory level went significantly down and there is nothing to worry at all about that.
Therefore the retail sales in the fourth quarter were -- we couldn't see a downturn in the retail
numbers, but you see it significantly in the wholesale numbers where we delivered about 8,000 -
- 9,000 trucks less than normally we delivered. It's actually retail [ph] level. So that's a deduction
in the inventories of our dealers. So that's very fine as well and then there is the last issue that's
used trucks in our own possession. And I would say Europe is rather in the higher-end.
So we have to put emphasis in 2020 on that to get it lower has a significant -- had some burdens
as you've seen in our other additional cost charges to adjust for that level. But I'm confident that
in 2020, we get that in order [ph] as well.A - `Bjorn Scheib, Head of Investor Relations & Vice President
Next one will be Horst, then the colleague here, then Philippe and Laura [ph].
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Yeah, Hello it's `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch now with Bank of America. I have a question again on the 2020
guidance, especially, when I compare that with your CMD slides. I think in the, -- at the CMD, you
guided for something like 3% volume growth for 2020. Now you have got slightly lower unit sales
that you are targeting. So there should be a gap on volume structure and pricing that you need to
compensate elsewhere.
So what do you aim to do in 2020 to compensate the shortfall? And especially when I look to the
2020, 2022 period, a large portion, I think was something like 2% of sales was coming from
volume structure, net pricing. Don't you get nervous that, that might be too ambitious is that the
most ambitious part in your guidance and what do you aim to do, if you continue to fall short of
volumes for which reasons ever.
It might be just industry related and not your own mistake, but what we aim to do to compensate
shortfalls in that bracket. And the last one, sorry on cash flow, does it mean your guidance now
that the cash conversion ratio including working capital measures which will be higher than that
what you guide now for 2020, so that there's much more upside on cash flow already this year.
A - `Ola Kaellenius, Chairman Of The Management Board, Head Of Mercedes-Benz Cars `
Maybe I'll start with sales. And of course sales and revenues are two things. So this is the sales.
We have a reset of the smart business model in 2020. So the combustion smarts they fall away.
That in its own right, financially, not a significant, but that in its own right, takes your sales numbers
in absolute numbers down. We have made in the first, I would say very cautious estimate of effect
from the Corona virus, although it's far too early to make a final assessment of what that is going
to look like.
At the same time we have had, and I think we showed that pretty strong pricing power, of course
growth in areas such as after sales with a growing car park and also in terms of generating
revenues, I'm looking here at the GLE with MBUX, where we also generate revenues for selling
some of the digital content after the fact and so on.
And as we have tried to bring across the actions that we've taken on the cost side, we're gaining
momentum. So we as Harald said we stand by the greater than 4% for 2020, if you sum all those
things together.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Member of the Board of Management Finance & Controlling `
Well, I mean maybe quickly on the cash flow but certainly on the CMD, as we said, I mean sales in
the luxury segment. Basically what we said today is slight increase, including smart, if you take MB
without Smart. Thanks to the strong product availability. I mentioned GLE, GLS or GLB, we expect
year-on-year up on the core of the brand for 2020. I hope that explains between CMD and NOW.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
So if that's including China, right?
A - `Ola Kaellenius, Chairman Of The Management Board, Head Of Mercedes-Benz Cars `Including China. On the cash flow side, and the guidance which we gave beat on the CCR by
division as well as on the FCF at the group level, we include improvement on working capital, but
no material one-time impact in 2020. As I outlined before that remains our objective, that
remains our strategy. However, to unlock these, however, they are not part of the guidance,
which we issued today.
Q - `Gautam Narayan, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets `
Tom Narayan, RBC. Thanks for taking my question. Question on Trucks. You know one of your
peers last week, tried to consolidate its North American truck business at a pretty high valuations
may considered and your guys truck business is obviously really strong in North America. I feel like
in some cases, it may be like an unsung heroes. If I put that valuation multiple that attempted
acquisition last quarter or last week on your some of the parts, it would mean the Trucks have
pretty big percentage of your equity value some may say.
The question is how do you view the Truck business with the Car business strategically. I know, it
contributed a sizable amount of cash flow this past quarter. Is there a more strategic synergy
between the two perhaps with battery technology in the future, autonomous. How do you view
these two businesses strategically together?
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Member of the Board of Management Finance & Controlling `
I mean you answered your question yourself. First of all, we are very clear that we have the North
American business and don't have to buy it. So timing in this case was really good to start couple
of 10, 20, 30 years ago. Secondly, there are huge synergies or big synergies between the two.
Yes, we call operate very closely when it comes in all transformation related things. We
collaborate on the battery side. We collaborate on the fuel cell side, where we see that [ph] even
more -- did a better use case, and in the pass-car. And yes we collaborate on the autonomous
piece. This passenger car and then we have a very good and strong exchange on the human --
on the management side, and the people side and on the talent side where we can groom really
good entrepreneurial talents at both sides of the fence. So it's really, there is a lot of synergies
between the two.
Q - `Henning Cosman, Analyst, HSBC `
Thank you. It's Henning from HSBC. I hope I'm not wasting my one question on a yes or no
answer there. I think somebody has to ask about dividends. So just to maybe clarify one more
time that you want to stick with the 40% payout ratio and see the free cash flow as a ceiling and
that you won't be adjusting for governmental and legal cash out and also restructuring cash-out.
And obviously we're looking at several billion now that you have to pay out over the next few
years and I perfectly appreciate it's difficult to quantify, both the magnitude and the timing. But
maybe just conceptually that could mean that there is no free cash flow after such cash outs
depending on where they fall and that would restrict the dividend possibly to zero.
Is that a fair clarification. And maybe just while I can on the restructuring itself, I believe you said,
you're anticipating EUR2 billion in '20 or EUR2 billion overall, of which EUR1.2 billion in 2020, just to
clarify that as well.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Member of the Board of Management Finance & Controlling `
So let's not talk [ph] this one quickly. Overall EUR2 billion, I said EUR1.2 billion in EBIT in 2020. Cash
will be more of '21 and beyond. So the numbers moves the profile on that.Q - `Henning Cosman, Analyst, HSBC `
EUR1.2 billion out of EUR2 billion in the EBIT in 2020 right.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Member of the Board of Management Finance & Controlling `
In 2020, that's what, I said. So again on the JV, how should we think, I mean 40% payout ratio. I
think, is a good benchmark. And that's why we feel committed and adhere and stick to that even
at this juncture. Obviously there is a question mark in terms of what is of the level of, I mean,
cash-outs and beyond that. I can only guide you on what I really can predict and forecast with a
reasonable level of certainty. I hope you appreciate that.
So what are we doing beyond what we guide, I outlined it before. We will try to free up as much
cash potential from the company, from the balance sheet in order to mitigate any risk, which is
still in existence, based on the disclosure we did today. That's what we are firmly committed to
and why as we want to secure also I mean the dividends moving forward, and at the same time
protect the nil [ph] of EUR10 billion.
Just looking for a second into dividend without making any commitments or promises here, but at
the same time we said today, EBIT reported will be significantly above in 2020, beyond 2019,
right. So with everything we know from today's standpoint. I mean EBIT reported. I mean up --
should translate into net profit, EPS up. Yeah. So clearly, I mean it is our objective, I mean, also to
have -- I mean, dividends at a higher level again in the future. I mean, consistent with the rise-in --
in profits.
Q - `Henning Cosman, Analyst, HSBC `
Sorry, just to be perfectly clear, you will not be adjusting for the catch-out for legal governmental
and so on. And you will respect that as a hot-ceiling [ph]. So depending on where that cash out
folds, it will limit the dividend.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Member of the Board of Management Finance & Controlling `
I do believe that it is fair, not to adjust for the material adjustments we have recorded, and why I
think you gave the answer. They lead yet two cash-outs in the future. If all of that would be non-
cash, we could have another debate. But it is cash-outs yet to come in the future. And hence, I
think, the reported base is the accurate one, the good one for the dividend base.
A - `Bjorn Scheib, Head of Investor Relations & Vice President
Next one is Philippe then George and possibly we have then time for one more question.
Q - `Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies `
`Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies, Jefferies. My question kind of follows-up on Henning's, but first of all,
congratulation for continued dividend. I think there was over due should been done a year ago.
So that's important to protect the balance sheet. What I'm trying to understand is, you still have a
lot of claims on your balance sheet, even if you generate the kind of cash flow, you're talking
about. My first question is kind of understanding, have you considered doing something like a
perpetual hybrid, like was again did to kind of buffer your equity base, protective rating. I know it
cost you a bit of money, but at the same time, it would kind of stabilize the balance sheet and
ahead of us the claims coming?And when I look at your cash conversion otherwise and kind of linking to your balance sheet is you
have a 3 billion gap between CapEx and depreciation. So that's very chunky amount of money to
note -- to hurt [ph] your cash conversion, your target. Some of your peers in US, (inaudible) kind
of talking about trying to match CapEx and depreciation. And I'm just wondering how long that it
take for you to get to that point, given that you are guiding to a flat level of investment.
And if I can squeeze the last one would be, given your performance, the amount of capital you
bring to this business for the years, I assume you do an asset impairment test every year. And I'm
surprised you haven't done something to write-down your asset base. Am I getting ahead of
myself is that coming, what's your -- what can you tell us about the mismatch between your
earnings, cash flow and the amount of the value -- the balance sheet.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Member of the Board of Management Finance & Controlling `
Well, let me take the last one right away. Obviously, we are doing impairment testing as part of
each and every disclosure. Our auditors look at that carefully. So I have no reason for any
impairment test. This is unaudited numbers today. But I think, we sit here with confidence. But I
mean, the final accounts which will be published next week will be what they are today, at least
that's where I am today was the finance team.
Second point in terms of any instruments are hybrids, no I do believe that I mean, the cash
potential of the company does exist. Just taking them in the cash flow statement as we showed
it, I mean, imagine for a second, we are able to balance the working capital. Imagine, we were
able to close the gap between investments and the depreciation level. Just take the 2019 cash
flow chart we showed to you the NIL chart. I think it starts to pre-illustrate -- mean potential. That's
what we want to grab and I think that's what we have to do, also with regard to the remaining risk
on cash-outs that we are facing.
And on the cash generation, the CCR, I mean, the reference benchmark you mentioned, why do
we say Cars and Vans should have 0.7 to 0.9 in 2020, we put the cap. I mean we put the break.
Beyond that, but we will go the other direction. So we stopped it, we flattened it. Yeah. And at
the same time, that's a bit more technical depreciations coming up. So clearly that material gap
of more than EUR3 billion between investment and depreciation will close down.
So we should have on a recurring rate a working capital, which is more balanced and we should
have investments and depreciation, which is more balanced. And then basically the cash from
operations reveals into the bottom line on the free cash flow.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you for taking my question. It's `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. Just coming full circle
to Patrick's questions at the beginning about CO2, Ola you highlighted that you saw risk in 2020
and 2021 presumably, where there's risk you have a plan B. Can you help us better understand
what your plan B is, what with withdrawing certain products from the market, pushing the EVs
harder, have you had discussions around pooling, or is it just paying the fines? And it's not paying
the fines, at what point in time, will you have a view on what you're going to need to implement
plan B or not? Will it be at the six-month period, nine month period or even later in the year?
A - `Ola Kaellenius, Chairman Of The Management Board, Head Of Mercedes-Benz Cars `
We watch, of course this on a monthly basis as we see our sales develop, but we would make
economically rational decisions. So we will not do something that we feel would be less
economical to demonstrate a certain number, or certain level of compliance. At the moment, ourplan is to ramp up our xEVs. We have healthy demand. I think it's more of an operational issue
then it is a sales issue to be totally honest and that is why the industrialization of these different
technology is so important in the next two years. But we would not artificially cap, let's say sales
of high-end vehicles that are not in that compliance range.
A - `Bjorn Scheib, Head of Investor Relations & Vice President
So anybody shooting for the last question. So ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your
questions and being with us today. For the ones of you listening on the Internet thank you very
much for joining in. Also a very big thank you to my team for answering all your questions. Now
Investor Relations remains at your disposal to answer any further and open questions that you
may have. Otherwise, we look forward to see you or to talk to you soon. Have a nice day and
goodbye.