Y 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Welcome to the Global Conference Call of Daimler. At our customer's request, this conference
will be recorded. The replay of the conference call will also be available as an on-demand audio
webcast in the Investor Relations section of the Daimler website. The short introduction will be
directly followed by a Q&A session.
(Operator Instructions)
I would like to remind you that this teleconference is governed by the Safe Harbor warning that
you'll find in our published result documents. Please note that our presentation contains forward-
looking statements that reflect management's current views with respect to future events. Such
statements are subject to many risks and uncertainties. If the assumptions underlying any of
these statements prove incorrect, then actual results may be materially different from those
expressed or implied by such statements. Forward-looking statements speak only to the date on
which they are made.
May I now hand over to `Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations, Head of Daimler Investor Relations. Thank you very
much.
`Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations `
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This is `Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations speaking. On behalf of Daimler,
I'd like to welcome you on both the telephone and the Internet to our Q4 and Full Year Results
Conference Call. We are very happy to have with us today: `Ola Kaellenius, Chief Executive Officer, our CEO; Martin
Daum, Board Member for Daimler Trucks & Buses; and `Harald Wilhelm, Member of the Board of Management of Daimler, our CFO.
You probably all joined our presentation right before. Just as a quick reminder in advance to our
upcoming Q&A session, the respective presentation with all 2020 figures and the outlook for2021 can be found on the Daimler IR website.
Ladies and gentlemen, you may ask your questions now. The operator will identify the questions
by name, but please also introduce yourself with your name and the name of the organization
that you are representing before asking your question. Please ask your question in English. And as
a matter of fairness, please limit the amount of questions to a maximum of two to give
everybody on this call the opportunity to ask questions.
Now, before we start, the operator will again explain the procedure.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) First question is from `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank, Deutsche Bank. Your line is now open.
Go ahead.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Yes. Good morning, gentlemen. Thank you very much for taking my questions. This is Tim from
Deutsche Bank. I have two, please. The first one is Ola after the industry has collectively talked
down for a while. It now really seems the 2021 is the year where OEMs are all trying to outrun
each other on the way to be 100% electrified. You also indicated in the (inaudible) interview
overnight that you could see increased targets for you guys from the sort of 50% level that we
know by the end of this decade.
Q2 you envision to also be at 100% electrified by 2030 or would you will get out and also related
to that? How confident are you that there are enough sales that you have secured on the way to
be above the so far announced 50% target and then perhaps. I mean, this is addressing Ola and
Harald obviously, but perhaps Harald it's for you. Rather, you say that people have to stay
disciplined and historically whenever the market bounce back end your numbers did become
better Daimler had this problem that they always find a way to spend the money they made. Can
you explain us how you assure that people will indeed remain more disciplined now that your
numbers are looking at good estate you [ph]? Thank you.
A - `Ola Kaellenius, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. Good morning, Tim. Yes, there is no doubt that the momentum for electrification is picking
up both on the battery electric vehicle side, as well as on the plug-in hybrid side. But we have a
very heterogeneous picture around the world, and what are the factors that will decide what the
type of adoption rate that we will see in 2030. Well, one is one that we can control ourselves. It's
our products on the product pipeline is very attractive and we have some big plans and to say the
least for these next five to 10 years.
But, we also have regulation, we have infrastructure. I think, that's going to be crucially important
how quickly we, as a society, can build up infrastructure, not just across Europe, which seems to
take a lead now, but really across the world. So many things need to come together. Here we are
going to put ourselves in a position with our electric-first strategy that we can be on the forefront
of that movement.
I think, it's too early to definitively say what the market is going to look like in 2030. But it's our job
to put ourselves in a position to address that market. You know, we are in a ramp-up of many new
battery electric vehicles, the plug-in hybrids with 100 kilometers range on the WLTP side. They arefrom Mercedes is brand-new and it's fully electrified with mild hybrids. I don't think there is any
manufacturer that is as deep in terms of that basis right now, which is still the major market for
the next years. So we will be ready, but I think it's a tad too early to say exactly what 2030 is
going to look like because of the factors.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Member of the Board of Management of Daimler `
And Tim, on your second question, well, I mean, what did we do in 2020 and why do we believe
we can keep that discipline moving forward beyond just meeting 2020 numbers, as you could
see. I would highlight three issues.
Number one, we defined in 2020 the mid-term targets were on the goal on cost, cash and
investment side. We talked about them on October 6, and they (inaudible) which means people
know exactly what they have to achieve by 2020, '21, '22, '23, '24 and '25 will not change. These
targets, as a function of the markets moving a bit more favorable that is fundamental and I think
that got, I mean, it has been well understood among the teams.
Second key point, the performance management. I would say maybe we were a bit more
budget-oriented, or I mean, work against the plan. Obviously, we do that, but deliver year-on-
year improvement is coming on the top of the agenda.
And the third point, I would say as well is on cash flow focus. There is this budget focus what do I
mean by it from a cultural standpoint. It means, would you spend the money privately as you do in
business? So always bear that in mind the target, therefore, is not to consume the budget
whether you're doing something good for the Company.
And these three key elements, I do see are gaining traction throughout the Company. That's why,
we'll keep going with the momentum we injected in 2020.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Okay. Great. If I just follow-up on the first answer, Ola, I appreciate that you don't want to give us
a proper number, no. But is it then fair to assume that you would have material flexibility should
demand really surprise as much for the upside as that's right now. And I can only confirm your
(inaudible) comment. I tried a lot of the GLE plug-in -- within the waiting time is too long for us, so
we will get. This is a corporate. So very much demand seems to be quite strong.
A - `Ola Kaellenius, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. The SUVs, in particular, are literally sold out. And of course, we are looking at what can we
do. I mean, the Tuscaloosa factories running at capacity, but we are looking at what we can do.
There are no tried to get that car to you as quickly as possible, but you mentioned the supply
chain and of course, we're looking at the supply chain and how we can give ourselves the
necessary flexibility to tackle scenarios that might be above. But I think, this is something that the
whole car industry is facing or all of society in all industries in a way, but let's get to the chip
situation.
As I mentioned in the presentation, it is a volatile and day-to-day management type of situation
where you cannot make a 100% firm prediction as we sit here today, the information that we
have from our suppliers. Now, allow us to make up for the shortage that we are expecting what
we have been thinking in the past. So, we're certainly looking into that.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `Okay. Thank you. Good to see that you put down the 10% at the high end of the corridor. By the
way, thank you.
Operator
The next question is from `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS, UBS. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS `
Yes. Thanks very much. Good morning. And just following up on Tim's point about the battery
sourcing, if you maybe have a couple of sentences on that as well, because it seems increasingly
tightened that sounds like it could become an issue if the EV demand curve remains very steep.
But coming to my questions, two please. First one, you seem to be very confident and much
more confident than many others right now on the impact of the chip shortage or your ability to
catch-up the lost volume later in the year. Other OEMs are also talking about the shortage to
continue in Q2, and you seem to be optimistic that Q2 will already look better. So I'm just trying to
better understand where you take that confidence from what type of conversations you have
with your suppliers. And also if you can, help us understand how that shortage will affect your mix
in the near-term or your flagship products such as the new ask is going to be fine. Can you hold
on to the EV production volumes are these unaffected by the chip shortage?
And my second question relates to software. You had also, when you announced the spin, you
emphasized the importance of software and we see a lot of movement. They are happening
there. Tech companies or auto companies with the tech angle getting massive valuations that are
certainly related to software. And there are speculations about Apple entering the market. How
can a company like Daimler that after all is still a relatively small carmaker with 2 million units that
puts luxury and quality of margins over volume. How can you make sure you stay competitive
without spending a fortune on software and it really seems to be essential to you to win there
and it's part of your core strategy.
And I know you have that collaboration with NVIDIA. But I'm still trying to get my head around how
you can manage that as a relatively small car company.
A - `Ola Kaellenius, Chief Executive Officer `
Maybe just first one more side note, because you asked about the battery, I think, there is no
question that the whole supply chain from the raw materials, all the way up to the battery
systems is something that is going to require massive, massive investment in production capacity
across the whole chain in these next 10 years to 20 years. So depending on how that demand
situation develops, of course, there can be temporary shortages there.
We are working with our suppliers to mitigate that as best we can. But I think, this is something
that the whole car industry is facing or whole of...
(Technical Difficulty)
Operator
The next question is from `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America, Bank of America. Your line is now open. Please go
ahead. `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America from Bank of America. We can't hear you properly at the moment. I'm not
sure if this is a -- if your connection is bad. Maybe if you can, come back to the queue.
And we will go on with `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, J.P. Morgan, J.P. Morgan. Your line is now open.Q - `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Thanks very much. Jose at J.P. Morgan. Good morning. A few questions please. Ola, can you
comment a little bit more please around the cadence of your EV launches in 2021. You mentioned
-- please protocols gross cars advances, if possible. I was very interested by those -- the van EV
launches. And also, if you could, comment a little bit around the -- your strategy around the
vertical integration you want to have within the electric car with regards to electric motor or cell
manufacturing. Has anything changed since we discussed this theme last year?
Second question, please, Martin, on trucks, very, I think, interesting margin targets for the year.
Can you help us a little bit understand what has been done in terms of restructuring in 2020.
What are you looking to do in 2021? And then, please, any details around the electric truck launch,
whether you can give us any guidance around when you plan to launch the truck, which regions
are you prioritizing, et cetera? Thank you very much.
A - `Ola Kaellenius, Chief Executive Officer `
Good morning, Jose. With regard to EV launches, if I start on the car side, the car side has four
launches this year. We started with the EQA, so compact city SUV, which is actually coming into the
market this month of February. So we did the World Premiere and more or less the market
introduction at the same time, which is unusual. And we will show the EQS at the beginning of the
second quarter, and it will come into the market in the summer that will be followed by the EQV in
the fall and we will finish off the year with the smaller brother of the EQS, the EQE, and that we
will show at the Frankfurt -- no, I'm sorry -- Frankfurt and Munich Auto Show this year.
So that's quite a busy year, but we shouldn't forget that the new C-Class, which we're presenting
to the world next week will come into the market in the early-summer. That new C-Class will also
in its segment had a plug-in hybrid with around 100 kilometers WLTP range. So we think, that is
ideally positioned for what's happening not only in Europe, in particular, in Europe, but in other
places as well.
On the van side, we now have the large van and the mid-size segment covered with the
eSprinter and with the EVeto and the EQV, which we entered into the market in the second half of
2020 and kind of coming into its own in 2021. The new Citroen and that will be a fantastic entry
van position, will be presented this year and the electric version, the fully electric version of the
new Citroen is coming about 12 months after the market launch of the combustion-based one.
And then we have a full electrification of the van division. But as I mentioned in my presentation,
already in a couple of years, it comes to the next generation, and we have already started the
concept engineering of the third generation. I believe strongly that the van segment in some
parts of the van market could see electrification perhaps even quicker than passenger cars. So,
that's an exciting space.
With regard to vertical integration, we are fully vertically-integrated on the R&D side and we have
deepened those activities in the last 12 to 18 months. We have also struck some strategic
cooperation agreements on the R&D side with some of our supply partner. So we are basically
co-inventing what the future is going to look like on the electric side. And we are in the process of
now doing the serious engineering and preparing the industrialization of our own e-axles as well.
So we have taken a step there.
But we're very carefully watching the economics of this thing. It's not like it's a dogmatic religion
here, what do you do in-house and what you do outside. You look at the financial situation inevery one situation. But in terms of knowing, controlling the technology and developing the
technology, there we want to be in the driver seat.
A - `Martin Daum, Member of the Board of Management `
Okay, Jose. And the question about restructuring, restructuring here was -- there was a good one
golden bullet, that one big mistake. So if you just close that, everything is fine. This is 1 million
things or, let's say, 1,000 individual initiatives that all started at the Capital Market Day in 2019
when we promised and fixed cost and variable cost and market positioning, and we translated
that in actions, and those auction got traction, and especially in Europe.
So there are -- we are well underway what we promised. We will continue -- we'll see full-year
impact. We have to do -- we have to make some of the gains we did in the second half of this
year, sometimes supported by COVID to make permanent and just not a one-time event, but we
have a good tracking system in place. We have a transformation office established, track that and
keep the organization honest. We have shown in the second-half that we can keep our cost level
even with higher volumes. And so, I'm pretty positive that we can run that momentum into 2021.
And it is not just Mercedes trucks in Europe, that is on the bus side. For example, I told you the
difficult situation on the coach bus, but yet bus delivered last year a positive result despite those
really huge impact on the production side on a very big pillar of that business. So I would say the
fighting spirit is clearly high in the organization all around the world. And so, I'm really confident
for 2021.
When it goes to electric truck launches, the biggest launch or the most significant launches,
certainly the e-Actos in the second-half in 2021 when we gave go-to series production with this
product, that means no prototype, no single handmade trucks, but trucks hauling down the line in
our factory invert for the markets on the electric-Actos.
Parallel, we ramp up significantly our electric school bus production in the United States become
with more variance, with higher volumes on the bus side, city bus side in Europe -- many cities
around Europe, not just Germany, have decided to make Mercedes easy travel. There are
majority brand and product for their transportation. And you can go -- continue with Asia, you
continue what we do with medium-duty truck in the United States. You can continue what we are
doing on the rescue side. We see iconic and you see trucks always goes down in small batches,
focus applications and we'll provide with our customers here a huge host of product in 2021.
Q - `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Thank you very much for this. Thank you.
Operator
And the next question is from `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America, Bank of America. Your line is now open.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
I tried again. Good morning. It's Horst here. Thanks for taking my questions. I have got two please.
The first one is on Slide 11 in your presentation, where you talked about this 4% headcount
reduction, 40% fixed cost reduction in 2020. I want to get a feeling in which direction we are
heading in 2021 on these items, especially regarding the headcount reduction. I don't know, if you
can quantify, what is more to come, not just in '21, but more in general, because you started
several initiatives.And on the fixed cost reduction, I remember, you targeted 20% reduction by 2025. We are now
at 40% already. So does it mean there is not anymore lot to come or we see first the reversal in
'21 and thereafter a more significant step down.
Forgive me, that was already more than one question. But on trucks, the last question I have, that
is on -- to `Martin Daum, Member of the Board of Management. If you see here the need for any potential structural change, because you
have considered this food business. You do more emerging markets, we know from Volvo that
they are, for example, dispose the UD truck brands. Wouldn't that be also an option for you?
Thank you.
A - `Ola Kaellenius, Chief Executive Officer `
So, should I do headcount maybe, and I'll leave the fixed cost...
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations `
You want to address the headcount.
A - `Ola Kaellenius, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Horst, as you know, the bulk of our personnel is in Germany. In Germany, we have two main
methods of addressing the headcount. It's not replacing the fluctuation, and it's also offering
severance packages. We started that in the summer of 2020 and we're continuing through this
year. So that is a gradual process, that is why on the headcount target we set ourselves a longer
target kind of a midpoint in 2022 at the end, and then also for 2025 as a part of the strategy
presentation that we gave to you in the fall. So we're more or less staying on that trajectory.
One thing though I wanted to mention is in one area, we have made a conscious decision to
increase vertical integration and that's in software. So the software side sits outside of this and
we are aggressively hiring software engineers. From a financial point of view though that may
actually even be better than buying it from suppliers. So there is not a adverse financial impact
from them.
A - `Martin Daum, Member of the Board of Management `
Well, Horst, and if I take the remainder of the Page 11 in terms of the KPIs over there, well, I would
say (inaudible) in fixed cost in 2021 should be at about the same level in 2020. Now, you might call
that a bit lazy. No, it's not, is 2020 had the benefit of short-term working. All-in-all, short-term
working in all categories at a EUR500 million impact at Mercedes-Benz in 2020. And that means
that I mean this is what we lose in '21 and we have to replenish by more underlying measures. So
it's not a walk in the park, but committed on that.
On the R&D side, we'll see a bit of a pick-up investment in software MBUS NVIDIA Corporation.
And on the investment side, we will be at about -- I mean, the same level. I said it in the
presentation. I repeat it. We were committed to the 2025 targets. I mean, also as part of Tim's
question, what is the culture when we fix these targets, so they are signed I mean to the people,
they can optimize, they can orientate. I mean, their activity, the portfolio of activity and their
respective cost structures accordingly. If we can do faster, if we can go faster, we'll try, but that's
our commitment.
A - `Ola Kaellenius, Chief Executive Officer `
And Horst, to your question about potential restructuring, no plans. I can't comment Volvo. I like
the information. I don't know what their motivation was. I don't know the situation of theirbusiness. But I know our business, and our business in Asia is profitable. Our business in Asia is on
a really good path to be a benchmark business for that region -- this region, and it's not just
Japan, I mentioned, Indonesia, the second largest truck market. I would cite -- China, the third
largest. China, United States, Indonesia in a good market, and we have a 50% share in that
market.
We have a good, healthy profitable business there, a business that generates cash. And I would
say, the mere fuel costs on return on sales is the wrong one. The real focus is the absolute profit,
the absolute cash flow a business generates, and the amount of investment it would need. And in
all categories, our Asian business is in a really great and very good track and is a very, very good
supplement to our overall portfolio.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
That's great. Just quickly, the order profitability is still US or North America, then Europe and then
Asia, right? Asia is the least profitable part of the trucks business, is that right or...
A - `Martin Daum, Member of the Board of Management `
Yes, but profitable -- least profitable looks always bad. Our bus business is a 6% business in
normal years and it's a benchmark in the entire world. It's definitely less profitable than North
America, but it is profitable and it generates a healthy cash flows.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay. All right. Thank you.
Operator
The next question is from `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein, Bernstein. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein `
Hi, everyone. It's Arndt from Bernstein. Ola, a quick question on your view how the premium EV
market should shape out over the next five years or so? Obviously, we have the situation
unprecedented where brands are coming to the market fully loaded up with equity at no cost
[ph]. The list of brands [ph] doesn't end. And also out of the recent pricing action that Tesla has
taken in key markets. So all companies are coming into the market with this product. The
evaluation is designed for growth, growth, growth. They are not expected to make money.
What's happening to this market. Really, will we see endless price cuts? Will we see an ever
launch of high-end EV product and then how will traditional OEMs compete in that market? I think,
it's the multi-billion dollar question also on your multiple. So how is this market shaping out to
you?
A - `Ola Kaellenius, Chief Executive Officer `
One thing is for sure. Product-driven and launch-driven. And as you know, on our new large luxury
vehicle dedicated electric platform, we're going to launch at least four vehicles on that in the next
24 months or so. So part of the momentum that we will see in the market will come from product
momentum, and that will come from traditional car companies, as well as new entrants or new
entrants that are already in the market.
So, I agree with you that the competitive intensity is going to be high. I think, when the customer
ultimately makes his or her choice that they will look at the complete package and not just acouple of the dimensions when they buy one of these vehicles. I drive the EQS as a prototype
quite a bit. And the one thing I love with it next it's smooth power delivery good range and all
those things that you think about -- first, when you think about an electric car is that it's a real
Mercedes, it's really what you expect when you want a real Mercedes.
So on our end, where we want to take that luxury piece and protect our turf, I think, we have the
ingredients as to do so. And I don't believe that discounting yourself into a volume situation is the
right way to go here. So we will certainly try to protect our brand equity in that market. But I
agree, one has to look at a situation where competitive intensity is probably increasing.
Q - `Arndt Ellinghorst, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein `
Thanks, Ola.
Operator
The next question is from `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs, Goldman Sachs. Your line is now open. Please go
ahead.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you and thank you for taking my questions. So the first question I had was just on the cash
flow. You guided to the adjusted cash flow before interest and tax for the industrial business to
be at the prior-year levels, which I believe, was around EUR10.4 billion. Could you give us any
indication of your expectations for cash taxes this year, as well as interest expense and the other
reconciliating [ph] item. And also, you received EUR1.7 billion of dividends, I believe, from BBIC in
2020. What is your expectation for this year included within your cash flow guidance?
And then the second question, maybe somewhat following on from Arndt is whether you could
provide us three reassurances around the EQS. Obviously, it's going to be the pinnacle of your EV
range. And with that in mind, I was wondering if you could reassure us that firstly when we
benchmark it against the Model S and BMW's flagship will be EQS have the same leadership
(inaudible) been used to for the S-Class in its segment.
Secondly, one of your competitors has introduced the class-leading battery electric vehicle in the
compact segment, but commentators have observed that the material quality is maybe not at
the same level as the comparable (inaudible). When we benchmark the EQS against the S-Class,
will there be any discernible difference in material quality.
And then finally, given the products technical prowess and your premium brand positioning, do
you expect variable margins on the EQS to be comparable to S-Class or at least above the
Mercedes average? Thank you.
A - `Ola Kaellenius, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, let's take them one by one. But in the interest of time, maybe we'll go a bit quick. So, yeah,
let me emphasize again. Cash flow before interest and tax will be at about same level as 2020
with the cash conversion targets slightly below one, whereas 2020 was definitely in excess. What
does it mean actually? 2020, we had the tailwind from the working capital. And in 2021, basically,
this tailwind from the working capital, which might turn a bit into a headwind due to the ramp up
of the volume, we will compensate by underlying performance or EBIT improvement.
So that makes basically see a bit on the industrial side to be at the same level in '21 as in 2020.
And I think, the numbers you've quoted are, I mean, actually I mean, okay.On the tax side, I will not give a specific cash tax guidance. EUR800 million on the industrial side in
2020, obviously, is a rather low number. We would need to go really into country-by-country, and
the situation on tax loss carry-forwards. I think, you should assume something, which is closer to
the normalized tax rate of 28% to 30%, but not maybe exactly at that level. And on the BBAC
dividend, I would assume the dividend to be at about the same level as the -- at equity result for
2021.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Member of the Board of Management of Daimler `
Now, if we talk technology with the EQS, if we start with the segment and its size, there will not
be a sedan, a luxury sedan in the market at the same time, nor is there a luxury sedan in the
market right now, that compares to the size and the packaging in the space of the EQS. So it sits
a segment above what you can get in the market right now from that point of view, including a
backseat where you can actually sit comfortably. And I've been through in a wide range of electric
vehicles in all segments. And hardly sound one that I enjoy in the back. You will be able to enjoy
the EQS in the back and you will also get a reclining seats, similar to what you're used to in the S-
Class.
And in spite of it being bigger, having more features, it will still have a range of WLTP above 700
kilometers. So that speaks quite a bit about the efficiency of the powertrain that is going into this
vehicle. And once you're in that range, the whole range thing starts becoming a little bit less
important. You have fast-charging, DC charging the whole 9 yards. If you then step into the car
and it will look completely different than an S-Class, it was not our goal to make a clone of a car
that is based in this case upon a combustion platform, but to do something that looks fully and
totally different.
We have shown the hyper-screen at the CES at the Digital CES. Once you sit in the car and you
play with it, really blows your mind. It is a piece of art, but it's a piece of high-tech art. So once
you're in the car, you don't get the feeling that it is a Class below, you get a feeling, "Wow! This is
something I've never seen before." And of course, Mercedes will have the materials that matches
the brand promise.
If I step to the other end of the portfolio, take a ride in the EQA, smooth, quiet in that compact
SUV segment I'm looking at the car sitting right next to me here in the room, it's beautiful. The
interior quality, everything is spot on. So that is a real entry Mercedes, but it also feels like it is in
terms of its quality promise, kind of a step above most other competitors. So just because we're
going electric, doesn't mean that we forget that we are Mercedes and we will stick to that.
Margins, we don't comment on individual margin targets for any car. But if we talk about logic, it's
logical that the contribution margins on an EQS are perhaps higher than the contribution margins
on an EQA, as is the case with the S-Class and the GLA.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Great, thank you very much.
Operator
The next question is from `Harald Hendricks, Analyst, Morgan Stanley [ph], Morgan Stanley. Your line is now open. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Harald Hendricks, Analyst, Morgan StanleyA - `Ola Kaellenius, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
Q - `Harald Hendricks, Analyst, Morgan Stanley
Hello. Perfect. Thanks. So three related questions. Sorry. Back to my usual subject really BVPH EV.
You've got lots of EVs coming through. You haven't maybe as much as other people
communicated volume targets or what your overall EV as opposed to ex-EV target might be, and
obviously when that's the priority for most investors. Can you talk a little bit more about that or
simply the other way around? If you have very high demand for EQS, will you happily sell as many
as you can sell?
And then two related questions there. Just a little bit on the investment chat this morning, you've
done an amazing job cutting investments as we had hoped you would do in 2020. Can you really
maintain this much lower level of CapEx in R&D going forward? And obviously, I've seen R&D is
going to go up a little bit, but can we maintain a much lower level relative to where we have been
for the last couple of years, i.e., is there enough ICE investment to be able to cut relative to what
you said was ramping up obviously things like software technology spending and stuff like that?
And then last question, same question exactly the same, on EV, again, as you've restructured the
the ICE business and made it much more profitable than where it has been. Can you continue to
do that as the EV dilution accelerates now over the next three or four years. Have you got
enough in the bag to be able to fully offset what will obviously still be continued dilution? Thank
you very much.
A - `Ola Kaellenius, Chief Executive Officer `
I'll do the first one. Let's Harald handle the second question. When we designed our EV strategy,
on the production side, we have set it up for maximum flexibility. So in the assembly plants
themselves, they're actually built in the same assembly plant. So the brand-new Factory 56 that
we opened in Sindelfingen and the most modern factory in the world builds both the S-Class and
the EQS. So we can flex between those two.
Of course, we have made assumptions on volumes that we're making for this. So there is not
endless flexibility, but we have very decent flexibility there and we'll be able to go with the
market. For the overall journey in the next five to 10 years, we had said in our strategy kind of as a
rule of thumb, minimum 25% xEV as part of total sales in 2025 and above 50% xEV in 2030, but
also here flexibility is the name of the game. You know that our new architectures, electric-first
architectures, should market dynamics switch in a direction where that number goes up, we'll be
able to react to that.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Member of the Board of Management of Daimler `
Well, on investments, well, we talked about that last year. We said ourselves that objective after
more than 20% down compared to '19. I mean, is it possible? Yes, it is possible. Why? If you look
on the investment of more on the industrial side of things, we are really taking more out of the
existing capacities (inaudible) we divested some, we're streamlining that existing capacity is good
even for more volume than what we, I mean, guide in '21 and beyond. So we don't see the need
for -- I mean, additional industrial capacity investment.
At the same time, when the vertical integration changes, as you know, with the move over from
the combustion engine to the electric propulsion with a lower level of vertical integration, andtherefore, lower level of investment and the lower level of complexity variance and so forth.
At the same time, also on the R&D side, I mean, a very large share of the R&D today still goes
into the next -- maybe last generation ICE engines. And as we move forward, I mean, that switch
is over into more investment on the electric drivetrain on the software. However, we said that, I
mean, the adjustment will be harder on the investment, i.e., on the CapEx than on the R&D and
that's exactly what you see in the pattern of 2020.
On the cost improvement, well, we will keep going. The targets have been sized in a way that we
can accommodate, I mean, on the mix of ICE and better margin aspirations as we set out. While
2020, I think, demonstrates -- I mean, it can work the guidance 2021. I mean, if you decompose it,
I mean, basically shows you as well, I mean, it can work.
I really would like to emphasize that I mean the ICE cars are cash machines. Cash machines will
build the bridge into a best future. And at the same time -- and the same time, at tech obviously
also the variable cost of the best vehicles. We will take them down to bring the margin up and the
aspiration certainly is that this margin, I mean, should marry up with the ICE margin at a point in
time in the future. But there is a very important element in it, which is the mix in the best as well, a
bet at the low end is not the same as a bet at the high end.
I think, Ola alluded to -- when it, I mean, he talked about the EQS margin moving forward. So all-
in-all, yes, it can work.
Q - `Harald Hendricks, Analyst, Morgan Stanley
Okay. Thank you very much for taking my questions.
Operator
The next question is from `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale, Societe Generale. Your line is now open. Please go
ahead. `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale, your line is now open.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Hello?
Operator
Yes, please go ahead.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Yes. Hello, there. `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale, Societe Generale in London. I have a question first of all
about PH EVs in the mix. (Technical Difficulty) high about 92% in Germany in 2020. Where do you
think that (Technical Difficulty). And also, do you think the pricing on PH EVs (Technical Difficulty)
and the diesel version is only less than EUR3,000 (Technical Difficulty) it looks like a tremendous
bargain for private buyers as well. (Technical Difficulty) my question about the extension of useful
life (Technical Difficulty).
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations `
Stephen, sorry to interrupt. This is Steffen. The connection -- the line is very, very bad. Let's try --
we understood the question on PH EV mix and we understood the question on useful life. Let us
try to answer those, because connection is extremely bad. Sorry for that interruption. So...A - `Ola Kaellenius, Chief Executive Officer `
I'll start. Even though it was a little bit interrupted, I'm going to try to interpret what you said
Stephen about PH EVs. One thing I did understand that you said, they were priced too low. I'm
going to pass that on to marketing and sales immediately after this call. And no, I think, we price
according to competitiveness. And yes, we have a very high demand. And if there is more room
in terms of pricing, we always explore that within reason and try to protect our good price
premiums.
It is true that in some markets due to incentivization, government incentivization, it becomes very
attractive to get PH EV. And Germany is one of those markets, but that's not the only thing that is
driving demand. What's also driving demand is the new generation of PH EVs with up to 100
kilometers WLTP range.
It really becomes a sensible option where you literally from Monday through Friday you can drive
emission-free, but you still have the combustion engine to give you any freedom or flexibility that
you need. So this segment, it will be relevant for many years to come, not only in Europe, but in
particular in Europe. In terms of the life of these vehicles and the life of battery electric vehicles in
general. Since we put the first ones out there with smart is, it's more than 10 years ago, it's
almost 15 years ago now. I think, everybody has been perhaps a little bit positively surprised how
well these cars are aging. So, I think, useful life up until this point has not been a concern for the
consumer.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Member of the Board of Management of Daimler `
Well, then on the extension of the useful life, well over 2020 we reviewed jointly with operations.
Yeah, the useful life of our equipments -- I mean, and tools. And as an effort, I mean, to extend
useful life, we could conclude that mean therefore the amortization periods mean today are too
short. And therefore, also according to IFRS we have to adapt. But I really like to, I mean,
emphasize this is not -- I mean, accounting for the purpose of boosting EBIT in 2021. This is really
the underlying economic, i.e., extend, I mean, the use of these tools and the equipment, and
therefore remain over time it will also favor cash obviously in terms of lower level of invest i.e.,
CapEx. And the impact at the Group level is EUR800 million in 2021. The lion's share folds in cars
and vans, there will also be a bit of an impact in 2022.
Operator
The next question is from `Dorothee Cresswell, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas, Exane. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
Q - `Dorothee Cresswell, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas `
Hello? Hi there. It's `Dorothee Cresswell, Analyst, Exane BNP Paribas from Exane. Thanks for taking my question. I have two, if I
may. The first is a little more strategic. And once Mercedes is separated from the trucks, do you
think we could see an investor coming in and picking (inaudible) entity. I'm really thinking about a
player from the tech side. And is that something that you might actively seek out to strengthen
your position in the software race of the coming years.
And then my second question is just around pricing. The environment is clearly very strong at the
moment. Can you give us some idea of how that varies between powertrains and segments?
And then, perhaps what's more important is, do you think you're being sufficiently cautious on
residual value guarantees in internal combustion engine segment? Thank you.
A - `Ola Kaellenius, Chief Executive Officer `Dorothee, on your first question, I do not want to speculate on what any one investor will do once
we have these two stocks being traded, but Mercedes-Benz really is a Company, which is a good
combination between luxury and tech. So if an investor is looking for something with brand
strength and the product to backup that brand promise, married to high-tech, there is potential in
the Mercedes-Benz stock after that separation. But at this stage, there is nothing concrete that I
would like to speculate about.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Member of the Board of Management of Daimler `
Well, on the pricing side, well, there are two elements. I mean, the one is the strong product
substance. And I think, I mean, customers' demand is high for that strong product substance. And
therefore, I mean, it enjoys intrinsic pricing. Well, it happens, I mean, on the plug-in side. We will
see -- I mean, how it will develop -- I think in 2020 was a ramp up was good. You could see that
the dilution impact was definitely manageable. Does the price paid for the incremental cost of
the vehicle all-in-all, I mean, probably not yet, but I mean, we'll continue to work on that.
In terms of residual values, I have to say I was very pleased to see the evolution of the residual
values over 2020. Also as a result of market steering, less push into the market, which was
helpful for new vehicles, but in particular on the used vehicles and hands on the residuals. I think,
that's the kind of conduct we want to continue in 2021 and moving forward. And therefore, I think,
I mean on the residuals, we are not exposed in the way we run it at this stage.
Operator
And the last question is from `Henning Cosman, Analyst, HSBC, HSBC. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.
Q - `Henning Cosman, Analyst, HSBC `
Yes. Hi. Good morning. Thank you for taking my question. It's also related to the competitive
intensity, but maybe I can make it more a little bit about regions. So, you obviously had really
strong market share gains in most regions in the falling market. Now, when I look at your unit
volume guidance just sort of suggesting you can hold on to some of these market share gains
also in the recovery.
So I was hoping you can maybe discuss a little bit how you see the volume development in the
main regions, Europe, US, China. And specifically, in China, if you could just maybe reassure us.
How are you feeling so comfortable about standing your ground when big tech competitors EV
competitors want to add 200,000-unit capacity and sales in China in 2021, which are obviously
coming at a price point that's typically more your hunting ground. So if we could, just maybe
discuss it again from the regional angle.
And then my second question maybe, I don't know if you can comment on that, but if you could
just sort of discuss maybe a little bit what the trajectory of margin could look like, can you give us
some comfort that we're now already at the sort of elevated level and there's no real reason to
expect a big drop before it gets better again towards your stated 2025 targets or are there such
things like, for example, the useful life benefit wearing off and further dilution from accelerated
EV where you would caution us to not now extrapolate on the high level? Thank you very much.
A - `Ola Kaellenius, Chief Executive Officer `
If we start with market development whereas we don't guide on kind of exact projections per
region, I think, it's fair to say that in 2021 as the economy starts opening again, the vaccine is
being rolled out in a bigger way. We think there will be market momentum.Yes, we talked about the first quarter in particular being impacted by semiconductor. So there is
an effect there. But in general, we see high demand for our products and we're moving into
good spot in our product lifecycle. We have a lot of new cars. We're adding a whole range of
electric cars on top of the ones that we already had. Next to those four electric ones, not forget
the C-Class segment, which is our biggest segment, all fresh launching at the middle of this year.
So there is a lot of product momentum.
Of course, there is competitive intensity. Absolutely no doubt, but we can also watch that some
of the players that are now also new players, they seem to be moving down-market to seek
volume and grab on the price-volume curve, more volume on the lower end of that price volume
curve and not so much on the higher end, maybe anchoring the brand with a product on the
higher end, but then going for volume down. So the battle is not a battle with premium luxury
alone here, there will be a battle on the volume side of this equation.
We started very well in China, in the month of January. So we have market momentum and we
also believe that China structurally -- and from an absolute volume point of view has the highest
potential also in the coming 10 years, and not just the good seven, eight, nine years that we have
behind us, but there is more to come from the Chinese market.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Member of the Board of Management of Daimler `
And on margin trajectory, I mean, let me give you the weather forecast update. Well, remind you,
we said last year in rainy bad weather conditions, we want to be mid-single digit. I think, we said
six to eight in fair weather, half-sunny mid -- high-single digit 8 to 10. And in sunshine, I mean,
beyond double-digit. Well, you could say 2020 with COVID was a bit more than 2 million units on
passenger cars. Maybe that is a rainy condition. And with 6.9%, I think, it's spot on. 2021, we said
will be sales up more than 7.5%. Well, just for the sake of the argument, if it would be 2.3 million
units with an 8 to 10, I would call that pretty much spot on as well. Let's not speculate about I
mean, the full sun, but I think, definitely we are on the right trajectory here.
Now, you could say, well, here you are in 2021. So what are you doing between now and 2025, we
keep going with the targets as we emphasized before. And we have to -- don't lean back. We
know there is some dilution to come from the step-up of the xEV portfolio we could
demonstrate, I think, in 2020 that we can master it with the guidance for 2021. I think, we can
demonstrate it as well. But obviously, it will go to a higher level and that's why we need to keep
going on the efforts on cost, as well as on the cash side, but the trajectory remains absolutely
valid.
Q - `Henning Cosman, Analyst, HSBC `
Thank you very much.
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations `
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions and for being with us today. Also thank you
very much to the Daimler management team for answering those questions. Now, Investor
Relations remains at your disposal to answer any further questions you might have. To all of you
listening in, have a great morning, great afternoon or a great evening. And we look forward to
talking to you soon. Thanks and goodbye.