Y 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Steffen Hoffmann, Head, Investor Relations & Treasury `
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I warmly welcome you from the Carl Benz Arena in
Stuttgart to our Annual Results Conference 2021 of Mercedes-Benz Group. My name is Steffen
Hoffmann, and I'm heading Investor Relations and Treasury. Due to the ongoing COVID-19
pandemic, we have to do without the usual physical conferences with analysts, investors and
media representatives here in Stuttgart.
`Tobias Just, Head, Corporate Communications, Daimler & Mercedes-Benz `
Good morning also from my side. A warm welcome to our video stream from the Annual Results
Conference 2021. My name is to `Tobias Just, Head, Corporate Communications, Daimler & Mercedes-Benz, and I'm the Head of Corporate Communications at
Mercedes-Benz. I think we are all well aware that other news dominate the headlines this morning
on the geopolitical landscape. However, we are presenting our business results today. And for
the second time, we're doing that jointly to you, ladies and gentlemen, the press, as well as the
analysts and investors. And for the very first time, we're doing that as Mercedes-Benz Group AG.
We want to provide you with the key figures of the past financial year, for outlook, for the current
year, and the strategic plans at Mercedes-Benz.
After the presentation, I will host a short deep-dive regarding some important topics with our
executives. In total, our presentations will take about an hour, and it will be webcast live on ourcorporate website. You can follow our stream with simultaneous translation into German and
Chinese.
`Steffen Hoffmann, Head, Investor Relations & Treasury `
Of course, our executives will be available for your question. Therefore, there are two
consecutive conference calls. One for analysts and investors from 10:15 AM to 11.15 AM CET.
`Tobias Just, Head, Corporate Communications, Daimler & Mercedes-Benz `
And moreover, we have one call for media representatives, of course, and that will take place
from 11:30 AM to 12:30 PM. And both conference calls will be webcast on our corporate website,
of course. The annual results conference ends after the conference call approximately at 12:30
PM, and you can follow the whole event in one stream. For an active participation in the
conference call for analysts and investors, you already received your dial-in data. And participants
of the media conference call received their dial-in data by email beforehand.
And now, I would like to welcome our speakers this morning, our CEO, `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer; and our
CFO, `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer. Ola, Harald, stage is yours.
`Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, thank you very much. Steffen and Tobias. And good morning, everybody. This is a very
special event for us this morning, because it's the first results conference as Mercedes-Benz
Group. We're now a pure-play company since February, that's also reflected in the name and, of
course, we're very proud of that.
The year 2021 was a truly transformational year for Mercedes-Benz. It's a strategy translated into
great products, but also into financial success. And I think the Mercedes team demonstrated the
potential of the company, despite supply chain and COVID constraints. And I want to thank all of
our colleagues around the world who made this performance possible.
Now, let's take a closer look at last year. When we met about a year ago, we had given ourselves
a list of tasks to focus on in 2021. And we have navigated through this year in a very strong
fashion. We have increased our financial robustness. We have managed through the pandemic
and the semiconductor shortages and produced very healthy results in spite of these challenges.
But it's also been a year of accelerated strategy implementation. We've made some big
decisions last year, especially in the summer when we announced our accelerated path into
electric vehicles. All our new architectures from 2025 forward will be electric-only. So we are now
in an even quicker way shifting our capital allocation and our engineering resources towards the
path of zero emission and decarbonization. But we have also established, as I mentioned, a new
company structure, our so-called Project Future was -- Project Focus was successfully
implemented, dividing Daimler into very strong pure-play companies, Truck & Bus company on
the one hand, and a Car & Van company, on the other hand. And that was done in a very short
period of time. So thank you to all the people that were working on that project and made that
possible.
Now, when we look at the numbers today, I think it's important for you to understand what is split
into two companies mean that means we have, since Q4, what we call continued operations, and
we also have discontinued operations. So as you can see from this chart, and Harald is going to
go into this in much more detail, we will look at Mercedes-Benz Cars & Vans, Mercedes-Benz
Mobility and the Truck & Buses Industrial Businesses from Q4 are in the reconciliation. One
reminder also, all the figures that we're presenting today are preliminary and unaudited.Now, if we look at those figures, I think what stands out here is in spite of constraints, we grew
our revenues, and we more than doubled our EBIT adjusted. The EBIT, including the
deconsolidation result, Harald will talk more about that, but here we can see modest growth in
revenues, but turned into significant growth in profitability, as well as another year of very, very
strong cash flow production. That leads to a net industrial liquidity at the end of the year, and this
is, mind you, post the spin of EUR21 billion. So we have a strong position that we can now write
the next chapter of transformation for this company.
If I go into more details, what's the messages on cars and vans. And I think really there are a few
numbers that stand out when we look into the details of 2021. On the one hand, we grew our top
end vehicles by some 30%. We have the most attractive product portfolio in the history of this
company, and especially the top end of that is finding its liking with Mercedes customers or fans
around the world, on the Maybach, on the AMG side, and, of course, the legendary G-Class,
which saw another record year. But growing that by 30% still pales in comparison to what we did
on the EV side. The EVs grew by almost 100%. And we introduced four new battery electric
vehicles last year, and that product offensive continues this year. The response, when we started
this next phase of our product offensive into electrification, was tremendous. The EQS, many
customers around the world, dealer, other partners contacted us and said, wow, this is almost like
a spaceship landing on earth, what's this car all about, and we have been encouraged by that
smaller sibling of that vehicle we presented in the fall coming into production this year. And there
are more products to come. So the BEV, our battery electric push is at full force.
But also in terms of making traveling for A to B, as far as Mercedes is concerned, in style safer.
We were the first company to get a Level 3 approval, an international Level 3 approval that was
obtained here in Germany, which means we now have a vehicle that in some situations can
actually drive on its own. It takes over and is responsible for the driving situation. That was also for
us a bit of a moon landing and a first step into new territory. So the push into software intelligent
vehicles, autonomous drive, and making the experience safer, but also more pleasant for
Mercedes customers around the world also picked up speed.
The financial results in the wake of supply constraints on the semiconductor side and other
challenges in the second year of pandemic demonstrate what level of resilience that we have
reached at this point. The breakeven obviously has been further reduced, and we will continue
with this discipline going forward. It's no -- it's not a call to take a break or to rest, but to celebrate
the work that has been done so far. And also in transformation, we are making significant
progress in some of the operations that towards the end of this decade or into the next decade
will be very different. On the powertrain side, we have created plans for our main powertrain
plants and have already started the transformation and the transition in some of those ICE-based
operations towards an electric future.
If you go into a little bit deeper and look at the sales, yes, solely due to semiconductor
constraints, we sold less vehicles last year. As you know, it's part of our strategy to chase value
and not to chase volume. We are a luxury manufacturer, desirability, scarcity is a very important
part of our strategy. But it's not the main reason why the number came in lower than 2020,
because we have demand, which far exceeds this level. But at the same time, as I said, on the
top end, so where we have AMG G and also Maybach, plus the S-Class family, you can see that
we grew by 30%, electrified vehicles by more than 60% and the BEVs doubled. And we intend to
continue on this path, focusing on ramping up the electric vehicle side, but also have a clear focus
on top end vehicles, because it drives desirability, but it also drives profitability for the Group.
If we take a look at our premium van business, indeed in spite the supply side, they were able to
grow slightly. Also on the premium vans, we see significantly higher demand at the moment in themarket than what we can deliver. And of course, we're looking at everything we can do to shorten
supply times, working with our delivery times, working with our suppliers to gradually improve that
situation. The electric vehicles grew here as well, albeit on a relatively low level, but there is so
much more to come. On vans, as you know, we also made the strategic decision that our van
business is going to become an electric van business, and we have kicked off the work on a truly,
fully dedicated, purpose-made electric van architecture, which will drive our product offering from
the mid of this decade forward. So we're very exciting about that. The transformation of vans is
moving at the same pace as it is on cars, and it's very exciting.
If I look at CO2, two years ago, when we moved into the new era of targets in the EU, we were
all looking at 2020 as almost the start of a new way to count. We switched from NEDC to WLTP,
and we met our targets last year. And people were saying, yeah, but for 2021, the Super Credits,
the Phase-In credits, they go away, so we have to take just as big of a step in 2021 as we did in
2020. And we did, and indeed, we actually took a bigger step, even bigger than we had
expected. Our target for Mercedes-Benz in the EU is at 125 grams using WLTP, and we came in
significantly below that.
Why is that? It is because we have already reached an electrified part of the overall sales in
Europe that sits between 35% and 40%, so quite a bit faster than maybe we had thought a
couple of years ago, and we're looking at building upon that, of course. But you can see how
quickly electrified vehicles in one of the most important regions here reached a high percentage.
And this year, as I mentioned in the significant scaling of our electrified vehicles, we're also
looking at expanding that electrified footprint to all the relevant markets around the world. Very
excited about that, and the demand is very high and that goes literally in all markets from East to
West. Overall, this is one stepping stone on the way to our clear commitment with Ambition 2039
to become a fully CO2 neutral company by then across the whole value chain, supply base, our
own operations, the product itself, but also the product in use.
Now, Harald, why don't you dive into the numbers and explain to us what happened in 2021?
`Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, sir. Thank you, Ola, and hello, everybody, also from my side. Let's have a look now at the
Cars & Vans financials a bit more in detail. Well, I think, I mean the numbers speak for themselves.
Sales down by 5% exclusively due to the semi constraint. Revenues up by 11%, despite the sales
down. How was that possible? Very strong mix and pricing, in particular in the higher segment.
Third, the EBIT adjustment -- adjusted a plus 105%, so next to the mix and the pricing, also cost at
work. So basically, you see all pillars of the strategy at work yielding tangible results in the
numbers. And finally, we can convert that also into cash flow at a conversion rate of 0.9 yielding
EUR12 billion of cash flow before interest and tax, I mean, adjusted.
Let's have a look a bit more in detail, I mean, how we could get there looking at the bridge. Well,
you can see that even with a lower volume, the bucket volume, structure net pricing has a very
significant EUR9 billion walk year-over-year. Let me give you a bit of color on that one. I mean, the
volume impact in there obviously is negative, but it's negative at a low single-digit billion euro
number. That leaves us basically with the structure and the net pricing impact, which is significantly
positive at about approximately equal weight, i.e. mix and pricing, and that has been very much
fueled by the S-Class, the GLS and also the GLE.
We also had benefit from the used car prices situation. Here, positive effects are in the order of
magnitude of a low single-digit billion. However, let me remind you very clearly, this is not due to
a residual value provision release. This is the underlying used car business, which had been doingbetter. Looking at bit forward into 2022, we can say that we expect that to continue, but maybe
at a slightly moderate level with a kind of a step-wise normalization, moving forward.
Looking on the industrial performance over the walk, we see basically two key issues in here.
Number one is a significant increase in raw material cost, which is not completely visible to you on
the walk here as it has been strongly mitigated, reduced by commercial efficiency. The second
key point is the semi situation caused stop and go in our sites in the facilities and in the whole
supply chain. And that caused significant incremental cost on the logistics side, on the stop, on
the go, on air freight and the like, that is another significant piece in the industrial performance.
Looking on fixed cost, while selling expenses are slightly negative year-on-year, let me remind
you that in 2020, we had a benefit on the healthcare and US pension effect. And as well, on the
admin side, you see a slight negative year-on-year. Again, we had a pretty strong short-term
working impact in 2020, which we didn't have again in '21. What else on the walk? I mean, the
R&D slightly negative as guided. That is completely in line with our technology roadmap. And then
on the other section, you have a stronger at-equity result from our JV, BBAC in China and
valuation impacts from charge point and a bit of discounting on non-current provisions, which was
favorable. That leaves us with an EBIT adjusted of EUR13.9 billion, return on sales of EUR12.7
billion. On the book side, the EBIT booked number slightly higher. If you now look on the Cars
standalone, that means of EUR13.1 billion on adjusted return on sales and for Vans, an 8 points
maybe a number you did not expect. On the Q4, we had a very strong run at 14.8% return on
sales adjusted for both combined for Cars and Vans, driven by strong net pricing, product mix,
and favorable used car performance.
Let's have a look at indicators of change. We told you in 2020, on the 6th of October I think, that
we would change a few things as part of the strategy. The top line going more into luxury,
profitable growth, developing the sub-brands. Well, I think you'll see the traces. If you look into
the revenue per unit, that came up by 26% '21 over 2019. We said we would reduce, I mean, the
fixed cost by more than 20% between 2019 and 2025. You see the active workforce came down
by minus 3%, that's a total workforce of Mercedes-Benz Cars. If you look at the white color where
that reduction applies, not to the blue color, obviously that's a much higher percentage and that
explains why fixed cost is already down by minus 16% by the end of 2021.
On the R&D -- on the investment side, we said we would also reduce by more than 20%
between '19 and '25, but we said we would not compromise on R&D. And that's what you see
here, it was a minus 5%, i.e. we're not harming our future or postponing any critical projects.
Whereas on the investment side, on the PPE side, we really went on the brakes by stretching,
using existing facilities more intensively, by reusing existing assets more, and investing less into
new assets. And we don't stop here. We carry on with this path, as we outlined last year, towards
2025 and even beyond.
Looking at the cash flow evolution going from the EBIT side to the cash flow before interest and
tax, you see cash flow reported of EUR10 billion adjusted, I mean, EUR12 billion, conversion rate of
0.9. How could we get there? Basically a pretty balanced working capital with a slightly negative
charge of EUR700 million, despite the bumps going throughout the year with the semi. We had
an increase in the unfinished products and on raw materials side in the year, whereas on the
finished product. And on the used cars stock, we had a favorable impact. And then on the full
year on the payable, we also had a positive impact, whereas in Q4, it was slightly negative, as we
commented already in the call two weeks ago.
Moderate, I mean, investment on the M&A side in terms of, I mean, number, but strategically,
very important was YASA, that's what you see in the EUR118 million, that high performance electricengine company, which we acquired in 2021. What else to mention on the cash flow chart? Well,
you can see that the investments overall into PPE and then to intangible is well-balanced with the
depreciation and amortization. That obviously helps the cash conversion rate. In the others, you
find, in particular, payments related to diesel matters, and some valuation items on the self-
centric GV, on the truck side in 2021, as well as evaluation on ChargePoint, which is obviously a
non-cash item. The adjustments very much refer, as you know, to legal proceedings, diesel and
the cost restructuring measures, as well as M&A.
Looking at Mercedes-Benz Mobility, what happened, I mean, over there? Well, a pretty busy year,
as next to the operational side, we completed, I mean, the Phase 1, i.e., basically the split of
Daimler Mobility into two companies and that, as called Phase 1, has been successfully
completed. That was a massive undertaking. Some further smaller portfolio transactions will still
take place in 2022. On the business side, I mean, the new business has also been impacted by
the shortage of the semiconductors, and also some lower penetration rates. The portfolio, all in
all, has been lower. I mean, dealer stock, I mean, has been coming down, as well as the transfer
of the truck portfolio. However, the portfolio which remains is even stronger in terms of credit
quality, and that means that the credit losses on a continued very, very low level.
Also, nice to see that the financial services products support the ramp-up, I mean, of our electric
vehicle sales by flexible customer solutions. At the same time in 2021, we also refocused, I mean,
the strategy of Mercedes-Benz Mobility to make it even more customer-centric, and also to
contribute to recurring revenues, I mean, moving forward. What is it that basically about? I mean,
four pillars. Number one, seamless integration of the products with the Mercedes-Benz
ecosystem. So as a customer, you should not even see the difference of acting between
Mercedes-Benz Mobility and Mercedes-Benz on the industrial side. It's one interface. Second, the
transformation towards electric mobility also being supported by smart products on Mercedes-
Benz Mobility side. Third is the full digitalization of our operations and processes, I mean, end to
end. And fourth is to leverage data. It's a kind of a gold mine, I would say, where MBM is sitting on
and also to leverage that across the MB ecosystem.
Looking at the key numbers, well, the new business lower in '21, as said already before, supply
chain bottlenecks, the semi left traces here, with lower penetration rate in China and in the US.
The portfolio decreased by 11%, that is chiefly due to the truck portfolio. Leaving the books, but
on the EBIT, adjusted slide, I think we could achieve a pretty significant step-up.
Let's have a look on the next chart, on the EBIT walk, I mean, how we could get there. What are
the key drivers? First, the low cost of credit risk had a very favorable impact year-over-year. We
provisioned in 2020 and in 2021, that was very remote. And the second key point, we had a very
favorable interest margin evolution due to improved, I mean, funding conditions. Also, nice to see
that mobility services and fleet business performance, I mean, improved as well. And with this, we
could to get to a 22% of return on equity for MBM in 2021. We expect a nice performance to
continue also into 2022, however, 22% is not the new run rate.
So if you just think about, I mean, 2022 for Mercedes-Benz Mobility, you should bear the following
in mind. In 2020, we provisioned as a result of COVID in 2021, the extra credit losses were
extremely low. We had to do literally no new additions in terms of new business being
provisioned for, so the provision level returned basically to the level back to pre-pandemic level.
And that means now moving forward, if you're doing new business in 2022, new business needs
to be supported by new provisioning. And second, on the interest margin, I think we need to
anticipate a normalization of the interest margin due to the increase in interest rates to be
expected.Furthermore, I mean, if you think about 2022, as I said, there will be some more portfolio being
transferred, I mean, to the truck side. And in 2021, we also had a favorable impact of provision
release for legal case in the UK for a low three-digit million number, which we will not have again.
More to come on the guidance later.
Now, turning to the Group side, I explained Cars, Vans, Mobility, so what's left to explain here is
the reconciliation in terms of the Group impact here. So here you see the year-on-year impact of
the discontinued operations, i.e. the Daimler Trucks & Buses of EUR1.4 billion, as well as with a
little result on the 35% stake remaining in Daimler Trucks & Buses for the last 20 days of the year.
Very important note here, the numbers which we have on the EBIT side, on cash flow side, are
not comparable to the upcoming year-end disclosure of Daimler Truck Group, I think which is on
the 24th of March, as we have a different reporting period. We report here 11 months and 9 days.
We have a different intercompany eliminations, and other stuff, so please, you cannot conclude
from these numbers on anything for Daimler Truck disclosure.
Furthermore, you see in the recon, impairment in our investment in bike motors for a low three-
digit amount in the fourth quarter. What else on the Group EBIT walk? Well, I mean, we could to
get the EBIT adjusted to EUR19 billion. On top of that, you see adjustments. The key point in the
adjustments obviously is the EUR9.2 billion de-consolidation result of Daimler Trucks, Buses and
Mobility services. This is a pure valuation effect, I mean, without any cash implication. Furthermore,
we have, I mean, in the adjustments Project Focus transaction cost, as well as the suspended
depreciation of Daimler Truck assets, which is in the order of magnitude of EUR700 million.
And then the usual ones in the adjustments, M&A transaction, legal proceedings. So all in all, the
EBIT reported of continued and discontinued operations, including the de-consolidation gain is
EUR29 billion. The discontinued EBIT is including this de-consolidation result, EUR13 billion. The
continued operations result is EUR16 billion, which exceeds the irrespective number for 2020 by
EUR10 billion. I think these are a lot of numbers, but it's extremely important that we set the
record right for 2021 for continued and discontinued, in particular, when it comes to the guidance
later.
Now, going from cash flow before interest and tax to the free cash flow. Again I think Cars and
Vans, I explained before, so what's left to say here? Cash taxes EUR1.9 billion, significantly higher
than in 2020. Well, obviously better operational performance has implications on tax. And then
we have in the other reconciling as well some impact here from the discontinued, i.e. the cash
contribution for 11 months and 9 days from Daimler Trucks & Buses for EUR700 million. Again, you
should not read anything from it, as I just said before.
On the free cash flow side, we are, therefore, at EUR8.6 billion for the industrial business
reported, adjusted EUR11 billion. The adjustments are again related to legal proceedings and
cash-outs, as well as restructuring. Coming to the net industrial liquidity, well, we started the year
with EUR18 billion on a combined basis. Including trucks, we ended the year with EUR21 billion.
Without the trucks, having transferred EUR6 billion of cash over to Daimler Trucks as part of the
spin. Obviously, that was driven by free cash flow we talked about on the chart before of EUR8.6
billion. We paid the dividend of 1.4 to you, and we have some other favorable impact, I mean, in
the other, which is basically dividend and capital measures for Mercedes-Benz Mobility and a bit
of FX effect. That leaves us with a EUR21 billion net industrial liquidity. I think this is a very strong
and comfortable level. It definitely supports a solid investment grade rating, and again, even after
the transfer of EUR6 billion to Daimler Trucks.
Now, looking at the dividend proposal. The net profit, excluding the de-consolidation result, is at
EUR14 billion. The equivalent amount for the EPS is EUR12.90. We suggest to exclude the de-consolidation result from the dividend base. This gain is a pure valuation effect, has no cash
impact, and therefore, we suggest, I mean, to exclude it. Then we apply our dividend policy of
about, I mean, 40%. For the ones who calculated already, yes, it's slightly below 40%, not big
times, and so, we like sometimes simple stuff, and, therefore, we propose a straight EUR5 per
share dividend for the AGM in April.
Important to note as well that inside, you have EUR0.70 which covers, I mean, the Daimler Truck
and Bus profit contribution in 2021. As part of the agreements, Daimler Truck will not pay a
dividend to its shareholders for 2021. So, looking forward, you should take EUR4.30 as a
reference point for Mercedes-Benz Group dividend. And let me say I think the next to this pretty
impressive number of EUR5 or EUR4.30, there's also a message going along with it. This is a
demonstration of our belief as a management into the sustainable profitability and the ability to
keep it sustainable moving forward. At the same time, you should read from there that capital
allocation to you matters for us.
Now, we're coming to the outlook for 2022. Well before talking about the '22 guidance, actually
it's very important we set the record right for 2021. All I mentioned, these are the unaudited, I
mean, KPIs we're looking at here today. So on this chart, I mean, you can see the unaudited KPIs
for the continued operations, i.e. excluding, I mean, the Truck for 2021. And this is obviously in the
reference for the guidance for 2022. Another important change, the Van business is increasingly
contributing with its weight to MB Group performance. After the spin, EUR14 billion, EUR15 billion
business, we want to give you more transparency. It's an exciting business in the midst of the
transformation, and, therefore, we will split out the KPIs separately for Cars and Vans and also
guide separately.
For 2021, what are the key KPIs on the profitability side for cars? 13.1% adjusted and 8.3% on the
Vans side. If you look on the cash conversion rate, that was at 0.8 for Cars. At Vans, it was a 1.3.
However, due to a very low level of investment in '21 of only EUR200 million on the R&D side, the
respective numbers were EUR7 billion and 0.5 for Vans. On the Group side, I think this is also very
important number to note down, to pencil down. Here, as we have the continued operations only
as well, i.e. without Daimler Trucks and the de-consolidation result, what does it mean? The
revenue reference is now EUR134 billion for 2021 and the Group EBIT EUR16 billion, as well as the
free cash flow on the industrial side EUR7.9 billion.
Now, turning to the divisional guidance for 2021, I think we really want to emphasize the
importance to read the assumptions on this chart, I mean, carefully. Number one, we see a very
strong demand for our products, our cars and the vans across the globe in all markets. Number
two, we still face, I mean, semi-related supply constraints, will continue -- which continue to
impact us. Third, in particular, today, we cannot project geopolitical developments or any other
COVID implications and therefore, these harbor further uncertainties.
Before we go to the numbers, maybe a few words on the semi situation and the supply situation.
As I said before, the demand for the products, I mean, is extremely strong. The visibility on the
semi supply capacity is improving. Semi capacity is also coming back online, but there is still a high
level of volatility and there are selective bottlenecks, which hold us back to translate that strong
market demand into higher sales.
So at this stage, it's not really possible, I mean, to give a prognosis when the supply bottlenecks, I
mean, will be cleared. We expect the situation to stabilize in 2022 compared to 2021. And at the
same time, we will carry on to give priority consciously to our top end vehicles and to the electric
vehicles. So what we did in 2021, which is not driven by semi-only, but which is, I mean, our
strategy in itself, we will continue to do in 2022.Our high level of flexibility in the plans, I mean, also allows us, I mean, to do that and to react to it.
I think we could demonstrate in 2021 that we're able to do so. At the same time, we intensified
the interaction with direct suppliers and semiconductor suppliers to make the whole supply chain
more resilient and more robust. What does it mean more concretely? We are working with the
suppliers to secure capacity on the one side. On the other side, we're also working with them to
develop technology step changes for new chip generation. All in all, that means we should have
concrete agreements on supply quantities. We extend the planning cycles. We also develop
safety stocks, I mean, the particular spots of the chain. And we also into multiple -- more multiple
sourcing -- sources. So overall, significant progress on deep sourcing. We augment, I mean, our
sourcing strategy and the contracts in many commodities. However, at the end, a one important
component is missing. You can't stop -- you can't continue -- you stop the car from being built,
you know that.
On that basis, what is the sales guidance forecast? Demand is strong as I said. Semi holding us
back on this. That means from that perspective, we see the unit sales for cars slightly above 2021
as per, I mean, the definition, the rules, that means up to 7.5% over 2021. So you can see we take
a prudent view with regard to the sales development. If that changes, what we're hoping for, of
sure, we will keep you posted in due course. What does it mean for profitability? We guide on
that basis at 11.5% to 13% return on sales adjusted. What is the walk over '21? How do we get
there? Yes, we have slightly more volume. We expect the mix to stay at a healthy level as we
head in '21. We will continue to the top end growth, the top end vehicle sales growth by more
than 10%. The used car results, I mean, should also be on a good basis, however, a bit more
normalized, as I've said before, probably half a RoS point lower therefore in '22 compared to '21.
We'll further carry on, on the pricing side, to improve it even further. However, on the other side,
the raw material bill will come up significantly. You know it in the various commodities, which
constitutes a substantial headwind for 2022.
What else? In 2021, we had a favorable tailwind from the depreciation, the higher level of
depreciation and also the other buckets. We talked about before that we cannot repeat from
today's point of view in '22, so we're losing that. The R&D will go slightly up. And that is, I think, I
mean, in essence how we get from '21 to '22 to that guidance of 11.5% to 13%. But there is maybe
also, I mean, a message in here in this 11.5% you might read. Again, this should demonstrate our
comfort in terms of the resilience of our profitability, which we believe we can command in 2022.
On the PPE and on the R&D side, we see that slightly above prior year, mainly due to the
investments into compact family, into MMA, as well as the new AMG all-electric EA platform. And
the cash conversion rate for Cars should be between 0.8 and 1. On the Vans side, for the sales,
slightly above '21. Same rationale, same background as on the Cars side, same induced demand
being much stronger on that basis. We see a return on sales adjusted of 8% to 10%. On the
invest side, PPE and R&D, we see a significant step-up.
Why that? Twofold. Number one, we now enter really into full speed development of the all-
electric van platform, fully fledged, covering the full segment coming online mid of the decade.
And at the same time, we extend the life cycle for our combustion platforms into the next
decade. So Van is in full transformation, and I'm sure you will join me in saying that is a fascinating
business moving forward, yielding very nice tangible results. However, in terms of the cash
contribution, you will understand, after the conversion above 1, it, therefore, sits now for 2022,
due to the investments below at 0.6 to 0.8.
And then on the division side, the last on Mercedes-Benz Mobility, I think gave the key elements
already before. We now see the return on equity in the range of 16% to 18%. The key driversbeing the normalization of cost of credit risk and the swing on the interest margin and the one-
timers in '21, which we will not have again in 2022.
What does it mean at the Group level in terms of the guidance? Again, the reference points are
the continued operations KPIs for 2021. We talked about before. So on the revenue side for 2022,
that means we should be slightly above. On the Group EBIT, we should be at prior year level. And
on the reconciliation side, maybe it sounds a bit technical, but you should know the PPA, the
purchase price allocation effect from the de-consolidation has a significant negative impact and
probably, therefore, will almost offset the at-equity contribution from Daimler Truck in 2022.
On the free cash flow side, the reference is 7.9, as I said before, for '21. On basis for 2022, what
do we see? The cash flow before interest and tax on the automotive segment, i.e. Cars & Vans
adjusted as well as reported, should be at previous-year level. When you go to the free cash flow
reported and adjusted, we are facing significantly higher cash taxes in 2022, the reason being
that basically tax loss carry-forwards have been exempted, exhausted. And therefore, I mean, the
free cash flow on the industrial side should slightly below 2021 level in 2022.
And maybe a short-term outlook on the first quarter. What do we see as we stand here towards
the end of February? Sales on the Cars side, I mean, should be around the Q4 level, constrained
by the semi situation, prix -- pricing and mix, I mean, is on a healthy level. We see the headwinds
of raw material, I mean, materializing. We should have also a bit of one-timer in the adjusted
items on M&A transactions in the order of magnitude of EUR900 million EBIT and EUR700 million
cash. That refers basically to two issues, reduction in our shareholding in the Grand Prix and the
sale of our retail outlets. And on the European CO2 side emission, we should be at prior year
level, as Ola pointed out before. That was a lot of stuff. Sorry for that. I hope it gives you some
color.
Back to you, Ola.
`Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
Thank you, Harald. It's called Annual Results Conference for a reason, so thank you for that detail.
Now what is our task list for 2022. I think it's all about building upon the positive momentum that
we created in the last year or two. And this year, our main task list is to scale the electric vehicles.
And as I mentioned, aim to double the sales of the battery electric vehicles, again, and also grow
the overall electrified vehicles. We're also on a path of accelerating our software development.
We are really making progress now with MBOS. We will go to market with our Level 3
autonomous drive functionality beyond Europe. So on the intelligence side of the transformation,
this is just as exciting us what's going on with electrified mobility, and you will hear more about
that later in the year.
And I think Harald pointed it out. We will continue to build on the luxury position of Mercedes-
Benz, with growth of our top end vehicles, make sure that we manage the mix and how we go to
market in a very thoughtful way. Needless to say, we're working with our suppliers to alleviate
supply constraints. We're still in this, but we have a much higher level of transparency and also
deep sourcing and created ourselves more optionality. So we think that we can tackle this step by
step throughout the year, because we also want to shorten those delivery times to our
customers. I know that many people around the world are waiting for their Mercedes. It's that
special moment when you get your car, and we will do everything we can to serve our customers.
And never to forget in uncertain times, it's important to have financial resilience. So the relentless
focus on efficiency and making sure that we manage our fixed cost that we are mindful when wemeans that 2022 could be an even more exciting year than 2021. We're really looking forward to
creating this future for Mercedes-Benz. But I also want to underline, this is not possible without
the great team. And I want to come back to what I've said in the beginning, I want to thank
everybody around the world that is in the Mercedes team for making this possible and also
making it possible in uncertain times, where we have to go beyond and be even more flexible
than we have been in the past. And it is this team that gives me confidence that people at
Mercedes, gives me confidence that 2022 is going to be a good year for us. And as we say this
team, we are Mercedes-Benz. Thank you very much.
`Tobias Just, Head, Corporate Communications, Daimler & Mercedes-Benz `
Thank you, Ola, thank you, Harald, for your presentations. To everyone who is watching us online,
we will, of course, have ample time for your questions, and we have scheduled these conference
calls. You know that, that's coming up. But following a transition of the past years, we would --
before we go, let's just start with those questions. We would like to ask a few questions, a couple
of deep-dives maybe on a few things, current topics. We've done it in the past and I think there is
enough stuff to address, and I think, Ola, first of all, it just makes sense to start with the obvious
thing this morning. We've all watched the news. We've all seen the terrible news from the
Ukraine. What's your perspective on this, how much can you say?
`Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
Yeah. In a situation like this, of course, we're very concerned. You think about the human side of
this and our thoughts are with the people in the Ukraine. And it's a situation that we will look at
very carefully, looking at our people first and then business second, really. And in this situation, I
think it's up to the experts, the politicians around the world to seek solutions, and hopefully, find a
way to de-escalate the current situation.
`Tobias Just, Head, Corporate Communications, Daimler & Mercedes-Benz `
Okay, thank you. Then a little closer to the core business, Harald. Already two weeks ago, in the
pre-release, we showed some strong financial figures for 2021. We've received a couple of
questions from the media side regarding that special effect that resulted from the spin-off of
Daimler Trucks. Could you be so kind for the non-financial experts among us to explain in
layman's terms what does EUR9.7 billion mean and why they do not have certain impacts on tax,
and if I remember correctly, on the dividend?
`Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, thanks, Tobi, for that one. Let me try the layman terms. Why don't you try to explain it?
`Tobias Just, Head, Corporate Communications, Daimler & Mercedes-Benz `
Because I am not a financial expert.
`Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, you could explain it. Anyhow, well, what is it? As part of the spin, the Daimler Truck assets
and liabilities are leaving the book, and you're required to compare, I mean that value of net
assets, i.e. assets minus liabilities leaving the books with the fair value of the business, i.e. Daimler
Trucks. That has been assessed by an external appraiser and the difference between that fair
value as it has been assessed, which is not the market cap. So fair value as assessed by external
appraiser, minus the net assets gives the EUR9.2 billion de-consolidation result capital gain, purenon-cash item, no tax implications in essence on it and that is the reason why we suggested to
exclude it from the dividend base for 2021.
`Tobias Just, Head, Corporate Communications, Daimler & Mercedes-Benz `
Okay. Awesome. Thank you. Ola, I guess it's probably fair to say that the most frequently used
term in the last year, at least in the auto industry, has been semiconductor shortage,
unfortunately. Are there any lessons to learn? Is there anything that we would do differently going
forward based on what we've experienced and managed in 2021?
`Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
In 2021, flexibility has been the key. So the fact that we have been able to, in spite of these
constraints, really juggle them and keep our operations running as smoothly as possible. It's really
a testament to the flexibility of our production system, our procurement and logistics. But it's also
the time of partnership. And we have dug into this topic very deep, all the way down to the fab
level, what happens on the production of the silicon wafers themselves throughout the different
tiers. And we have a different level of transparency now.
In the past, we relied more or less on the Tier 1 suppliers to take care of this for us, and whereas
they work extremely closely with us to solve these problems, we have gone into deep sourcing.
And we're now sourcing in a wider fashion, but also on the component side deeper and into
multi-year contracts of that as well. But it is, like Harald said, you have thousands and thousands
of these components in a sophisticated car like this, EQE that we have next to us. And it could be
just one single part, even if you have all of them, one single part that stops you from finishing a
car. So we will continue now to map this out.
We have also redesigned literally dozens of parts to create optionality. So, although this is going
on, and we have customers waiting for our cars, and I know that they are eager to get their cars, I
want to thank the team for what they have done. And I think that what we learned in the last 12
months or 12 months plus is going to make ourselves more robust into the future. But we can also
see (technical difficulty) 2022, maybe also on a global scale, not just Europe. The destination is
clear. The destination is zero emission. So I think now more than ever that decision that we made
a 2.5 years ago and last year's decision to say, can we go faster and yes, we can go faster is the
right decision. That's why this year is about scaling, doubling again, the battery electric vehicles
and significantly growing the overall electrified vehicles, including long range plug-in hybrids and
really going global. I mentioned in the presentation before that in Europe already 35% to 40%
are electrified vehicles in 2021, only couple or three years ago, I don't think we could have
imagined that.
And I can see that already high level in Europe that we can build upon that, but now it's also the
time to really go global with our battery electric offensive. And we're starting production in our
facilities in China. We're starting production in our facilities in the United States for several of
these cars, siblings, this car, EQE here and also sibling cars of it. So you will see that our footprint
of electrified vehicles is really going global this year. And we will do everything we can, in spite of
semiconductor shortages and the different things that we talked about, to also get the electrified
vehicles out to customers around the world. And on top of that, I think we have made
tremendous programs -- progress also with our supply base. Most of our suppliers have actually
signed up to Ambition 2039 to say, we also want to be CO2-neutral 10 years before the Paris
Agreement. We might not know every single action or measure that needs to be taken to get
there. But alone, if you have the commitment, that's the start to getting there. And last, but not
least, this is the year where our production goes CO2 neutral. So, another important milestone in`Tobias Just, Head, Corporate Communications, Daimler & Mercedes-Benz `
Okay. Those have to be the final words. I'm just going to conclude here. Thank you very much.
And thanks to everyone. Now, the first part of our annual results conference ends here, but not
the program of the day. Next up are Q&As. As you know, we will start at 10:15 AM CET with the
Q&A session for analysts and investors. Steffen will host that. And you will find your access
information on the invitation to this event. And just a reminder for the journalists who are currently
watching, your Q&A will start at 11:30 AM CET. Thank you and see you later.
Operator
Welcome to the global conference call of Mercedes Benz. At our customers request, this
conference will be recorded. A replay of the conference call will also be available as an on-
demand audio webcast in the investor relations section of the Mercedes-Benz website. The short
introduction will be directly followed by a Q&A session. (Operator Instructions)
I would like to remind you that this teleconference is governed by the Safe Harbor wording that
you find in our published results documents. Please note that our presentations contain forward-
looking statements that reflect management's current views with respect to future events. Such
statements are subject to many risks and uncertainties. If the assumptions underlying any of
these statements prove incorrect, then actual results may be materially different from those
expressed or implied by such statements. Forward-looking statements speak only to the date on
which they are made.
May I now hand over to `Steffen Hoffmann, Head, Investor Relations & Treasury, Head of Mercedes-Benz, Investor Relations and
Treasury. Thank you very much.
`Steffen Hoffmann, Head, Investor Relations & Treasury `
Again, good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This is Stephen Hoffmann speaking. On behalf of
Mercedes-Benz, I'd like to welcome you on both, the telephone and the internet to our Q4 and
Full-Year Results Conference Call. We are very happy to have with us today, `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer, our
CEO; and `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer, our CFO. You probably all joined our presentation right before. Just as
a quick reminder, in advance to our upcoming Q&A session, the respective presentation with all
2021 figures and the outlook for 2022 can be found on the Mercedes Benz IR website.
Ladies and gentlemen, you may ask your questions now. The Operator will identify the questioner
by name. However, please also introduce yourself with your name and the name of the
organization that you're representing, before asking your question. A few practical points as
always, please ask your question in English. And as a matter of fairness, please limit the amount
of questions to a maximum of two to give everybody on this call the opportunity to ask questions.
Now, before we start, the Operator will again explain the procedure.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions)
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head, Investor Relations & Treasury `
And we start with `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan from JPMorgan.Q - `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Good morning. Jose from JP Morgan. Ola and Harald, a couple of questions to Ola. Can you look
at it from a strategic point of view. How do you think about boosting the premium luxury end of
the Company? Especially can you comment a little bit about how you plan to grow in a profitable
way, that is G Wagon and Maybach. And possibly maybe share some of your thoughts towards
Maybach, and maybe how many cars did you sold in 2021 as well, in the Maybach brand?
A second half, can you speak a little bit around raw material headwinds. Your ability to pass on
price increases in this unprecedented environment. And your confidence when we look at the
upper end of the margin guidance for 2022. What are you assuming in terms of raw materials and
price increases? Thank you.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
So good morning Jose. I'll start with the first one and then pass the other one over to Harald in a
minute. If you look at what we have in the pipeline here in the next few years, to answer your first
question, how many Maybach did we sell in 2021. It was 17,000. That was up from 10,000 year
before. So you can see that the new S-Class Maybach and also the GLS Maybach has really made
a dent and found the liking of many Maybach fans around the world.
But these cars are about to now get electric siblings, specifically as far as Maybach is concerned,
we have said and we presented it in Munich at the IAA, we're going to deliver a fully electric
Maybach SUV with the experience that you would expect from a Maybach already next year. And
we see this as a growth opportunity that is partly complimentary and on top of what's already in
that portfolio. For that ultimate luxury brand, we need to always be mindful that we keep scarcity
alive as well. So we're not going to flood the market with this.
I see good growth for AMG, both in the short but also in the medium-term. Work is underway for
the AMG EA platform, that will be an architecture for several all-electric AMGs coming in the
second half of 2025 and forward. And the G has turned into a phenomenon over the many years,
where we literally can't keep up with demand. It's -- it feels like it's the Birkin handbag of
Mercedes, the ones that you want it, but you're not -- you're not even sure you can get it, it's
almost like you have to apply.
So there is opportunity there. But I would like to broaden that to the overall upper end of our
portfolio. And I'm sitting here right next to an EQE that is about to be launched in the market only
in a couple or three months' time. And the SUVs that are coming on the EVA2 platform. So I feel
we have a lot of momentum at the upper end of our platform, brand new E-Class coming next
year, and so on and so forth.
What we also intend to do in the medium-term is to be mindful about capital allocation and which
models we go into the market with on the entry end of our portfolio. Don't want to give the big
speech now. But we will meet later in this year where we'll give some more details on that. So
whereas MMA replaces our current so called compact models, this -- the portfolio will have a
different profile in the mid to longer-term here. So that we also think not just about the top end,
which we want to grow, but also how we played at the entry side of our business.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, hello Jose and with regard to your second question, let me give you a bit of color on that.
First, I mean, in 2021, obviously we had a pretty significant lever on the pricing, as you could see
on the bridge here today, which we commented as well. I mean, how could we get there, anddefinitely much tighter on discounts. But then already been introducing price escalation in 2021,
which favor 2021, which will also favor obviously 2022, we'll definitely continue to do so in 2022 on
all fronts, I mean be it price escalation, but also carry-on on the lower discount level.
Let me remind you, all of that you can only do if you have a very strong product substance, which
is the case. On the raw material side in some commodities, the headwind is material. Well, as I
know, you will torture me anyhow soon or later. Probably you could see that in the vicinity of
around I mean two point. So that's a material main headwind. And therefore and you could say
somehow between the lower end of the guidance bracket, 11.5 and the higher end, probably that
is a question of how much pricing we can command. Happy to take you through the other
elements of the bridge, if you want.
Q - `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan `
That's very kind. Very happy to hear them. Also happy to hand back also the rest of the -- of the I
wasn't sure how question. If you have any other additional big buckets, happy to hear from you or
happy to pass on to the audience.
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head, Investor Relations & Treasury `
Thank you, Jose. And we continue with `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Yes, thank you very much. Why don't we stay with that topic then Harald? And we do go through
the rich indeed, especially potentially, could you say something about the residual value impact
that we saw last year? And what you expect for this year, but also in the other items of the bridge
that would be great.
And secondly, probably for Ola, you just said we're going to hear more about your software
ambitions going forward. Some of your other fellow automakers that were trying to do capital
market based on this seem to have struggled to make the market exciting about the software
story. And as you know, we've recently done a survey among your key investors, where one of
the key findings was also that they don't really want you to spend a lot of money on software.
Why do you think your ambitions can get the market more excited?
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
So we get started with the bridging items. Tim, hello. Well, so let's run through the bridge shortly.
I mean in full-year '21 13.1% to the bracket of 11.5% to 13%. The volume should be favorable. The
pricing as I just said before, should be favorable year-on-year. So these are the ones on the -- on
the plus side.
On the headwind side, I mean where the used cars, where's raw materials commodity as I just
said before, the depreciation benefit which we had in 2021 will be lower in 2022. The R&D will
step-up slightly as recommended. And then you had a bucket in the other in 2021, which I
commented on valuation items, ChargePoint and cellcentric, which we'll not have again in 2022.
That is in essence I mean the bridge within I mean the bracket is 11.5% to 13%.
Now, to your question on the used cars. The benefit in 2021 on the used car side was really on
the pricing situation of used cars being favorable. So the underlying business performance of
used cars being good. Did not come from provision releases in 2021. How do we look at that for
2022, probably I mean in some areas in particular, if we think about the US or so, one needs toassume some normalization of used car prices i.e., coming down slightly. But that still means that
we should see a decent contribution coming from used car in 2022.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
Good morning, Tim. To give you a full and comprehensive answer to that question, we probably
would have to spend three or four hours together, which we will during this year. So we will give
you a much more in-depth look at our software strategy both in the vehicle, but also customer
facing later in the year. But this morning, I just would like to give you a few highlights and maybe
clarify something that I believe is a bit of a misconception. First and foremost, the most important
thing is that the customers are excited by what we're doing. And that's what we're focusing on,
creating a superior product.
And the software is the intelligence of that product. Sometimes I've referred to it as the brain and
central nervous system of the vehicle, and will provide so much of the functionality. So to focus on
this as a car company is absolutely the right thing to do. We also have to be mindful that when we
talk about software in the vehicle, it shall not be confused with most of what -- most people think
about when they step into the car, kind of the interface, the connected car and the telematics of
the vehicle. That's a very important domain. But it's one domain of many. So when we do a
software architecture for a vehicle, we look at every single function, drive train, of course
autonomous drive, driving a system, all the body functions, all the infotainment functions, all the
communication, the intelligent cloud that sits behind this, where we have our unique Mercedes
me ID, so we have a one-to-one relationship with the customer. And we build that relationship.
Always think about it holistically.
And now to the financial question then. So what can you do? Do you continue the path that we
have been on for the last 20, 30 years that you purchase together a patchwork of software from
different partners? Or do you take the destiny into your own hands and make sure that you have
the core stack controlled by you, that you can change it instantly, you don't have to go through a
supplier and make change requests, negotiate that through purchasing and so on. And where
you can add any one feature at any point in time that you think will increase value for the
customer. So to have this control, and to have the data in your cloud, protected cloud, being
mindful about privacy where the customer can choose what he or she wants us to do with that
data for them. There are so many underlying strategic reasons that many carmakers and virtually
every startup goes into this route.
Now, when it comes to the spending, it is not for free to sell together the patchwork that we have
done in the past. If I look at our investment profile, and Harald has shown time and time again,
what our R&D and CapEx spend is looking like between now and 2025. We are not spending a lot
more, it's probably about the same that we have spent in this domain in the past. So it's not a
massive increase in one time spend to go down this journey. And perhaps in the future, once you
have laid the foundation very much like an iOS in an Apple smartphone and you then start
working on evolutionary versions of this going into the future, maybe you can even control your
spend in a more thoughtful way and focus solely your spend on what you think will add value to
the customer. I know that's the five minute answer to something that really deserves three to four
hours. And those three to four hours you will get Tim later in the year.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you very much. It's super exciting to follow your journey overall. Thank you.
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head, Investor Relations & Treasury `Thank you, Tim. And we continue with `Dorothee Cresswell, Analyst, Exane from Exane.
Q - `Dorothee Cresswell, Analyst, Exane `
Hi there. Its `Dorothee Cresswell, Analyst, Exane from Exane. Thank you for taking my question. I have two
questions just coming back to the model lineup. So the first is with regards to the top end, we
briefly heard about those order books for the G Wagon extending to 2024. We've also been told
that you're finding that EQS sales aren't cannibalizing the S-Class to the extent that one might
have expected. So can I ask you, if you wanted to expand capacity, both in Graz in Austria and
also in Sindelfingen. Could you do so and how quickly could that happen?
My second question relates to the bottom end of your lineup. I'm wondering, you've got such
strong progress now on emissions reduction, and you have your electrification plans in place. So
why do you still need to sell a car like the A-Class, which will inevitably be margin diluted? Thank
you.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
If you look at the top end here, specifically the S-Class and the EQS are built on the same line in
our Sindelfingen plant. The new Factory 56 that we opened in 2020 is where more or less full
flexibility between these two vehicles in that plant. In a stellar year of the S-Class in the past, we
sold maybe 100,000 S-Classes around the world, that's usually what the banner year for the S-
Class meant. Now entering a sibling car and all electric sibling car to this, we're looking to go
beyond that. And we have a capability to in the plant in Sindelfingen build significantly more than
100,000.
I think it's important both for this vehicle as is for the G and I'll get to the G in a second, that you
don't flood the market, but that you actually find strike exact right balance between scarcity, but
at the same time not having delivery times that are too long. So if I look into these next two to
three years, I think we feel comfortable with the flexibility that we have in Sindelfingen in the plant
to be able to serve both customers that want the S-Class and the EQS while being mindful about
scarcity, so that one feels good.
The G, in a jokingly way I refer to it as the Hermes Birkin handbag, the car that you can't get. And
indeed, we have been overwhelmed, especially since we had the updated product of the
demand on the G. And the short answer is that we can expand capacity in Graz, we did about
40,000 units there last year. And we will expand capacity in Graz, but here we should be very
careful because that Birkin handbag lifts off of the desirability factor as well. To have delivery
times that go two or three years into the future is clearly too long.
But we will not go overboard with regard to expansion on the G. We have some quite exciting
ideas how you can do different editions of the G that will keep that car very attractive and a lot of
people that are contacting me are asking about the electric G that is due in a couple of years'
time. I think that electric G, that will also add impetus to this franchise, inside our luxury side of the
business.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
And A Class?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
A Class, as I said before, 2024 is the start of MMA. So the next generation compact vehicles,because there's not a car there that is shorter than 4.50 meters, probably a little bit longer than
that. And I've already indicated to you that the lineup going forward, so 2024 forward vis-a-vis
some of the expansion that we have done in this segment in the past, that we will be more
selective with the positions that we put on this platform.
Those vehicles coming and today is too early for a full preview, but they will be a marvel of
technology with the appropriate level of pizzazz and luxury for that segment. So when we look at
the entry level of our business, we're also thinking about how can we create more value on the
entry side. Let's leave it at that and then give you more details as we get closer to the launch of
those vehicles.
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head, Investor Relations & Treasury `
Thank you, Ola. And we continue with `Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies from Jefferies.
Q - `Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies `
Yes, good morning. Thank you very much. I have two questions. The first one will be on China, if
you can comment about what you see on the ground in terms of some pressure from the local
brands, either on repeat of the software offers, as well as a bit of a move towards more luxury
vehicles. And then just wondering, since one of your competitors assumed control of their joint
venture in China, whether that would make sense for you, if you are thinking about it? Of course, I
don't expect you to give me a full answer if you are. But any general comments about how you
see your position in China going forward?
And then for Harald maybe, I know you are telling us that we will have less of a tailwind on the
depreciation in '22. But are we still thinking at a situation where broadly CapEx and D&A balance
out and there's no big funding need, as you continue to transition or funding need like below
EUR1 billion was, I think, in some of the US deal we trying to see a much wider gap between
CapEx and D&A, if you can reassure us on this that will be great. Thank you.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
Thank you for those questions. Next to China being the most important and the biggest market,
it is developing itself into the ecosystem for innovation. And the software side of it with very
technology oriented customer in this market particularly, has so much dynamism, that on the R&D
side and on the tech side, you just have to be in China. In the fall of last year, we opened up our
brand new R&D Tech Center. And the piece of that tech center that are growing the fastest is
software, also electrification, but is software and everything and anything that is associated with
the intelligent, connected vehicle. And there's no doubt that you have also capable and ambitious
new entrants into the Chinese markets.
So what we need to do is to make sure that we're on the forefront of technology. What is more
difficult to replicate in terms of our market position is that we feel that we are the perfect blend
between technology and luxury, we have the brand pedigree, we have the right feel when you
drive a Mercedes, when you look at it, and it's just everything feels right, it is right. It is smooth, it
is quiet, all of those almost intangibles that the customers learn to appreciate, once you're in the
Mercedes family. So we will marry these two things. And that goes very much for the Chinese
market as well.
But the technology and innovation competition is increasing. And it is our goal to be in the midst
of that and at the forefront of what's going on in that domain. I think it's a very good sign that a
couple or three years back that the Chinese decision makers said that they would open upmarkets even more. And now we can see the first steps also in terms of how the relationships
are with joint ventures and what have you, you mentioned one. So this opening up of the market
is a good step. And it's an encouraging step. We have a very, very strong relationship with our
joint venture partner and such a successful working together here, especially in the last 10 years.
What we will do in the future, we will see. Should we change anything there, we will of course let
you know. But one thing is absolutely clear, is that we have together decided to continue to invest
in our production capability, of course in our marketing and sales network, in our innovation
capability, but also build the already growing supply base in China, for China, but also in China for
the world.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
And your question on the depreciation may be twofold. Number one, the comment I just made
before on the depreciation in '22, compared to '21, remember end of 2020, beginning of '21, we
had to revisit the depreciation schedules as we're using our assets for longer. And then
therefore, I mean had to adjust the depreciation schedule, that had the favorable impact for
2021, I think at the point in time, so correct me, but I think we said it's about EUR800 million of
benefit or tailwind in 2021 and a much less pronounced value in 2022, even less than half of it and
that's what I was referring to in the EBIT walk before.
Globally, and thanks that you're making the point, I think we continue the effort on investment
scrutiny to prioritize our investments, in particular on the PPE side, allowing investments for sure
on the R&D side, globally in line with the objective to reduce it compared to 2019 reference by
20%, but also applies that would save globally for 2022, maybe R&D and CapEx growing slightly
as we said, maybe a little burden on the cash flow, maybe a little benefit on the working capital.
But you could see it in the cash conversion guidance of 0.8 to 1 on the car side, that we should
stay on course in terms of the cash conversion.
On the van side, differently is really means stepping up the investments for the VAN.EA we
commented earlier today, but also the life cycle extension of the current combustion platform. So
here the cash conversion is running at a lower end. But if you take again the automotive all
together, it doesn't change your profile.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
Can I add maybe a comment to that last one, just to understand the van business and perhaps
the difference between the van business and the car business, that usually the development
cycles in the light commercial van business are longer. And what we're doing now with the
decisions that we made last year, it's almost like we're doing two things at the same time, we're
creating a completely new van electric architecture to cover all mid and large positions into the
future, whereas we're doing everything that we would have done any way to keep the
combustion versions of those attractive premium vans, fresh. So we are making a conscious
decision here to transform the van business significantly, and then create the different footprint
for this business 2025 and forward.
Q - `Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies `
Thank you very much.
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head, Investor Relations & Treasury `
Thank you very much. And the next gentleman in line is `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs.Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Yes, thank you for taking my questions. George Gallier from Goldman Sachs. So I think the
strategy and the pivot towards luxury is becoming increasingly clear to investors, and maybe
following on from some of the questions you've already had around the high margin cars or high
prospect cars and the low price point cars. If I do some simple calculations, and look at the
implied revenue per unit for Mercedes by dividing the top line by the consolidated wholesales, it
looks like 2021 was above EUR60,000, which is around EUR10,000 more than Mercedes
historically, and also some of your premium peers in Germany. But still short of Porsche, you're
close to the three figure mark, based on your reevaluation of the portfolio, do you think it's
possible to close that gap to Porsche with time?
My second question was on Mobility and the bridge there, your guidance would seem to imply
more than a EUR1 billion reduction in EBIT ability, are the right buckets to think about here, the
absence of trucks, residual values in used car prices, non-repeated COVID provisions and interest
rates. And if those are the correct buckets, could you give rough percentage breakdown of the
EUR1 billion plus buy bucket? Thank you.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
Maybe I will start with the first one, you jump in Harald, as you see fit. I think since today is kind of
result 2021 and guidance 2022, that it would be a little bit premature to give you the medium
term effect of what this portfolio adjustment would mean in terms of average revenue per unit.
So I don't want to just throw out the number here. And we all know that 2021 in terms of the
structure with semiconductor constraints and so on was a little bit of an unusual year, but it shows
the direction that the Company is going into. I think that's the important message.
So if you would take the historical average of Mercedes over the last 10, 20 years, and you look
at what we want to grow into in the next 10 years, the answer to your question, clearly we want it
to be a different structure and a higher structure. And that is a function of both, our ambition to
grow the upper end of our portfolio, and as I said, be more selective on the entry side of the
portfolio. So without wanting to toss out any numbers here today, for the mid to longer-term, that
direction is very deliberate. And it's that combination of the first and second and third pillar in the
strategy that we presented in the Fall of 2020 thinking act like a luxury brand profitable growth
and capture more horizontal growth through those very strong brands AMG, Maybach, but also
the G.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
George, on Mobility, I think globally your math seemed to be roughly okay, within the 16 into 18
bracket, which we gave today. What are the key elements of the walk, one-timer in 2021 on the
provision release, low single digits, as I mentioned. Then a smaller portion of truck leaving the
books and the impact run rate of what left them in obviously in 2021. So you're right.
However, the portfolio all in all of the trucks is rather I mean moderate one in terms of the
contribution here. So these are definitely mean with these two big buckets, which is the cost of
credit risk on the one side, and on the interest rate margin on the other side. I think we said in the
past that per quarter, you should think about something like EUR150 million run rate in terms of
need for new provisioning for new business. So that's what I would have in mind for 2022, not in
the year-on-year but in the absolute. So I hope that helps you.
And then the reminder is the interest rate margin, which was very favorable, is basically theswapping to the other side in 2022.
So reminder, again, residual value is not in Mobility. It's on the industrial side. So we're really
talking in the cost of credit risk here. And the interest rate margin as the two biggest building
blocks moving items between '21 and '22.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Great, thank you.
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head, Investor Relations & Treasury `
Thank you, Harald. Thank you, Ola. And the next question goes to `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America from Bank of
America.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
Yes, good morning, and thanks for taking my questions. Two please as well. The first one again
on minimum net liquidity. I think we discussed that now for some time in the call. So could you
specify again Harald, what is now the minimum net liquidity excluding trucks as inputs, including
trucks at something like EUR10 billion.
And in that context, I still want to understand what is now the use of cash going forward. I know
that probably it's going to be a topic for the CND. But now since the asset prices are getting
substantially smaller, I don't know, if you may would consider that as an opportunity to get a little
bit more active in the future?
The second question again on the EBIT bridge, on some items you have not yet commented on.
So when we think for example, about industrial performance, X format. Could you provide some
guidance for 2022? And also, could you give some comments on SG&A and the impact of foreign
exchange rates? Thank you.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Horst, on the nil, ye\ah, we're pleased that we're ending the year with '21, after the spin.
And I'm not sitting here saying that EUR21 billion is nil, is the bare minimum you need to have. It's
a comfortable position to be in. I think we stressed appointment today that capital allocation
matters to us. I think the spin in itself is a demonstration of it, the DV of EUR5, EUR4.30 as a
reference, is another demonstration to it.
When I think about the use of the cash, definitely our priority is to support enable the strategy
execution, on the luxury side, on the EV side, on the software side. That is covered by the
forecast. That is covered by the plan. However, we're still in an environment I think of pretty high
level of uncertainty surrounding us not to speak about today's events geopolitically. So having a
solid caution here, I think is a good thing to have.
We're happy also that the consideration on the side of the rating agencies is moving, or had
been moving the right direction and hopefully continues to move into the right direction. So let
me say clearly, I think capital allocation is really addressed by what we did, what we announced
today was a divvy. We give priority to the strategy execution. We keep the flexibility. And we
certainly will continue to think in terms of what is the right balance sheet size and structure in
moving forward. I mean for today, I think I would leave it here.Your second question in terms of industrial performance 2022. Well, we said that in 2021, next to
the raw material, we're facing significant interruption cost, it now depends, I mean how the same
situation is -- will develop in the course of 2022. I would assume that in the first half, I mean, it
remains pretty bumpy in terms of volatility.
And therefore, I mean, in the second half, we could come back more to the efficiency targets. So
we gave ourselves I mean, already in the past which had been impacted and hampered by the
semi constraints and the volatility over there. I think that is the key one. At the same time, we will
fight -- continue to fight I mean, the raw material evolution by commercial efficiency and
procurement and efficiency.
What else on SG&A on fixed costs, we'll carry on with the effort to reduce. Here I mean, the
avenue is clear, more than 20% reduction between 2019 and 2025. So I think we should not see
any material movement, maybe neither up and down for 2022 as we brought it already down by
16%, as we said. So that doesn't mean that the remainder of the walk in the park in particular, I
mean, was escalation -- cost escalation in all places, you have to fight it on top of it. And that
multi-year and so that's a pretty fundamental task, but each and every area of function is
addressing that.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
In the context of this efficiency stuff. Is it unfair to assume that H2 margins going to be stronger
than H1? Also because of volume growth is picking up and the processes are normalizing?
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, I would not go now into guidance by quarter. I think we said on the first quarter basically, I
mean, we should see the sales at level four, price mix continued all might kicking in. So if we have
then more volume than in second quarter -- starting second quarter or second half of the year,
yeah, maybe you could make the point somehow. But let's talk about when we're getting there.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
All right, great. Thank you.
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head, Investor Relations & Treasury `
Thank you, Harald. And we continue with `Henning Cosman, Analyst, HSBC from HSBC.
Q - `Henning Cosman, Analyst, HSBC `
Yeah. Hi, Steffen. Thank you. And hi, Ola and hi, Harald. Harald you already started to get into it
just now on the indicators of change. You have the fixed costs updated now at minus 16% versus
the 20% target as at the R&D and CapEx together, it's already down minus 18% versus the target
of 20%. You also had that 1% variable cost per year target, which you didn't get into now.
But I'm basically asking myself, are you about to increase now? I think you just in sort of in passing
said 20% or more. So are you -- direction of travel rather that you're about to increase the targets
for the savings? Or is it more that we should think about it in a way that we've seen most of the
savings and the further contributions to earnings growth are rather going to come from other
areas? That's the first question.
And then the second question. I know Ola, you already went into it a little bit. And you said it's a
three, four hour conversation. But Harald you got me intrigued when you said, the gold minethat's leveraging data. So I just wanted to ask a question on that, there was a media article a few
weeks ago that had suggested you might have to share up 40% of profits with your technology
partner? I think when you're discussing Ola, you said your priority is customer happiness, and that
you don't want change requests that are difficult to implement.
So can I just ask you about the emphasis where you're going with your software? Is it more so
that you can sell more and higher priced cars and make your customers happier? Or is the
emphasis more that you want access to the future revenue pools monetizing over the updates
across the various domains? And I think in the past, you've mentioned a EUR1 billion EBIT number
that you could have incrementally from these areas, is it possible to update us on that at all?
Thank you very much.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
Henning, on the target side, the target for fixed cost reduction and the target for investment
reduction of more than 20% between 2019 and 2025 stay intact and stay valid. And I think that is
also a very important part of I think, I mean, the success we could do so far is each and every
area has a clear long-term perspective I mean, where to go, adopt priorities, resources, means in
line with these objectives. You then come in, and you step up the challenge, just in that journey, I
think you're not getting sustainable results.
So I think the numbers where we could get it to one fixed cost as well as on the investment side
so far, I mean, basically support that. However, I mean if one or the other is running ahead of the
curve. I mean, we cash it in, we call that I mean the run rate. But we're not changing the targets
for 2025.
Again on fixed cost, even we're down by 16%, you might say, four more to go. And then you're
done. Well, and you didn't make it sustainable. You need to fight the escalation. And if escalation
is running at 1%, 2%, or 3%, I mean, just do the maths, it's quite a lot of costs you need to take
out, I mean, to offset that.
And on the investment side, I really want to make a point. We -- since we announced the 20%
down between '19 and '25 on the investment side, we sneaked in a few new, very important
decisions, right, to go 100% electric and also the software side of things and that needs to be
accommodated. And that is real challenge to deliver all of that portfolio until 2025 at the same
time taking the envelope down.
So I can tell you, the colleagues are really sweating and doing a great job to prioritize efforts. So
at this juncture, I think there's really no point I mean to think about heightened target. But rest
assured we will keep -- we keep the pace on it.
Then just means all in all that now, I mean, this fundamentally lower cost base in terms of investor
as well as in terms of the fixed costs allows us really to grasp in the margin of the vehicle. So we
want to grab, and this is what is behind the results you can see in 2021. This is what is behind the
guidance also for 2022. We can be really selective and therefore, say it, opportunistic.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
So trying to get back to the software issue. Let me start by, first of all high level answering your
question. We're seeking both, excited, happy customers that make our attractive as such, more
desirable. But also revenue pools, profit pools, through digital content in the vehicle that can also
then be recurring, where updates to the car in different domains, or new functions and features
of the car can be downloaded over there.So our goal is to achieve both. But let's just walk this back again and look at it what it means from
a technical strategy point of view. And bear with me here for at least a few minutes, and I'll give
you them the six minutes of the three hours. There are four plus one domains that we're mainly
talking about. Drive train, so everything that is in and around how you use that battery, battery
management, range, life, how the power is delivered, everything that goes into how the vehicle
drives, and also drives the efficiency of the vehicle, hugely important domain. It's a domain that
we solely program ourselves and is one integral part of the overall software stack.
Second piece is driving assistance on autonomous drive. For this particular domain, we have
decided to go into a strategic partnership with NVIDIA. Why did we select NVIDIA? Because we
felt they had the strongest technology in the future for this domain with their upcoming chipsets
and the joint forces of our software capabilities.
So in that particular domain, we have two parties that are investing into it, not the old model
where you do some yourself, you order something from the supplier, you pay for it, and then you
do what you do with it. Here, we actually have a fruitful strategic partnership, where we're both
investing into it, and both parties will reap benefits of that investment. So that's a hugely exciting
domain, which I think has a lot of profit potential going into the future.
The third domain is infotainment, or connected car, whatever you want to call it, everything that
you interact with your head unit and everything else. There we have an already quite advanced
position. And now we really want to take control of our destiny in that one. So you could say that
we're doing it ourselves. But being proprietary doesn't mean that you're closed. We're open,
which means we will be able to in a seamless, natural, intuitive way integrate all the ecosystems
that you're used to from your smartphone world, as you meander in and out of these worlds
without disruption to you, but still the customer interface, the unique Mercedes me ID sits with us,
when you talk to the vehicle, you say, hey, Mercedes, you're then indirectly talking to the cloud on
the backend of the Mercedes. And you're in our ecosystem as our valued customer with your
data that we will leverage for your benefit, if you choose to. And there is economic value and
opportunity in that domain as well. There is no doubt about it.
And another important thing is that also means your car will be a digital tailor made suit. We get
to know you how you use the car, what your preferences are. It guides us in our further
development effort of where we need to take the car, because we learn the behavior of what
people like and how they like to use the car.
And then it comes to the body electronics, everything else in the car. So every electronic tentacle
and every actuator that is fitted to that tentacle all the way down to the hot stone massage in
your beautiful S-Class seat. When you tie all those things together, and you have your tailor made
digital suits in our cloud, and you then add the plus one, a communications module that gives you
access to the vehicle that makes the vehicle intelligent real time and ultimately can speak to
every other vehicle, we're looking at the future of individual mobility is more exciting than it has
ever been in 136 years.
And we just fundamentally believe that if you want to be an innovative car company, you need to
understand this technology. You need to be the architect of that software stack. You need to own
the core IP of that software stack. You need to also know how to program software. You don't
have to write every single line of code yourself, that would be impossible in the timeline that we
are seeking.
So next to one partnership that we have made public in one domain, we have other partnerships
going on in the background as well, where very competent players are helping us create thesoftware stack. But we remain the architect. We own it. We understand the digital footprint of the
vehicle.
And last piece on this, it's not just software. Hardware and software go hand in hand. It's hugely
important, what processing power, what chipsets and what infrastructure layer of software you
use to pull all this together, so that you avoid the past, which was an American quilt of dozens and
dozens of different elements that we have tied together in a successful way. That has worked.
But now we're entering into a new era where that software, the hardware configuration of your
car is much more close together. It will also give us an opportunity to consolidate some of the
hardware in the car into fewer but more powerful computers, if we use that word, that can do
multiple things.
So I can only come back to what I say, being passive in the future of the vehicle, we don't think it's
the right thing to do. I think you need to be active, understand it, be an architect of it. And we're
doing this within a very reasonable R&D and CapEx walk between now and 2025 and beyond. So
we're not putting our short to mid-term financial ability at risk by doing this in our view.
Q - `Henning Cosman, Analyst, HSBC `
Thank you, Ola and the EUR1 billion profit ambition for 2030....
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
That stands, as we presented in that, I think it was Pillar 4 if I'm not mistaking is over-the-air
capabilities of course a given we have that today already. I don't know, how many millions over
the air updates that we've already did. If you drive a Mercedes and you drove it on the February
14, just a little fun thing, you get to Happy Valentine's greeting from us as well. I know that's just a
little Easter egg that maybe will not change the stock price of Mercedes.
But just to demonstrate that over-the-air capability is there today. We have already now in triple
digit million euro out of that billion is in our numbers in 2022. We're walking towards a billion in
2025.
Q - `Henning Cosman, Analyst, HSBC `
Thank you very much.
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head, Investor Relations & Treasury `
Thanks, Ola. We still have close to 10 minutes, quite a few colleagues in the queue. I suggest that
from now on, we try to limit to one question per person, `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale would be the next
gentleman from Societe Generale.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Yes, thank you. Good morning, everybody. My question is on the guidance about CO2 emissions
and you said the prior-year level, I understand that's regarding Europe. I guess you plan to sell a
lot more BEVs and PHEVs in Europe as well. So implying having prior-year level suggested and
also selling quite a few of your larger probably more profitable cars, a lot of AMGs and Maybach's
and S-Classes as well. Is that a correct assumption?
And secondly, going to the EQS, when can we expect some meaningful numbers showing up
income sales figures. You did mention a while back that the order intake was -- in Europe wasrunning a similar level to the S-Class. So when could we expect to see some kind of numbers
coming through that we can actually measure? Thank you.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
I'm going to start from the back answering your CO2 emissions question. We are poised to ramp
and start production of electric vehicles in China and the United States this year. So even though
we significantly improved our footprint on electric vehicles, but also on the electrified long range
plug in hybrids, which is mainly but not only European phenomenon. This really is the year where
our important markets in China, and in the United States, we're starting to move the needle.
So that's why you have maybe an over proportionate amount of that growth on the electrified
vehicle side, outside of Europe. I also mentioned that we reached a share of electrified vehicles in
Europe, somewhere between 35% and 40% in some markets actually already above 50%, much
quicker than we had originally anticipated, which shows how attractive these vehicles are.
So balancing that out, that is why we're guiding at around the same level for the EU number in
2022. But there is no doubt in my mind where this is going, and it's going for growth, 2022 will be
a significant year. But whereas we're thinking about 2022, we're preparing for '23, '24 and '25,
where we want these numbers to increase even more. So numbers across the world in terms of
our CO2 footprint will go down. And that will be the case for Europe as well.
And yes, it's right, as you also mentioned, and it's part of this growth story on the top end, that
we're looking at growing our top end business with the AMGs, with the Maybach and with the Gs,
more than 10% this year. So we want to be in over proportional growth on the upper end. And
maybe last piece there.
We're also introducing Formula 1 inspired and derived hybrid performance plug-in hybrid system
for our AMG cars. Now, you've seen the first vehicle. And I think it's no secrets that often new
ones that are coming up based upon the platforms that we have already introduced are also
going to be hybrid. So on the performance side as well, we're going to lower our CO2 emissions
footprint.
With regard to the EQS and the S-Class, I mentioned that a banner year on the S-Class in the past
was maybe 100,000 units, we have capability to make more in Factor 56 in Sindelfingen whereas
we have had in some stages almost similar order intake in some markets. We still believe that the
S-Class will be by far and away the dominant volume in the plant and this first full-year of EQS
sales will start making a dent, but not so much in terms of cannibalization the S-Class. So we think
it can be a nice chunk on top of the S-Class, but to leave no doubt, it is the S-Class is by far and
away the dominant part of that number.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Thank you.
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head, Investor Relations & Treasury `
Thanks, Ola. And we continue with ``Tom Naraya, Analyst, RBCn, Analyst, RBC from RBC.
Q - ``Tom Naraya, Analyst, RBCn, Analyst, RBC `
Yes, thanks for taking the question, ``Tom Naraya, Analyst, RBCn, Analyst, RBC, RBC. Just a quick one over on Autonomous in
Level 4, in the past I think you've said that Mercedes will be focused on private car when it comes
to Level 4. I know this is a faraway question but it's become really hot after Elon's comments andalso the CES this year. Just curious if you've changed your view on that. Maybe Robotaxi or fleet,
the fleet model might be actually become more interesting to Mercedes in the future. Thank you.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
You can't just answer Autonomous drive questions black and white. You need to think about the
different shades of grey here. So many things are happening at the same time. The Level 2
envelope, whether you would like to call it Level 2 plus or whatever name you give it, you will see
in the next year is much more sophisticated Level 2 plus systems. And we have one of the most
sophisticated in the market right now. But we're working on functionality that goes way beyond
what we have on the road today in that domain.
To you as a driver, in the future that will feel like Level 4. So a car that drives autonomously but
where you really need to draw a line is whether the responsibility recites with the driver if the
responsibility recites with the car. That is a fundamental dividing line, technologically safety wise
and also from a product liability point of view.
That is why we have chosen to cross that line as the very first manufacturer with a real product in
the market, with the S-Class and also coming up with the EQS with Level 3 on the highway
because you have a more controlled environment up to certain speeds in the regulation that they
wrote in Germany was to start with up to 60 kilometers an hour. So kind of in heavy traffic, traffic
jam type of situations. But I'm sure that over the years, as technology gets more sophisticated,
and technology can do more, that will also change the block to higher.
So we will build both of these paths. Our pivot towards individual mobility goes hand in hand with
our strategy. So what we didn't say was should we build 500,000 Mercedes S and compete with
the Ride hailers in Greater San Francisco and be the almost replacement of public transport as a
Robotaxi. When we made our pivot, we thought that that is not the natural place for Mercedes in
the market to start with. And also the deployment of capital in such a Robotaxi versus Ride-hailer
who wins that battle could be quite the capital intensive one.
If and when that comes to fruition and it's an -- there is an upper end of that, the most luxurious
end of that, we are not closed in our mind, it's towards that. But to be the mass market adopter
of Robotaxis now, if I think the Ride-hailers we think it's not the right use of capital at this point in
time. The technology ultimately for Level 4 for private use, that is interesting and that is certainly
something that we will have our eyes on as we build our Level 2 plus capabilities and expand the
envelope of Level 3, more to come.
Q - `Tom Naraya, Analyst, RBC `
Perfect, thank you.
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head, Investor Relations & Treasury `
We now welcome `Daniel Roska, Analyst, Bernstein taking over from Ant, Daniel from Bernstein.
Q - `Daniel Roska, Analyst, Bernstein
Thank you very much. `Daniel Roska, Analyst, Bernstein from Bernstein. Morning, gentlemen, I'll then do just one and
maybe more on the strategic side as we're nearing the end of the call. Ola, you talked a lot about
luxury ambition and the positioning today. We'll talk more about this in the course of the year. But
you also just announced you're strengthening the supervisory board in that area.Do you feel you have the capabilities in place for your journey to more luxury positioning for
Mercedes Benz or which capability areas be it organic, inorganic are you weighing to kind of
round out that capability set to fortify the luxury positioning?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
There are so many aspects to being and developing even further into a luxury company. But let
me just mention a couple of them. Our design team, our brand management team, our
marketing team, our communications teams, I think are second to none. The fact that we add a
very experienced, very highly regarded player like Marco Gobbetti to our supervisory board,
which will be proposed in the annual shareholders meeting at the end of April, that an individual
of that caliber also wants to play a part and be a sparring partner on this journey. We're very
excited about that. So very much looking forward to working with Marco and the experience that
he has had.
We have a strong team. We have naturally in our DNA as the original luxury brand, an
understanding of what Mercedes means. I'm the first to admit that for decades on end, or 100
years plus, we have not started with the luxury when we first draw the first drawing on a piece of
paper. We are engineers. We're innovators. We're technology people. We spent hours and hours
and hours talking technology. And it's almost like luxury comes natural on the side.
With this pivot of unearthing the true core of the Mercedes brand even more, it's interesting to
see how the product meetings get a new atmosphere where it's not just this, it happens
automatically. But it's more of a conscious process. And that means that we're also changing the
way we work inside the company on this. Not just how we seek advice from the outside. And I
have to admit, I'm very excited about this. This is fun.
Q - `Daniel Roska, Analyst, Bernstein
Thanks.
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head, Investor Relations & Treasury `
Thanks a lot, Ola. Thanks a lot, Harald. We've passed 11:15, so sorry, need to close the queue.
Thanks to all of you on the call for your questions and for being with us today. Now IR remains as
always at your disposal for any further questions. Have a great morning, great afternoon, great
evening wherever you are in the world and stay safe and we look forward to talking to you soon.
Thank you and goodbye.
Operator
Welcome to the Mercedes-Benz Conference Call. At the request of our customer, this
conference will be recorded. You will find the recording as well as our notes and data protection
on the company's website afterwards. A brief introduction will be followed by a Q&A session.
Please note that our remarks contain forward-looking statements regarding our current
assessment of future events. These are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, examples
of which can be found in the published documents. If the assumptions underlying the forward-
looking statements prove incorrect, actual events could differ materially from the estimates
expressed or implied by such statements. We do not intend or assume any obligation to update
forward-looking statements on an ongoing basis as they are based solely on circumstances as of
the date of this release.
And now I'll turn it over to you to be Tobias Rist. Thank you very much.A - `Tobias F. Rist, Chief Financial Officer `
Welcome to the participants, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to our conference call in
connection with the publication of our financial results for the year 2021. We hope everyone on
the line is enjoying good health. And on this conference call I'd like to welcome our CEO, Ola
Kallenius; and our CFO, `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer. This morning you already able to follow the presentation
and the analyst and investor conference call. In this, we already said it, apart from the geopolitical
issues there are some other issues to be discussed, but we will be focusing on our key financial
ratios for the past financial year. And you have the chance now to ask your questions.
Before we start with the Q&A session. The following notes. The operator will explain the
procedure for registering your questions again in a moment. You can ask questions in German or
English. The answer will always be in German and will be translated simultaneously into the English
and Chinese languages. Our conference call will end around 12:30 PM. Now please take the time
to ask your questions and speak clearly and slowly and the operator is not going to explain the
procedure again.
Operator
(Operator Instructions) All right. Let's get started. The first question is by Marco Engelmann [ph]
of BPA. Mr. Engelmann?
Q - Unidentified Participant
Good morning and thank you very much. Thank you for allow me to ask the question and let me
go first. I have a question on the raw material prices. In the press release you talked about the
fact that at least the net pricing. This year will be compensated -- will compensate the increase in
raw material prices, but it's withholding your profitability a little bit. Can you tell us the materials
that this mainly relates to. I mean we are aware of the fact that semiconductors are scarce. But
they make up of a small share. Is it steel, is it plastics, is it other technical components and then
the additional question in relation to that. Now what do you expect to happen in terms of inflation
pressure in Germany and other parts of the world and how do you expect the labor cost to
develop as a result. Will this also cause some -- some pressure and how do you see that in terms
of 2022.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
Well, Mr. Engelmann on the raw material prices or the situation overall in terms of commodities.
We see a very high level of volatility in markets in particular after COVID in 2020 and then also in
2021. We saw volatility, but the fact that we were referring to in terms of raw materials for 2022
where we see headwind mainly relates to steel. This is where we believe there will be the
greatest impact in 2022, but also in regards to some other commodities. Now for HR costs, we
have existing agreements and they take us up until the fall of 2022. And then we'll have to see
which agreements will be entered into thereafter. And I mean they will have only a small effect for
2022 they will rather have an effect on 2023 and following.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you.
Operator
All right. `Joe Miller, Analyst, Financial Times, The Financial Times. Joe?Q - `Joe Miller, Analyst, Financial Times `
Good morning. I'll be asking my question in English. Reports out this morning that Mercedes
continue to pursue higher profit margins rather than volume, but I just wanted to ask, given the
inflationary pressures. In the past we've seen car makers raise towards volume to offset that
whether you think that will change the calculation in terms of reducing volume in the near future.
And secondly there were reports out this morning that Italy is one of the countries that's
supposing certain parts of the planned EU sanctions against Russia asking specifically that luxury-
goods be exempted from these sanctions. I wondered whether you had done anything similar in
regards to lobbying the German government or whether you would do so in the future? Thank
you.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
Joe, good morning. If we see how the market has developed here especially in 2021 and the
environment that we're in 2022. We have the unusual situation that we have growth in all markets
and over demand in all markets, which creates the perfect breeding ground for the core of our
strategy, not to chase volume, but chase value for the customer and also financial value for the
company. So I don't see an overriding strategy shift due to the inflationary pressures that we feel
now. We will see more in the coming years. What's structural and what's not. But we will continue
very deliberately to look at the upper end of the segments that we're in create desirability where
we have the product also play the scarcity card in the right way. So, no, there is no deviation in
terms of our strategy. With regards to the situation that is developing in the Ukraine on a day like
this the thoughts are with the people in the Ukraine and the safety of the people and not so
much on the economic side of things at least on my mind and we let the experts be the ones that
make the decisions here and the experts are the politicians. No, we have not given them any
remit they are the right people that know how to deal with the situation.
Q - `Joe Miller, Analyst, Financial Times `
Thanks very much.
Operator
Okay. Thank you, Joe. (inaudible) of Reuters. Please go ahead.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Well, good morning, thank you for allowing me to ask question. Mr. Kallenius, I'd like to know a
little bit more about what that luxury strategy with a conscious scarcity element really means. Now
currently we are in a special situation. We need to, first of all, see what remains to be, what
remains what will be structural, but how do you intend to implement that because you cannot
intentionally produce less than as demanded for. I mean you will not refuse selling vehicles, but
how do you intend to keep up that scarcity. Will that mean that you will increase prices particularly
or will that mean that the compact car segment will be thinned out a little bit. So that is something
I'd like to get a better understanding of?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
Now when looking to our portfolio, we have a different items, the different positions and that was
at the top of the pyramid like the AMGs, the S-Class, the MyBus, the AMGs. In the previous call,
the analyst call, I talked about the G-Class and that compared to the Birkin bag of Hermes and I
call the G-Class the Birkin bag of Mercedes-Benz and this is in reference to scarcity leading to agood being more desirable. But you need to strike a good balance obviously in that and if your --
if your delivery times get too long for certain products then you need to be very careful to strike
a good balance. But if you projected onto the entire portfolio including all the models that we
have the entry levels of the Mercedes brands. I mean this is about really managing your channels
well that you should not do push marketing and try to just increase unit figures by fleets and
rentals because this would make the brand less desirable. And this is not also the quality of the
contribution margin that we'd like to see in order to manage this good very well.
It is of crucial importance that you lower the breakeven point and we have intensively worked on
that over the last few years in terms of managing our fixed costs well our overhead costs, but
also in terms of capital allocations and this is something that gives us more flexibility because
then we can respond to the market much better. We are in a good situation that all markets are
characterized by an excessive demand, over demand, if you want. This will not remain the case at
all times and that is why the product network needs to be aligned with our production network in
order to keep up that desirability. So it is not about not wanting to sell a vehicle that means that's
a given, but doing it in a balanced manner. And when you look at companies that are in the luxury
business only they do it in a very clever way. And this is the direction that we're going in. Even
though we have an industrial capital-intensive business with other framework conditions as
compared to the pure luxury-goods industry.
Q - Unidentified Participant
All right. Thank you very much.
Operator
(inaudible)
A - Unidentified Speaker
Good morning, Mr. Kallenius. I have two questions. My first question is the following. In the past
few weeks and months, you had quite a number of recalls. So do quality deficiencies make cars
more desirable as well and then the second question relates to situation in Russia. You continue
to do lobbying including a project called City Russia Meister [ph] and that's also supposed to be a
meeting with Putin. Now the question did you want to be part of the meeting with Putin that was
canceled and will you continue the project Russian Russell Meister. Now quality is the utmost goal
that is not negotiable at all and we deem quality to be of utmost importance. Quality and long
redeem and the solidity of our vehicles are of utmost importance. We respond in terms of recalls
in a very proactive manner. And if you check the recalls then you will also see that some of these
recalls I mean each recall is a recall too much, but we always respond proactively. And also if it's a
small unit figures even if something could happen though nothing has happened that and then
we still respond in the interest of a customer. This is our policy, but policy is also that quality is --
remains a key pillar of Mercedes. I had not planned to take part in this meeting with Putin. And I
don't know what this initiative will play out in future. This initiative was brought about in 2018 upon
the initiative of the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Now it's 2022. So we'll see what the future
holds.
Operator
Okay. All right. Let's go on. (inaudible)
A - Unidentified SpeakerYes, hello, Mr. Kallenius, Mr. Wilhelm, thank you very much for your time. I have a few questions.
One question for Mr. Wilhelm. Can you please tell me about the effect of the short-term work in
terms of money, a few figures. I think it was a three digit million some. Mr. Kallenius please help us
on. If I'm not mistaken the CO2 emissions should be more or less at the prior-year level. Can you
explain that because at the same time you want to increase the sale of e-cars and about the
situation in the Ukraine. Do you expect some effects on your business in Russia due to the crisis in
the Ukraine. I think you don't sell too many vehicles in Ukraine comfortably few I think, but you
opened a plant in Moscow. Now do you run the risk of sanctions?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
Well let me answer first of course there's a stop and go mood regarding the semiconductors,
which was also caused by shutdowns in Malaysia due to COVID. We relied on that too, but at a
scope that was much smaller than back in 2020. And I commented on that when I talked about
the results bridge. You can see that we had a much -- much lower contribution due to effect due
to short-term working hours below 2021. So this year we want to accelerate our initiative and we
want to increase the number of our e-cars twofold electrified vehicles. Well, we want to increase
sales in some total by more than 40%. It's a very important year. As you can tell productions
where production for e-vehicles that will also start in China this year. So very high level and much
higher levels than we thought about two or three years ago, which we achieved in Europe. 35%
to 40% of electrified vehicles in 2021. This high level is something like that we will focus on and
we will rollout the initiative internationally, which doesn't mean that we'll stop in Europe, we'll
continue, but the big launches will take place in China and in the US from our plants there. And we
knew very well, where we want to go. We want to accelerate our journey towards our zero-
emission goal.
There are no ifs and what's. If you think beyond '22, '23, '24, '25 and from '25 onwards we'll have
new architectures and these will be all electric architecture. So there's only one direction and
that's the direction towards zero emissions. Of course we're a bit careful with our guidance for
Europe in 2022 due to the situation, but this shouldn't really deviate from the fact that we try to
achieve figures. As regards Russia and the Ukraine. As I said earlier, what comes to mind first, the
people and their safety, and this is much more important than economic consequences, but of
course we do focus very clearly on what's going on, what's happening to our colleagues there,
what will happen to our economic activities and production activities, but it's too early today to
talk about the implications already because right now we plainly cannot say what measures will be
taken and how Europe and other countries will respond to this crisis to the situation. So at this
point in time I don't want to speculate please.
Operator
Fine. `Markus Klausen, Analyst, Dow Jones, Dow Jones is the next speaker.
Q - `Markus Klausen, Analyst, Dow Jones
Speaker A-`Markus Klausen, Analyst, Dow Jones
Yes, hello, and thank you very much. I have two questions. My first question is for Mr. Wilhelm. You
said this morning during the analyst conference call. Regarding the first quarter you said it's more
or less comparable to the fourth quarter price development. Used cars you think there was a
weaker situation. Maybe you can comment briefly on that and a very different question about the
factories. You want to build eight plants with partners in Europe. Can you give us a rough idea
about the locations and sites you have in mind or do you know when you will take a decision?A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Klausen on your first question, the first quarter of 2022. I mean -- January in the past February
will be past months since the two-thirds of the first quarter are over already. So we have quite a
good visibility and we should know what we'll do in March. So on that basis, we said, we think that
the volume of Q1 will be more or less, the Q4 volume of 2021, 500,000 units more or less. And
regarding this volume, we can tell that the good structure that we had in Q4 can be maintained.
As far as pricing is concerned and price positioning. The good momentum of Q4 2021 continues
in Q1 2022. As far as pre-owned costs are concerned. We said that 2021 was pretty exceptional
not because of reversals of provisions, but because of vehicles that came back and because of
the prices in the second-hand market used car market. We assume that the situation will go back
to normal slightly in 2022.
This is why the contribution to results will be slightly smaller, but still positive. We have to wait and
see how things develop in the course of the year. It's a bit early to draw conclusions right now, but
we assume and expect a slightly weaker growth. Well on the battery cell factories we have in
Asia, China and Europe and this footprint this year will the extended. We will make an
announcement this year we focus on the three main production sites that we have. Europe,
Germany, China and the United States. Just before closing with ACC that is the interest that we
announced last year. They announced two plants. One in France and one in Germany and then
we'll see how ACC will develop, but we will accompany that as shareholders to holder one-third.
So we are about to implement this on an industrial base and we want to implement this on a
product base as well.
Operator
William Brookes [ph], . Your question please.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Hi. Good morning and I just had a question on the -- this year your electric car production growth.
The electric sibling of the EQS model and it's going to be made on three continents. I was just
wondering how confident you are that this project will be successful given concerns about supply
chains worldwide for example like Nickel in Russia. Are you concerned about that today? And then
another question. Second question was your cooperation partner Aston Martin is wrestling with a
number of issues. Would you consider deepening ties with Aston Martin to help out? Thanks.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
Will, the first part of your question was hard to understand. Are you referring to the EQS?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
EQE I think.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
EQE, okay.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
So the smaller sibling of the EQS to EQE is going into production. And it's a SUV equivalent is in
the final stages of development and that production will start at the end of the year, beginning ofportfolio is crucially important. And all the feedback that we've received from the EQE that we
presented in Munich at the Auto Show in the past, in the past year has been tremendously
positive. So we are going to ramp up production in Europe in China and then later in the year on
the SUV side also in the United States. We have long-term sourcing agreements with our
suppliers to support this launch. That's clear. That raw materials will play a very important role in
scaling electric mobility in this decade and beyond. There's no question. We have even started
with some deep sourcing activities beyond the sourcing that we do through our suppliers with
offtake agreements for lithium and the like. So the raw material side of this thing is something
that will be definitely on our radar list going forward. And that concerns the whole industry, how
that develop. With regard to Aston Martin, we have a clear technical partnership that is now going
on nine almost 10 years. And that technical partnership will continue and we provide them with
technology at commercial in a commercial agreement and it works really, really well, beyond that
we don't have any plans at this stage.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
Good.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you.
Operator
Okay. Victoria (inaudible). But I'm sure it's Ms. (inaudible) of Reuters. Your question please.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Yes, hello, good morning. A very brief question for Mr. `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer. You said that you want to
launch L3 and AD beyond Europe. Can you tell us when? Thank you.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
Well, specifically, we are focusing on the US and we're also talking to the authorities in China
because we want to certify the technology over there as well beyond Europe as it were, but the
US is the next priority because our certification is well advanced. The discussion in China is
ongoing. Thank you very much indeed.
Operator
Okay. At this juncture I would like to read out questions from Chinese participant for technical
reasons. From China Daily, a short time ago Mr. `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer you said we accelerate a full electric
software driven future. What a software driven means in specific terms and what are your plans.
And the second question in spite of ongoing bottlenecks, regarding the supply of
semiconductors, the 4th quarter of MB cars and vans shows a strong adjusted a rise of 15%. How
have you achieved that and what is your outlook with regards to semiconductors?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
Well, no question. These are two revolutions of a technical nature that drive the transformation.
One is zero emissions by electrification. We talked about that. The other thing is intelligent
vehicles and more and more computing power, stronger computing how married to software
architecture that makes driving safer and more comfortable and especially with a view to the
Chinese market, we can see the speed of innovation that is going on there. This is the reasonwhy in autumn, we launched a brand new tech center in Beijing and the part of our development
activities that grows fastest in China is software. So we recruit staff. We expand and we can see
all sorts of use cases in this context that make driving more comfortable and safer. And more
than that we also perceive a lot of revenue potential and profit potential. So software and
electrification strategy is the second pillar of our transformation.
Q - Unidentified Participant
And about Q4 how have you achieve these results. What did you do?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
I mean you can see the pillars of strategy, the strategy at work, cost discipline and top-end
vehicle growth. I think the answer can be found in Q3. Actually in Q3 we had a very low volume
less than fewer than 300,000 units and in Q3 you could see how strongly we could reduce our
breakeven point which has made us much more resilient. In Q4, the volume grew 500,000. Now
this is not a huge number compared to what we achieved in the past, but this volume is what we
used quite deliberately in the realm of top-end vehicles and the same goes for prices and of
course we kept a strict focus on cost discipline. So even if the volume goes up, we still control
costs very tightly. So our rise is very good. Now a word about semiconductor guidance that was
also part of the question. The guidance regarding semiconductors for this year. Well this is
implicitly contained in our guidance. We said slightly above and as far as vehicle sales are
concerned, we are rather hesitant or a bit careful very conservative, there were some
uncertainties. We are working successfully together with our suppliers in order to resolve a few
issues, but there will be a few restrictions in 2022 especially in the first six months. And at this
point in time, it just wouldn't make sense to have a different guidelines. It wouldn't be the right
thing to do, but we believe and hope that in the second half of the year, the situation would be
different.
Operator
Another question from China Business Journal. After Daimler AG was officially renamed in
Mercedes Benz Group AG, your first and your result is a true highlight the adjusted EBITDA has
grown enormously. And this shows major advantage regarding cost efficiency and transformation
and how far has the Chinese market contributed to that.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
The Chinese market is the most important one. This was the case in 2021 and I think it will
continue to be one of the most important ones in 2022. In addition to the prioritization of product
losses, we also focus on markets and in this case I think we can safely say that we have -- we
allocated moneys beneficially in China that is the share and China was higher in '21 than in the
past and also the dynamic market, I think the momentum will remain there and the one to profit
with our fantastic products also in the future.
Operator
Ola, another question to you. Of China economic net, last year you declared in an interview Mr.
Kallenius at the transformation proceed expense has -- had entered the first phase, which phase
of transformation are you currently in? Are you satisfied with that? What needs to be
strengthened and approved and which level are you currently at in terms of electrification and
digitalization within the industry?A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
My answer is transformation has been accelerating. We have made quite some progress in 2021,
but we'd like to keep up the pace in '22 and thereafter. Last year, we decided that the past
electrification is to be accelerated. The key decision was that any new architecture starting in
2025 will be electric only and we have a number of architectures that we set up to travel along
this path with that objective. It's not only about electrification, as I said, it's about the software
architectures as well that go hand in hand with that and we also have made quite a bit of
progress in that regard. Now the future is now really, but we also would like to make sure that we
can accelerate the path towards an electrified future, so we're making progress, but no need to
rest on our laurels. We just need to think about what we can do in order to accelerate that pace
further.
Operator
Thank you very much. Now Markus Grabitz of (inaudible) is next. Please go ahead.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you very much and good afternoon, everyone. I have a question on the dividend. Would it
have been possible to just payout truck [ph] dividend or is that not possible, would not have been
possible from a technical standpoint on my question? Second question relates to the one-time
effect of EUR9.2 billion. Now you're saying that from the point of view of the management, it's a
pure valuation effect, this sounds very defensive as if there could be another interpretation to
this. Could you say something on that please?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
Yes, of course. Now I'd like to just come back to the last question. No, this is a fact that these are
the accounting rules. Because of the spin off, the assets liabilities are booked out and we have a
fair value that was determined by an external appraiser. So that led us to the book value of
EUR9.2 billion. But as I said, it doesn't have any relevance in terms of cash flow, so there was no
additional liquidity or cash generated from that and that is why we exclude that from the dividend
base and I think that's not a disputed technique. It's just an accounting procedure. Now as for the
dividend itself, the listing of Daimler truck took place on 9th of December 2021, so we're talking
about 11 months and 9 days during which time the truck was a part of the group and the group
results.
And that is why we just took a pragmatic approach and said, well, the dividend for 2021 contains a
truck share -- a truck contribution. We also disclosed that separately in the EUR5 and the
proposed EUR5 with a $0.70 that are made up of the truck component and it's also a matter of
fact in terms of the spin-off that all existing shareholders unless they changed their holdings got
one truck share for two previous Daimler shares, so nothing has shifted. And I think the
references were clear. At the end of the day, we have a great dividend of five years that
hopefully all shareholders will be happy about. Thank you.
Operator
So Joachim (inaudible) was next.
Q - Unidentified ParticipantGood afternoon. I have three questions. First of all, can you tell us how many units Mercedes-
Benz could have sold more had there not been a scarcity in semiconductors and how many cars
are put on hold because of a missing part -- cars that couldn't be supplied to the customers
because there is a chip missing? And then just recently, we found out that for Germany you
impose an order stuff for the E-Class sedan, is that also due to the semiconductor shortage or
are there other reasons and for how long do you intend to uphold it and do you also consider to
do the same for other models? And then also Mr. Wilhelm, you talked about a one-time effect of
the EUR900 million first quarter on EBIT, you were going a bit fast, can you explain that a little bit?
Is that the entry of NES [ph] into the Formula 1 team? And then also you were talking about the
sale of outlets, can you explain what that means?
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
All right. Let me get started. It's a very theoretical question to ask, how many more cars could you
have sold? I can only tell you that the demand was much higher than what we ended up selling
last year. And if you just think back that in 2019 we were at EUR2.3 million units, then you can do
your math and imagine what the figures would have been and how much -- how high that over
demand was, but we should not boil it down to a specific figure because this would be a very
theoretical play really. And during the management of the semiconductor situation, we also built
vehicles that were not complete, that had to be retrofit with the semiconductors once we got
them and the greatest number of vehicles, even though that's something we're not disclosing
externally, we had towards the end of the third quarter of last year and the number is today
distinctly lower than it was back then. And on the E-Class, of course, we're happy to know that the
E-Class was so popular with our customers, but we're currently preparing for a model change.
And, in particular, when you have built to order vehicles, you just need to make sure that you got
your logistics under control to make sure that the ramp up of the new asset class towards the
end of the year will be there as well, so that's why we imposed an order stop for the E-class and
that it has to do with the model change, but again the semiconductor scarcity still has a role to
play in the background as well now.
Now just quickly on inventories when you look at the information for today, the unfinished good
figures include that, but also the almost finished good figures contain that, so EUR1.8 billion was
the increase in that, so this had an impact on the cash flow. We don't give one to one figures in
terms of units for that. In terms of the cash flow impact for 2021, yes, you did understand that
correctly. It's two effects. One from the sale of shares in MB (inaudible) where you see two
effects, one from the sale and the other one from the valuation of the remaining share and this
has an impact on EBIT with the values that I mentioned this morning, on the EBIT side in total
EUR0.9 billion and for the cash flow side EUR0.7 billion and contained these figures is also the
proceeds from the sale of some of our retail outlets. We'll disclose more details on that in our
annual report to be published on the 10th of March and we will certainly also report on that in Q1
2022. Maybe just to go back to the E-Class, just to give you the comprehensive picture, so the
station wagon of the E-Class will be switched later to the new models so you can still order the
station wagon. And in China where we also produce the E-class, that switch over happens later,
so that E-Class will continue to be produced a little bit longer over there as well.
Operator
Now Michael (inaudible). Please go ahead.
Q - Unidentified ParticipantWell, good afternoon. Let me just ask two questions. First one on e-Mobility. I was going to ask
you the following. You said that you focus your campaign and your efforts on China and the U.S.
because you just talked about 35% to 40% for Europe. What's the share that you expect to be
for China and the U.S.? Will it be of a similar level? And then also on your luxury strategy, you said
that you increased the number of vehicles, the top end vehicles more than 300,000 if I'm
correct. And I'd be interested in finding out whether there was a target as to what the share is
supposed to be. So if I interpret this correctly, it's from 10% to 16% that the change, so are you
saying that every fourth vehicle is to be from that segment? Or to put it differently, revenue of
EUR50,000 per vehicle, do you have any targets or is it rather EUR60,000 or EUR70,000 per
vehicle? So could you be a little bit more precise on that regard? Thank you.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
Okay. Let me go back to your first question, the E-Mobility campaign, yes we're starting the
production of important models in China and the United States. This will definitely increase the
share of BV vehicles. There is maybe one thing that's a little bit different in Europe in today's
market as compared to those two markets and that the plug-in hybrids also play an important
role in Europe, quite a distinct role and we're seeing quite a high share of electrified vehicles that
we've achieved in Europe already. This is not the end of the story. But the U.S. and China will now
develop in that direction as well without me being able to give you a precise date.
And in terms of the share of top end models, while we started in 2022, we intend to grow by
more than 10%, so we would then grow disproportionately more in the top end. Yes, of course,
because of the semiconductor 2021 was not a normal year, I mean defining a distinct target
wouldn't be right. We just managed this dynamically in all our segments and of course we always
have the quality of contribution margins in mind across the entire portfolio, so I'm giving you at
least a precise figure for this would be too early, but yes, it is a matter of fact that in the top-end
would that is what we'll focus on from here on into the future.
Operator
All right. So let us continue Lisa (inaudible).
Q - Unidentified Participant
Good afternoon and thank you for allowing me to ask a question. I have a question for the EQE
that is planned for the summer and that's built by you -- what are the -- and that's built in Bremen
plant, what are the sales targets with this model? Will you also apply that principle of desirability
and which bag with the EQE equal? And question on the share of e-vehicles. When do you intend
to sell more e-vehicles as compared to conventional drive vehicles? And another question on the
conflict. In the Ukraine, you don't have a site in Ukraine and no employees there as well, but you
have the plant in Moscow. Have you taken any steps in terms of carrying for the employees? How
many employees are we talking about? And do you already have any plans should the situation
worsen?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
Now, of course, we want to make sure that all our vehicles are desirable. So we're not having two
different classes of vehicles, one that's more and one that's less desirable. So, no, that's not what
we want, but the E-Class is one of the core pieces of the Mercedes-Benz portfolio. So the EQE
launch is a key vehicle to be launched and that is also why we industrialize the vehicle here in
Germany, but also in China and the equivalent on the SUV side will be built in the U.S. and in China
as well, so the production capacities will be increased simply for this model in the next two years.And in terms of what kind of share we will have of the overall E-class segment, it's little bit too
early to say that. In our presentation, in the middle of last year, we decided that we want to go
and accelerate the path towards electrification. And up until then, we said, well the electrified
vehicles including the long range plug and hybrids were planned for 2025 before we made that
decision, so it was probably a 25% and then at 50% towards the end of the decade. Now,
however, we set ourselves even more ambitious targets and that more than up to 50% of
electrified vehicles could be achieved by 2025. I know this is a very ambitious target, but we'll do
everything we can in order to improve our capacity to that effect and where the markets are
ready, so that we could have up to 100% battery electric vehicles sold into these markets by the
end of the decade and backed up by that is the product strategy and that will have electric only
starting in 2025 for the product. So unlike the previous plan, we now have an additional level of
ambition imposed and we're working on that. And, yes, you're right, we do not have a site in
Ukraine. We do have a product to plant in Moscow, close to Moscow with about 1,000 employees
and of course we are in close touch with them.
Operator
Next (inaudible), please.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Yes, hello. I have a question about HR development. Mr. Wilhelm, I couldn't quite follow you. You
set from 160, there was a downturn by 3% to 155,000. In the press release, the small print talks
about 172,000 employees that would work with Mercedes-Benz group, so I'm interested in the
following. What is the active workforce and what's the difference, the delta, and how will this
number of employees change in the course of the year? And next question for Mr. Kallenius, this
prioritization of top models led to as adjacent in which delivery times for the A-Class one year, so
this is the time the buyers of these cars will have to probably wait. That's it. Thank you.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
Well the figure you saw in the press release relates to Mercedes-Benz group, as you said. So
altogether, the figure that we referenced to during our presentation this morning related to the
active workforce measured in FTEs for Mercedes-Benz cars and vans because we said specifically
for this area, we'd like to reduce fixed cost. This is why we focused on the scope. But of course,
these figures correlate. And what about the further plans for this year? Well, we don't offer any
guidance or outlook as far as the headcount development is concerned, globally speaking,
generally speaking, we can say that. As far as the blue-collar employees are concerned, we have
a stable development as far as white-collar employees are concerned. We pursue our goals to
reduce fixed cost without envisaging a very rigid target relating to white collar employees in 2022
that depends on each individual department to optimize fixed cost.
Of course, HR plays a role, but also other factors come into play here. In some areas, fixed cost is
driven externally up to 70%. In other areas, it's internally driven by up to 70%, so you have to
compare it on a department-by-department basis and this is a responsibility that we hand over to
our colleagues. They are the ones to manage it. We set the target, the framework rather in terms
of fixed costs and our results reflect that. We've made good progress.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
As far as software is concerned, Mr. (inaudible), we decided to pursue a vertical integration that is
in we will attract knowledge in-house. We are currently about to develop software expertise here
and internationally. We don't like delivery times that are too long. Of course, we cooperate withour partners and we leave no stone unturned in order to make progress, especially in view of
semiconductor bottlenecks, but there will be further constraints this year. And, of course, there
are top models that suffer from similar delivery times. We are working on this issue. We always
focus on the customer whenever we do the sort of location, but we have to reckon with a fact
that 2022 will continue to be marked by longer than normal delivery times.
Operator
Thank you. So now I'd like to focus on two more questions from Chinese colleagues, China
Automotive News. In the last few years, Mercedes-Benz has continuously driven the digital
transformation and your China business benefited massively from that. How will Mercedes-Benz
further expand innovations in the digital area in China in the future?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
This is a very important point because the digital ecosystems that we're familiar with from our
smartphones are very, very special ecosystems and specific ecosystems, especially so in China
that is for Chinese customers. We have to design a special development for the market and this
is the reason why we expanded massively on our digital topics in recent years while we've made
so much progress there in our new tech center that we opened in Beijing last year, of course,
focuses on that and we will continue to extend it further. We get some positive feedback
especially because of our spectacular screens, hyper screens, especially in EQE and something
else. As Chinese customers have a very high digital affinity that is it's a topic that is very important
to them, so a great deal of affinity to all things technological and smart things, so we will focus
very much on that in China.
Operator
And a last question from a Chinese colleague. With the Ambition 2039 Mercedes presented a
roadmap on CO2 neutrality as early as in 2019, what are your plans for implementing Ambition
2039 in China?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
Ambition 2039 applies globally. It's 360-degree strategy. Our suppliers, our own operations, our
in-house production, the vehicle fleet and the vehicle itself will be covered by this once we are in
a purely electric world. And this also goes for China. We were one of the first in Beijing in our
plant who participated in the green electricity option in autumn and our production there will be
made CO2 neutral in a step-by-step approach and as far as the product campaign is concerned,
our focus in China is the same as elsewhere. And there were many dimensions in which China is
the pioneering markets when it comes to e-mobility. They started very early on. They spotted this
technology very early on and we believe that especially the Chinese customer will be the
customer for whom this technology will be highly attractive and, of course, we invest accordingly.
Operator
Okay. The next one is Christian (inaudible) of fortune.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Good morning and thank you very much for granting me this opportunity to ask you three
questions. First of all, a follow-up question on a previous question. Level 3 in the West. Now the
legal situation is very complicated, to whom do you talk when you're in certain federal states?Number two, very practical question related to Russia and the raw materials for e-cars. Do you
expect supply bottlenecks regarding nickel for example? Would that negatively impact your
model offensive? And a philosophical question. Putin is not the only enemy to democracy in
Europe. Viktor Orban intends to further cement his power in April. To what extent is the
automotive industry co-responsible for that and also Mercedes regarding this deplorable
situation in Hungary or do you think you can positively influence the entire society?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
Thank you. Well as far as level 3 in the U.S. is concerned, you're right. We are talking to the
authorities. And, of course, we do a lot of testing locally. We have discussions there and it is our
objective to roll out this technology over there this year. That's always like that. If you're a pioneer,
if you are the first one who does something, it's like being the first born in the family. He or she
has to do everything and all the siblings who come later benefit from that and in this case we are
the first-born child, but I'm sure that we will be able to convert the question marks into a period
points with the authorities.
Q - Unidentified Participant
I'm sorry. Do you mean everywhere across the United States as a whole? With whom are you
talking about? Whether you are referring to a very important point?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
It's too early to tell. I have to admit that. So we'd have to take a more detailed approach to
answering your questions. But across the board, it has to be the goal for every technology to be
able to offer it worldwide. And in this case, it's like breaking new ground. So where necessary, you
have to do it step by step. As regards raw materials and the conflict in Ukraine and its impact on
that, it's still too early to make any forecast. We don't know what will happen. And this is why I
would like to refrain from speculating about this here and today regarding trade over the last 30
years or more, there is an unprecedented increase in affluence due to global trade around the
world, especially in economies that used to be developing economies are still are developing
economies. So trade or free trade as a principal in order to generate affluence and prosperity is a
good principle. Protectionism does not create more affluence of prosperity.
As far as global industrial players are concerned and also -- and especially the Federal Republic of
Germany, it is important to keep up the great policies, the regulations, the proper rules. As far as
various political systems and the manifestations are concerned, it's not up to individual
companies to control or leave their mark on such developments. And, of course, we follow the
politicians. Politicians are the experts. They are the professionals who accompany political
developments at a global level and negotiate about it and not companies. Thank you.
Operator
(inaudible) is next in line.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Hello and good morning. I have a question about this decline of 3% in 2019 regarding head count.
How is it distributed across production and white collar employees? And the question about pre-
owned cars, institute such as DAT say that the used vehicles market of E-vehicles is under strong
pressure especially because of the high subsidies and the fast technological progress in thissegment. What development do you forecast in the used car market in the foreseeable future
and what kind of impact will it have on Mercedes and the e-cars?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
Well, the minus 3% that you heard this morning relates exclusively to white collar employees as I
said earlier. When it comes to blue collar workers, the figure will remain stable, we are highly
flexible in this area. So this is not a focus. We focus on the white collar employees when it comes
to reducing fixed costs and I think we answered that question early on.
As far as the used car trend is concerned, I think it's too early to speculate about it. The first data
points that we perceive on regarding the vehicles that will come into the market EQS and we
don't expect anything else for the EQE, I guess indicator rather gratifying development I should
say. But I think we still have to wait a bit. Yes and we see that also in the DAT data on the German
market, these are the residual values and they are on a very sound basis regarding the vehicles
that come to the market right now.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chief Executive Officer
So, this brings us to the end of our Q&A session. Unfortunately, times up.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to thank you on behalf of all those who participated. Thank you for
showing your interest in our company. Thank you, Ola and Harald for answering the questions.
Any unanswered questions will be answered by our team of experts. Thank you very much
indeed.