Y 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations and Treasury `
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. A warm welcome to our Annual Results Conference of
Mercedes-Benz Group. We are very happy to have you with us virtually on the screens, as well as
the media representatives here with us in the room at the Global Training Center in Stuttgart. My
name is `Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations and Treasury, I'm heading Investor Relations and Treasury.
`Willem Spelten, Corporate Communications
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, also from my side. And a warm welcome to the Annual
Results Conference of Mercedes-Benz in 2023. My name is `Willem Spelten, Corporate Communications, and I'm Head of
Corporate Communications here at Mercedes-Benz. We are presenting our business results
today to analysts, investors and to media. In total, our presentations will take a bit more than one
hour, and you can follow our stream with simultaneous translation into German and Chinese. On
site, you can access translation tool. German is on Channel 1, English is on Channel 2, and Chinese
is on Channel 3.
`Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations and Treasury `
And, of course, after the presentation by Harald and Ola, you will have the chance for Q&A. We
will have two Q&As, one starting with the analysts and investor community, the second one forthe media representatives.
`Willem Spelten, Corporate Communications
And both sessions will be webcasted on our corporate website. The annual results conference
ends after these two Q&A sessions, approximately at 12:30 PM Central European Time. And now
I would like to welcome our speakers today on stage, our CEO, `Ola Kallenius, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer; and our CFO,
`Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer.
`Ola Kallenius, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
Thank you, Steffen and Willem. And good morning, everybody, and welcome again to our Annual
Results Conference 2023. We had set out an ambitious plan for 2023, and as you will see in this
presentation, we are delivering a very, very solid result. And this in spite of a macro environment
around the world that is challenging and remains so. On this first point, I want to take the
opportunity to thank the whole Mercedes-Benz team around the world. We have team members
in, I think, more than 150 countries, men and women, that are dedicated to this brand, dedicated
to this company. And it's really their effort that has helped us deliver such good results.
So let's have a peek and look at the numbers. Very much like 2022, you can see that we are
performing on a solid and high level. But what stands out with the numbers of 2023, and Harald
will go into more detail of that, is the free cash flow number and the resulting net industrial
liquidity from that strong cash flow number, which is, of course, a combination of earnings, but
also effective working capital management.
And if I then take that one step further and look at what have we done at Mercedes to be able to
produce these types of numbers. I mentioned the macro environment is challenging; higher
interest rates, the economic growth in China reaching a certain maturity, and not the dynamism
that we maybe had in the years preceding. But in that environment, we're pushing forward with
executing our strategy. We grew our battery electric vehicle sales for Mercedes-Benz cars by 73%
in 2023 and we launched a whole host of new vehicles. Perhaps the most important vehicle of
those, the new E-Class, which is always one of the centerpieces in our product portfolio and it's
coming into markets around the world as we speak. But behind the launches of the vehicles that
are in the market now, sits the intense work on the next-generation technologies and the next-
generation vehicles. And I'm going to allude more to that later in a strategic priority update of
what's going on in the company. But it's not just about product, it's also about the customer and
the markets. We pushed ahead, rolling out our direct sales models and tackled big markets like
the UK, Germany, but also overseas markets, Turkey and Malaysia in 2023.
If we then look at the sales, we stayed at a solid level, similar to 2022. It is true that we were
affected primarily in the second half of the year by a supply constraint that will carry into the first
quarter of 2024 as well. But we are working on this and are confident that with additional
measures and additional capacity coming online that we will get out of this trough by the second
quarter of this year and will then have the full availability of our products.
If you take a deeper look at the structure of the sales, on the battery electric side, as I
mentioned, for Mercedes-Benz cars, we grew by 73%. So the BEV momentum in the segments
that we are, which is largely the large segments with the EQS and the EQE derivatives, that was
very strong growth. In fact, in a market like the United States, we actually had the highest share of
EVs of any foreign brand. But also on the plug-in side, whereas it was a little bit lower than in
2022, we have kept our market share on the high-end side of plug-in hybrids and have the
strongest position there. And going forward, we think that the plug-in hybrids will stay relevant forplug-in with more than 100 kilometers WLTP range, literally you have an electric car from Monday
through Friday when you go to work.
But also in terms of our top-end sales, compared to where we started maybe three or four years
ago, we have come up to quite a high percentage of sales for the Top-End side already with 16%.
That was carried by growth on the G, growth in Maybach, growth in AMG, while at the same time
defending our very dominant position for the S-Class.
If I switch over to vans -- let me see here -- if I switch over to vans, the van division had a standout
year in 2023. I really have to applaud the team for what they have been able to achieve. What's
underpinning this performance, and I think it's probably a historic high in terms of performance in
the van division, is a strong product portfolio, starting with the Sprinter at the top, but all the other
vehicles that we have in that portfolio as well.
And also good market exploitation in a market that was a little bit stronger than on the passenger
car side, but literally where we with the Sprinter van, which is kind of the S-Class of vans in a way,
we can see it here next to me, we have a very, very, very strong market share in the relevant
markets. But also here, the van team is not resting on its laurels and kind of saying, okay, this is it,
let's just cruise from here on forward. That would be far from the atmosphere that's going on in
that division. In fact, van is probably going through the biggest transformation in its history and
are now gearing up, investing into the future technologies, preparing the VAN EA architecture,
which will be an all-electric van architecture, which is only a couple or three years away now. So
the van team really now is going into a phase of investment and preparing and setting up the
division for the future.
So the strong performance in van led to higher sales, as I mentioned. And we're also gradually
growing the BEV side of vans. Most important is the launch that we just had at the end of the year
and the beginning of next year, which is the next generation of the eSprinter with a whole range
of different battery sizes to cater for such a variety of customer needs. I don't think there is a
business in the auto industry that has such a heterogeneous use of our product. You cannot just
single in on one segment and say, I make a tailormade van for just this one segment because you
would then miss the other adjacent 10, 12, 15 segments. So an electric van has to be also a Jack
of all trades. And that's what we're doing with the eSprinter-2.0, it's coming into the market now,
and the first reception has been very positive.
So if you look at that together and in our CO2 numbers for cars, in this case for Europe, the
passenger car van registrations are also included in our car number here. Hence, without the van
side of it, it would be significantly lower still. We were able to reduce the CO2 burden of our
vehicle fleet in Europe. We're well within target. This also includes our smart business, which is
now moving from being production under the roof of Mercedes and switching to the joint venture
that we set up some years ago. So smart comes into the picture for us through pooling from this
point forward. But we have said that in future reporting, because this is a singular view on Europe,
we will switch to reporting xEV shares instead on a worldwide basis to cater for the run-up of
electrified vehicles around the world and not so much just focusing on Europe.
And with that, I would like to hand over to Harald, who will give us a deep dive on what's going
on, on the financials.
`Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, thank you very much Ola. And hello to everybody. So let's get started with the Cars
financials. Well, we could, I mean, hear before the sales are flat in 2023, fully in line with thewe commented earlier, had an impact of approximately 5% on sales. And you can easily imagine
that the impact on margin, in terms of loss margin and out-of-sequence cost is very substantial.
With this, revenue are slightly up by 1%. The EBIT adjusted came in at EUR14 billion, mainly due to
higher inflation and supply chain-related cost. And the CFBIT adjusted is meaningfully up by 10%.
Let's have a closer look on the EBIT evolution and the walk in 2023. So the return on sales
adjusted stands at a solid 12.6%. That was very much supported by the bucket volume structure
and net pricing, which had a meaningful increase by almost EUR2 billion. With the volume flat and
also the mix flat, you can easily imagine that the net pricing must have been pretty healthy, and
that was supported by list price increases and escalation updates. And important to note as well
that the net pricing even in the fourth quarter continued to be positive and solid.
On the other elements in this bucket, we have a bit of a lower sales and revenues and margins
from the sale of goods and services, i.e. the parts-by-parts business into the BBAC JV. We have a
bit of a lower used car business in 2023, but still at a very healthy low four-digit million level --
billion -- million level, excuse me. And we also faced on the FX side a negative impact, chiefly due
to the Turkish lira, however, with a counterpart sitting in pricing.
Look at industrial performance at minus EUR1.8 billion. What the main effects here? Tailwinds from
lower raw materials and improved manufacturing cost, however, outweighed by higher inflation
charges and supply chain-related cost, which are the main reason for the lower profitability in the
third and in the fourth quarter.
Looking at the selling expenses, minus EUR200 million. We have on the one side lower marketing
expenses; on the other side from the shift of the direct sales model, the agent remuneration
comes in this bucket. That explains why that is a bit down. On the R&D side, in line with our full
year guidance, we're up as we invest into many platforms, technologies and in particular into
MB.OS.
The other bucket contains various elements. One of that is the discounting of non-current
provisions due to lower interest rates, interest rate curves, which came down. The lower BBAC at
equity contribution, we had a prior year effect from the sale of the Uhlenhaut Coupe. And some
proceeds from the divestiture of our operations in Indonesia, and a bit on the own retail. On the
adjustment side, EUR66 million on Russia and close to EUR100 million on diesel-related charges.
With this, all in all, the EBIT booked came in at EUR14.2 billion and also at a 12.6% return on sales.
Let's have a look on the indicators of change. So, to check whether we are on track in line with
what we said we want to do over several years, that we put out these KPIs to track the
performance. First, I would say, on the ASP side, since 2019, 46% up. And again, 2023, another
2% up compared to 2022. So definitely you see Pillar II at work here. That means with a
EUR74,000 ASP, the pricing and the mix is supporting that.
On the cost side and on the headcount side, we had a meaningful reduction by 7%, equaling
9,000 FTEs. Fixed cost by the end of 2023 were down by 16% compared to 2019. Remember last
year that was a minus 13%, which means we made progress. And obviously, there was significant
inflation in the meantime, we overachieved that. So I would say, we're well on track towards the
target of 20% by 2025, which we did not adjust for the hyperinflation over the last years. So really
sticking into that objective.
On the R&D side, looking on the cash side of things, I mean, this is up as we invest into the
future, into platforms, into MB.OS, consciously. On the other side, on the PPE side, again, also
cash view, this is significantly down by 41% despite the investments into MMA and the expansionIf we look on the longer-term investment commitment to take it down by 20%, compared to 2019
levels, we said initially that, that would -- should happen by the mid of the decade. We see that
now a bit more to the right in the second half of the decade, as we invest so heavily into the EV
platforms and into MB.OS. The detailed timing, I would say, of that 20% down, which we confirm
and we're committed to, however, will depend on the phasing of the transitioning from BEV into
ICE. With this, I think you can see that we're well on track and definitely we want to keep going in
that direction, not only until 2025, but beyond that.
Now, looking on the cash flow evolution on the Cars side, EUR12.3 billion CFBIT reported,
adjusted approximately same number, EUR12.5 billion. I mean, that means a meaningful cash
conversion of 0.9. What's driving that? Working capital was at charge by EUR1.1 billion, mainly from
inventory, so the stock level came down in terms of units, but the higher material cost, I
commented earlier, have an impact which outweighed that number.
On the investment side, EUR500 million, that is related to our Grand Prix engagement, the sale
of the operations in Indonesia and the retail. On the investment side, we see that investments in
PPE and then intangible are now exceeding the depreciation, fully in line with the strategy to
proactively invest into the transformation into EV and into MB.OS. On the adjustment side, we see
expenses for legal proceedings, cash-outs for the move -- restructuring program, which we did
some time ago, and some M&A proceeds.
Now having a look at financials, Ola, you mentioned it. Very, very strong set of results, fantastic
year, just again. So from my side, kudos to the whole team here. All figures up, stellar
performance. Sales up 8%, revenues 18%, EBIT 60%, which means EUR3 billion of EBIT adjusted
and translating that also into cash of EUR3 billion. Again, very strong set of results.
In light of that, probably we can make it a bit short on the bridges, I would say. So how did the
team come from 11% to 15% here? Well, volume structure, pricing, all of that very, very strong with
EUR2.4 billion. So volume helped, very healthy solid pricing. So I think that fully endorses the
strategy to focus on profitable growth in the premium segments of the Vans.
The FX contributed positively, however there were two opposing effects. On the one side, we
had -- as well here the Turkish lira, meaning negative with a counterpart also siting in pricing. On
the other side, we had a material positive effect coming from the Argentinian peso, where the
respective negative impact sits in the industrial performance. So talking about that industrial
performance, this FX effect amounts to a mid-three-digit million number, and this is driven by
inflation. This is by far the single biggest items in the industrial performance. Overall, I mean the
Argentina business is a profitable contribution to the Vans business.
And if we look on other effects in industrial performance, we see some small three-digit million
inflation impact and we also see that some higher logistic cost and the absence of (inaudible)
effects weighed on the performance here, helped as well on the other side by favorable raw
material tailwinds. Direct selling, same thing as I mentioned before. On the Cars side, don't need
to repeat that. R&D increasing obviously as we invest into VAN EA, into new products, into
technologies. Adjustments refer also to diesel here, and with this the EBIT adjusted and reported
is at a strong EUR3.1 billion.
On the cash conversion, a bit of working capital charge, with a bit of inventory step-up, offset by
receivables and payables. Investments, as already mentioned several times, stepping up. And on
the Others, the technical reversal of at equity result and a dividend from FBAC. Again,
adjustments here refer to the legal proceedings.We also want to share here for the first time I think indicators of change for the Van side of things.
So what do we see here? Also a very meaningful ASP step-up by 36% since 2019, which is now
sitting at EUR48,000 in 2023, also supported by the strong mix and pricing as on the Cars side.
On the workforce side, we see an 8% reduction to 19,000 FTE headcount. But bear in mind that a
big portion of that headcount is blue collar, whereas the reduction comes chiefly from the white
collars, which means the share of reduction on the white collar is even higher. With this also, fixed
costs came down in the Van side by 16%, and same thing, inflation, all of that is included, which
means we overcompensate in inflation on a net basis.
On the R&D side, up again due to the investments, as we could see in the numbers before. And
also on the PPE side, I mean, here we're doing the investments in preparation of the VAN EA, and
the further evolution of the footprint in Eastern Europe. So I would say, all in all, we can also say
that on the Vans side, very, very, well on track.
Key messages on the Mobility side. Healthy new business development in a very competitive
market environment. Focus of the team definitely to support the electric vehicles step-up, where
we see a higher penetration rate above the average. The overall portfolio is at a stable level. The
performance side is impacted by the higher level of refinancing cost and intensified competition.
However, we see in the acquisition margin some signs of improvement, but that will take a while
until it's making its way through the P&L.
What else? Solid cost of credit risk, I mean, development. And in 2023, we bundled the charging
business inside the mobility side of the business with ramp-up of the activities with the first HPC
charges in the U.S., China, and Germany, up and running, operating and charging Mercedes
vehicles and others.
On the financials, well, I already said, new business up by 7%, portfolio, I mean, roughly stable.
And on the EBIT side, let's have a closer look on the bridge. So with the EBIT at EUR1.7 billion and
a 12.3% return on equity. How did we get there? The main reason, as already alluded to before, is
the pressure on the interest margin from the higher refinancing costs and the increased interest
rates. A bit of unfavorable FX, a bit of lower remarketing result at Athlon, and then the
investments in charging business. The cost of credit risk were overall solid despite the macro
environment and also higher level of delinquencies in the U.S.
We could also see in the Others -- in the Other bucket that in 2023, we had progress and a
positive contribution from the Mobility participations. The platforms business over there which
helped in the performance. On the return on equity, I said 12.3% before. If you exclude the
charging, as we added that into it, it would have been 12.8%. The adjustments here on the
Mobility side refer to the divestments from Russia and an adjustment on the at equity
participation.
Now looking on the Group EBIT. The business side of [ph] Cars, Vans, Mobility, I explained already.
What is left to be said? On the recon, here we see chiefly a higher level contribution of the at
equity result from our friends at Daimler Trucks, with EUR600 million of improvement year-over-
year, and on the central function side some topics which we had in the past but no more this year,
namely the spin-off costs from the trucks. With this, the EBIT adjusted sits at EUR20 billion. On the
adjustment, we have the M&A side, I referred to on the Mobility as well as the impact from the
Russia divestment. The booked EBIT therefore is at EUR19.7 billion.
Now looking on the cash side, the cash on Cars and Vans, I explained already. What's left on the
central side, taxes at EUR4.8 billion, higher cash taxes compared to 2022. Key reason is lowerapproximately 28%. The improved interest results also helped, and therefore contributed
favorably on the Group FCF. On the FCF and the recon, same thing on the Truck side with a
higher dividend and with this we ended the year with EUR11.3 billion of free cash flow.
Adjustments for legal proceedings move and M&A as commented individually in the sections
before.
Well, that means we ended up 2023 with a pretty healthy balance sheet of EUR31.7 billion,
whereas we started the year at EUR26.6 billion. That was obviously driven by the cash flow. We
paid dividend of EUR5.6 billion. We did the share buyback by the end of 2023 in the amount of
EUR1.9 billion. As we speak, it's even EUR2.1 billion. So we are well on track for the EUR4 billion
share buyback program. And on the other column, we cashed in dividend from the Mobility, the
payouts, which I have done over there. So I would say that is a very healthy and comfortable level
of liquidity and balance sheet.
And now, obviously, you have the question, what are we doing with it? Number one is the
dividend proposal. With a net profit of EUR14.5 billion and an EPS of EUR13.5, we are roughly at a
prior year level. On that backdrop, we propose a divi of EUR5.30 per share for the AGM, that is
fully aligned with our payout policy of approximately 40%. But we also want our shareholders to
participate, to benefit from the share buyback, from the accretion of the share buyback done
already. And that's why you see a progress on the dividend to EUR5.30 compared to EUR5.20 a
year ago.
Well, and talking about shareholder return and capital allocation, I'm sure you noticed that we
communicated yesterday further extension of our capital allocation framework. What is the
background of this? We feel very good to be on track in terms of the strategy and the strategy
execution. You can see strong cash generation, but we also expect strong cash generation
moving forward in the years to come. And with this confidence in mind, we want to rebalance and
optimize our capital structure and distribution policy. The main element of that new policy
communicated, decided yesterday by the Supervisory Board and communicated yesterday, is
that in the future we plan to allocate future available cash flows on the industrial side after
dividend and after M&A to our shareholders by way of share buybacks.
Let me take you through the individual steps of the capital allocation framework. First, it starts
with a dividend policy, which again confirmed at around 40% payout ratio, as you can see, with a
proposal for 2023. And here, I would just like to reiterate that dividend sustainability is an
important element when we look at that.
Second, let's have a look on the current share buyback program, the EUR4 billion program as I
said, we did EUR2.1 billion as we speak. Initially, we planned to complete that by February 2025.
Given the speed, I think we're well on the way. And that means that possibly we will complete
that program in the third quarter in 2024. So what does the new policy means in terms of
practical application there for now? Well, we want to complete the EUR4 billion program ahead of
time, but then we want to make use of the remainder of the 10% authorization which we got from
the AGM back in 2020. And that means that right after the completion of the EUR4 billion
program, we want to get started with an incremental EUR3 billion to be completed before the
AGM in Q2 2025. As the legal threshold in Germany for share buyback is a 10% authorization by
the AGM, so we go to the limit. And that's why probably we want to go back to the AGM in May
2025 or Q2 2025, and ask for approval of another 10% by then. So with this, obviously, we want
to generate continuous EPS and DPS growth over the years. At the same time, however, we will
keep the flexibility in case of any unexpected market developments.Let me maybe summarize -- sum up on this capital allocation framework. Therefore, I think maybe
it's fair to say that cash flow generation is a key topic in the company. If we look now over the last
couple of years, 2020 to 2022, we generated approximately EUR8 billion of cash flow -- free cash
flow a year. 2023, EUR11 billion, as you could see.
So that means between 2020 and 2023, EUR35 billion free cash flow generated in total. And
therefore, I think it's fair to say our products are cash-generating machines. And that's why we
want to keep moving forward. And that's why we're doing this framework. And that means that
on the one side, we protect the investments into the transformation, into the BEV platforms, into
software, into MB.OS. into battery architectures. So that is and will remain the strategic priority.
But at the same time, we can now distribute the incremental or the excess free cash flow over
and above the divi to our shareholders. And that means you have a stable and healthy divi stream
on the one side. And then, as a kind of a top-up with this policy, you have the incremental share
buyback using the FCF over and above the 40% of the divi, which should support EPS and DPS
growth.
And that gives us, on the one side, flexibility to honor the strategic investment needs, i.e. on the
transformation side. On the other side, it also offers opportunities, which means in case of any
divestitures, obviously, that would favor the free cash flow. And I'm pretty sure that some of our
audience might have any potential divestiture of our Daimler Truck stake in mind.
Now I turn to the outlook for 2024. And -- well, first, obviously we have the assumption -- first, we
have the assumption chart. Please read that carefully. But I would say, in the interest of time, I
jump over it and want to come back to the point, Ola, you mentioned already before that we
have a change on the KPI set. So which means from 2024 onwards, instead of the CO2, we want
to guide on xEV, which better reflects the worldwide activity, obviously, of our company and also
of the electromobility than the pure European CO2 KPI.
Now let's look on the Cars side in terms of the guidance. First a word on the supply side, and the
supply chain side of things. These bottlenecks are easing. However, some topics will remain
throughout 2024 and therefore, impact also the sales perspectives for the full year of 2024, in
particular in the first half of the year and in the first quarter. And that's why at this juncture, we see
the first quarter for 2024 below the prior year level. At the same time, we also see that some
suppliers are getting a bit more in distressed financial situation, and that is also catered into
these perspectives.
What does it mean in terms of the sales guidance? So again, as for 2023, for 2024, we take, I
would say, a prudent view, given supply chain constraints, but also, I think, continued subdued
macro environment. If we look a bit into the market, it means in Europe we see a picture which is
a bit heterogeneous. Some markets a bit stronger, some a bit softer. Clearly, the availability -- the
increased availability on GLE and E-Class should help here throughout the year. If you look at
China, we see a more subdued macro environment, which calls for some caution, I would say,
overall, but also here the GLC and the E-Class availability should help to ramp up. And in the U.S.,
we see a picture which is, I would say, a solid momentum in terms of the demand side of things.
But also here, I would say, on the SUV, on the GLC, but also on the E-Class, we see some
support. However, if we sum it up, all in all, we keep a view of the stable sales, at prior year level
for 2024.
On the xEV side of things, we see a situation also at the same level, between 19% and 21%, with a
lot of new products to come at the same time. However, the current or the previous smart, I may
say, is leaving the numbers, which has a counter effect. And that's why, basically, we are rather flat
on this side.On the margin side, what is the guidance here? 10% to 12%, which is, I would say a solid number
in the context I explained before. How do we get there from 2023 to 2024? Well, the volume is
flat. The mix is also rather flat. We have a lot of new entry positions. However, all in all, also on the
Top-End side, we would rather see it stable, but at a very healthy high level. So we are at the 16%,
where we wanted to get to and therefore I think we can be comfortable with this situation.
On the pricing side, we definitely have the ambition to hold and defend pricing at 2023 levels. So
where is the margin softening coming from? It is on the used car side, where we do anticipate
softening. I said already before, it still sits at the end of 2023, at a healthy level, but now we see it
coming a bit further down in 2024. We do expect some headwinds on the FX side. And then
obviously 2024 is all about material cost. So on the one side, we do see some material tailwinds
on raw mats, based on the current market conditions, which we're cashing in. But on the other
side, we still expect further headwinds on supply chain-related cost. But, all in all, on the material
cost, we see a slight tailwind, therefore, in 2024. So compared to 2023, we're turning the tide. So
what's left to be explained then, is the Other bucket. So a bit of lower BBAC at equity
contribution in 2024, and absence of prior year effects, which roughly explains, I think, the
guidance of 10% to 12%. Cash conversion is at 0.1 -- 0.8 to 1. So cash generation continues from
here.
Now, looking on the Vans side, we do anticipate some market softening, I mean, in the second
half of the year, a solid start, a strong backlog with very healthy pricing in the first half of the year.
So we anticipate some softening here. The xEV share is expected to be in the range of 6% to
8%, with the eSprinter 2.0 being available in the markets in 2024. Healthy pricing and mix to
continue. And the R&D and the PPE is expected to be up. Due to the volume adjustment, the
anticipated volume adjustment, we see the Vans guidance on the margin side at 12% to 14%, and
cash conversion at 0.6 to 0.8, obviously, given the VAN EA investments.
Mobility, we do expect the margin to be at 10% to 12%. So what is driving that? The portfolio
should be at similar level. We still see the interest margin under pressure, in particular, in the first
half of the year. As I commented earlier, on the acquisition side, we see some improvement.
However, on the portfolio side, we're still suffering in 2024, and that means that probably from
today's point of view, the first quarter will even sit below the full year guidance corridor.
Now, on the Group side, what's left, obviously, if you add it up, the Group revenues should be at
prior-year level altogether. Given what I explained on the Cars and Vans, and the Mobility, the
Group EBIT should be slightly below 2023 level. And looking on the cash side of things, we also
should be slightly below 2023, while 2023 was a pretty good year with EUR11 billion, obviously,
but with a lower EBIT on the Cars, on the Cans, and the higher investments on the Vans side, I
think it's easy to understand that the free cash flow should also sit slightly below 2023.
And with this, Ola, I hand it back over to you.
`Ola Kallenius, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
Thank you, Harald, for that deep dive into the numbers. Now, I would like to take you on a journey
of our strategic priorities going forward. How are we executing our strategy and how do we set
those priorities? And I'm going to start with the brand. Every year, Interbrand, which I think is one
of the most respected institutions, comes out with a brand value study and a brand ranking, and
we consistently sit in the top echelon of the famous brands in that study. And I think, whereas you
can argue, is it actually mathematically possible to put a number -- a dollar number on a brand, I
don't think you can argue with the fact that the Mercedes brand is perhaps our most valuable
asset. And we are custodians of that brand and that asset, that has been built up over more thanSo how do we want to take that value, that value for our customers, but also for our shareholders
into the future? And it really starts with the customer. And I want to highlight a few things that we
have been doing here over the last years and what we're working on. The first thing is something
that we call the Mercedes-Benz Way. At the point of sale, whether it's sales or a service
appointment, buying, owning, servicing a car is still very much a people business. So we are
investing a lot of resources and a lot of money into training our staff around the world, to help
every team member in the Mercedes sales and service team to create an experience, a
customer experience at the point of sale that fits to that brand promise.
So the human side of things is maybe the most important. But equally important is the
environment. We have quietly in the background, upgraded almost a third of our physical
dealerships around the world to a new aesthetic standard. So when you walk into these
showrooms, you just feel it's right. It's not just the product that is beautiful, the setting of how the
product is presented is equally important. And some of our investors around the world are even
taking that to the next level now. And they are investing into dedicated showrooms for some of
the other sister brands to the Mercedes-Benz master brand. So you now have dedicated
dealerships really of AMG and Maybach. I visited a couple of those last year and I was very
impressed of what they have done there. And our investors wouldn't do this unless they think that
that's economically viable and has a growth potential. I would like to show a short movie of the
opening of one flagship store in Dubai that I visited recently. Let's look at that movie.
(Video Presentation)
A few weeks ago, when I walked into this place, and it was just opened, our business partner in
Dubai, Shehab Gargash, that I've known for many, many years, I walked in and looked around at
this facility and my feedback to Shehab afterwards was I think this is probably the most gorgeous
showroom I've seen for Mercedes-Benz or any car brand in the world ever. And you have
obviously gone out of your way to create an atmosphere here -- there. It's almost like you want to
move in, into the place. And I just came from having, on the same trip, opened the new flagship
store in Riyadh in Saudi Arabia with a similar feeling with our partners there, the Juffali family. So
what this is demonstrating is we want to take it to the next level for our customers. But they're
not doing it, and I'm reiterating, they're not doing it, just because they love Mercedes, they do.
They're doing it because they think it's good business.
Next to that representation for the customer out there in the field, there are other things that are
happening. You know that we're on a journey introducing direct sales in many markets across the
world. 2023 was a big year, and we're now covering more than 50% of our sales volume in
Europe and about 30% of our sales volume in overseas. And step by step, over the next year, we
will continue with this.
Many customers also want to have the same feeling in the digital world. And perhaps in the past,
sometimes I felt, years ago when I went into the Mercedes-Benz configurator, I wanted to digitally
configure my vehicle. I wished I had a PhD in computer science, because sometimes it was so
complicated that I just couldn't figure it out. Maybe we had too much choice. If you do that now,
and if we look at the digital journey that you have now, I think it pretty much matches what you
see in the physical world. It's easy to understand. It's customer-oriented, we're rolling it out in
many markets. And should you choose to either just want to reserve your vehicle online or go all
the way, because you know the brand and buy your vehicle online, we're at the forefront of the
OEMs that are going in this direction, and we will continue that effort. So the customer journey,
whether it's physical or digital, it needs to be equally attractive.Speaking about having the customers back, and Harold mentioned it when he talked about the
numbers, we are investing into charging infrastructure. Why are we doing this? I think one of the
most important enabling factors on the longer journey of going zero emission is that the
customers want to have the same confidence in convenience that they have been used to for the
many decades that are behind us. So we have decided to send a signal to our customer through
our efforts in charging, telling them we got your back. And we're doing three things. One, and
that we have been doing for years now, is we're teaming up with others in consortium. It started
in Europe. Last summer, we put together a consortium for North America, one of the driving
forces there, that is going to start investing. And just very recently, we announced teaming up
with another well-known partner from Southern Germany to tackle this in the Chinese market. So
strength through partnerships and delivering more high-performance charging to our customers.
On top of that, we're adding a Mercedes layer. So if you are a Mercedes customer looking at this
electric G-Class here, which is about to launch, you will also have, in the right geographical
locations, dedicated Mercedes charging points. The first ones have been opened in the United
States, in Europe, in China, and we're gradually building this and we're going to invest a
significant amount of money into this throughout this decade. There you can expect, as Mercedes
customers, in some cases to have maybe additional features, like you can reserve your spot
ahead of time, the car knows where you need to stop and can kind of reserve it for you. So if
you're going on vacation, you don't come to the charging spot and there's somebody ahead of
you, you know that you're safe and that you can charge. And yes, we also made a tactical
decision last year to open up the Tesla network in North America through an agreement with
them, that will come into fruition for all the Mercedes EV users as of the middle of this year. So a
lot of effort taking care of the customer.
But, of course, at Mercedes, we were always a product company and the product is always at the
center of what we do. So the bulk of the investment, these very high investments, mind you, but
funded by our own cash generation, we will continue to push product investment. And it doesn't
matter if it is the whole electric product portfolio and the massive amount of activity that is going
on there, is also true for many years to come, that the electrified high-tech combustion portfolio
plays an equally important role and is of course, the backbone at the moment of the cash flows
that we have been talking about here in the financial presentation. So as an established
manufacturer, the customers can also feel comfortable to get top-end product in both categories
for the foreseeable future.
Speaking about top-end product, I mentioned the E-Class before, and we're just launching the
new E-Class in China. Here, you can see the backseat of it. When I was in China in the late fall and
I was sitting in one of the early production vehicles before we had gone into the market, and I'd
kind of seen it on the PowerPoint slides. But if you live in Europe, you drive the European version
of the E-Class, which is of course fantastic. When I stepped into the Chinese one in the back, I
thought I was sitting in an S-Class. It's that level of comfort in the backseat of that car. And we
know how important the long wheelbase is in the Chinese market. So this desire to create more
desirability for our customers, it's not something that is happening in five years' time and what
we're deciding now will eventually trickle into products in the second half of the decade. It's
happening now, and our customers can enjoy this now, as is the case with this example of the E-
Class in China.
But speaking about desirability, on the top end side of things, yeah, we have it here, believe it or
not, in the picture there you see this Electric G going up the legendary Schockl Mountain, which is
right next to Graz, where this car is being built. And, yes, it's actually me behind the wheel. It's not
because I have a stroke of vanity here, and I wanted to demonstrate my driving skills. My drivingwhen I drove up that mountain, and it's pretty heavy-duty offroading, is how incredibly easy it was
to drive this vehicle. I stepped out of it afterwards and thought, wow, my mother could have done
this. I'm not commenting on my mother's driving. She's a very good driver and has a perfect
record in terms of accidents over 50-plus years. But the technology that is available in this vehicle
now makes this effortless. And that goes beyond kind of the cool G-turn that you do for show.
We're protecting our very strong position on the S-Class and continue to invest in technologies
into that product.
The EQS Maybach is coming into the market. And maybe my personal favorite, even though,
myself, I'm an SL fan, if you get the opportunity to enjoy some of the open air and the sun, that's
great. But now we're launching the next generation GT. It's phenomenal, It's a two plus two, It's
got four-wheel drive, It's got crazy performance. And with the concept that we have chosen, you
can do all that while carrying at least two sets of golf bags, if you're a golfer and the weekender
with it as well. So the perfect sports car that you can use for every day. Continuing to invest in
top-end vehicle products.
But we go beyond that. And what we also want to -- maybe we switch here -- what we also want
to do is to cater to customers that are looking for something even more special. We have always
had the opportunity for what call manufacture [ph]. And in fact, we have dedicated an area in our
kind of master plant in Sindelfingen for manufacture, where you can create your own tailormade
suit. And the team that is behind that, they're not only passionate, they see a bigger business
opportunity. So we're expanding this from the opportunity to do the one-of-one, your individual
vehicle, to take features that we develop for you to make your cars even more special. From time
to time we do limited editions, you can't be inflationary about this. Here's an example of the one
that we did with the late Virgil Abloh. And we announced a couple of years ago that we would
introduce a new series that we call the Mythos series. And the Mythos series will have its first
member launched next year. And yes, marketing collaborations, it's about emotions, this kind of
crazy G on the moon here. It is what it is, but it is pretty cool. And here we intersect with other
industries that are looking at the same buying group.
But coming back to earth again here, we're also keeping investing in the products that we have
on the road now. So this is a glimpse of the slightly revised face of the EQS. And many customers
said sporty, yes, Ola, but we have some traditionalists as well, the traditionalist for Mercedes
wants to have the star on the hood. So we put the star on the hood. That's maybe an optical
thing that makes them feel better. Even more important, especially for me, I'm 195 tall, I sit in the
back of this vehicle. It's great, It's big.
Coming from the S-Class, you're used to perfection. So we have developed a new executive
seating that comes to the EQS and will be launched only in a few months' time. The hyperscreen
is standard. And here we can see also technology development at work. Even though the car is
relatively fresh, we're already now with the first chemistry update, which will improve together
with a range of other measures, the range by another 6%, 7%, 8%. So WLTP, the EQS, and it's a
very big vehicle, and it has all the bells and whistles that you expect from a Mercedes, it takes it
above 800 kilometers according to WLTP. With its beautiful aerodynamic shape, it literally just
slices the air for you. And of any car that I have driven, especially in that size, it's the one that you
want to take if you're going on a longer trip.
Do we stop there? No. For those of you who had the opportunity to go to the Auto Show in
Munich, we presented a concept vehicle that we called the Concept CLA. That car is the first of
many. In a way, it is the one that paves the way for the next generation, not only electric vehicles
but also intelligent vehicles for Mercedes. In Munich, we listed a range of quite impressive
performance targets that we had set for this first CLA. Now that we're on the dyno, on our testfacilities, the prototypes are driving on the road, we have a high level of confidence that we will
be able to confirm these numbers when we launch the car next year. So the entry point of
Mercedes, you will have a version with more than 750 km range. It's not for everybody, but for
the ones that have longer commutes, you need not to worry. But you also don't have to worry
about the charging time. With this new 800 volt technology, you will be able to charge up to 400
kilometers in 15 minutes. Then charging becomes almost like fueling. Not exactly the same but it
cuts the time compared to most of the best cars today in half, or more than half. That you will get
the performance and the refinement, and the ride and drive, and the feeling of the Mercedes
and the safety and all those different things. That is what customers of the Mercedes brand take
for granted.
But we are really stepping up and going to the next level in terms of E-drivetrain. And we have
invested from R&D, all the way down to chemistry, research, into production of our next-
generation electric axle to set the company up for the next wave. And this will underpin not only
this vehicle but pretty much then every Mercedes that comes '25, '26, '27 and beyond.
And speaking about beyond, why are we investing so much in R&D? I could see that number
EUR9.1 billion, I think it was last year. Well, it's because we are doing more at the same time than
we have ever done in the history of our company. You're well aware of the three architectures
that are in the making. Mercedes-Benz electric architecture. So behind the CLA and the gaggle of
vehicles that come with that, it's the next generation GLC and C-Class that is scheduled for '26.
So it's just right behind it. AMG is developing a dedicated performance architecture to take the
thrill of driving performance to the next level.
And equally exciting is what the van team is working on. VAN EA, I mentioned the eSprinter 2.0.
Great vehicle, and it's brand new. But starting then, probably the passenger side of van, only in a
couple or two and a half years from now, we are ushering in a new era, and this is happening
while we're not neglecting our fresh and very competitive high-tech combustion portfolio. We'll
keep that fresh as well.
Now, what is the defining challenge for electric mobility next to the systemic shift that is going on,
replacing fossil fuels as the energy source with then CO2-free energy? That whole industrial
Herculean task is of course very, very large. But the other one, and this is what we're working on,
the whole industry is working on, is to try to get the variable cost down. It's no secret that the
variable cost of a battery electric vehicle sits significantly above what we were used to on the
combustion side, and it will remain so for the foreseeable future. But it's equally true that we're
working extremely hard on bringing those costs down. So those architectures that I just
mentioned, starting with the CLA, we believe we can take at least 30% cost out compared to the
ones that we had launched in the last couple of years and that are on the street now.
And as a little detailed footnote to that, next to developing cutting edge latest generation NMC
technology, we have taken a second look also at LFP, kind of where the journey started some
many years ago. And the next-gen LFP is also very attractive for the right portfolio positions. So
we will be able to cater to different needs. Very much like in the combustion logic, you can maybe
get an E200, but you can also get an E53 AMG, and they have different levels of performance,
and we're preparing for that.
The billion-dollar question, I don't know, the trillion-dollar question is how fast is this going to
happen? And if you follow the journey and the general reporting and all the forecasting of the last
4 or 5, maybe even 10 years, you can see it's like a roller coaster of forecasting. What does that
tell us? It tells us the transformation is not a straight line. A systemic shift the size of this, I mean,
changing the whole, let's say, energy infrastructure behind mobility is a very, very big task. So wehave to realize that there can be peaks and troughs in this transition. If you are an established
manufacturer, you got to have a plan to cater for this. So let's just think about what is our plan and
take a step back again, what are we doing?
We are preparing the company for a CO2-free future, full stop. So the strategic destination that
we are going to is zero emission. And with our statement ambition 2039, we have committed
ourselves to go CO2 neutral by the end of the next decade. That is the strategic roof and that
remains. How quickly and what will the journey look like on the way there? Difficult to say. So we
need to have flexibility, strategic clarity, but what we call tactical flexibility. That is why now that we
can see that some market, due to incentivization, maybe infrastructure, maybe mass adoption,
customers are still not ready to make the switch. There are all sorts of reasons that decide this
pace. We want to make it clear to our customers but also to our investors that we will utilize this
tactical flexibility. It becomes more difficult to predict exactly what year will you hit what number.
And when we talked about 2024, Harold, together with the people in marketing and sales, don't
artificially try to hit the number by pushing product into the market, doesn't make sense, It's not
what the Mercedes-Benz brand is all about. It's about value over volume and protecting the value
for our customers, but also for our investors.
And I mentioned that I was down in the Middle East looking at the opening of these two flagship
stores. Are those markets going to be 100% electric in 2030? Probably not. Investors that pour
tens and tens of millions into unbelievable showrooms like that want to have some certainty that
they will get the return on investment. So it's comforting to them to know that well into the 30s,
we have the ability and the flexibility to cater to all customer needs. I don't want this to come
across as oops, is the electric thing not as hot as everybody was talking about maybe three years
ago? No, it is that hot. Look at the tens of billions that we're pouring into these next generations.
We're not missing a beat in terms of how we're investing into this. We are pushing ahead, as a
matter of fact, and investing on a very high level. But I think as an incumbent, you need a double
hedge, and that's what we're doing.
CO2 reduction and Ambition 2039 is not just about the product. I realize it's kind of the main
thing. It's what everybody's talking about and ultimately, when you reach the zero-emission
destination, you have to be in the position that all your products apply an energy source that is
CO2 neutral. But we have a massive effort going on in our whole business system; supply chain,
our own operations, the product that we have talked about and the product in use. And we are
investing massively into CO2 reduction in all of those areas, making very fast and very promising
progress on our production side. Many or most of our suppliers are joining us on the journey. It's
not just about some highlight examples of CO2 reduced, or CO2 -- almost CO2 free steel, or the
deal that we struck with a major aluminium company recently to source aluminium, 70% down
CO2 in terms of its footprint compared to what we've had before, and, and, and, and, and, and.
Of course, it's hugely important, 70% of a car company's value-added comes from suppliers. So
we're on the case on all of those things, and we will continue investing in that. And it's also about
closing the loop. What's going to happen to the battery after its life, in the case of a Mercedes, a
long time from now? Longevity and quality is one of our brand values. So Ambition 2039 is a
holistic effort beyond the product.
Let me switch a gear here for a second and talk about the digital revolution, because next to the
E-drivetrain, the decarbonization and everything, that's driving transformation, I would say
compute power, sensing technology, artificial intelligence, that is as big of a revolution, maybe it's
even bigger. Technologically, perhaps even more sophisticated, even a bigger leap for an
established manufacturer. We have been talking over the last few years, and especially in a
bigger presentation last year, about our operating system, MB.OS. Well, here it is. You can't seeup in the north. It's very beautiful up there, quite cold. And it's driving with the full pre-production
version of MB.OS. Every single domain is now in use and being tested. I would be lying if I would
say that this is a walk in the park. It's not, because it is as if you rip out the brain and the central
nervous system of the car and you want to put all of those pieces back together and literally
hundreds of thousands of functions need to work hand in hand. So that is a big, big job. But we're
now with our R&D teams around the world, really, we're like on that final stretch. So in the next 12
months or so, we want to launch the CLA in 2025. We're more or less on track. I'm sure that
some of the engineers are now sweating a little bit when I say that, but we can take that heat and
that pressure. It seems to be working, and it's starting to come together.
One hugely important part of that is assisted driving and autonomous driving. We are the original
inventors of the first driving assistance systems. We're a pioneer in this field. That's why we're
continuing to investing in it. Why? Because it makes driving safer. It's one of the core values of
Mercedes-Benz, but it also increases convenience. When I drove the automatic lane change
function for the first time in a prototype car last year, I went to myself, wow, this is great. I want
this, can we get this? I think we were quickest in getting it certified on US roads, and it's now
coming to Europe. It really makes the highway situation of the current assistance systems so
much better.
The engineering team have said, okay, we were the first ones on the moon, put a flag on the
moon with level 3, great. Up to 60 kilometers an hour, which is what the regulation said here in
Germany, but we want to expand the envelope of it. So now we're in a push to see if we can take
that by the end of this year to 90 kilometers. Then it starts getting really interesting. But behind
that, we're working on systems with even more sophisticated computing power, more
sophisticated sensors, that can be able to take it above 100 kilometers on the highway eventually.
And suddenly you can have your own computer driver. Then it starts becoming really interesting.
And yes, as part of this MB.OS 1.0 effort, together with our tech partner Nvidia, that CLA that you
could see there in Sweden, is testing this new comprehensive architecture which lays the
foundation for all of our automated driving efforts for the future, starting 2025 and forward. So
hugely excited about this area.
Maybe on a more sober note, I think you said, Harold, we have delivered a reasonable amount of
fixed cost discipline, worked on that, it's part of a discipline that you need to have as a company
to manage your finances. We don't shy away from making structural decisions if they're necessary
and if they support the strategy, and if it creates value for our customers, but also financial value
for the company and ultimately the shareholders. So we will continue to do this. We will keep you
posted. We announced at the beginning of this year that we are starting a discussion with the
labor side in our company to investigate a proposal move of our own retail in Germany into
private investors' hands, something that we have had very good experience with in Europe and
overseas. So those discussions have started, and we will see how we progress, but also to make
sure that in an uncertain world, you match your production capacities to what the market needs
are and not kind of the other way around.
I think maybe the most important now and immediate important now for 2024, Harold, and you
mentioned it, is to kind of break a tip of the inflation that we've had on the material cost side and
start moving down. Is this something new in the auto industry? No, it's not. Continuous
improvement has been in the DNA of the auto industry probably since its inception. But we need
to now realize that we're out of the pandemic, we're out of this constraint story. Let's get our
mojo back here as an industry and start working very hard on variable cost optimization, because
the customers in the enormous, competitive, intensive landscape that we are in, they're not just
going to expect to take over every single bit of that inflation. We have to combat that ourselvesSo, to sum it up, I said that we are custodians, custodians of a brand. Let's see if this works here.
Hang on. We'll go -- I'm back. Here we go. We're custodians of a brand. That's the slide that I
started with on this presentation of strategic priorities. And what is that brand? As the original
inventor of the automobile, you can always expect us to invest into innovation and leading
technology. That will always be a cornerstone of Mercedes-Benz. But we will blend it with
desirability, with the timeless elegance, maybe with the slightly irrational sometimes, where you
just have this, I want it factor. And it's not just about going from A to B. It's going from A to B in
style. That is the secret sauce, that is the magic recipe of Mercedes-Benz. It kind of always has
been and we will stay true to that.
Thank you very much.
`Willem Spelten, Corporate Communications
So, thank you very much, everyone. Thank you, Harold, Ola, for the presentation. Thank you for
joining. And next up on this morning are our Q&A sessions. We will start at 10:30, that's in exactly
10 minutes from now, with a Q&A session for analysts and investors. Just as a reminder for the
journalists, your Q&A will start at 11:45 CET. Our virtual guests can follow the whole event in one
stream. All of you should have received your dial-in data by email beforehand. Thank you,
everybody, and see you later.
Welcome to the Annual Results Press Conference Call 2023 of Mercedes-Benz. At our
customers' request, this conference will be recorded. The replay of the conference call will also
be available as an on-demand audio webcast in the Investor Relations section of the Mercedes-
Benz website. The short introduction will be directly followed by Q&A session. (Operator
Instructions)
I would like to remind you that this telephone conference is governed by the safe harbor wording
that you will find in our published results documents. Please note that our presentations contain
forward-looking statements that reflect management's current views with respect to future
events. Such statements are subject to many risks and uncertainties. If the assumptions
underlying any of these statements prove incorrect, then actual results may be materially
different from those expressed or implied by such statements. Forward-looking statements
speak only to the date on which they are made.
May I now hand over to `Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations and Treasury, Head of Mercedes-Benz Investor Relations and
Treasury. Thank you very much.
`Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations and Treasury `
Good morning, everyone. On behalf of Mercedes-Benz, I'd like to welcome you on both the
telephone and the Internet to our annual results conference call 2023. I am very happy to have
with me today `Ola Kallenius, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, our CEO; and `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer, our CFO. You probably all joined our
presentation right before. Just as a quick reminder, the respective Capital Market presentation
with all '23 figures and the outlook for '24 can be found on our IR website. You may ask your
questions now. I will identify the questioner by name. However, please also introduce yourself
with the name and the name of the organization that you are representing before asking your
question. As a matter of fairness, please try to limit the number of questions to a maximum of
two. And before we start, as always, the operator will explain the procedure.
Questions And Answers
OperatorThank you very much. (Operator Instructions)
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations and Treasury `
And we start the Q&A. The first question goes to `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank from Deutsche Bank.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Yeah, thank you very much and good morning. Tim from Deutsche Bank. Very well done, first of
all, on the share buyback program. Harald, you and I, we've discussed the structure for many
years now. (Technical Difficulty) what you just return in your market cap is a really strong
commitment, though, exactly the right message. Secondly, then two questions please. Harald,
some of those things in the numbers were not so great. The Mercedes margin is now down
several quarters in a row, there were fairly high utilization ratios. The full year outlook suggests
that it's down a little bit, at least over last year at the midpoint, Q1 starting weaker. There are
reasons for that, and how confident are you that the 48-volt issues, indeed fixed in Q2? How do
you intend to keep prices stable and also you may turn margin development?
And then secondly, Ola, this is perhaps for you. You already discussed about the slower than
expected EV ramp. There's all sorts of reasons for that. Do you expect it to result in a further
softening of the regulation? They're already discussing that in the US. Do you also see it
happening in Europe? And given that your investments now need to stay elevated for a longer
period of time, would you also think about partnering up with guys like it's being discussed in the
European mass market? Thank you very much.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, thank you, Tim. So let me get started with the first question on the margin evolution. I think
when we talked about the quarter four for the first time at the end of the quarter three, we said
we would expect fourth quarter to be at about 10%. I think that's what we delivered. However, we
also said that the fourth quarter should not be a proxy for 2024. And I think with the guidance you
heard today of 10% to 12%, that's exactly what it says. If the fourth quarter would be a proxy, we
would not have guided 10% to 12%. How can we get there? You heard that we have the ambition
to keep the pricing stable. The backbone of that is obviously the product and the product
substance with a lot of great vehicles in the market and others to come. So that supports it. And
overall, our policy is, as you can also see in the sales guidance, that we definitely prefer the value
over the volume. So here I would say you see the response in that.
So what else? Third and fourth quarter last year was impacted by charges on supply chain side,
on inflation-related capacity adjustments and so forth. We said that they basically refer also to the
full year 2023. So now with the raw mats turning and the efficiency efforts Ola emphasized on the
material cost at large, we want to gain tailwind on material cost in 2024. So I think all of that
supports that the fourth quarter, with the 10% should not be the proxy. However, one point I
alluded to, I would say, in the call before or in the presentation before, is the first quarter, the 48-
volt, back to your question, it still lasts into the H1. I think operationally, Ola, it's improving, but it's
still impacting availability of vehicles and some other issues in the first half, in particular, in the first
quarter. That's why we said the first quarter should probably be below quarter one '23, in terms
of sales unit, which, by the way, was, I think, 490,000 units.
So that would suggest that the first quarter would be a difficult one. If we look at the ambitions
we have, if we look at the cost phasing, I would say, the first quarter probably should come in at
the lower end of the guidance range for the full year, but still within the range. And given a pretty
low number there in terms of sales, that's an indicator of change, I would say. So definitely, wewant to restore the margin starting with the Q1, but then obviously with higher volumes in the
quarters to come, take it to the level of the guidance range of 10% to 12%.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
So good morning, Tim. With regard to policymaking, supporting or not supporting the EV ramp,
it's very, very difficult to make a prediction. You can see that sometimes policymakers make
abrupt decisions. Germany, case in point, on a Friday afternoon, the government decided to cut
the incentivization for electric vehicles for the following Monday. Pretty unprecedented. So to have
a firm prediction what's going to happen there is difficult. I would say this, though, as far as
Europe is concerned, there is a review coming up in 2026 that is baked into the policy decision of
going CO2-free in 2035. For a big system like transport and mobility to turn and literally switch
energy source, that is a herculean task, that is a systemic task, an industrial task. And many things
need to fall into play for that to happen, not just the product, that's the thing that I'm most
confident about because we're putting our money where our mouth is and we're investing tens
of billions into very attractive electric vehicles coming up. Not just us, the industry as a whole.
We're also investing into infrastructure.
What the consumers are not going to accept is to limit or lessen their convenience in terms of
mobility and certainly not where it's used for business purposes. So if the enabling factors cannot
keep step with the ambition, I'm sure a rational discussion would need to be had to assess are
we progressing on the trajectory that we need to go on or are we not. At least as far as
Mercedes is concerned, we're doing everything we can to create attractive products, but also to
tell our customers we got your back in investing in infrastructure and other things, working with
our supply base and so on, as I mentioned in my speech. But I want to be cautious with
predictions here because it's very difficult to know what the political landscape will look like in a
couple of years from now.
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you. Very good.
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations and Treasury `
Thank you, Tim. And we go to London. Next question goes to `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you for taking my questions. I would like to start with a question around the introduction of
the MMA platform. In the slide deck, Ola mentioned that it will redefine what customers should
expect from an entry point product from Mercedes, which, if the case, should hopefully manifest
itself in higher price points. With this in mind, and obviously, notwithstanding the economic
challenges around xEVs, what do you see as the implications for price mix within Mercedes from
the introduction of the MMA platform and the phaseout of some of today's entry luxury products?
The second question I had was around the free cash flow, which I think takes on much more
significance in light of yesterday's announcement. Over the last four years, you've generated
more than EUR35 billion of industrial free cash flow. So a run rate in excess of EUR8 billion per
annum. And obviously, the guidance for this year implies free cash flow again in excess of EUR8
billion. Clearly, the future is unpredictable and you don't have a crystal ball, but do you think EUR8
billion is a reasonable kind of a floor to assume for cash flow over the next 40 years and hence,
should there be potential to generate another 30 billion-plus over that time frame? Thank you.A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
So George, I'll start with MMA. What we're executing with the MMA platform is what we set out to
do, and I think it's really three things that are happening here. On the one hand, we have made a
portfolio optimization decision, so we're focusing our portfolio, as you know, from seven models
to four models in this segment. We have selected the four models that we believe will perform
the best from a worldwide market perspective. We're significantly elevating the technological
substance of our product in that segment. So the customer, compared to the very attractive
products that they get today, will get so much more. And we'll have a thoughtful and customer-
friendly approach towards the refinement of those products within the segment to make sure
that it is a Mercedes experience through and through.
But what we're not going to try to do is to completely leave the segment, because then actually
you're doing C-Class and you're not doing a CLA. So whereas this means a migration or a
nudging north inside the segment, we want to stay in the segment, and especially as you can see
on the BEV development so far across the world, it has been small and medium that has been
the growth factors for BEVs. And this would be our play in the entry side of the medium, if you
will, then followed by MBEA, which is just a year behind with then the electric GLC and the C-
Class. And you got to keep those product positions apart. So stay within the segment, but nudge
up in that segment.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. George, on the cash flow, I think the share buyback or the capital allocation framework is a
statement of confidence in continued cash generation. Otherwise, probably it wouldn't have
made sense to come out with the framework and the policy of continued share buyback over
time. Well, without giving a guarantee on cash generation moving forward, but let's go back to
basics, what makes a cash flow? It's margin, right? So here you have pretty good indication for
the margin in 2024 with the product portfolio now and to come '25, '26, I think we feel very good
to defend a market position with the substance of the product, at the pricing level we mentioned
shortly before in Tim's question. So definitely, all in all, with the cost focus, we have the objective
to protect margin moving forward.
Second point on the cash flow, obviously, is investment side of things. We're doing a lot on the
investment side, but we have a very clear view of the portfolio in which we are investing, we have
to invest, and that number doesn't go through the roof. We set ourselves caps. I reiterated the
point on the investment adjustment over time, maybe a bit longer in the second half of the
decade, but not going through the roof. And on the working capital side, I think you can see that
there's a good level of discipline to manage working capital. So that, in essence, working capital
isn't a drain on cash flow too much. That means cash conversion targets, I do see them in the
range of 0.8 to 1. Not only, I would say, for 2024, but moving forward. For the Vans side, given the
step-up and the longer lifecycle investment on the van at 0.6 to 0.8 for years to come. Probably,
mid- '26, '27 until the vehicle will hit the market, but then a pretty good potential to come back to
year-level cost conversion ratios. And I think that should frame your thoughts on the size and the
stability of cash generation moving forward, which will then fuel, obviously, the share buyback
potential after divi.
But maybe there are some opportunities also. Well, some might think about M&A. You know that
at least on my side, I'm not a big fan of large-scale M&A, but maybe M&A also consists of not
only acquisitions but divestitures. And over time that means we could consider after the lockup
period to divest from Daimler Truck stake. I said we could, didn't say we do, but we could.Obviously, that would support the free cash flow and take it even to a higher level on which then
the new policy would apply. So I hope that answers your perspectives on future cash flows.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Very helpful. Thank you.
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations and Treasury `
Thanks, George. And we stay in London. Continue with `Daniel Roeska, Analyst, Bernstein from Bernstein.
Q - `Daniel Roeska, Analyst, Bernstein `
Good morning, gentlemen. I'll go back to the ICE and BEV question. Would you expect your
market shares in combustion engine and electric vehicles ultimately to approach similar levels,
kind of, independently of the BEV share in the market? So kind of isolating yourself a bit from that
progression. And if your market shares in BEV would be lower than in ICE, what conclusions
should investors take from that? And then secondly, what does it take to bring some of the
product excitement you have around MBEA to the combustion engine side? If you think about
combustion engine cars in the 2030s, will you need a new platform or at least a refresh on the
ICE side? Kind of, what do you need to do to bring MB.OS, some of the design language you
have now, over back to the combustion engine side? Thanks.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
Daniel, good morning. If you look at the development of BEV market shares as a percentage of
the total car market, up until this point, it is evident that the highest share, it's kind of coming from
below, going up and not the other way around in the segments, much of which is driven by
policymaking in China and the dynamics of the Chinese market, where a lot of small into medium
is where the best action is. On large, if we take our EQE and EQS right now, actually we have a
pretty good market share. It's just that the market is not that big yet, and that many customers in
that segment, they view the S-Class and the sibling cars as kind of the non-plus ultra that they
want to have and we don't mind.
Now, if we look at the timing of our launches, we start launching next year the CLA, and it's one of
four, as I mentioned before. So over the coming then about 24, 30 months, there will be a family
of cars there that then becomes the entry point for Mercedes and followed up by, which is
probably in premium luxury, the biggest segment, C-Class and GLC, and we will launch those
products in 2026.
So we come into, in terms of meeting the market and the market structure as you can see it
today, we come into a full swing then by the year 2027. So we have not made any plans for any
artificial market shares, lower or higher, on ICE or BEV. We want to exploit in a value-over-volume
approach, as Harold mentioned, the maximum potential for those products.
When it comes then to the ICE siblings, I think it's also key here, and I tried to portray that in my
presentation just before that if you walk into a Mercedes showroom, you expect a Mercedes to
be a Mercedes to be a Mercedes, and maybe don't think so much about if it's BEV or an ICE. So
the technologies that we're developing now on MB.OS, next-generation driving assistance
systems, next-generation infotainment. And I don't know if you have driven the new E-Class. And I
know I'm ever so slightly biased, but I haven't found a car that has a more exciting infotainment
offer in that car. I don't think our ICE customers long term would accept if that is like a -- then
when the next gen comes, a BEV story only. And the E-Class is, of course, a combustion-basedvehicle. So we're going to have to cross-breed between the two as we go along. Do we need a
complete new architecture, as in ripping up the playbook and starting from fresh on the
combustion side? No, I don't. And the reason why I don't believe that is twofold. On the one
hand, through EU7, China7, and the emissions laws in the United States, primarily California, we
are updating all of our relevant ICE powertrain combinations for the 2027 timeframe.
So it's almost like we will have a whole new fresh lineup in 2027, that can carry us well into the
2030s. And we're also, together with our partner, developing a brand new entry-level four-
cylinder engine that will also, about 9 months or so, maybe 12 months or so, after the electric
vehicle on MMA, also be a very competitive, good hybrid powertrain that is literally brand new
then, starting, whatever '26 (technical difficulty) powertrain lineup. And we have the infrastructure
to continue to produce. And our architecture then on the larger vehicles that we call inside the
company, MRA2, it's literally brand new, the E-Class sits on that architecture, we believe that we
can, with the technologies that we're developing, use that to underpin any and every update that
we would need to do to those vehicles along the way on that journey into the 2030s. And if we
need to do more on the optical side, at the right time we will do so.
Q - `Daniel Roeska, Analyst, Bernstein `
So if we think about the upcoming C-Class on MBEA, kind of, is the thesis that the MRA2 could
support kind of a similar or kind of equivalent combustion engine version because the MBEA C-
Class is distinctive in its own way?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
That is true, as is the combustion version of the C-Class and the GLC, which is actually our best
seller. But stay tuned, Daniel, and you'll see what we have up our sleeve.
Q - `Daniel Roeska, Analyst, Bernstein `
Alright. Well, thanks.
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations and Treasury `
Thanks, Daniel. And we continue with `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS from UBS.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS `
Yeah, thank you. Good morning, gentlemen. First of all, congratulations to your capital allocation
policy decisions. I really think that's a benchmark for the industry. My question relates to an update
on the medium-term plan that you had laid out at the Economics of Desire CMD and before
already when it comes to the investment budget, the fixed cost, et cetera. Correct me if I'm
wrong, or if you think I will be wrong that the volume assumptions you took for the core segment,
core luxury segment, look a little bit ambitious from today's perspective, for 2025 perspective. So
can you just, first of all, give us an update on how you think about the three buckets, entry, core
and top end with a medium-term view, now that the reality has deviated probably slightly from
the plans laid out back then, and what is the conclusion of maybe the core segment being a little
bit smaller than expected a couple of years back when it comes to CapEx or investments overall,
including R&D, and the fixed cost side of the business? If you could just update us on those
building blocks because that all feeds into the free cash generation of the business, I suppose.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `Yeah, thank you for that question, Patrick. Let me start with kind of the composition of the
pyramid or the diamond that we showed, which ran up on the top end level to the percentage a
little bit quicker than we thought. And you're right that the core side did not grow as fast as talked
about two years ago, although some of that is product and launch-related, as we have discussed.
So our two main products, the GLC and the E-Class in that core segment, well, one is in full launch
now, so we're in switchover, that's the E-Class. And the other one was indeed restricted in the
second half and into this year, as has been discussed. So I think that in terms of the relative
importance inside that segmentation, we're looking at a little bit of a comeback of core.
And then we will, as described before with MMA, carefully manage the entry side. So I think the
composition of the pyramid or of the diamond is pretty solid, and we're following what we had
said. But then you look at the macro environment and the market, and I think you have to right the
market. And we have, in as disciplined a way as possible, always tried to find the right equilibrium
between pricing, protecting value, protecting residual values for our customers, as well as
volume. And coming out of this restricted era there with the semiconductors and everything, the
macroeconomic and the market conditions are different now than perhaps some people had
thought. So you also have to ride the macro market, and that is where we just try to adjust
volume to what the market supports. So maybe in absolute numbers, we're a little bit behind, but
in the composition, I think we are doing reasonably well.
(Technical Difficulty) in the top end, with the 16%, we said we want to get there over time. And
actually we are there 2022, 2023. Just bear in mind as well that the top end obviously has a few
of the best as well, which are developing at a bit of slower pace compared to the expectation
maybe at the point -- back at the point in time in spring 2022.
On your question what does it mean for fixed cost and investments, Patrick, while fixed costs are
the fixed costs. Would stay almost no matter what happens around. So we don't see that as a
percentage of revenue. No, it's an absolute number we're driving year-on-year down with a 60%
down by 2023. I mean, you can see that. So we're not that far off, I would say, of the 20% which
we ambitioned for 2025. So on track to deliver that. And we're not stopping then 2025. Definitely,
we have the ambition to keep going with each and every efficiency possible in each and every
department.
On the investment side, compared to what we said at the point in time, 20% down compared to
2019 by the end of the decade. We added definitely portfolio positions, AMG EA, portfolio on
MBEA and MB.OS. So I think that is running at a higher level. And you see exactly at the same
time, the increase of the BEV share doesn't go maybe exactly in line with the previous
predictions. We stick to the investments on this side. Very, very important, but we have a very
precise view of the portfolio, what needs to be done, and that fits in the envelope. And I
mentioned before in George's question, but with the 20% of the cash of the investments down,
sitting more in the second half of the decade, as Ola said before, we need to use tactical
flexibility on the ICE side. But the BEV investment profile for us is pretty clear and we see
definitely the potential for the investments to come down over time. So, confirmed, not for 2025,
but for the second half of the decade.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS `
Thank you both.
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations and Treasury `
Thanks, Patrick. And next gentleman in line is `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, JP Morgan from JP Morgan.Q - `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Thank you very much. Good morning and congratulations on the capital allocation program. Two
questions, please. Harald, can you discuss with regards to the guidance on the auto margin for
2024, what are the planning assumptions in the Chinese market when it comes to volume and
earnings contribution from the region?
And second, Ola, can you talk a little bit about the plan to hit the CO2 emission targets in
Europe? And can you maybe comment around the share of BEV that you're planning in 2024 and
2025? Thank you.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Jose. So, overall, as we said before, we take a prudent view on sales in 2024,
supply constraints still being there, in particular, in the H1 and the Q1, as emphasized in the first
question. That has an impact, but beyond that we also take prudent view given the macro
environment. And obviously in the very heated BEV competition in China, where we participate,
but not by all means. And therefore, I would say, all in all, for China, within the sales flat guidance,
China is also rather flattish in there, such as Europe is, and maybe a bit of an upside potential
from the US, and maybe flat or slightly down in the remainder of the world. So I think that is how
the sales guidance is composed.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
With regard to co2 guidance for Europe, you can see the chart in the presentation. So the
backbone of it is, obviously, the xEV share. We will continue to build the xEV share. We're now
changing smart. So smart used to sit inside Mercedes, obviously, from a legal entity point of view.
Now that is entered into the pot via the joint venture that we formed some years ago. So you
have a method change there. As I described before, we launched the CLA in 2025 and really get
kind of the bulk of the vehicles in 2026 and 2027. So if I look at that midterm run-up of the xEV
share, that looks healthy. In the course of year 2025 and into 2026, I'm sure we'll look carefully at
that and it will be underpinned by xEV share. Should we have to use other options above that, we
will keep an open mind, but it is growth of xEV share that ultimately solves that issue.
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations and Treasury `
Thank you, Jose. And we continue with `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale from Societe Generale.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Hello.
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations and Treasury `
Stephen, can you hear us?
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Yes. Can you hear me? I can hear you.
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations and Treasury `
Yeah, we can. All good.Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Thank you very much. Thank you. I have three questions, please. You highlighted logistics as being
one of the headwinds you had in 2023, which I think is seen generally across the industry. But we
are seeing logistics costs falling quite dramatically, particularly in terms of shipping. How do you
see that in terms of influencing your bridge in 2024? Could you also comment on your
perspective [ph] now on the agency model, now we've had a year of it in the UK and half a year
in Germany, what it's doing to transaction prices? And thirdly, you showed for us, obviously, the
sneak preview of the facelift of the EQS, which is obviously, you said it's much more than a
facelift, it's a very substantial refresh of the vehicle. And styling of the vehicle, is that -- which
seems to suggest a more traditional approach on the front end. Is that an option or is that the
way that all the vehicles will look? And also, could you give us some idea on the timing of the
customer deliveries of that vehicle? Thank you.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Stephen, to your first question, in terms of the headwinds. Yeah. I mean, the previous years,
logistic costs would have been definitely a headwind. In the course of 2023, you can see overall
the logistic costs have been turning and came the other way. And next to the cost per unit on the
logistics, we're obviously trying as well to challenge and improve the overall demand side of the
logistics side, in particular, if you think about outbound. At this stage, as we speak, some of the
geopolitical constraints like the Red Sea make it that obviously, ships are going a bit for longer,
longer means more expensive. So temporarily, maybe a bit of a headwind, but globally we're
trying to take opportunities also from tailwind on logistics in 2024.
On the Model D and the benefit on transaction pricing, well, in the meantime, quite a lot of
markets, which we switched, right, starting with Sweden, South Africa, Australia, Austria, and now
2023, obviously, UK and Germany. And if we look into each and every of these markets, what we
can observe is when we compare, basically the pricing, the discounting in the situation before
compared to thereafter, there is a net pricing benefit that varies quite a lot in the individual
markets. Therefore, it's not very meaningful to give any number here. But, obviously, it helped the
pricing performance, which again, was significantly positive in 2023, as you can see in the margin
bridge on Cars. And by the way, same thing on the Vans side, which is also supporting the pricing.
And for what is yet to come, we do expect the same thing. Obviously, Interbrand competition
goes away, transparency. And all in all, we therefore see that as a favorable support to the pricing
strategy.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
With regard to the model year update on the EQS, not just the star on the hood and that more
traditional Mercedes-like panel in the front, but the executive seating, the new battery chemistry,
some of the other measures that we have taken to improve efficiency and improve range, that
will be available in the market as of June. Actually, we're sneaking in the battery. We're actually
sneaking in the battery update before that. But as a complete package, it's available in the
market in June, starting in Europe, obviously, and then you have some shipping times.
And if I look at the feedback that we receive from our customers, from the EQS and the EQE
around the world, it is some of the highest customer satisfaction scores we have anywhere.
Actually, a little over a year ago when JD Power did a study in China, actually, we scored the
highest of any brand, any vehicle. So the people that drive these vehicles, they love it. Some of
them want to keep the more sporty look and have the star integrated in the panel, and some, we
believe, will want to have the more traditional look. So you will be able to get both. If you sit in theback, you can still order the regular back seat, but this executive seating is then also available of
June. I'm 195 tall. I sit in the back of an EQS. I can sit there very comfortably.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Thank you.
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations and Treasury `
Thanks, Stephen. And we continue with `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America from Bank of America.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
Yes, good morning. Can you hear me?
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations and Treasury `
Loud and clear.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay. Excellent. First question again on pricing, because it seems to me that surprisingly, pricing
has got stronger in Q4 even versus Q3. So, Harald, can you maybe explain what has driven that?
And with the assumption for 2024 that you aim prices to hold up, can you provide a little bit color
by region, by segment, because I think not everything is up or stable. Something will be down,
something will be up. What are the drivers? And does now, basically, stable pricing means, and
value over volume means that you rather focus from here, really not anymore on market shares
or that we should expect basically market share losses also beyond 2024?
And the last one is on Ola. Regarding BEV price policy, we see in the mass market at the moment
that basically BEV prices get down to a level where also the ICE prices are. I think that is not yet
the case in the premium market. What is your working assumption, basically, on pricing going
forward on BEVs? When you expect BEV prices to go down to ICE level also in the premium
market, or you expect that at all ever to happen? Thank you.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, thanks Horst. So on first one on pricing, no, I think we said in the presentation earlier today,
full year pricing was healthy, was solid. I think in the previous quarters, we gave some color on
what is the pricing in itself in the bucket. I think we reached a bit the limits. I see what other
people are doing. I'm happy to comment on a qualitative basis. And that means in the fourth
quarter pricing, quarter four '23-over-quarter four '22 was still positive. But I would not say that
quarter four, in terms of pricing was sitting above quarter three 2023. But full year and year-over-
year, even fourth quarter was very supportive, as you can see in the margin bridge.
Looking into 2024, we said we have the target, we have the ambition to keep pricing stable,
stable obviously means flattish. How do we think we can get there? Number one, as you know,
pricing is composed of several elements; discount management, base pricing and escalation. So
we'll work on all levers, we'll keep flexibility, obviously, on discounting to stay competitive in the
market, but not to the extent that we want to buy market that we want to buy share, as some
others might do. That is not our policy. Again, value over volume applies. We think market share
should be defended by product substance and not necessarily by aggressive pricing measures
and actions. It's probably the latter one are not sustainable, whereas the product substance is
sustainable.Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
But Harald, that means that you have got in your guidance also a range included, right? So upper
end of the range could be then like flat and the lower end of the range would mean negative
pricing, is that correct?
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, within the guidance, you have many building blocks. So pricing is one, obviously, the material
cost is one. Logistics, we talked about before. So many things we look at and then we take a
judged view. And then, obviously, we build from there the guidance range. And as I said before,
it's 10% to 12%, which means Q4 is not the proxy for 2024.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
With regard to the BEV pricing policy going forward, if you look at those MMA and MBEA vehicle
and so on going forward, we think, first of all, that we're putting attractive and competitive
vehicles into the market. So, of course, we want to exploit that. If you then look at what should be
the premium on a like-for-like from a combustion to a BEV, and it is true, and I mentioned in my
speech, that the variable cost of the like-for-like electric vehicle is higher than the ICE. So in those
business cases, we're assuming a moderate price differential, where I don't think we're going to
be too aggressive or too optimistic, but we do assume that we can have a price differential going
forward. And from a total cost of ownership point of view, for the customer, mind you, that for
them, over time, the cost of energy, fueling up with electricity as opposed to gasoline or diesel
and so on and so forth, and depending on which market you're in, taxation, et cetera, some of
that comes back. So the total cost of ownership differential might be much smaller and in some
cases it might be the same.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
Okay, that's great. Thank you.
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations and Treasury `
Thanks, Horst. And we continue with `Michael Raab, Analyst, Kepler from Kepler.
Q - `Michael Raab, Analyst, Kepler `
Yeah, hi, gentlemen. Mike Raab from Kepler Cheuvreux. When you just said that you want to keep
flexibility in your discount management, I guess the key question is where is the fine line to walk
on, or the line of discrimination beyond which you're compromising your value over volume
strategy? I guess what I'm out for is to what extent are you willing to ratchet up discounts here?
And then secondly, when it comes to BEV pricing or the general competitive framework for BEVs,
are you still happy with your residual values or have you already seen impact on the RB [ph] so
far? Thank you.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Mike. Just to answer on the second question, for sure, I mean, we look at the
residuals and any exposure, and obviously, not only us, but our external auditors, and this is being
done at each and every quarterly close. And any charge which would need to be taken would sit
in the books. And obviously, we have been going through the procedures even if the audit is notnot any material adjustment in the books and records for EVs in the 2023 numbers which we
published.
On flex discounting, I think it's a bit difficult to give a general statement. You need to look at
obviously the individual product segments. You need to look at the individual markets and the
timing of the products in the market, the life cycles. Obviously, you look at what is the margin
contribution of the individual ones. And this is, I think, tactical day-by-day job of the sales team in
close cooperation, obviously, with a few finance guys looking over the shoulder. And the end
result, you see basically then in the quarterly bridges, again, where we give, I think, a lot of details
in terms of the bucket, volume mix and pricing. But the three levers I think are important and to
be seen in conjunction, product-based pricing, which is going with the product substance,
escalation updates year-on-year and discounting. And again, discounting is probably the flex tool
in a competitive market environment.
Q - `Michael Raab, Analyst, Kepler `
Alright, thank you.
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations and Treasury `
Thank you, Michael. And we continue with `Mike Tyndall, Analyst, HSBC from HSBC.
Q - `Mike Tyndall, Analyst, HSBC `
Morning, gents. Thanks for taking my questions. Just a couple, if I may. Just thinking about the
slight change to strategy in terms of xEVs versus previous ambition, and just in 2023 it felt as if
there was a penalty from your supplier side, because you didn't quite achieve the level of
volumes that you were aiming for. So I'm wondering to what degree you've got a flexibility with
your suppliers, if it turns out that BEV penetration is lower than you previously thought? Had that
changed at all, such that perhaps what happened in '23 won't happen again?
And then the second question is on capitalization. I just wonder if you could talk a little bit what's
inside that? Curious to know whether or not MB.OS is inside that. And if it is, does the rising
capitalization sort of suggest that you are getting closer to the point of saying we're ready to go
on that? Thanks.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Mike. So on the first point, we're not commenting on individual contractual relations
with the suppliers. But when we talk about supply chain-related charges, inflation-related and
capacity adjustment-related charges in 2023, a lower EV adoption rate plays somehow a role in it.
I think that is fair to say. And I'm pretty sure that applies not only to us, but to other market
participants as well. However, in the discussions, I think, can go as far as saying that one, we take
at our end a longer-term view in terms of the supply relationship, and that doesn't go for 12
months. That goes for the product lifecycle, that goes for multiple products, that goes over many,
many years. So we want to have constructive relationship in discussion with the suppliers, which
means if there are charges to be considered, we are ready to do so, if we feel that goes beyond
and other elements are sneaked in, we'll push back hard and we'll consider in the overall
relationship with suppliers with respective consequences over time.
On the second question, capitalization rate, yeah, went up in the fourth quarter. How come?
Several elements. Yes, absolutely. We are approaching maturity on MB.OS. Ola said earlier,
however, not a walk in the park and still a lot of things which need to be done. But as vehicles areon the street, are being tested, features are coming up, I think that is encouraging progress.
What else is in there? I mean, lots of products in the pipeline. MMA, obviously, MBEA, AMG EA. So
lots of stuff. And another newcomer, another kid in town on the capitalization is the electric G-
Class. Well, as per the IFRS rules, you don't have the choice, you have to capitalize. If you have a
product which is supposed to generate value, you earn more than your cost of capital. And with
all of this stuff, this is very much the case. So in this respect, I have to say, capitalization in 2023
and in the fourth quarter has not been a function of helping the EBIT. It is a function of value
creation ahead for the future and probably will stay at an elevated level, and also in 2024, around
that level as we headed in 2023.
Q - `Mike Tyndall, Analyst, HSBC `
Got it. Thank you very much.
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations and Treasury `
Thanks, Mike. And we continue with Henning. `Henning Cosman, Analyst, Barclays from Barclays.
Q - `Henning Cosman, Analyst, Barclays `
Yeah, thank you for taking the question. I have a slightly longer one and a shorter one. The longer
one is around the volume dynamic. So you're guiding flat volume. You said you missed about
100,000 units last year. Appreciate it's not all coming back immediately. You're looking more for
the second half. But if you would take out the 100, it almost implies you're guiding down 50 to
100, everything else equals. So I just wanted to understand that why you wouldn't expect that to
fully come back? And then related to that, from an EBIT perspective, not to go over all the
individual (technical difficulty) again, but I guess in my estimate, maybe you're missing out EUR1.5
billion on EBIT or so because of the 100,000 unit portfolio (technical difficulty), which is obviously
quite (technical difficulty) what you got. You could just comment on how you see the structural
margin potential here. You said 10% is for this year. Would you then, in the context of the ongoing
(technical difficulty), also say 10% to 12% is not a proxy for going forward? So that's the first
question. And the second one much shorter (technical difficulty).
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations and Treasury `
Henning, we are about to lose you. So if you have any chance to get closer to a window or so, it
would be helpful. We almost cannot hear you.
Q - `Henning Cosman, Analyst, Barclays `
Is that better now, Steffen. Can you hear me now?
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations and Treasury `
Yeah.
Q - `Henning Cosman, Analyst, Barclays `
Yeah, sorry about that. So the second, much shorter one was just on the dividend. Thanks for
saying there's upside potential given the buyback. Would you be prepared to say it's fair to
assume, in absolute terms, a stable or rising dividend from here, even if it would mean exceeding
a 40% payout ratio?
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `Yeah. So, thanks, Henning. Let me try to cover the multiple questions within the question number
one. Well, I don't think you can take the approximately 100,000 units which we lost, so to say, in
2023, and nail them on top in 2024. You cannot demonstrate that the customers have been
saying, okay, thank you, I wait another eight or nine or 12 months. And by the way, I don't know for
how long I have to wait. And therefore, you nail them on top in 2024. I think that's not the way it
works. So probably you need to assume that the lion's share of the 100,000 you lost and will not
recoup in 2024. And, therefore, I think you heard when we said we take a potent view in 2024,
it's still constrained by supply in the first half. I think everything has been said in this regard, I
would say.
I'm not totally sure on your margin question. And, I mean, the margin associated obviously to the
approximately 100,000 units is a pretty substantial amount. But I will stay away from commenting
how much that is.
On the EV margin, I'm not exactly sure. The line was cut out a bit, but in terms of the quality of the
EV margin, what can we say at this juncture, definitely, it's sitting below the ICE. We also had to
take adjustments. You know, it started somehow in fall 2022 with some repositioning in China. We
took some further action in 2023 to stay in the ballpark, to stay competitive. But we're definitely
not going as far as other competitors in terms of trying to push the EV products into the market
by all means. So in other words, I would say, we defined them in the line, in the sand, the
boundaries which obviously fit into the objectives, the overall financial objectives. 12% to 14% we
said for 2023, we made 12.4%. And that is the same now what we baked into for 2024. And
maybe I go as far as saying that the margin contribution of the EVs is positive. And if you think
about contribution margin, not EBIT margin but contribution margin, i. e. margin per unit, I can say
that this is double-digit.
On the divi question, well, I'm not making projections on the future dividends as such, but as you
can see, with a divi proposal of EUR5.30, the share buyback accretion offers DPS upside potential
of approximately 2%, if you compare to the EUR5.20 at ISO [ph] net profit and now completing
the remaining EUR2 billion in '24, adding the EUR3 billion until May -- quarter two 2025, that
should suggest a further accretion potential on EPS and also on DPS. Assuming if you depart from
the same level, obviously, with a guidance you need to factor in probably a bit of a lower EPS and
DPS as well. But therefore, the share buyback definitely serves as stabilizing and upside potential
for EPS and DPS.
Q - `Henning Cosman, Analyst, Barclays `
Thank you, Harald. Sorry for the bad line.
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations and Treasury `
Thank you, Henning. And the last question goes to `Harald Hendrikse, Analyst, Citigroup from Citigroup.
Q - `Harald Hendrikse, Analyst, Citigroup `
Thank you so much for taking my question. Again, congratulations. I'm very happy you've done
this on the cash side, not least because it will obviously compete with some other investments
and stuff that we would have looked at historically. Just one really quick question. I'll keep it to just
one. Can you just talk a little bit more about China? Porsche has been very vocal about top end in
China, yourselves. The Chinese market clearly has been more difficult. So can we talk about
overall China demand, how you see that developing? It feels like German market share is
definitely under pressure now, even with your brands. And then secondly, given tariffs and stuff
may come up again this year, what are we thinking about China as a production base, if we dohave spare capacity? I think we're all looking to make EVs for the global market from China. Is that
viable and how are you looking at in terms of future investments and stuff? Thank you very much.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, thank you, Harald. As you could see, in 2023, we had a solid year in China, in spite of the
fact that the Chinese market did not develop the dynamics that many people had hoped post
the pandemic. And we take a prudent view. Harald alluded to it before for 2024. So we're not
going to put over-optimism into China, but we are launching now the new E-Class, which is one of
the core models there, and it's industrialized in China. So that will, once we've ramped that
volume, I would say, latest by Q2, will give us some momentum. So China, as is the case with its
economy, it's more going sideways than it's going upwards. There is a high level of competitive
intensity in the EV market, much of which is, of course, below the segments that we're generally
represented in. And we're going to try to stay as disciplined as possible, not to be sucked into
those dynamics and then might flex with the volumes instead.
With regard to potential protectionism and the discussion that is going on between the EU and
China, I think we have stated our position very, very clearly. Any move by the EU or other party to
raise protectionism is a value destruction move, especially for an economic region like Europe
and Germany that is a big exporter. So we're participating in that study and making our opinion
very, very clear.
Q - `Harald Hendrikse, Analyst, Citigroup `
Okay, thank you very much.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
Thank you.
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations and Treasury `
Thanks, Harald. And with that, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your questions, for
being with us today. Thanks a lot to Ola and Harold for answering the questions. As always, IR
remains at your disposal. And before I close today's call, I'd like to remind you of our upcoming
Mercedes-Benz ESG conference, which will take place virtually on March 20. There we'll provide
you an update on the progress and the achievements in the relevant fields of ES&G. Stay tuned.
And now to all of you, have a great morning, great afternoon, or great evening. Thank you and
goodbye.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Welcome to the Mercedes-Benz conference call. This conference will be recorded. You will find
the recording and our information on data protection on the company's website afterwards. A
short introduction will be followed by a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions)
Operator
(Operator Instructions)
Please note that our statements contain forward-looking statements regarding our current views
with respect to future events. These are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, examples
of which can be found in the published documents. Should the assumptions underlying the
forward-looking statements prove incorrect, actual events could differ materially from theestimates expressed or implied in these segments -- in these statements. We do not intend or
assume any obligation to update forward-looking statements on an ongoing basis, as they are
based solely on the circumstances prevailing on the date of publication.
And now I would like to hand over to `Willem Spelten, Corporate Communications.
A - `Willem Spelten, Corporate Communications
Well and hello. Good afternoon everyone. Welcome here to the Global Training Center. And on
the phone line, welcome to our media conference call as part of the publication of our business
figures for '23. In this conference call, I would like to welcome our CEO, `Ola Kallenius, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer; and our
CFO, `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer. This morning you were able to follow the presentation and the conference
call for analysts and investors already. In this Q&A, you now have the opportunity to ask your
questions.
Before we start with the Q&A session on our business figures, we would like to make the
following remarks as usual. The operator will explain the procedure for registering your questions
on the telephone line again in a moment. For the participants here on site, if you would like to ask
a question, please raise your hand, then we will call you up. (Operator Instructions) So if you can
ask your question in either German or English, please ask your question in German. The answer
will be given in the respective language, but you are welcome to ask them in German or English.
We will then end at around 12:30. The recording of the call will be posted on our website. If you
ask the question or do not agree to the publication of your recording, please let us know by
01:00 p.m. today and we will take that into account. Please also take your time for your questions.
Please ask them slowly and clearly, so that they can also be translated. Thank you.
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Okay, let's start with a question from the room. I think Ms. Waltese [ph]
was first, but you will all get your chance. Ms. Waltese, please go ahead.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you. I have two brief questions. First of all, on electrification. In 2021, you said that by 2025
you would invest EUR70 million in digitization and electrification. So can you imagine investing an
amount like that again, or would it fall up to other stakeholders to provide the conditions for
electrification? And then second question, you just said that you would continue to modernize
your ICE models well into the mid-30s. Was this something that you had already planned to do in
your current financial plan, or is this something that you will now have to do in addition to what
you had planned for by investing into ICE models?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
Well, thank you very much for the question. Now, in terms of our investment plan for the
architecture of the battery electric vehicles, that's what the investment plan is based on. And I
showed you that it starts with MMA, MBEA, VAN EA, et cetera. So this is the plan that's been
defined and it's already being implemented. So the investment amount that we endeavored to
invest will be invested step by step. Now, Harald, if at all, we'll probably be exceeding the
amount, because we have technology and additional items included in that. So the campaign, the
investment campaign, in e-mobility is something that is really in full swing and has also not been
modified.Now, just on the ICE architecture, we are now in a comfortable position, in that we have a
completely fresh lineup, basically from top to bottom segments, pretty much, and we usually
have those plans established over the course of five years in the Supervisory Board. So we look
at what's going to happen over the next five years, in particular, the facelifts of these cars, et
cetera. So it goes without saying that that's included in that.
If we now talk about what's going to happen in 2030 and beyond, then this is something that
goes beyond our outlook in our internal planning. However, what we're saying is that we have the
substance. We have the architectures that are needed for that. We have the substance in order
to invest sensible means, be able to tackle that. All the while, the completely relevant powertrain
portfolio, the combination of engines and transmissions will be freshened up for EU7, China, and
the new emission rules in the United States, to begin with. And also what is included in that is a
completely new engine, and hybrid engine, which is planned to be done for the MMA
architecture. So a lot of that and the prerequisites you need in order to be going into the 30s is
now reflected in the next few years in the planning.
A - `Willem Spelten, Corporate Communications
So Mr. Klausen, I took down your name, is that correct?
Q - `Markus Klausen, Managing Editor, Dow Jones
Yes. Thank you very much. I'm `Markus Klausen, Managing Editor, Dow Jones. I'm with Dow Jones. I have two questions, if I may.
The first question relates to the burden from the 48-volt system that came up in the fourth
quarter of last year. Most importantly, can you quantify that in relation to the EBIT? You mentioned
amount of up to EUR1 billion. And is it correct to assume that this was the peak and that you are
now going to see the amounts declining or the burden declining? The second question relates to
the slower ramp-up in e-mobility. Is it fair to assume that the margin parity of ICE and BEVs will
then also be shifted to the next decade somewhat?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
May I take the first question and maybe Harald takes the second question? Well, you always need
to differentiate between production and sales as wholesale sales. In production, given the supply
constraints, we're doing well, we are making progress. And as I told you previously, we believe
that by the end of the first quarter and going into the second quarter, we will be able to have
stabilized production. We have already taken measures, obviously, in order to install additional
capacities. In terms of sales, you do have a lag. What you couldn't produce previously, you cannot
sell either. Right? That's a logical consequence of that. So what Harald was saying earlier in that, in
Q1, because of that, we will end below the Q1 figures of the previous year in order to then also
ramp up in the Q2 figures on the sales side. And this is something that we're intensely working on
with our partners in order to solve this problem. And in terms of financials, in this context, this is
something that we do not want to comment on.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
Now, on the margin quality for e-vehicles, Mr. Klausen, I believe it's no secret that they are lower
than with the ICE variants. Ola, you also said clearly why that is the case in your remarks. However,
this is something that we can handle quite well, as you can see in the results for '23 and also in
the guidance for '24. And in the analyst call, I also said that the margins -- so the contribution
margins are positive. So we're not talking about negative contribution margins. So what do you
need to do well with the ramp-up volumes for e-vehicles, this is also about attacking variable
costs. In the presentation we heard today, we saw that we endeavored to achieve 30% savings inbattery costs. But we also address other levers in order to reduce variable costs for vehicles
overall. In particular, because the market environment, at least today, on the pricing side, is quite
tense. So this -- what is the upside about that? If the share of electric vehicles is a little lower in
the next few months, then we can also have a somewhat higher increase in ICE variants that have
very sound margins. And as we can see also for '24, so that overall for '24 the profitability and
cash flow situation will in total therefore be on track. And this is also why we took measures in
terms of capital allocation.
A - `Willem Spelten, Corporate Communications
Now I will take one question from the room and then we'll switch to the telephone conference.
(Operator Instructions) And we have Mr. Clusta [ph] here in this room.
Q - Unidentified Participant
So, I'm Clusta [ph], I'm with the (inaudible). Now the Works Council fears a cut in jobs, a more
substantial cut in jobs after the job agreements expire. Now you also have some key influences,
and you also talked about the reduction of workforce, a substantial cut in the workforce. What's
the trend in Germany? So will we now have to fear those jobs, because you invest a lot of
resources outside of Germany? Is that a fear that makes sense, that is sensible? And also where
you build ICE variants only, is the utilization rather high, like in Kolleda, for instance, all shifts that
are possible are also happening seven days a week. Could you also say something about the
utilizations?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
Now on your first question, Mr. Clusta, now we work with the Works Council on a constructive
basis. We both have the same interests. We share the same interests, in that we'd like to make
the company robust and economically sound and develop it going to the future. And I can only
say we want to also invest in technologies, overall speaking, and also grow together. This is also
the guarantee for the jobs. So the signed agreement is the best, where the signed contract with
the customer is the best guarantee for your job. What we have communicated beyond what we
already have, we don't have any specific plans.
In the powertrain area, there are some changes happening. They might take a little bit longer, but
that is why we want to be so flexible to begin with. But there is definitely some changes
happening, simply because the scope of the content of the electric drives is slower than what we
are used to for combustion engines and transmissions. And this is something that we'll solve
demographically. So no one needs to be afraid of losing his or her job. This is rather about using
the demographic trends and not to replace positions or individuals when you don't need that.
However, other areas also grow also in the software context. And also here in Sindelfingen, we
hired 1,000 software engineers in Sindelfingen, highly qualified individuals. So this also
contributes an economic factor to the site of Sindelfingen. So the changes are happening in
different areas in different paces. And at the plants we also try to render them more flexible. And
in most plants, we produce electric vehicles as well as ICE variants. And that is why we can use
the flexibility that this provides. So for those car plans, a fear like that, I think, is not real, because
in cooperation with the Works Council members, I am sure that we can provide for a positive
future together for Mercedes.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Okay, well, how many shifts in which plants, et cetera? Now, we don't comment on that. This
depends on the plants. And unfortunately, I haven't been able to take a look at the shift plan ofthe Kolleda plant. But I'm sure I can find out, but as far as that is concerned, we can respond to
any scenario in the years to come. Now, the first one to ask a question on the phones (multiple
speakers).
Q - Unidentified Participant
Hi. Can you hear me?
A - `Willem Spelten, Corporate Communications
Yes.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Okay, great. Thank you very much for taking my question. One question I have is -- I have two
questions. The first one is, I want to go back to something that was mentioned during the analyst
call, which is about the impact on costs from the lower EV adoption rate in 2023. And if Harald
could go into a little bit more detail about how more broadly the slower demand in EV sales in the
world is impacting the financials and how the company is preparing for 2024, and perhaps slower
EV adoption rates for another year or two before things may or may not pick up again.
And the other question is again about adaptation in light of the slower EV demand. And there's
also a shift that we've been seeing to hybrids, plug-in hybrids, and full hybrids. And is that
impacting your production and model offering in the United States, where it's most pronounced?
Thank you very much.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, maybe I get started on the first one, William [ph]. So, as commented during on the margin
bridge for 2023, we could see that within the industrial performance, more than that was
associated to charges in the supply chain, inflation-related, but also capacity adjustments. We're
not splitting out the numbers in terms of what is the one and the other side of it, and we're not
commenting on individual contractual relationships, obviously. However, as a matter of fact, that
2023, the EV adoption rate was sitting at a lower level, and also 2024 is running at a lower level
compared to some of the assumptions which have been taken before. And that makes it that
there are some adjustments, some capacity issues at suppliers on which we are in discussion.
However, we take a long view in terms of the supplier relationship, in terms of the product, the
product lifecycle, and beyond multi-product and the overall relationship. So we judge it from that
angle as well. And then again, as I said, we're not commenting on individual contractual
relationships here.
Some of these charges, inflation-related and also capacity, probably going to stay there also in
2024, as I said. However, all in all, the material costs are expected to come down slightly in 2024,
being supported in particular on the raw material side and the efficiency, which is the DNA, I think,
of the purchasing department, to drive efficiency in the material cost. So all of that will help to
reduce the bill of material in 2024.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
William, with regard to hybrids and hybridization, the reason why I use the term electrified high-
tech combustion engines is because the foundation for Mercedes is that virtually every car has a
mild [ph] hybrid/48- volt system built in. So electrification has been going on for quite some time.
But if you then go up the hierarchy here, all the way to the plugin hybrids, I think we have thenew E-Class, the GLE, the S-Class, all of those have plug-in hybrid versions with relatively large
battery sizes, up to kind of 27, even 28 or more kilowatt hours. It's almost like you're carrying a
small electric car inside that ICE also. That's a powerful lineup. In the US market specifically, this
has not been one of the main roads so far, but we have the ability and the flexibility, because all
of these cars we can sell in the United States also, as we will in Europe, it has been tremendously
successful. And I believe we're actually in the segments that we're in, the leading company in this
area. So should customers, if they're a bit more hesitant to go for the EV now and they want to
do that later, want to bridge with a plug-in hybrid, you've come to the right address and it's
Mercedes-Benz, and we will play that card as demand develops.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thanks. I'm well aware of the quality of the Mercedes-Benz portfolio. What I was wondering, Ola,
is if you could just say whether or not you're shifting the weight of your portfolio more towards
hybrids in the US because the market has moved so heavily in this direction.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
Since we have the whole lineup, so to speak. It's not about shifting, it's about market exploitation.
So with our marketing and sales team in the US, we'll look at every single portfolio position, and
where there is a market, there will be a Mercedes.
Operator
Okay. With this, we now invite Tina Fox [ph] to ask her question.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Hello, Tina Fox of the SWR [ph] Station. I have a question about the sell-off of your retail outlets. If
you sell to independent dealers, don't you risk to run a multiple-brand strategy, losing your
ambition to be exclusive and losing your ambition to be a luxury manufacturer?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
Thank you, Ms. Fox. Around the world, we have about 6,500 points of sales in 150 countries. And
we have 95% -- rather 99% of them are strong partnerships with retail pros, many of whom
we've been collaborating for many, many decades. So the sales model -- the global sales model
that we've always had is based on a partnership model between us and those entrepreneurs. So
there are very clearly defined rules what does it mean to be a Mercedes dealer? How do you
have to present yourself, especially the large dealership groups that have more than 20 brands?
These are pan-European groups, so globally active groups that are present in many markets. So
they look back on decade-long experience on how to make sure with multi-brand dealers that
when you go to the Mercedes point of sales at that dealership, that you have the Mercedes
feeling through and through.
In the past years, in Europe, we've sold a few in retail operations, some of them to these multi-
brand groups. And what is our experience? I mean, their core business is also a very important
business of ours. But our core business actually is the industry business -- industrial business. And
we've seen that they've invested and then they develop the retail further. It's a kind of win-win
situation for both parties. And during our discussion that we are now having also in Germany with
the representatives of the workforce, in these discussions we investigate, try to assess whether
or not it's a good idea to sell our own retail outlets. We sold about 60 some years ago and madegood experiences with that. And I'm absolutely sure that the Mercedes experience at the
dealership will not suffer. On the contrary, maybe they can even help us improve.
A - `Willem Spelten, Corporate Communications
Okay, let's get back to the room. (Operator Instructions) And here Mr. Willer [ph], please.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you very much. Robin Willer, dpa [ph]. Mr. Kallenius, I have a question about the ramp-up of
e-mobility. About 20% of your costs are EVs, including plug-in hybrids, if I'm not mistaken. Why are
you so confident that during the second half of the decade, as you said, up to 50% of the total
sales will be accounted for by these vehicles? Now, up to -- I mean, this gives you a lot of room to
breathe. And the second question, what kind of value do you think is realistic up to the end of this
decade? Thank you.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
Now, if we take a look at the structure of our portfolio, that is, where do we sell the most cars,
you can see that -- which cars sell best, the GLC. That's the best-selling vehicle in our Mercedes
portfolio. On the market, currently, we have a brand new electrified ICE GLC, but we don't have a
counterpart on the BEV side. So this is one example that illustrates that when we start filling our
portfolios with next-generation EVs, this will take us to where we make volumes now in our sales
structure. That's one effect. The other effect is that we can see, in general, talking about the BEV
ramp-up, that it's a bottom-up movement, not the other way around when you think in terms of
structure and unit sales. So the MMA family, the first vehicle will be out in '25, and after that, a
whole series of vehicles will follow. So, in combination with the MBEA architecture, which includes
the C-Class and GLC in '26, and full production in '27, probably, this is a very, very big product
campaign with what we think are most attractive e-vehicles that will be launched.
In parallel to that, we complete our plug-in hybrid portfolio. And the new and important car for
this year is the E-Class. So we've got both things. Now, the effect of the two of them, for
structural reasons, offers us an opportunity to increase the xEV share. Well, the market is a bit
calmer right now compared to the momentum you saw three years ago, maybe. But if the
momentum should pick up on the market, this would be another tailwind to our benefit here. So,
yes, we are very confident that our new cars are the right ones and we think that the xEV share
can be improved and increased drastically by 2030. But to give you an exact figure, concrete
figure, for '23 wouldn't make sense because we don't have a crystal ball.
A - `Willem Spelten, Corporate Communications
Thank you. Mr. Wagner, FAZ [ph].
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you very much. My name is Wagner, FAZ. Mr. Kallenius, let me get back to Mobility. We are
talking about highly competitive environment. In other words, many customers think e-cars are
too expensive. So my question is, shouldn't the prices go down? And how does that square with
your luxury strategy? Isn't it counterproductive? You back luxury, but the customer thinks e-
vehicles are too expensive.
And a second question. Looking over to China, there are new manufacturers that launch very
good cars. Of course, they don't bear the three-pointed star on the bonnet, but they are cheaperfor the cheaper one, because money, the price, is still a crucial criterion? And in which year will
EVs be just as expensive or cheap as ICE vehicles?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
Well, I'll start at the top and then I'll go down to the bottom. Let me start by talking about the top
end. We have the S-Class, the AMGs, Maybach, you name them. So the top-end segment is the
segment that we also electrify. And the price delta between EVs and ICE vehicles may not be the
main focus, but yet it is the focus. And the farther you go down, C-Class, E-Class derivatives and
what we call entry models, MMA, CLE, GLA, et cetera. You have to be very careful that what you
offer in terms of product substance, compared to the sister car that is also standing in the
showroom, an electrified high-tech ICE matches with what the customer sees. And I said the
variable cost of e-cars is higher than everything we've seen in terms of ICE cars. But maybe
customers are prepared to pay just a certain price markup or the customer is unable to pay more.
So if you buy a Mercedes in the cases going forward, we don't expect that the money or the
delta would not be unreasonably large, but rather moderate.
So what you need to take into account is the total cost of ownership. And this is what the
customer also considers when the customer buys a car that they drive for three or five years.
Energy efficiency, cheaper -- cost of energy in most markets, all this also makes that you repay
the delta, or get the price -- get the delta back that you initially paid in terms of a markup.
So in terms of cost of ownership, this parity can be achieved much more quickly. But if you look at
the pure sales price, there is a delta which is due to the various variable costs. But it's a delta that
can be explained and that is logical. As far as the competition is concerned, it's been here for 138
years. You have to be innovative, you have to be very alert. You have to cater to customers who
want to have a Mercedes. So we have these -- we are an established manufacturer and we cater
to established customers and also to new ones. But we are not getting confused. We focus on
delivering the perfect Mercedes car concept-wise.
A - `Willem Spelten, Corporate Communications
So Ms. Kunkel first, and then we'll go back to the telephone conference.
Q - `Christina Kunkul, Journalist, Suddeutsche Zeitung
Now, I'm `Christina Kunkul, Journalist, Suddeutsche Zeitung of Suddeutsche Zeitung. And I have a brief question on the
electrification strategy. If you now end up selling more ICE variants, will that not also mean that
the ecological footprint will be worse than what you had planned it to be originally? And then on
the political discussion that was started by Ms. Funderlyng [ph] and Mr. Wissing, saying that it
would be good in 2026 to review the end of the combustion engine by 2035 in view of e-fuels.
Do you think that's a positive thing that they want to review that? Or wouldn't you like to have like
a safe planning basis that says starting 2035 we won't have any combustion engines or e-fuels
anymore?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
Now my answer is everyone understands that decarbonization and steel neutrality are the tasks
of this generation, and that in the next decades, we will need to find solutions for that. So this is
the umbrella, the roof, the strategic roof, so that even if the market did not develop as
dynamically as we thought three years ago, then this doesn't mean that we will have solved this
CO2 issue and can just ignore that. We need to take that into consideration. Now the question is,
how fast will this happen and what is the flexibility we need for that? Mobility is the entire basis forour way of life and for our economic activity. So on the way there, we cannot discontinue mobility
or limit mobility temporarily, because if we did that, our economic strength would suffer and the
financial strength would suffer that we need in order to invest in the technologies that are
needed for decarbonization. So calibrating as you go on that journey, we're talking about a
systemic change. It's not only about introducing great electric cars to the market, but behind that
is also an energy system, also an energy distribution system with a charging infrastructure, et
cetera. So all that needs to be in sync and go hand in hand. So if for a certain period of time, we
do not progress as fast as we had originally ambitioned to do, then you need to be ready to
recalibrate without, however, giving up on that destination, but rather continuing to work on
solving that problem strategically.
We are doing that, and we also have actually intensified our investments in e-mobility. We keep
investing billions in that. We believe in e-mobility and we also believe in zero-emission e-mobility.
However, if the political sphere were to say, let's just take the review year 2026 to look at how far
we've come on a rational level, whether we are on track, so that if we had to revise, we could
have rational arguments, and facts and data that we would need to make the right decision. No,
we have not given up on the CO2 targets either. So once a year we have that ESG Conference,
which I believe takes place on the 20th of March. So we close that average lifecycle, that average
CO2 lifecycle, and we'll be here in a couple of weeks, and we see how we can actually cut down
on that every year. And you will see that, I believe, we're coming from 49.7 and we want to get to
approximately 25 tons as a CO2 burden by 2030.
And this is not only about the adoption rate, it's also about the supply chain, our production,
about the fact that we also provide charging infrastructure, which then is fed with CO2 electricity -
- CO2-free electricity, so the product in application. So we're trying to work alongside the entire
value chain, trying to make our contribution to the reduction of CO2 emissions.
Q - `Christina Kunkul, Journalist, Suddeutsche Zeitung
Quick question for clarification. Is e-fuel something that you're looking into or not?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
Well, my answer is as follows. Even if we came to the day, one day, where we sell 100% non-fossil
products, we as a world will have quite a substantial fleet of vehicles that are still out there,
maybe 1.5 billion to 2 billion vehicles that are still out on the roads. So every measure and any
measure we can take in order to reduce the CO2 burden of these vehicles is definitely a good
measure.
So in the context of energy transformation of humankind, it's all of the above. Of course,
hydrogen will also play a role as a storage possibility of energy for aircraft traffic. I don't see any
other possibility apart from a CO2 neutral fuel. So we'll need fuels for that. So you don't need to
have an ideological discussion about that. No need -- not needed. The market will provide for
that. What we need to decide is that we need to decarbonize, and then the engineers will have
the right creativity to come up with a technical solution. And then the market will decide for which
kind of application you will use which CO2-free product. So it's probably an all of the above
approach.
A - `Steffen Hoffmann, Head of Investor Relations and Treasury `
Okay, we have a few questions open. So if you could just ask one question at a time. And I'm
going back to the telephone call. Patricia Nielsen of The Financial Times of the Financial Times.Operator
(Operator Instructions)
Q - `Patricia Nilsson, Reporter, Financial Times
Thank you for taking my question. I wanted to ask -- so another German carmaker recently had
thousands of cars held at US customs after it turned out that a US-based subcontractor had
sourced some parts from Xinjiang. I wanted to ask, can you say for sure that something similar
could not happen to Mercedes-Benz? And how big of an issue is this brewing trade war and the
rules between US and China?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
I am not aware of any exposure for Mercedes-Benz in that regard. With regard to global trade
and policymaking, I think we really need to look back at the last 20, 30 years, WTO-driven
opening up of markets. That has led to an unprecedented level of growth, wealth creation, and
pulling also people out of poverty. In the phase that we're in now politically, geopolitically, of
course, we can see since some several years that protectionistic trends are finding a level of
revival here. And I only hope that the policymakers around the world don't forget how we baked
the cake in the first place. For an economic region like Europe and especially Germany, where the
backbone of our economic strength is also built upon open markets and export, we should do
everything and anything to uphold this global open market trade system and seek more free
trade agreements above and beyond the ones that we have now, perhaps also with not new
players, but even more relevant players in the transformation for raw materials and other things.
So in those discussions between the EU and, let's say, (inaudible), or what we're doing in the
discussions with India, with Indonesia, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, I think it would be a very
good thing and a constructive thing to move those along and maybe not let them sit there and
wait because of one or two sticky points that have not yet been solved, and look at the bigger
picture. We're not naive about the geopolitics but we should also not underestimate the strength
of the market and how important the market has been as a force for good around the world,
especially in these last 30 years.
A - `Willem Spelten, Corporate Communications
And the next one on the telephone would be `David Sachs, Reporter, The Wall Street Journal from Dow Jones -- The Wall Street
Journal.
Q - `David Sachs, Reporter, The Wall Street Journal `
Hi, thanks for taking the question, and I apologize if it's been answered. I'm only getting the
German language and no English translation. So I wanted to ask about Daimler. Mr. Wilhelm said
earlier that the reduction of Mercedes stake in Daimler could be a way to support cash flow. And I
was wondering if this is an idea that complements the new buyback policy, or if it's been
previously considered. And also I'm wondering, at what point do you see this becoming a real
possibility? What sort of indicators would you need to see before making a decision like this?
Thank you.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, thank you, David. Well, as you say, no decision taken here at this juncture. What's a factual
situation, we have a soft lockup in terms of stay within our shareholding of Daimler Truck until the
end of 2024. How do we think about that beyond that, after 2024? Well, I think Daimler Truck hasestablished itself very well commercially anyhow, but also in the capital market. That was exactly
the idea why we wanted to be there as an important shareholder, not a strategic shareholder, but
an important shareholder. So from that angle, you could say the purpose had been served. And
that's why you could consider, over time, also reduction of the stake. But no discussion, frankly,
and no decision taken. Why did I make it -- make the comment is just to explain what do the new
buyback policy is about. It means if there is a bit less cash flow available after divi, if there is a bit
less of a share buyback, if it's a bit more, as it could be helped by such type of a thing like partial
divestment, exit from the shareholding over time, that would incrementally add to the cash flow
generation and therefore would add the potential for share buyback in the future. So this is what I
wanted to say with it.
A - `Willem Spelten, Corporate Communications
So let's go back to the room. Mr. Eckeldorner[ph].
Q - Unidentified Participant
Okay, I believe you can hear me okay. I have two brief questions. First of all, I'd like to know the
sales of the EQS are not as good as you had wanted them to be, envisaged them to be. So how
do you respond to that? And in terms of the share buyback, I mean, Mercedes and other car
manufacturers have a number of subsidies and also established incentives for the sale of new
vehicles and receive that. So subsidies also for battery plants. So if in this share buyback you now
have a large part of that money paid back to the shareholders, what will the governments and
regulatory authorities do that might not respond to this so favorably? And then a question on the
IAE [ph], how attractive are the US former cities and do you plan to invest further in a larger scale
and maybe shift to that?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
My answer is as follows. In the client surveys, the EQS is seen very positively. JD Power did a study
in China for the electric vehicles, all brands, all clients. And number one was Mercedes-Benz with
the EQ vehicles, we ranked first. So for those that entered market, those first buyers, they're very
convinced. So for the EQS and EQE segments, we are the undisputed market leader in this
segment. And in terms of market share, we have an unbelievably strong position. And as far as I
know, you do not have exact transparency in every market that we sell in. But we can assume that
the EQS of the electric vehicles in the segment is also the leading model.
And then you could say, well, everything's great, tick it off. And this is not, however, how you can
approach that. The dynamism in the upper segments compared to the lower segments has not
exactly been what we thought it would be like three years ago. And how do we respond to that
now? We respond to it, and maybe that's a new normal. We respond to it by taking this very
speedy technological development and allowing our clients to benefit from that. And in the
presentation today, I also alluded to that briefly. We already have quite a great model here for
the EQS that will be available in June, optical measures, then also executive seating in the back
that you can also sit in comfortably with my height, but also more range, greater than 800
kilometers of WLTP. This is unprecedented in this segment, with really this sensational
aerodynamic performance that comes with the EQS, et cetera, et cetera.
So you also need to enrich products as you go on this journey. How would a policymaker respond
to what's normal on the capital market that the proceeds, after all investments, et cetera, go
back to those who invested the capital and bears the risk? I don't think that they even consider it
when such a decision is taken, because this is one of the cornerstones and one of the basic rulesmake sure that you remain competitive as an economic region or country, because capital is not a
voter who votes a party, but this is a risk-adjusted return. And if the risk-adjusted return is higher
in other economic regions, the capital will go there. So you have the IPSE [ph] programs in
Europe. And just like the Americans with the IRA, it's been realized that there are several
transformation technologies where it makes sense because other economic regions do the same
thing to add a national component. Battery is one thing, semiconductor is another. Doesn't make
sense. Well, I'd say if you were the only region and you didn't do anything, you'd be at a
disadvantage.
So I think the EU has taken the right decision, and we as an investor into ACC, together with
Landis and Total [ph], yes, we are the (inaudible) of such investments. But the capital that we
generate jointly, the three of us, in order to advance this enterprise is much higher by several
factors than the subsidies. So the entrepreneurial risk that we accept is much, much bigger at this
point. But of course, the subsidies help IRA very concretely, and that's public information. We've
submitted two applications. One to extend our plant in Alabama for cars and another application
to extend our plant in South Carolina for vans. And we are quite hopeful that our applications will
receive a positive decision.
So we are behind schedule already. If you have further questions, don't hesitate to ask me or any
one of our press team. We'd be happy to answer your questions. But this Q&A session comes to
an end and I'd like to thank you for being here. Thank you for your questions. Have a safe journey
back home all of you who have been here. Thank you.