Y 2024 Earnings Call

Presentation
`Christina Schenck, Vice President Treasury & Investor Relations `
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and a warm welcome to our Capital Market Day, Mastering
Transformation. We will kick today off with our annual results conference for 2024. We're very
happy to have you here with us today. And I would like to introduce myself. I am `Christina Schenck, Vice President Treasury & Investor Relations.
I'm the Head of Investor Relations and Treasury.
`Willem Spelten, Head of Corporate Communications
Good morning, everybody. My name is `Willem Spelten, Head of Corporate Communications. I'm Heading Corporate Communications.
Also warm welcome from my side. We start today with the annual results conference for the --
like approximately first 30 minutes, followed by the Capital Market Day, Mastering
Transformation, providing a comprehensive update on where we are standing and where we are
intending to go for analysts, for investors, and for the media.
`Christina Schenck, Vice President Treasury & Investor Relations `
So in total, our presentations will last for roughly two hours. You can follow our stream with
simultaneous translation into Chinese and German. For those of you in the room, you can access
the translation function as well; channel 1 for German; channel 2 for English, and channel 3 for
Chinese.`Willem Spelten, Head of Corporate Communications
And both Q&A sessions after the CMD will be broadcasted on our website, so you can also join
digitally. The event ends around noon today. And we will now start with the annual results
conference hosted by our CEO, `Ola Kallenius, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, followed by our CFO, `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer.
`Ola Kallenius, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and hello to everybody that is watching this annual results
conference and Capital Markets Day on the stream, and again, welcome. We would like to start
by sharing the numbers of 2024, but then spend more time today talking about the future of this
company, what's happening in the industry, and what is Mercedes-Benz doing to propel itself into
a prosperous future. That is what today is all about.
But let's start and look at the numbers for 2024. Everybody knows that 2024 was another exciting
year in the auto industry, but a year that was also defined by macro challenges and also a tough
market condition. How have we fared during this year? In the market conditions that we
encountered, especially in China in the second half of last year, yes, it did affect our revenues,
and accordingly, also our profitability, but in that context, to be able also in the competitive set to
print a EUR9.2 billion free cash flow is a very strong statement of a company that has a solid
foundation. And in spite of the fact that we returned back to shareholders almost or around
EUR10 billion through the dividend, but also through share buybacks, the net industrial liquidity of
the company still sits at around EUR35 billion. So the foundation and the balance sheet of this
company is very strong, which we think is an advantage as we tackle the next few years where
the market conditions probably also will see its challenges.
What was going on at Mercedes-Benz Cars? Well, at Mercedes-Benz Cars, for those of you who
joined us yesterday, you got a little special presentation on the G-Class. It's one of those unique
icons in our portfolio, and surely that was one of the big events in 2024, launching the all new G
and also the insanely performant Electric G that many customers are also now turning to, the
perfect car for adventure now at zero emission.
But 2024 was also a year where we have laid the foundation for what we're going to talk about in
the update into the future. `Markus Schafer, Chief Technology Officer, Development & Procurement, our Head of R&D, is here today. His team, but also all
the teams in R&D, in production and marketing and sales, they're readying themselves for what is
going to be the biggest tech and product launch offensive in the history of this company.
So whereas maybe we didn't have so many launches in 2024, that didn't mean it was a slow year.
It was probably one of the busiest years that we have ever had, and we're ready and poised to
go.
If you take a little bit closer look at the structure of the sales, as I mentioned, we and others
encountered a Chinese market with subdued consumer sentiment, and yes, that also affected
some of the upper ends of the segments, whereas we have, in a successful way, protected our
market share, and in many cases, actually increased our market share. This is something that we
had to deal with in 2024 and we're looking at how does this develop in 2025 and how do we
make sure that our very strong position on the top end that we can protect it, and also in the next
few years, build upon it.
On the xEV side, if you double-click on xEVs and BEVs and you do an analysis of the premium
luxury market or what's going on, you quickly see that in the segments where we have the most
of our first generation electric vehicles, which is E-Class and S-Class segments, sedans and SUVsthe fact, with all the market pressure and many market participants resorting to price action,
you're not completely immune to that, we try to be a little bit more careful.
The biggest segment in the EV side for premium and luxury is GLC and C-Class segment. There
we have no offering in our portfolio today, but when we meet here next year, we're ready to go.
Those products are in the pipeline and they're coming in 2026.
So in a thoughtful way, we managed through this period. You can see that the plug-in hybrids
have been quite successful. I don't think there's any company in our competitive set that has a
better lineup for plug-in hybrids. Most of our offering is WLTP 100 kilometers and above. Very few
companies have that. And we can see a renaissance of the plug-in hybrids. And in this day and
age, where I think it's clear that the transformation into electric mobility is going to take a little bit
longer than maybe most people thought five years ago and it's going to be heterogeneous, to
have that card as well to play is good. That's a strong hand.
The van division; the van division had another banner year. The profitability was again unusually
high. When Mathias Geisen, who has now moved into marketing and sales, presented the van
strategy a couple of years ago, he said a light commercial van company based in Europe that can
print a double-digit margin at all is a phenomenal result. And here again, they have done it north
of that. What is it? It's the strength of the portfolio, it's the strength of the products; good
structure, disciplined go-to-market strategy and also good on pricing.
That doesn't mean that you can sit back. The van division is going through similar to the
passenger cars, maybe even more in relative terms, a very big change. You know that the cycles
of vans are longer and we have started also here the biggest investment and product offensive
in many decades, and we will launch the first product of the so-called VAN.EA architecture next
year and then following products the years after that.
They're as vigilant about cost as we are on the passenger car side. If you're making more money,
you cannot kind of relax and become a little bit loose. You have to have the same discipline. One
example of that, we're announcing that we are again adapting our production network. We're
selling our plant in Argentina to improve the utilization of that plant to an investor group. So they
will act as a contract manufacturer to us, but can use unutilized capacity in that plant for other
things, so again, improving our fixed cost position for the van division. So strong profitability, but
not a reason to sit back and relax.
Also the van market could see that the market was normalizing somewhat and there was also
market pressure on vans, which affected our overall sales, but as I mentioned, with a very, very
good structure, we are, kind of in Europe, the premium van of choice; we have a strong business
in the United States and we have a niche business in China that we think, with the next VAN.EA
architecture, we can grow further.
That leads me to Mercedes-Benz Mobility. For those of you who have covered financial services
company, in the interest cycles, you're at the back end, you're at the front end and so on, that it is
affected by interest rates and there is a lag there. I think a very important thing for the financial
services business is what does your new business margin look like? When you acquire new
business, is it healthy or is it under pressure? So even if the actual results in 2024 was not one of
the best years of our Mercedes-Benz Mobility division, that new acquisition profitability is looking
healthy. So I think we're preparing ourselves for a cycle there, depending of course on how
interest rates develop and if inflation stays down or maybe comes down even more.
But I also want to give some kudos to the Mobility team because not only are they kind of theAnd one of those projects is charging solutions. What was a PowerPoint presentation and an idea
a couple of years ago is now starting to become reality. Through participation in consortiums and
through our own activities, we are now building a Mercedes-Benz charging network, high-power
charging network, will be fantastic for this car that is next to me here around the world, and I've
already visited some of those both here in Europe and in the United States and kind of really
feels good when you're a Mercedes driver, you hook up and it's just plug in, it's very quick and
you go. And the message for that activity is clear. Going into the future with the electric offensive
that's coming, the message to these customers is we've got your back. If you get a car from
Mercedes, you're going to get the convenience with it.
And with that, I will hand over to Harald who will drill down on the financial numbers. Thank you.
`Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Hello everybody, I think, also from my side, very happy now to dig a bit deeper into the
numbers obviously, and I would say let's get started with cars. So we heard on sales before,
revenue evolution, I mean, is in line with the sales, and given the circumstances Ola pointed out,
we printed EUR8.7 billion of EBIT on the cars side and a number slightly higher than that on the
cash flow before interest and tax.
How did we get there? Let's have a look at that in the bridge, but before digging into the bridge,
obviously I think a word on the fourth quarter, where did we end up on the fourth quarter, also at
8.1 is on the full year, so ahead of the 6% to 7%, which we predicted at the end of the third
quarter, and that was thanks to a better volume, definitely a strong mix in the fourth quarter and
also more cost efficiencies which we could pull through already in the fourth quarter, which I think
is encouraging if we think about mid-2025.
But back to the full year and the full year bridge, obviously. So what happened in 2024? Well, very
obvious on the chart, the bucket volume structure and net pricing is negative. Inside, you have net
pricing being negative, you have the lower volume, you have a bit of a worse mix in 2024, and we
also stepped up the effort to enhance product content, so what we call life cycle measures, which
had a headwind for 2024.
As well, at the same time, as we guided for, the used car business came in significantly lower
than 2023, and we also recorded towards the tail end residual value adjustments in the bucket of
volume structure net pricing here, as you can see. On the FX side, we see chiefly the impact of
the Turkish lira.
What happened however on the industrial performance side, and I think if you look at that, that
also is encouraging, if we think about 2025. Basically it's EUR1 billion of an improvement. If you
bear in mind that within that, we had to swallow headwinds from one-time supplier cost chiefly
due to the capacity adjustments we have been talking about since quite a while, so you can see
that the underlying improvement is even higher than the EUR1 billion in 2024, coming from
manufacturing, coming from material cost efficiencies as well as raw material tailwinds which we
could cash in.
And talking about efficiencies, I would say also you could see efficiency at work in the R&D
markers, so really trying to work hard on the products, but also on the efficiency of the
engineering organization. That's what you see basically here in the bridge.
Leaves me with the other bucket. What happened over there? A lower BBAC at equity result,
including the China dealer support we had been talking about in the third and the fourth quarter;some lower valuations, valuation adjustments, impairments, which sit inside and the absence of
prior-year positive impacts, which favored 2023, which were no repeat in 2024.
A word on the adjustments. The diesel ones [ph], I think, are well known from the first quarter
already, the new one is EUR350 million adjustment on top on ACC and that is related to the
adjustment in terms of the adjusted industrial ramp-up side [ph] at ACC, which factored in at
EUR350 million outside the underlying in the reported on the right hand side of the chart.
How did we translate that into cash? So at a rate of 1 or even -- at a rate of 1, let's say, EUR9
billion, how did we get there? I would say overall working capital pretty well managed, inventory
down. So definitely a tailwind here on the cash side, on the inventory; trade payables were also
down offsetting that, more than offsetting that. You see that on the numbers on the chart. Net
investments running ahead of PPE now, but obviously in support of the product portfolio firework
we are preparing.
And also here on the others, the usual one, the reversal of the at-equity and the divi for BBAC
and obviously you see the non-cash elements from valuation impairments as well as the dealer
provisions, which have been recorded, but not cashed out yet in quarter four.
So what else? Let's move to the indicators on change on cars. I think these KPIs, we are looking at
on a regular basis to track whether we are online with a strategy execution. Judge yourself
please. Let's say despite the challenges we could see in 2024, the ASP is up by almost 40%
between 2019 and 2024. We ended in the fourth quarter the ASP at EUR72,000, which I think is a
good number.
Look at the workforce reduction, 11%, 15,000 people, thereof 10,000 white collar which reduced
since 2019, and that is obviously a key supporter to the fixed cost achievement of 19% compared
to 2019. And I would like to emphasize this is net of inflation. So if you bear in mind inflation
numbers in Europe and in the world, I think that's a quite sizable number.
On the investment side, you also see the discipline at work; all in all, 8% down compared to 2019
with a strong emphasis on the R&D side to support the product portfolio development, but a
very stringent and disciplined approach on the CapEx and the PPE side. But we'll talk about that a
bit more in depth later when we come to the CMD part of the session.
Now look at the vans. Ola commented on the sales side already. I would like to emphasize
however, look on the revenue side which suffered less. How was that possible? Mix at work, the
disciplined pricing, but mix, favorable mix at work, and that is also key reason why you see very
solid print on EBIT and cash flow for the van division in 2024.
Let's go to the bridge here as well. So how did we move throughout the year, ending at a very
strong 14.6% return on sales. The volume structure pricing bucket is slightly negative. So the
volume loss has been quite nicely compensated by a better mix in 2024, thanks to B-Class and
other portfolio evolution. As you know, we stepped out also on the Metris in the US and the
pricing was actually pretty stable in 2024. Looking on to industrial performance, so this is slightly
negative; some product related cost and inflation headwinds which we suffered here. And on the
others, that is related to model change over at FBAC.
I would leave that here for the vans and jump to -- on the EBIT side and jump to the cash side.
Strong translation of the EBIT into cash at a rate of 1, working capital actually balanced, well
managed, and the investments running ahead of depreciation, not a surprise, is we invest in -- we
invest into the ramp-up of the van platform on the EV as well on the ICE side.Looking at the indicators of change on vans, well, also a pretty decent ASP step-up by 40%.
Active workforce reduction also at work 10% down; fixed cost also 19% down, again net of
inflation, and on the investment side obviously, up in support of the VAN.EA. So I would say
strategy execution if you judge it from the numbers well on track on the van side.
Looking at the mobility, new business slightly down, in line with the market evolution; tough
competition in China here, a bit of FX effect on the portfolio side, but roughly same order of
magnitude, but EBIT impacted, as Ola pointed out already before. What is the reason? If we look
into the bridge, it's pretty obvious here that the interest margin is a function of the past interest
rate developments suffered. That is the majority of the impact you see here on the slide, a bit of
resilience also impacting here on the fleet side. And then we had impact on the cost of credit risk
deterioration in the H1, chiefly in the -- coming from the US, which stabilized in the second half of
the year.
What else to say? You also hear you see efficiencies at work to compensate, to mitigate the
impact from the margin side. And also we stepped up the effort on the charging infrastructure,
which impacted the number by roughly 1% return on sales in 2024. So without, it would have been
a bit closer to 10%.
Now looking at the group side, we talked to vans and cars and Mobility. So I would just say the
recon pretty balanced. So central function has been basically outweighed by positive contribution
from the Daimler Truck side. With that, I mean we are at an including the adjustments I talked
about before where the group EBIT reported at EUR13.6 billion. That translates after effective tax
rate of 26% into a net income of EUR10 billion, EUR10.4 billion to be precise. And you can see the
EPS of EUR10, which obviously has been favored, supported by the accretion effect from the
share buyback.
So looking on the cash evolution in 2024, at the group level, again, business side, we explained;
leaves me with the income tax, 3.9, obviously down, in line with the underlying results. Interest
rate is positive and then in the others, you have the divi contribution from trucks throughout the
year. And yeah, I think in these circumstances of where we have been in 2024, EUR9.2 billion is a
solid number in terms of free cash flow.
On the NIL side, while you see the cash flow at work was EUR9 billion, as explained before, you
see the shareholder returns EUR5.5 billion of divi. We completed both programs of the share
buyback, the EUR4 billion plus EUR3 billion programs, EUR7 billion and that means EUR10 billion
had been returned to shareholders to you in 2024. We also got some divi and capital return from
for Mobility. That makes an closing net cash position of EUR31 billion compared to an opening of
EUR31 billion. I would say this capital allocation framework was pretty much at work. Wouldn't you
agree with me?
So let's come to the outlook. So the assumption chart, I spare you that. However, I would like to
emphasize one point. The outlook is based on the current today's regulatory framework. What
does it mean? Any additional tariffs over and above which do exist today are not included in this
guidance. However, I'd like to give you a bit of a sensitivity. If the tariffs for exports from the EU
into the US would step up from the current 2.5%, say, to 10%, what would be the impact on a
gross basis on the margin for cars, I would say up to 100 basis points in terms of gross impact
coming from that, however, before any mitigation. Mitigation, when does it come? How many
vehicles do you have in country? How do you react to it? That's why it is utterly difficult to give any
number on that one, and that's why we guide before any incremental impact which could be
possible in this respect.A word on the measures which have been taken in China for the imports from the US to China,
which impacts obviously vehicles with engine size bigger than 2.5 liters displacement. So that is a
very limited impact. The reason is we already have quite a lot of vehicles in country, therefore the
base to which applies is more limited.
So now let's dig a bit into the division guidance for the Cars. Where do we see the sales
evolution in 2025? We take a prudent and a cautious view here, I would say. We look at the
various markets. We look in particular at China. We see a very competitive environment continuing
in China in 2025, and that's why we assume some further impact whereas Europe we see rather
a stable sales situation for 2025. Overall, in the US, we see a very solid underlying customer
demand momentum. Maybe in terms of the group sales however, the number might be slightly
lower in '25 than in 2024. That means all in all, we see the sales for 2025 at slightly lower than
2024.
What does it mean for the margin side? Sorry, first on the -- first -- jumped over the xEV share. So
we expect that to step up; as Ola pointed out before, very strong plug-in portfolio at work where
we see good momentum. Obviously, this beautiful vehicle will come to market, but the impact in
2025 and taking the share higher is still more remote. That is something you will rather see then
in 2026 and moving forward.
Now coming to the margin on Cars, so we expect the margin on Cars to be between 6% and 8%,
return on sales adjusted, again, before the tariffs I explained before. How do we get there from
the 8% -- the 8.1% in 2024? The volume is slightly lower, as I just explained to it before. We see
the mix slightly favorable with all of the beautiful products which came and will come to market.
We see the pricing stable. This is our target, this is our ambition that we hold and defend and stay
disciplined on the pricing side.
Now, the 1 billion question, CO2 in Europe, I would say that 1 billion question turns out to be a low
three-digit number for 2025. So I think all of the concerns you had at least, I think, for 2025, we
can calm you down on that one. And so then actually you might wonder what is really changing
the needle as everything I said before more or less is a wash. So you're left with a lower
contribution, given the volume I mentioned, on the -- from the BBAC side. The contribution from
BBAC in 2025 is expected to be lower. We do anticipate some FX headwinds for 2025 and what
is in our hands to mitigate that, to stabilize the margin? Performance, performance, performance.
And that means that we take a hard approach on material, on production, on fixed cost to
mitigate the impacts I said before, and with this, all in all, if you make the math, I think you come
from an 8 to a bucket of 6 to 8 for 2025.
What do we expect for the first quarter? Maybe a word on this at this stage. So we see the
volume for the first quarter for Cars at about the level of quarter one 2024, and we see the
result, the margin for the first quarter also in -- within the guidance bracket, i.e., the 6% to 8% for
the first quarter.
What else on the KPIs here? The CapEx side we see a significant increase. That is to prepare and
support the product launches to come '25, but then '26 up to 2027, whereas the R&D side is
expected to be flattish. And with all of that, we believe we can basically convert the margin into
cash at the rate of 0.9 to 1.
On the Vans side, we see the market being intense. So with a lot of competition here, we want to
stay disciplined, i.e., value over volume. That's why we also see the volume slightly down here on
the Vans side, will step up the xEV share with the Sprinter, the new eSprinter. And what does itmean for the margin? So we see that at the 10% to 12% for 2025. How do we get there? Lower
volume, as I just said. Then pricing and the mix, solid
And stable. Here, the headwind from CO2 in Europe has a more meaningful impact. The number
in absolute is higher on demands for Europe than it is on the cars and therefore obviously on a
percentage basis, given a smaller business, it has a more material impact. So probably, one of
the most important levers or impacts on the margin walk from 14% to 10% to 12% between '24
and 2025 is coming from the CO2 in Europe. And at the same time, we are ramping up the effort
and the prep work for the VAN.EA or van architecture and the investments into our Eastern
Europe Jawor facility. So with all of that, before tariffs, a 10% to 12% on the Vans. Now, on the Q1,
we see that in terms of the margin, also in the same ballpark as the fourth quarter, and R&D and
PPE is expected to increase significantly to prepare for VAN.EA and the Jawor.
Mobility, we expect the return on equity to be between 8% and 9%. What do we see here?
Basically we see some tailwinds in markets outside of China; however, pretty tough competition
continuing in China. So that's basically how that balances out. Then we continue the investments,
we step up the investments into charging in 2025 whereas the cost of credit risks are expected
to be rather flattish. That brings you to 8% to 9% altogether, and also the Q1 is expected to be in
that corridor.
And leaves me with the group guidance. So on the assumptions of the division, obviously no
surprise that the group revenue expected -- is expected to be slightly below in 2025. The group
EBIT as well as the cash flow is expected to be significantly below on the assumptions I just
outlined on the division side before. If you then factor on the cash flow in the matter of fact that
the cash conversion on the Vans side is lower due to the ramp up of the investments on the Vans
side, I think you explain the guidance for the cash flow at the group level.
And I think with this, I hand back to Christina and Willem. Thank you.
`Christina Schenck, Vice President Treasury & Investor Relations `
So thank you very much, Ola. Thank you very much, Harald, for providing us with a review on the
2024 numbers. We will now shift from 2024 to the future of Mercedes-Benz. Willem?
`Willem Spelten, Head of Corporate Communications
Yeah. So we are now shifting to the Capital Market Day part of the day, and this roadmap to the
future for the future and how we're going to master the transformation of Mercedes-Benz -- at
Mercedes-Benz, will be presented again by Ola and Harald as well as our CTO, `Markus Schafer, Chief Technology Officer, Development & Procurement.
All three of them will give you deep insights into our upcoming product firework, into
technological innovations made by Mercedes-Benz as well as how we strengthen the resilience of
our company.
And we start with our CEO, with Ola, after a short video. (Video Presentation)
`Ola Kallenius, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Thank you, Christina. Thank you, Willem. Now let's shift our focus, looking into the future. What is
our game plan, what have we been working on, what's the progress that we have made and
what can you expect from Mercedes-Benz in these next coming years? That's what I would like to
talk to you today about together with Harald and Markus.
And it comes down really to four core messages. These are the takeaways from today. NumberMercedes-Benz. And in this next phase of our transformation and evolution into the future, what
we have done is we have taken this recipe and we have distilled it one more time to make
Mercedes even more Mercedes.
That's a segue in to the second point. We're embarking on the biggest tech innovation and
product launch offensive in the company's history. So it will be a very busy three years coming
with a refined recipe, turning into product and turning into technology, class-leading technology.
Even if we love cars, and it's a lot about cars, and we spend a lot of time here in Sindelfingen, we
look at styling and we test-drive and so on, everybody in this room, and especially the audience
that is in this room knows you cannot have innovation strength if you don't have financial strength.
So financial strength equals innovation strength. Financial strength equals return of capital to
shareholders. That is why we will leave no stone unturned in the challenging macro and market
environment that we're in to look at our complete business model and every single cost
category, investment category to make sure that we have the most efficient operations that we
can have.
Not the easy way out; just cut your R&D spend and your CapEx spend. You can very, very, very
quickly improve your short-term financial performance if you would do that, but Mercedes-Benz
has always been a long-term thinking company. So we're not going to eat our seed. We're going
to use our seed to create future exciting products and returns to our investors, but at the same
time, we will double-down on efficiency. That is the third message I want to -- want you to take
with you today.
And last but not least, this is a Capital Markets Day, we're talking to our investors, many of our
investors are here, we want to make sure that you have a good return on investment. Harald
showed us the numbers from 2024; a healthy dividend, also good share buyback program. We
want to continue our capital allocation policy to be investor-friendly.
I could almost stop the day there and say that's it, let's now go out on the test track and drive
some cars. And I know for those of you who are in the room, you're ready for that and you will
get to that, but let's double-click and go in a little bit more deep. But those are the four
messages.
Let's start with the recipe. If you work at Mercedes-Benz or you have been associated with
Mercedes-Benz for a longer period of time, that recipe is like in your genes. If you work in R&D,
you know what a Mercedes is, but sometimes it is important to stand back and look at what are
the ingredients and how do you need to maybe refine those ingredients. So you either meet or
exceed the expectations of your customers. It's about them; what do they get, what do they buy
when they buy the three-pointed star and how are we going to make that experience even
better and that technological substance even deeper?
Yes, if you would wake me at 3 o'clock at night and say, what is this, yes, of course, it's class-
leading safety. It's the way it rides and drives, that comfort. Even if you're blindfolded, you know
you're in a Mercedes. Of course, the quality, the longevity of the product, it's something that you
buy to keep. I think residual values on our classic cars are amongst the highest in the world. So we
have many of those icons.
When we talk about intelligence, it's not tech for the sake of tech. It's tech for the sake of you.
We invented the assistance systems to make you more safe. Now it's about safety and
convenience. We don't put a big screen into the cars just because it's a flashy screen. We're
thinking about what's in it for you, what can you do with that? Is it entertainment? Is it actuallyAnd a timeless, timeless elegance, a design carrying Mercedes-Benz into the future. Design
doesn't stand still. There is a zeitgeist to modern luxury. You have to keep on reinventing it and
we will show you that today. For those of you who are part of the program, kind of the final event
today will be a sneak preview of upcoming models in '26 and '27.
I mentioned safety. Some people might not think about this when they purchase the car because
they purchase the car with the eyes. Oh, it looks beautiful, I want it. Absolutely latest when you
start a family is when you look at this thing here. It's not about a box ticking exercise. Yes, our
engineers are proud that if they have the highest score of anybody in the class in 2024, in this
case in Euro NCAP, fine, you take that little gold star, put it on your exam paper and you feel good
about yourself, but it's not the thing.
In R&D at Mercedes we say one star is enough, the Mercedes-Benz star. 75-plus years of refining
this part of the recipe, having had over decades, hundreds of accidents forensically investigated
and translating it into engineering solutions that keeps you safe. This is a core value of the
Mercedes-Benz brand, and I think one of the main reasons you should look at when you buy a car
that is Mercedes-Benz, and that recipe continues.
I talked about the ride and drive. Yeah. Here is a pre-production car of the new CLA, and it's like a
calling card for a whole host of vehicles that are coming here in the next few years. The very first
time I stepped into this car -- and Markus had driven it, the prototype before. He goes like, Ola, I
don't want to promise too much, but you're going to be excited and all that and the other. My
very first feeling was not thinking about the class-leading electric drivetrain or all the ADAS stuff
and all of that. It was not my first thought. My very first thought was I'm not sitting in a CLA. I'm
actually sitting in a car that is one class up, a C-Class. The ride and drive, the solidity of it, the
performance of it felt like a more adult car.
That feeling of comfort, of safety, performance. If you want to take it to the track, yeah, maybe
you can take a Mercedes to the track, I wouldn't advise you to do that. I would go to our friends in
a Affalterbach at AMG. That's where you get race technology for the road, but it is this feeling of
effortlessness. Inside the car, anybody who has the privilege of sitting in the back of an S-Class, or
even better, a Maybach S-Class, from time to time, I do this. At the moment, my company car is
an EQS SUV Maybach, is so insanely quiet and serene that when I ride in the morning with my
driver, I'm even tempted to strike up a conversation with him, but I don't want to waste the time.
So I use it to do my emails and inform myself about what's going on.
Here is an example where we have upped the game in the EQS. Yes, a very aerodynamically
shaped car, class-leading aerodynamics, hence the best range in its class, but with the executive
seating now in the EQS, you get almost the S-Class combustion feeling.
On the digital side, MB.OS, and I don't want to steal your thunder, Markus. I'll leave most of this to
you. And I just want to say one thing. It's about you. It's not about the tech. It's about what the
tech can do for you. I'll leave it at that.
And then with regard to styling, and we'll come back to this several times today, we are readying
the next generation of styling. For those of you who will see the presentation, you will see it. But
there needs to be a level of timelessness to it so that when you look back 20, 30, 40 years later
and you see it, of course cars will look different in the future, but you look back and you go, the
proportions are right, the lines are right. It just feels right. Even if you know nothing about cars,
subliminally, it needs to feel right.
So that's the recipe, but the recipe is not just the product. I'm the first to admit that we are ayeah. Yes, you are customer-centric, but we come in our DNA from the product side and then to
the customer, but we are working very intensively on the customer side as well. Today we're in a
building that we call the center of excellence. If you know the name Raimund Dornburg -- and
sorry Raimund for outing you now in front of a very large audience here in the world, if you know
this name within the Mercedes-Benz family, you know you've made it. Raimund is the guy who
runs this place. This is the place for the very best Mercedes customers. They come here and they
spend hours here looking at options from our MANUFAKTUR. And for those of you who saw the
presentation of AMG yesterday, you saw that we're kind of increasing the level of MANUFAKTUR
content in our vehicles on the upper end. We are making that also strategic imperative.
In a building only five minutes away from here, we have more or less cleared a whole part of the
factory and turned it into a MANUFAKTUR production. Yes, it's craftsmanship; yes, it's expensive,
but yes, if you buy a tailor-made suit on Savile Row, you expect to pay maybe a little bit more
than if you buy a pret-a-porter in one of the department stores. And that is what MANUFAKTUR is
all about. So we will continue to build the individualization for Mercedes-Benz customers. Not just
here, but also make it more available and more convenient for customers around the world to
tap into it.
Speaking of customers, we have the product, we have the individualization of product. What
about the other touch points? Maybe I should have shown a picture of our service network around
the world. There is no premium luxury brand that has a broader and stronger service network
than Mercedes-Benz around the world. It's actually one of our assets and it's also an asset in the
intense competition with new entrants into the market. And yes, the service level of spare parts is
extremely high at Mercedes-Benz. Usually you don't have to wait. If you have to wait, I'm sure the
customer says, hello, I'm waiting, and we will respond quickly to it. So all of those mechanisms in
the background, the ingredients is for successful automotive company. They're relevant and
we're working on them, but we're also trying to improve every single touch point vis-a-vis the
customer to make the experience for the customer even better.
On the left-hand side, you see an example of an almost insane Mercedes showroom invested by
one of our private investors that says, I believe in this brand. I've seen what you have in the
product portfolio. I'm going to put $100 million-plus into a facility that is almost like a place for
pilgrimage for Mercedes fans.
The digital side, a little anecdote from the past; some years ago, my dad or my parents who live
in Sweden said, want to buy a Mercedes? Yes, they drive Mercedes. And I said, let me help you
configure the car. In this case, it was an E-Class and I sat down with my dad to configure the car. I
pretended with him as if I had everything under control, but it felt a little bit like I needed a PhD
degree to understand all the combinations that I could configure. Good thought, execution,
maybe not perfect. The marketing and sales team has spent a tremendous amount of time to
make the digital journey not only seamless into the physical journey, but much more convenient,
much more easier to access. And yes, you can even buy a car online. Most people don't do that
because it's a very big purchase, but you can do it if you want to. So the digital side of it is also
important. We will continue to invest in the digital customer experience.
Last but not least, on this slide, if you see this artifact, it's even better than knowing Raimund
Dornburg. If you get it, in this Silver Arrows program that we're launching this year, starting here in
Germany and then going into different markets, if you have this artifact, you are actually
recognized as one of the best customers in the Mercedes-Benz family. Asterisk, you will have to
spend quite a bit of money to get one. But it's not about the money. It's about being part of a
family. So on the very top end of our portfolio, we want to create a unique family for those
customers and offer them experiences above and beyond the normal stuff; a little bit money-can't-buy type of things as well and access to information and other things that you just don't get
as a normal person.
I talked about this launch program. Okay. So what is it? Yeah. What is coming? Where are the
cars? Yeah. We have a very good product portfolio now. I think we have more than 40 different
models. Many of them are new. They're very successful. The new E-Class is really cleaning house,
Markus. But now it's that we're going to reskin the whole portfolio here in the next three years
and into 2028 as well, but the period starting middle of this year to end of '27 is going to be
particularly intense.
I mentioned styling. Styling is, as I said, kind of a zeitgeist thing. Modern luxury doesn't stand still.
You reinvent luxury all the time. If you go into an old apartment in Paris, a beautiful old apartment
that was built 100 years ago, it's beautiful, but if you would build it today, it would not look the
same. You have to evolve this and you have to look into the future.
And starting next year, in 2026, we're going to kind of enter the next era of the design language.
What has guided us here? When I was a kid, I grew up in Malmo in the south of Sweden. Most
families back then, let's say, in the 70s, maybe early 80s, they drove Volvo or Saab. If there was
somebody in the neighborhood that had a Mercedes, and maybe that was a little bit more
unusual there than if I had grown up here in Germany, I guarantee you that every single kid on the
street knew who that was. And the symbol of it, I pulled out a grill from the past with this
honeycomb pattern. It's like even if you see it in your indirect sight, you go, that's a Mercedes.
I talked about distilling the recipe. The styling is also part of the recipe, the technical functionality,
the packaging, how you sit, and all those other things of course. No compromises there, but it's
part of the recipe. So it's almost like we have done a soul search and gone back into what is the
Mercedes soul, design-wise, but carry that into the future and that will start in 2026 and be the
design gradually for all models of Mercedes-Benz, regardless if they are BEVs or ICE vehicles.
So let's talk about the vehicles. Of course, I cannot, in this public domain, show what's behind the
curtain here on every one of them. But look at this picture. We sort our world when we think about
how our portfolio is built up top end, yeah, the AMGs, the Maybachs, the Gs, the S-Class, the
GLS, that kind of family, core where we have the E-Class and the C-Class and the GLCs and the
GLE, and entry, the new MMA market architecture, where the CLA is, where the GLA is, GLB and
so on.
I don't know if I've even counted, but it's probably more than 25 items on this list. For the investor,
you can see that most of those are actually sitting on the top end. Some of them are, of course,
derivatives of core models that AMG does. That's what they do. Some of them are unique AMG
models in the core side, and I think this is crucially important, especially for the BEV take rate that
we expect to start growing once we have broadened our portfolio, launched this family.
The CLA itself today is actually a niche vehicle in our sales. What about -- why all the fuss? It's
because it starts. It's kind of the first domino that falls in a whole host of cars, but you can also
see here, and this is something that we told you more than a year ago, decided at the end of
2023, as we could see, the transformation is going to take longer, it's going to be more
heterogeneous. We had already made the decision to make sure that we have the ICE portfolio
updated for the latest emissions and all the other refinements that we're doing to that.
So you see quite a balanced picture here between BEV and ICE. Great news for the customer, all
of the above, everything is available well into the 30s from Mercedes-Benz. A challenge for the
financial controller, for the engineer. How do you create the modular strategies you can actuallyafford this? I will let Markus and Harald do the heavy lifting on explaining how that's possible, but I
think we have also made that recipe work for us for the next few years.
Okay. The CLA, the first kind of showing of this car was two years ago or a little less than two
years ago at the International Auto Show in Munich. We made some promises; we show a vision
car, it's going to have good range and class-leading efficiency and you're going to charge almost
as fast as you can fuel. It will have built-in supercomputers. Every single Mercedes from this point
forward is going to have supercomputers, going to have all the sensor sets. So you have the
maximum, let's say, compute and hardware genes already in this car, in every other car for any
ADAS level that your software people are able to dream up. I mean, it's the whole package.
Are we going to keep the promise that we made in Munich two years ago? Answer is yes and
then some. Now, the world premiere of this car is about four weeks from now at another event.
So I'm going to stop there. Otherwise, we don't have to have that event, and then we want to
launch it by the summer. And you should not take out victory before you finish the game. So
pressure on you, Markus and the team to now, I don't know, climb the Hillary Steps and get up
onto the summit and make sure that we finish it, finish the work, so we enter with a high-quality
Mercedes product.
But it's in the making, but more important is actually this car. So I would suggest that you show up
in Munich again this year because this car is just behind that car. This is the first car on the so-
called MB.EA architecture. It is the all-new Electric GLC. And yes, that will be the main show,
spoiler alert, come people, you can't stop me. I'm live on stage. It will be in Munich and we will
show you what that MB.EA family is going to look like.
And needless to say, if this car has pretty good technical stats, that car is also going to have
pretty good technical stats. And here's where the modular strategy also comes into play that
what we really have done is we have developed two platforms. One is a powertrain platform and
the other one is an operating system platform. And when you have those platforms, I'm going to
call them technology platforms, you can then apply them to different vehicles and they go across
many vehicles.
Also next year, another important car, GLE or car family GLE, GLS, super-popular, quite margin-
strong, maybe you will say something about that, Harald, that gets a complete remake next year
as well, including an even longer wheelbase version for the Chinese market. And it would be a bit
strange, right, if you launch all this space age tech in the BEVs, but you would leave kind of the
ICE doing their thing, you can't do that. So you take the tech from this and you put it into this. So
we will proliferate the tech in terms of ADAS, in terms of infotainment and all those different
things that are relevant to the customers from BEV to ICE.
The S-Class. The S-Class, the pinnacle of automotive engineering, our flagship car gets a facelift
next year. A normal facelift is you update the tech a bit, you do something to the optics, ready to
go. This facelift is different spending-wise, and of course, we don't have targets to spend more
money, but spending-wise, we're spending considerably more on the facelift of the next S-Class
than we would normally do because it would be a little bit odd, right, if your calling card entry
product into the portfolio in some domains technologically would be hierarchically above the S-
Class, that's not how it works at Mercedes. So the S-Class gets the full monty and will also get
this tech and also get quite a comprehensive design update along the lines of the very successful
new E-Class that we launched only a year ago to create some kind of a coherence within that
family.Speaking about the E-Class, we have an E-Class; we have an EQE. They're both good. They're
different. The new combustion E-Class is, in most markets, class-leading. China really hit the spot.
Last time I was in China, talked to our head of digital development there, I was driving some of
the ADAS functions, I was looking at the automated parking, and I was looking at the latest
version of our integrated Amap navigation. I said wow, that's really, really, really good. I would kind
of like to have that in Germany. Obviously, you know we have different providers around the
world, one of the reasons why we teamed up with Google now for this generation and so on.
And he said, yeah, he is getting kind of calls from some of the Chinese attackers that are now
looking at the navigation system in the new E-Class and going, what the hell have they -- have
those guys done.
So I think we also need to blow a hole a little bit in the myth that you have to be a startup
company to understand what digital experience is about. No, you don't. You can also be an
incumbent. And it's absolutely our ambition to be at the forefront of digital experience in any
market. And the toughest market is the Chinese market.
Now we have that E-Class, we have the EQE, but in 2027, we're going to launch the new electric
E-Class, and it will be in every dimension as good or better than the combustion E-Class. No
compromise; as good or better than the combustion E-Class. No compromise on size, seating,
anything like that. Of course, again, tech galore, in terms of E-drivetrain and all that, you can take
that more or less for granted, but it will represent something totally different for us in that
segment in about two years from now. And yes, you will see design model of that later this
afternoon if you're part of the group that are -- that is here in the room.
Tech, I'm not going to give your presentation Markus. MB.OS, we're in the driver's seat, we're the
architects. Markus will do the rest. ADAS, we invented it, I don't know, 30 years ago. We want to
stay on the forefront for those of you who are lucky drivers of an S-Class or an EQS in Germany,
actually taking it to 95 kilometers an hour, even though you can drive in some places 200
kilometers an hour on the German Autobahns. But now this is really starting to work. You put
yourself in the right lane and you literally have time for yourself and you trot along at 95
kilometers an hour, which is decent while maybe you're doing something else, maybe want to
make a call and concentrate on the call. Maybe you want to check your text messages, whatever
it is what you want to do. It's really starting to come together. And yes, but Markus will dive into it,
we will launch this car in China with Level 2++. And yes, we were the first company again that got
a Level 4 approval testing in China.
Sustainability and decarbonization. Even though the political landscape is shifting and changing,
the road to decarbonization is something that we must do as a world, as an industry and as a
company. We define that through our ambition that by the end of the next decade we want to be
net carbon neutral. And yes, of course it's about the electric car, but it's not just about the
product. It's about the supply chain, our own operations, obviously the product, but also the
product in use. In every one of those verticals, we are making progress and we'll diligently
continue to drive towards that goal, even though the EV take rate obviously is not a straight line, it
will just happen automatically. It maybe takes a little bit longer, but we're on that journey.
So it's not a surprise that our goal is to comply with CO2 regulations also here in Europe. Harald,
you mentioned a little bit potential burden in 2025. So if you dissect the numbers of Mercedes-
Benz cars, clearly we met the target in 2024. That was a foregone conclusion. In 2025, Harald
suggested it could be a challenge.
Why is it a challenge? Because we have a hugely successful Van division, and if you register a van
as a passenger car in Europe, it counts against your passenger car fleet. If you have seen a van,it's a very big boxy thing. Usually more people ride in it. So per person, probably the CO2
footprint is lower, but in the calculation, per car it's higher. That is a segment that is not yet on the
level of electrification compared to passenger cars.
With the VAN.EA starting next year, we're going to try to make a dent there, but that alone, I
would say, burdens our average on the passenger cars by maybe up to 10 grams. It depends on
how many we sell. Without that, solving that math problem given by the teacher would be a hell
of a lot easier. And maybe the regulator did not think in those fine -- in that fine granularity when
the regulation was written. So be it.
I think the best way to negotiate, let's say, the coming period is to do this in a thoughtful way,
through our smart joint venture together with Geely, actually, we were already in a pool. They own
Volvo and Polestar. That pool is now Volvo-Polestar and smart, we're in it. So we can take
advantage of that at a lower cost than if penalties would have to be paid. I think that's a rational
economical decision.
But I want to make clear what our intent is. Once we have launched all these products, which
happens here through the next 24, 36 months, we want to run up our EV share and naturally be
compliant. That is our compliant. That is our goal.
Again, Markus, you will talk about these drivetrains. And we have them both, next-gen, all bells
and whistles, E-drivetrain, but also completely refreshed combustion portfolio starting next year.
Flexibility. All the plants are more or less flexible already. Thank goodness we did that. That's one
of the benefits from the first kind of generation, first chapter of transformation, but it's also about
the product. Why should the customer expect something less in either category, BEV or ICE? So
guiding principle, back to you, Markus, a guiding principle would be everything that you have
learned as a customer that you've learned to appreciate, let's make sure that we protect that
appreciation in every vehicle that we put on the road from this point forward, including the BEVs.
Factories are flexible, but supply chain management is also going to be unbelievably important
because one level down or one level up in the upstream, you have to manage the percentages
between the ICE drivetrains and the EV drivetrains, even if your assembly plant can build both. If
you are an incumbent and established manufacturer, that is a challenge that everybody has.
I think we have laid the groundwork for this. We're pretty good at it, but I also want to send a
message here. I said before that on the van side, we made an adjustment yesterday to our
production network through selling the Argentinian plant; better fixed cost utilization of that plant
going forward. If we need to take steps to adjust the suit to fit the body, we'll take steps to make
the suit fit the body. Harald, I think you will talk about that as well.
And next-level performance, it's kind of your chapter, Harald, so I'll try to go quickly through this.
Just want to say a few things. Sometimes I read what is written and you go like, have they actually
understood what's going on? Let me say something about direct sales and I will use it with one
example. A few weeks ago, I visited the most significant market in Europe, Sweden-Denmark. It
was a joke, but I was in my home country and it is an important market for us. We're market
leaders in Sweden and Denmark, by the way, in the segment. And I was actually there to renew
my passport, but I said, if I am there anyway, let's meet the team and see what's going on.
And on the day, there was a dealer board meeting. So I met with the dealer board to discuss with
them. Sweden, as some of you know, was actually the very first market that we turned toward
direct sales back in 2018, the first little baby steps. We didn't really know, you have seen kind of --
you have seen the PowerPoint slide, does it really work? And I am the first to admit that eventhough I'd left marketing and sales at the time, Britta, who took over from me, when she tried to
convince some of those Swedish dealers to jump into direct sales, and it's not in the nature of an
entrepreneur to kind of give up some entrepreneurial freedom. The first response was not
positive. And she called me and said, Ola, you need to go to Sweden, talk sense into these guys.
So I went to Sweden, tried to talk sense into them, and I threw 10 arguments at them why would
you do it. They threw five arguments at me why we should not do it. And it ended with one of
those, maybe that's on Vogue now, negotiation strategies where I said, whether you like it or not,
we're going to do this.
And we did. Some of these dealers I know personally for many, many years, and I sat there in
front of them. Of course if I come, they're not going to be impolite, but even Swedes that are
usually nice people, between Swedes, we can talk hard talk as well. Every single one of those
dealers in the room said, you were right, we were wrong. This was a good step. Why? Sell the
product; don't sell the price. That's the number one thing. Number two, their risk profile changes.
And if you do this right as an agent, dealer, you have a different risk-adjusted business model, but
I don't need to explain to a bunch of investors, analyst that risk-adjusted return on capital is the
whole name of the game. And they have ended up in a healthy situation.
Customer satisfaction has gone up. In a recent study last year where you measure pretty much
every single KPI, Mercedes scored the highest. Allocation of product is done in a more efficient
way because you centrally control your market stock, maybe easier in a smaller -- geographically
big, but smaller market like Mercedes Benz. So it's coming together. You got to have IT systems
that work. It's not easy to do it. And in the beginning, you struggle and you cannot have two
models going at the same time in a market. Forget that. You don't drive on the right-hand side of
the road and left-hand side of the road at the same time. It's just not going to work. So should
you embark on this endeavor, you got to go all in. So in the markets where this is possible, mainly
Europe and overseas, we're going all in and we're going to continue doing it.
China; could spend the whole day on China. How do we win in China, the most intense market in
the world, with 100-plus companies vying for the new energy vehicle market? Subdued consumer
sentiment and not the same dynamism in the economy that we had up until COVID. Here, it's
about the fundamentals, make cars that the Chinese customers want, make sure that your tech is
on the highest level of what they expect, make sure that the packaging is right, make sure that
the Mercedesness is right, so you differentiate yourself from the 100 new ones that are also,
many of them, pretty good, but look kind of the same.
And then the other thing you have to do is you have to lower your cost structure. So we must,
over these next few years, localize even more in China, do more in China for China, use China
more as an R&D base, tap into the talent pool there, tap into the innovation pool there. And all of
you know they are strong. It's a formidable competitive landscape. You got to be -- China has to
be a home away from home; not something where you have a magic bullet where you can just
say do this and everything solves itself. This is going to be a very hard competition going forward,
make no mistake.
But we're gearing up for it. We're not like retreating and going, oh, what's going on here. We're
gearing up for it and we're going to fight for our position in China. Don't do crazy things like start
a fire sale to just protect some sales volume in some segment. That, we won't do, but we will
spend a tremendous amount of our time and resources to, on the one hand, defend, but also
build the China position in the next five years.
Cost, Harald, I leave it to you, but no stone unturned. Culture. I've been in this company for 32
years now. Is the culture the same today as it was in 1993? I would argue the answer to that is no.It has evolved significantly. There are some core traits that are the same that maybe even come
from our founding fathers. But when you question yourself and you do an inventory of yourself,
we tend to spend, of course, 99.9% looking at the technical inventory and talking about technical
solutions or how we're going to get the costs down, but you must also take time to do an
inventory of your culture and ask yourself, do you have the fighting spirit to take on those new
competitors, yes or no? Or are you too complacent just because you have had decades or a 100-
years plus of success?
And it's very easy to fall into that trap. It's very easy to fall into the big company trap, yes, but --
so the workstream that is equally important in next-level performance is to do this inventory. And
part of the way we're going to do this is not that I'm going to sit at home in the evening and write
a manifesto and then come back to the company and tell the Board first, listen, listen, colleagues,
this is what we need to do. Even though I have ideas of how I think we need to act and what
fighting spirit is all about, and I believe I have that intrinsically in me, we're also going to let
champions on all levels in the company rise and provide input.
So if you call this like a soft workstream in the next-level performance, maybe it is, but probably
it's not because if we can change the culture, refine the culture to become even more
performance-oriented, have the battle awareness, the jungle is changing, survival of the fittest.
It's not the biggest animal that survives. It is the one that is most able to adapt, that survives. And
when new animals come into that jungle, we have to adapt. So I think we have this insight, turning
a 160,000-people company completely around overnight is not the way it works, but we're going
to work on this as well.
And if we do it well, the new refined recipe of Mercedes-Benz, the new distilled version of it, will
be more attractive to our customers. We will launch a host of products that we believe will also
drive growth. Through discipline, we can uphold financial resilience. Much of that financial
resilience goes back into the technology clearly, but also a healthy piece of it goes to our
investors.
Thank you very much. And I think I'm going to hand over to Markus to give us more detail on the
technical side.
`Markus Schafer, Chief Technology Officer, Development & Procurement `
Yeah. Thank you very much, Ola. And welcome. And as Ola said, we are kick-starting the most
exciting product push in our history. And every Mercedes in that push will be a Mercedes, offering
maximum customer choice from a portfolio of electric and high-tech hybrid vehicles and all with a
perfect combination of intelligence and emotion. They will be uncompromising, highly desirable,
and of course, our clear target is to make them profitable.
Today I will show you how we are pushing these boundaries and delivering results. I will tell you
about the new Level 2++ automated driving features, our radical new steer-by-wire, and the fully
integrated tech stack in all our cars.
We can promise you a full rollout of battery electric, plug-in hybrids, and high-tech combustion
engine models, each one powered, Ola, you said it, by a supercomputer. That includes the
upcoming GLC, and it all starts very soon with a world-beating new CLA. Our new models will do
much more than providing transport from A to B. They will be an intelligent part of your life. We
are already delivering benchmark intelligence with the new E-Class with precursor to our
Mercedes-Benz operating system, MB.OS.And this is just the start and we are making rapid progress. Our developments offer huge
potential for customer benefit and the transformation through AI will be a key enabler. With
MB.OS and AI, we aim to create the most intelligent and emotional cars we have ever made. And
that's because they change our relationship with the customer, giving us direct contact with the
customer and allowing us to deliver direct benefits, but also creating synergies, efficiencies and
new business.
So let me break that down into three categories of AI, start with the first one, for customer
conversational AI, this brings new customer experiences. We are already doing this with ChatGPT,
which has greatly enhanced the experience of our MBUX Voice Assistant for general knowledge
questions. It offers natural conversations that are more like chatting to a friend.
With behavioral AI, we train our systems based on human patterns to create more natural user
experience. This includes personalized and proactive suggestions and it also elevates the driving
behavior of our Level 2++ system known as point-to-point Assisted driving. The third category is
agentic AI. We're using multiple agents to develop our hyper-personalized user experience. So
that's kind of the end of the apps.
Our new MBUX Virtual Assistant based on MB.OS is the first big step. It uses a multi-agent
approach to pick the best agent to answer questions. And using the latest large language models
and context awarenesses, it can answer follow-up questions in a very natural way, like you would
behave for a human conversation. And it makes it even easier for our customers to connect with
their vehicle.
Finally, we are also looking intensively into VLAMs, vision-language-action models, which can
enhance automated driving, and in future, help to bring voice communication and car behavior
even closer together. Our MB.OS embraces AI because it's a very own system. It brings scalable
and flexible intelligence into our entire portfolio. The benefits introduced into the new E-Class are
also now available in the C-Class, CLE and GLC.
So the new CLA, based on MMA architecture, will be the first vehicle to run entirely on MB.OS,
making it our first software-defined vehicle. It's the world premiere. It's going to be next month
with market launch this year. So from now on all vehicles in all segments will run on MB.OS. That
includes our combustion and hybrid portfolio as well as all our electric architectures, our MB.EA for
core and top end vehicles, AMG.EA for high-performance vehicles and VAN.EA for our van
portfolio.
So why do we want our own operating system? Because we want to be the architects with full
control over the system and direct contact to our customers. The architecture covers all domains,
infotainment, automated driving, body and control, driving and charging, and we have control of
all sensors and actuators across all of them. And this enables us to offer our customer a truly
superior product experience. So two years ago, we announced this incredible new digital
experience. Now we are delivering. Our own operating system is already up and running. It is
ready to hit the road now with the new CLA.
MB.OS is purpose-built and highly versatile. This allows us to work with the best partners where
we need them and we can choose the third-party content our customers want in all markets and
regions. Navigation is one example. We are working with the best local partners, Google for
Western markets, AMap for China, TMAP for Korea. And this is good for our customers and good
for competition. We decide who we want as our partners. So we can offer our customers the true
Mercedes-Benz user experience with the features they want and the style they love.MB.OS is data-driven and personalized and we ensure that the highest requirements for privacy
and safety are built in by design. Our architecture is scalable to fit every segment and it's
designed to decouple software and hardware development.
MB.OS has advanced connectivity and all the computes in the car can be updated over the air.
This allows us to keep our vehicles fresh for the entire life cycle. So final testing of the CLA is
delivering great results. So see yourself what customer benefits MB.OS will bring.
(Video Presentation)
So as I said before, MB.OS will be a key differentiator for the AI-powered intelligent cabin. Our
stunning pillar-to-pillar displays offer seamless interaction and control for driver and passenger.
The next-generation MBUX Superscreen offers a unique user experience with real-time 3D
graphics. The smart cabin is a key element for the utmost customer experience in combination
with Level 3 automated driving and beyond.
With AI, we are making even more immersive and hyper-personalized fit for all passengers. Our
MBUX Virtual Assistant elevates your relationship with the car. It brings a human-like sense of
empathy, intelligence and memory. This means chatting to the virtual assistants is like a normal
conversation and our customers get quick, easy and up-to-date answers for their questions, from
navigation information to general knowledge and our multi-agent architecture includes generative
AI models like ChatGPT and Gemini. The MBUX Virtual Assistant seamlessly selects the right
agent to deliver the best experience. Meanwhile, our MBUX Surround Navigation combines route
guidance and advanced assistance. It is especially helpful in busy urban environments and it is all
powered by the latest high-performance chips.
MBUX is designed for deep system integration, enabling a high level of orchestration of all
domains. That means full networking and control of everything including video, sound, light, and
even air conditioning. The result is a truly immersive customer experience. And as you can see,
our intelligent cabin is also a highly emotional cabin.
MBUX will also transform assisted and automated driving where we already have more than 40
systems, 4-0 systems. For example, our self-initiated automatic lane change on highways, which
we call Level 2+, and assistance with leaving and changing highways. The launch of MBUX also
brings a new name for these advanced functions, MB Drive. They are based on our sophisticated
safety systems and will include further enhancements like Level 2++ capability.
An example is point-to-point assisted driving, which enables mature handling of complex urban
traffic. Cooperative steering and acceleration is a unique feature offered only by Mercedes-Benz.
It helps the driver navigate busy streets in the world's biggest cities. It is tailor-made for local
conditions, and because we work with the best local partners, we are independent also of
geopolitics.
We remain the global leader in Level 3 conditionally automated driving. DRIVE PILOT was the first
world system internationally approved. The latest update supports even a higher speed of up to
95 kilometers per hour in Germany. DRIVE PILOT is the fastest Level 3 system globally. Our goal is
to increase speed to 130 kilometers per hour by the end of this decade.
And last year, we took another big step in Level 4 highly automated driving. We became the first
international car maker to receive approval for testing in Beijing on designated urban roads and
highways. The result will support developments for privately owned vehicles in China and
worldwide. Increased use of AI will definitely change the future of automated driving. Rule-based
models are being replaced by stacks with end-to-end models, always with a focus on utmostsafety and transparency. We, as the architects of MB.OS, are able to plan strategically and with full
access from hardware to app.
We did a lot of work using in-house, free and open software, but where appropriate, we also
worked with specialist partners. This modular and flexible approach is also clever and cost-
optimized. We are able to choose the best partners for local needs and achieve geopolitical
independence. MB.OS gives us full control over of the software and the stack. It enables
hardware-agnostic development. This allows us to protect our investment and enables
continuous improvement. Most importantly, we can offer our customers an outstanding user
experience. So what can you expect? It's a short video from Ola filmed on the busy streets of
Shanghai.
(Video Presentation)
They did a great job, the car did a great job of mastering complex situations, but intelligence
does not stop there. It also helps to involve the core of Mercedes-Benz values like comfort. Our
experts fine-tune every chassis detail to create unique Mercedes-Benz driving character. We also
use intelligent innovations to enhance it even further. Our predictive chassis adjustment uses the
potential of our fleet data and the Mercedes-Benz Intelligent Cloud. This means our systems can
anticipate bumps and obstacles for an even smoother and more comfortable ride.
Switching to another chassis RC Innovation. Today I'm happy to announce that we will offer our
customers a new technology, steer-by-wire. It will radically enhance the way you steer your
Mercedes. The feel offers a completely new customer experience. The new flat steering wheel is
a bit like the ones in our F1 cars and the AMG ONE. It provides a better view of the pillar-to-pillar
display, letting it really shine. In future, we will improve the automatic driving experience while
streaming our favorite show or making a video call. Steer-by-wire enhances agility in the city and
increases the fan factor at higher speeds. You can really feel the improvements in lateral agility
and handling precision. The system interacts perfectly with our rear axle steering, which also
makes parking maneuvering easier than ever before, pus steer-by-wire offers unlimited
possibilities to visualize the driving experience. And there's even the option to connect it to apps
for in-car gaming. In addition, it reduces complexity and hardware variance and cost.
So, thanks to the intelligence of MBUX, our future models will be the smartest in town. But
because they are Mercedes Benz, they will also be the most emotional, above all in their looks,
and that comes from our enhanced design strategy. Its sleek, elegant lines bring more style,
substance, and presence. Exterior highlights include sporty and aerodynamic proportions, a
stunning front end with illuminated grill, a new headlight design, a powerful presence that feels
like a class above and a signature rear design with distinctive taillights. On the inside, we are
bringing many high-end features as standard. They include luxurious, sustainable materials and of
course the best displays in the segment.
When we talk about emotions, we also mean no compromises in comfort, design, and driving
pleasure. And that is why there's no one-size-fits-all Mercedes. Our lineup is uncompromising
from entry to top end. We will not sacrifice key values in the name of drivetrain flexibility. So let
me explain starting with our core and top end models, they will have dedicated battery electric
offerings and dedicated high-tech, electrified combustion, and plug-in hybrid offerings. These will
have longitudinal rear-wheel drive layouts which our customers love. We believe this is the best
way to meet demanding customer requirements. With dedicated offerings, we will beat the
competition where it matters in terms of space, comfort and versatility.Next is the new CLA. The first in a family of new Mercedes-Benz vehicles, all built electric first and
uncompromising. Each new model will be a true Mercedes-Benz in every respect, which is just as
uncompromising. The space saving transverse engine layout works perfectly with both electric
and hybrid drive in the segment. This makes our MMA well suited to drivetrain flexibility. Let's take
a closer look. In this segment, we have our high-tech four-cylinder M252 engine. It's paired with an
electrified eight-speed dual clutch transmission. This traverse engine is purpose designed for
front wheel drive. That means no packaging compromise between electric and hybrid solutions.
And the electric drive characteristics are far superior, thanks to our electric drive unit 2.0 with a
two-speed gearbox. This maximizes efficiency across the board, from driving around town to
cruising at high speed on the Autobahn. It's really the new efficiency benchmark. We will
demonstrate this very soon with the new CLA, a clear transfer from our VISION EQXX technology
program which pushed through barriers. The VISION EQXX broke efficiency records in range and
consumption. As a result, the CLA is the benchmark in its class, not only in range and
consumption, but also in recharge range and charging power. Our customers spend more time
driving and less time charging. This means the CLA is not only energy efficient, but also time
efficient.
Now I want to turn back to our core and top-end vehicles. Here we will offer more interior space
than the competition. That's because their drivetrain flexible approach is a compromise. Quite
simply, electric layouts are not compatible with longitudinal engines. A longitudinal engine pushes
the cabin backwards while an electric drive unit at the rear pushes the cabin forward, that means
less room in the cabin, limited efficiency and restricted battery size. The Mercedes way is
uncompromised. This means our customers are not forced to accept these sacrifices. Our
dedicated electric Plug-In-Hybrid and electrified combustion models for core and top-end mean
interior space is not sacrificed due to drivetrain. Our vehicles are lower, lighter and more efficient
and we keep our emotional design with luxury proportions.
In real terms, it means MBE models will be superior in all key dimensions. For instance, our
upcoming all electric E-Class will offer best-in-class rear seat comfort and our upcoming GLC with
EQ technology will also excel with this dedicated 800 volt electric layout the GLC is the all-electric
SUV our customers have been waiting for. It sets benchmarks in performance, range, efficiency,
and charging speed and it has all the GLC trademark visibility and practicability. Customers will be
able to choose from a full range of battery, electric, and hybrid drivetrains. The new GLC will
come to the markets next year.
Our uncompromising approach uses a set of intelligent scalable modules. This ensures efficient
use of high-tech technologies across the entire portfolio. It includes high-performance MB.OS
hardware and software, especially in the key infotainment and automated driving domains. Our
comprehensive drivetrain portfolio is also highly modular with electric drive units and batteries
that are scalable for all segments, and we have a full range of advanced future-proof EU-7 ready
engines and transmissions. But it doesn't end there. We have modular systems in further key
areas including body in white chassis seating and more. In all markets, we will offer highly
emotional scalable drivetrains whether battery electric or hybrid electric. Across the board our
offerings span from high efficiency to high performance, from cost-effective LFP batteries to
advanced NMC to high-performance round cells.
In electric drivetrains, the highly efficient EDU 2.0 offers great flexibility. At the very top of our
portfolio, our groundbreaking YASA Axial Flux Motors bring unrivaled performance. Meanwhile our
next generation hybrid engines are just as scalable. These high-tech units are electrified fit for the
future fulfilling EU-7 standards. We offer a range of four-to-eight-cylinder petrol engines and for
some Maybach and GUARD models even 12 cylinders. The portfolio includes a brand new V8 andemotion across all drivetrains, all with a perfect combination of performance and cost efficiency.
The same applies to our four and six cylinder diesel offerings.
In our electric offerings, we are delivering cutting-edge battery technologies. This brings
customer benefits and cost reductions. Take the MMA battery. We have reduced cost per kilowatt
hour by 30% compared to the predecessor. Our hard work on LFP and NMC cell chemistries is
paying off. We expect further improvements in energy density and cost efficiency. Driven by
technology, we are also making strong progress with advanced types of cell chemistry. LMO and
NMC brands are lowering costs while increasing energy density to NMC levels. LNMO is a
disruptive chemistry. It leverages the high potential of high voltage applications at cell level
resulting in an attractive cost position. High silicon anodes are also helping us to increase energy
density. At the same time, we are working hard to progress solid state solutions. Intelligence will
play an important role in that. Our next milestone is bringing a solid state battery technology to
the road. Our EQS demonstrator with factorial cells is a world's first.
In close cooperation with HPP in the UK, we we will pioneer a whole battery system with
automotive cells for the very first time. Solid state could increase cell energy density up to 450
watt hours per kilogram. In our vehicles, the advantage of a lightweight battery with a lot of
usable energy content is becoming increasingly important. This means up to 25% longer electric
range. At the same weight and size, our demonstrator can already cover 1,000 kilometer on a
single charge. Solid state technology also brings improved cell safety, further weight and energy
efficiency through passive cooling. This uncompromising combination of intelligence and emotion
is the Mercedes way. It is how we intend to deliver on our promise that every Mercedes will be a
Mercedes. Including products and features tailor-made for China, our products and content for
China are locally developed for our customers in that region. Our customers in China get specific
apps and content as well as their own infotainment and automated driving features and the
strong dedication to the rear cabin. Long wheelbase versions will meet our Chinese customer
requirements. In future, there will be seven long wheelbase models across all segments and
drivetrains. We are also ramping up speed of our R&D in China, maximizing the advantage of our
global resources and local expertise. Likewise, local innovation inspires and accelerates our global
R&D. It is already our most wide ranging R&D network outside of Germany, based on a presence
dating back of more than 20 years. Through this, we are delivering the technologies that excite
our customers. Our strategic cooperation with local heroes are helping us to drive innovations
even faster. This includes boosting localization with new facilities in Beijing and Shanghai to really
make the most out of the local ecosystem and supplier landscape. This game-changer combines
Mercedes-Benz standards and values with China's speed. One word that describes competition
in China currently is Neijuan, this means involution, which refers to something that can no longer
evolve no matter how hard it tries.
Resources are limited and local competition is taking irrational decisions, but the efforts are
delivering little or no returns. We will not be drawn into this downward spiral. Across the board, in
all markets we are evaluating intelligence significantly. At the same time, we are greatly lowering
complexity and cost. We are driving down variable cost with lower unit cost for our new entry
batteries with LFP technology. By making localization in China, by developing advanced
automated driving systems and assistance systems without lidar up to Level 2++ and without HD
maps and through strategic cooperation on our entry level hybrid engines, we are achieving
standardization that reduces the overall number of ECUs. Intelligent use of our models across our
vehicle architectures will bring substantial benefits. We are streamlining our offer with fewer
hardware variants. This includes a single ICE variant for entry level models.
When it comes to funding, we are right-sizing our global R&D resources. Vertical integration ofhardware use in test fleets. In the time of transformation, our agile approach into innovation is
paying off. It enables the perfect combination of intelligence and emotions, will enable us to offer
our customers the world's most desirable cars. The future begins right now with a new CLA. It is
the cleverest car Mercedes-Benz ever made with a world beating new level of electric efficiency
and digital intelligence. It makes a powerful statement and puts our R&D strategy on the road in
customer hands.
Thank you, and I will hand over to Harald.
`Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, thank you Markus. Incredible stuff. Isn't that insane? Well, you guys want to know obviously
what that means for numbers, how all of that, what you heard, I mean before comes together
and maybe what we're doing on the cost side.
Before doing that however, I would like to share just this slide with you here, as very important is
that we share what are the assumptions on which we look into the future and I would say, I mean
you can read that yourself from the chart but I mean we in overall mean we take a prudent view
when we look at the macro and the market evolution looking forward, that is baked into the
statements we're going to make here with regard to the outlook. What does it mean all-in-all and
how does it translate into our expectation for sales moving forward, stable level in Europe, good
momentum, solid momentum for the US, cautious view on China and overall, obviously risk of
tariffs is not something which probably in terms of overall economy is going to help, but I don't
want to speculate on that much further at this juncture here.
Now let's dig a bit deeper and see how this incredible portfolio firework mean to come is going
to impact sales and mix moving forward. On the sales side, we depart in 2024 from a bit less
than EUR2 million as we heard earlier today. 2025, I mean we take a more cautious view for the
reasons just outlined and as you heard in the guidance, mean this morning. But clearly isn't there
a point that this incredible portfolio firework is going to generate momentum in 2027? Don't you
think there is something in it with what you saw last night, what you see here this morning and
what you're going to see this afternoon? I strongly believe in that. What does it mean for the mix
on the top-end side? We target a share between 14% and 15% for the time to come. Definitely,
the S-Class upgrade, Ola had been talking about is a very, very strong driver in this respect. But
think about the AMG you saw last night. The beautiful CLA you could see, but I mean also the
AMG EA. So on the EV as well, on the ICE side.
What does it mean for the xEV share moving forward? Well, we expect that to increase from
2026 onwards, obviously when the CLA and the MMA is going to ramp. But then as Ola pointed
out in particular when the electric GLC and C-Class are going to hit the road, so that is going to
generate significant momentum on the EV side. Next to it we have that very strong plug-in
portfolio where we see solid mean demand for that and I think that is an additional opportunity
which can be leveraged. So all-in-all, we do expect that the xEV shares would therefore go up to
more than 30% in 2027. Obviously I need to say that finally that depends on market conditions,
on infrastructure availability as well as on customer demand.
What does it mean for the top line? We are very much focused on the sales numbers all the time,
but sometimes we don't look so much on the revenue lines, if I may say. Well, I dare to look back
for a second 2019, 2024 where we all see sales, sales down. Well, if I look into the revenue,
thanks to the mix and the pricing, actually I find a CAGR of 2.5% between 2019 and 2024. What
does it mean looking forward? Yeah, we want to drive a solid top line as well. What's driving that?
Definitely ASP and pricing and yes, it's a super competitive environment, but we want to stayHowever, it is a more competitive space as it was some time ago. So we will be competitive in
the market, but we stay disciplined on the pricing side.
What does it mean for the revenue evolution? Well, obviously, I mean for 2025 and 2026,
revenue cannot disconnect from sales evolution as we heard earlier. But again, 2027 with a
product momentum that should allow to support the revenue expansion moving forward.
Now, probably a question you also have. What does it mean, all of these products, this gigantic
portfolio, 40 positions in terms of the margin, what can you extract as a juice, as a margin out of
it? I'm happy to elaborate a bit on this one. So let's get started with the top-end. So these are
truly iconic products, aren't they? And I would say as high as the standard and the quality and the
excellence of these products are as high is the margin of these products. And when I stand here,
I'm happy to say that with around 280,000 units, we had in the top-end in 2024, this contributed
to more than 40% of the contribution margin of cars in 2024. And now just think a second about
what is to come with AMG.EA, with the ICE line up with the S-Class. So don't you think that there's
a bit of potential that this 280 could be a higher number moving forward? Call it 300 or so. And
the margin quality I was just talking about. So isn't that a significant potential and deliver moving
forward? Up to you. I look at the core side, I would call it a healthy contribution. Well, what's that?
That's more than a million units E-Class, a roaring success in the market. And I can say it's a very
healthy contribution margin. We're printing, I mean, in that segment. Not only on the E-Class, in
that whole segment. So it also contributes approximately 40% to the contribution margin overall
of passenger cars. And same thing here. You heard, electric E-Class, electric GLC, electric C-
Class I mean, to come. So definitely I think there is a potential for expansion on the volume, but
also with healthy margins in that segment.
Now, on the entry, you have a lot of questions. Is that dilutive? No, in my view it's not. This is a
solid margin contribution in the entry and I would call it an accretive contribution margin quality.
This is around the 500,000 segment and with CLA MMA, we're elevating the game in terms of a
value proposition and therefore we also have the intent to retain that solid margin in the entry
segment moving forward.
Your other key question obviously is with a higher share of the EVs, what does it mean in terms of
the margin for the portfolio. And how can you create or improve, I mean, the margin on the EV
side? Well, I think you have heard the number one answer before. It is all about the product. The
EV product needs to be at least as good as the ICE product. I'm 200% convinced of that one.
And you will see it, I mean this afternoon in the driving experience and you will see it, I mean also
in the products later today. Can you close the margin gap on the top line on the pricing side? I
think we all learned that the hard way. No, you cannot. So what can you do? Again, do the right
product and get the cost right. So what are we doing here? We take the EV cost down by more
than 15% over the predecessor versions of the respective EV products. And that means we can
narrow the gap between the ICE and the EVs in the future. At the same time, we also know, and
you heard it, with a portfolio expansion on the ICE products that ICE is going higher for longer.
Isn't that great news? I think so. So in terms of the certainty of driving the margin, I think we might
have lost a bit sight of that one that this is compared to some time ago where there was the view
of a much higher EV share. I think it's good news.
Where is our emphasis going in terms of the investment focus? So I can say you're coming to
investments later, but at this juncture, as we're talking about the margin in the portfolio is already
today more than 70% of the investments going into the top end and into the core. And I think it
will rather go up moving forward, and elevating the portfolio overall, not just in top-end but within
the entry, within the core. And for sure, I mean the top-end overall, this is a very, very important
and significant mitigant to a higher EV share moving forward. Maybe so far here on the top lineside on the portfolio, but obviously very important that we're laser focused on cost and
efficiencies and we have come a long way on that, I would say. Well, we're switching gears, we're
stepping up and that's why we created the next level performance program, NLP, to boost
competitiveness and resilience even further than that. So let's jump into that a bit. And obviously
the first thing you need to talk about that is what is your industrial capacity? Ola, when you
mentioned adjusting your suit to your body size and what did we do here over the last years? We
adjusted already. We adjusted to end '24, I would say around 200 -- 2.5 million units capacity
worldwide. You have that on the map? That is a map by the end of 2024. And we did that by
divestment in France and Russia and Brazil and Indonesia. What are we doing moving forward?
We will further right-size. So in the three years mean to come, basically we'll adjust the capacity to
around 2 million to 2.2 million units. How can we do that? We'll lower capacity by around 100,000
units in Germany, will increase and shift capacity to Kecskemet in Hungary for around 200,000
units, will end the GLB production in Mexico by the end of 2026. We have optionality in remote
locations and we have optionality for around 200,000 units in China. And a testimony that we're
serious about it is I think just the announcement which was made yesterday in terms of the
divestment from the van plant in Argentina. So we are serious about it.
What does it mean in terms of plants in Germany, as there is so much talk about it? No, we have
no intent to shut down an MB plant in Germany. We will limit the capacity of the German plants to
around 300,000 units each. So how can we do that? We adjust the workforce, we adjust the
workforce via attrition and temporary workforce cuts. So clearly the target is to adjust the capacity
to around 2, 2.2, and at the same time we retain flexibility in line with the portfolio evolution
expansion, as market conditions will tell us, and obviously retain the flexibility we're having already
today between ICE and EV in the respective facilities.
Next to capacity. Let's talk about production cost. How can we attack production costs? Well, I'm
happy to say that, over the last, I mean, two years, basically, we reduced production costs in 2022
by 10%. So we target now an incremental, an additional 10% production cost reduction between
here and 2027. And we will not rest there. We aim to double that number until the end of the
decade.
So you might wonder, I mean, how does it work? What are the levers? So first lever is moving
East. I already mentioned before that we're stepping up the capacity in our factory in Hungary, in
Kecskemet. And that means that the share of low-cost country in the EU will go from 15% to 30%
by 2027. And why is that so favorable? Well, I'm happy to say that the factor cost in that facility in
Kecskemet are 70% lower than in Germany. And we also will shift one product in the core
segment to that facility in Kecskemet in the future.
What are other -- what are additional levers on the production cost? Well, we are on the path to
reduce headcount in Germany through attrition. We'll step up the accountability for efficiency
measures and competitiveness, I mean, at the plant level, reduce absenteeism, something which
has been talked about quite a lot in recent days. We'll step up, I mean, production planning,
digitalization, more use of AI, for example, in the end line, quality control into the digital twins,
everything. But also reach out to logistics, review that transportation routes, and also attack, I
mean, the energy cost by the use of more renewables, such as wind park in northern Germany
and photovoltaic on the roofs of our industrial facility. So all levers are being pulled here on the
production cost.
Now let's have a look at our geopolitical hedge. So in particular important when it comes to the
tariff discussion, obviously. So this is not, I mean, something which is completely brand new to us
as a philosophy of going local for local is already well embedded into the company. So what's our
target here? From 60% in terms of local for local, we want to go to 70% local for local. And wecan do that, obviously, by further localization of products into China as well as the option into the
U.S. Let's have a bit closer look in terms of what makes these facilities and these homes so
special. So clearly, the U.S. is the home of our, I mean, SUVs in Tuscaloosa, Alabama with around
250,000 to 300,000 units being produced locally, I mean, over there, of which two-thirds, I
mean, get exported. It means that the trade balance on the vehicle level is roughly balanced. And
we are one of the major exporter of vehicles, I mean, from the U.S.
And in the mid-term, it means from that facility, from the U.S., we're going to export top-end
vehicles, top-end vehicle SUVs, I mean, to China and will export from the U.S. top-end and core
SUVs, I mean, to Europe and the overseas. And we have the potential, I mean, to localize an
additional product from the core segment into the U.S. into Alabama -- into Tuscaloosa, Alabama.
How does it look for Europe? Europe, I would say, basically, call it, the home of the top-end. The
kind of reference, the symbol of craftsmanship and excellence, with around 80% of the market
being served locally. And obviously, here, the exports go mainly from Germany to top-end into
China and the top-end and the sedans also to U.S. and the rest of the world.
China, very strong local presence there with BBAC, our JV jointly with our partner, BAIC, that
serves around 80% of the market, I mean, locally. And by mid-2026, we will localize the long-
wheelbase GLE in -- for the Chinese market into China. But we are not doing any exports from
China.
Next chapter on efficiency, obviously, is material cost. So what is our target here? We want to
reduce production -- material cost by 8% until 2027. What are the key levers here? That's our
Beat program. Beat 2026, Markus, which you launched with Gunnar. And here, clearly, we do
expect each and every supplier to be laser-focused to pull all levers to reduce material costs. And
I would say, we got already very good traction in 2024. I talked that morning about the industrial
performance. So you can see -- I mean, in there.
But let me be clear, this is not, I think, in the spirit of a classical conventional Beat the Supplier
program. It is a cooperative approach. So we bring the engineering and the procurement teams
from Mercedes together with the respective teams, I mean, of the suppliers to challenge design,
to challenge, I mean, specification, to work on higher level of standardization, to work on technical
refinement, push design to cost initiatives, I mean, jointly with the suppliers.
Lever number two is, you heard it from Markus, is a reduction of the battery cost. 30% reduction
of the battery cost on MMA with the levers, I mean, through chemistry, LFP, through the
economies of scale where we're doing here, the design and the sourcing as well on the battery
side.
Third lever on material cost is to reduce one-timers. And that's why, I mean, we started to
introduce new flexibility approach, new flex rates into the contracts, that should better shield us
against idle cost risk in the future and should also support a decrease of one-time cost in the
future.
Fourth lever, we're talking very much about production material. But there's a little bill which is
called non-production material, which is just EUR20 billion. So lots of opportunity, I mean, to work
on that one as well. I mean, how? Demand management, specification, renegotiating contracts in
this area, leveraging optimization, AI outsourcing. So great potential in the non-production field.
At the same time, however, let me be very clear, and you see it on the bottom of this chart, we
will continue to step up the content of the vehicles to meet regulatory requirements, but as well
to step up further the competitiveness of the vehicles.Now on the investment side. I would say, we are disciplined, very disciplined on the investment
side. You can judge it yourself if you look at what has been achieved between 2019 and 2024 by
the investments globally being down 8% net of inflation. But what's more important, obviously, is
looking forward. So what does it mean in terms of the investment profile ahead of us? For 2025,
we do expect the overall investment, I mean, to go up by approximately EUR1 billion to support
the product launches you heard this morning, last night, you will see later today.
But then from 2026 onwards, or from 2026 or in 2026, we expect this investment already to go
over the peak and start to come down. And that means, for 2027, we target an investment level
of around 10% below the 2024 level, or in other words, 20% down compared to 2019. And that is
exactly what we promised back in the day a couple of years ago, despite all of the changes we
did see in the landscape.
Now your question is going to be, how can you do that if you do all of these products? Well, let
me wrap it up. The investments in M&A -- in MMA, into electric GLC, into C-Class, into AMG.EA,
they will be more or less completed by 2027 and we are already beyond the investment peak for
these vehicles. We will, obviously, ramp up investments for future products to come -- when it
comes to next-generation S-Class to E-Class, next-generation SUV. I think that's inherent with the
business.
But what you heard from Markus in terms of modularization concept, be it on software side or be
it on hardware side, we can leverage throughout the entire portfolio of ICE and EVs. And this
efficiency of scale is -- will allow us to reduce, I mean, investment. And the efficiency Markus
showed on the chart, if you follow that closely on the powertrain side, on the ICE variants
compared to what was there in the past and what is going to be in the future, is much more
focused as well as on the EV powertrain side is much more focused and you can use it and scale
it throughout the entire portfolio, be it from the entry into the core even into the top-end. And
that is a fundamental lever to bring the investments down on that journey to meet the profile I
mentioned before. At the same time, obviously, we'll keep investing into the tech stack as you
heard on MB.OS as well as on other technology bricks.
Fixed cost, well, didn't we say in 2020 that we would bring fixed cost down by 20%, 2019 to
2025? Yes, we did say that. So we achieved 19% by the end of 2024, as you heard earlier, I mean,
that morning. Just bear in mind that the inflation rates, as per my stats or maths in Europe and
Germany, were more than 20% during that period or, call it, 30%, I mean, worldwide. So I think it
gives you an idea of the effort being made and accomplished during that period.
But obviously, we'll not rest there and feel good with that. Now we'll take it to next level. So we're
going for the next 10% of fixed cost reduction. So you might wonder, I mean, how is that going to
work? Well, what are the levers, I mean, over here? We will reduce the active workforce via
attrition, but also via voluntary redundancies. We have still, I think, significant outsourcing, I mean,
potentials which are working upon in finance area, in HR, in general procurement, lots of other
areas.
We'll definitely streamline business functions, and you saw it, I mean, on Ola's slide that morning
and you might have heard about, I mean, such as bringing our mobility business closer to the
marketing and sales teams, I mean, integrating them, or the announcement we made some time
ago on the divestment on our own retail business, I mean, in Germany.
We're attacking management positions. We are increasing the span of control. We're reducing, I
mean, the layers. And we'll change team management to more flexible approach. And we stop
doing, I mean, non-essential activities, we standardize, we digitalize, and I think there's a greatpotential in terms of using much more GenAI throughout, I mean, the entire business. Maybe,
Christina, we're doing the next disclosure call with the support of that and you have a robot in
front of you.
So let's come back to China shortly. We are definitely starting from a position of strength. What
has been achieved over the last decade in terms of market position, I think, is outstanding. How
does it look like for the top-end in 2024 in China? We talk so much about it that sometimes, I
mean, we forget what is the absolute, I mean, position. So clearly, we're holding more than 50%
of the market share in the top-end above RMB1.5 million in China. Clearly, we're the number one
position when it's above RMB800,000.
On the AMG side, we're number one in performance in this market. The S-Class, despite
everything you read, you talk, is outselling the competition by the factor two to three. And if you
look on the chart, you will see that we have the highest MSRP [ph] among premium OEMs. What
is not on the chart is that we have the lower discount among these premium OEMs. So the
highest MSRP, the lower discount of all of them. And that just means that the brand still has
incredible pricing power in the market.
However, I don't want to stand here and be naive. We're fully conscious of the challenges we're
facing in the market and the need to be competitive. But we are, clearly, geared to defend that
top-end market, I mean, position and to protect our profit pools in China. So you heard it in terms
of what is the strategy, focus on what makes a Mercedes a Mercedes, and that applies, in
particular, I would say, I mean, in China where, I mean, the brand still has a very, very, I mean,
strong position. It is important to return to the iconic and the status driven in design to push the
dedicated China products, such as the GLE long-wheelbase to the S-Class upgrade, the
dedication to the rear, but obviously, also to be on cutting edge technology forefront.
Let me say a word, maybe on the local production on the JV, on the BBAC side. Also, to put a bit
of facts and figures here. So despite the contribution from BBAC coming down in 2024, as you
could see earlier on the EBIT walk, I would like to share with you that the return on sales of that
entity is a 15% return on sales. Isn't that damn healthy? What's our challenge? What's our target?
What's our mission? Obviously, it is meant to right size the JV, the BBAC, in such a way that it can
retain double-digit margins also in the future.
And for that very purpose, I mean, we launched jointly with our partner, a very, very
comprehensive cost reduction program. And what does it mean? It attacks material cost by more
than 10%, deeper localization efficiencies, technical efficiencies, renegotiation of contracts. It
addresses as well, I mean, the variable production cost and it also addresses, I mean, the fixed
cost by more than 20% respectively. So a very, very comprehensive program.
But there are also additional measures. I alluded to adjustment of industrial capacity, I mean,
before. I would mention also that, on the dealer side jointly, we're looking at the network
evolution to make it efficient and adapted, I mean, to the size, to the market, the demand. The
GLE localization offers cost opportunity, cost advantage in China, and will obviously expand the
footprint also for the China-fit products on the R&C [ph] side and capture opportunities there in
terms of development cost.
Now let's switch gears in terms of what does it all mean for the financial framing. And I
understand there were some bets out whether there's going to be a weather chart or an update
of the weather chart or not. I don't know whether you call that a weather chart or an outlook.
Frankly, I don't care. We feel that in an environment, which is pretty demanding and volatile,probably putting out a weather chart doesn't make too much of a sense. But let's stop that
debate. I would say, let's just look on what it is.
So here it is. I mean, it is a clear roadmap back to double-digit margin. Important to note in there,
and it's a reminder, that I think we take in this respect, I mean, a prudent macro and market
perspective, as I showed on the first chart of that deck here. I do believe it is fair to assume that
the product firework is going to generate momentum on sales and revenues more towards 2027,
as I emphasized before.
You heard that we are very focused on narrowing the gap in terms of margin between ICE and
EVs by hard cost work. Clearly, everything I said in terms of NLP, so Next Level Performance, when
it comes to reduction of production cost, material cost, fixed cost, and investment down is built
into that. And when -- I'm sure you're going to ask me that, so I preempt it, when -- you're going
to ask me so what is the biggest lever when you come from 2024 to that double-digit in 2027? I
can tell you it is the NLP side. It is what is in our hands in terms of driving cost and efficiency. I
would like to remind you obviously what I said on the guidance, that any incremental tariffs are not
included in these outlooks, as mentioned for the guidance, also applies here for the other years
to come.
Margin is nice. Cash is a reality. You know that better than me. So what does all of that mean in
terms of cash generation and return to you? Well, I think we have a little track record here on the
chart. So between 2019 and 2024, we generated more than EUR45 billion of cash flow industrial.
We distributed around EUR30 billion via divi and share buyback. You got on top 65% of the
Daimler Truck shares via the spin in 2021. And you wrap that up, that's a total TSR between 2019
and 2024 of 100%.
Let me illustrate that with a little math here. Let's assume you bought two Daimler shares in 2019
at a share price of EUR50, make it simple. So you invested EUR100 at the point in time and let's
assume you still hold the shares today, right? And let's assume you're still holding the one
Daimler Truck share you got via the spin, and you count what you got as cash dividend. And
obviously, the accretion effect from the share buyback helped us as well. So if I do the math, I
come up with EUR200.
So despite all of the difficulties in 2024 and in industry, isn't that interesting? EUR100 invested in
2019, EUR200 today, if you still hold it. And I'm pretty sure keeping it is a good idea or doing even
more. At the same time, the NIL went up from EUR11 billion in 2019 to EUR31 billion in -- by the end
of 2024. But, well, so far that is looking a bit into the mirror. But now what does it mean in terms
of looking forward? What does it mean in terms of the capital allocation and the capital allocation
framework moving forward?
You can take for granted we are committed to shareholder returns. And we're committed to
shareholder returns as you expect them, but we also committed to them as it is an expression of
our own confidence into our future operational and financial performance. And that's why we will
continue to use, I mean, the cash flow after divi for share buyback, I mean, moving forward, at the
same time, retaining a very strong balance sheet. What's a concrete capital allocation proposal
now which we want to share here today? It is a divi for 2024 of EUR4.30 with a payout around
41% in line with the framework.
We want to announce also, I mean, here today that we will continue our share buyback, I mean,
activity. The supervisory board decided yesterday to launch a new buyback program of up to
EUR5 billion over two years -- up to two years starting potentially in May 2025 as we need to seek
the approval of the AGM for 10% authorization by corporate law in May 2025. And that EUR5billion share buyback program is intended to be supported by the cash we will generate in 2025
and 2026 and the beginning of monetization of the Daimler Truck stake, at the same time,
protecting a very healthy NIL level.
A word on the Daimler Truck stake. You know the lockup expired by the end of the year. We see
the potential for some monetization of cautious stakes. We see that, I mean, the stock gained
significant traction on Daimler Truck side since the spin-off more than 30%. You know that I do
see there is further potential, I mean, in it. We clearly mentioned that we see that holding as non-
strategic, and therefore, I think it's just a logical step that we will consider monetarization of
market -- of a share over time in market friendly way. And these proceeds are embedded in the
cash flow and the EUR5 billion program. Again, important that we need to seek authorization
from the AGM for doing that.
Well, I think it's time to wrap it up, and maybe sum it up in terms of what are the key pillars of the
equity story of that company. Why is Mercedes unique and stands out compared to others? From
your perspective -- that ultimately remains your perspective. But I'd like to offer, I mean, our
perspective. We do consider Mercedes is a unique blend of luxury and cutting-edge technology.
It's the most valuable brand with iconic products, and that means it captures the hearts and not
only the minds of customers. It makes them go irrational.
The people at Mercedes are committed to excellence and innovation. Since the creation of the
company, you could even say they inherited that from the founders. And the product evolution,
the product firework we're talking about here today, I think, is just taking it to another level, but
with exactly that DNA. And you see, I think, a very Swabian discipline at work when it comes to
cost and investment, laying out the roadmap back to double-digit margin, continued cash
generation, a solid balance sheet with EUR30 billion, which provides a lot of flexibility and
opportunities with a benchmark capital allocation framework, which we honor and are committed
to with the announcement we're making here today. Obviously, our job is to deliver. The
investment decision is yours. Thank you.
`Christina Schenck, Vice President Treasury & Investor Relations `
Thank you very much, everyone. Thank you very much, Ola, Markus, and Harald for your
presentations. We will reconnect with our three Board members for the Q&A session that's
following right after. We will take a 10-minute break to 10:45 roughly to reconvene. Please
remember, we will have a first Q&A for analysts and investors, and that's followed by the Q&A for
the media.
`Willem Spelten, Head of Corporate Communications
And all media representatives are, of course, invited to attend the analyst Q&A. So you can stay
here in the room or in the working room. And then we have the media Q&A like five minutes after
the end of the analyst Q&A, also here in the same room. And whoever is dialed in from the
media side, we will then have, like, the usual procedure that you can register your questions
digitally and we will read them out here in the room.
So that's it pretty much for the presentation part, right? You can now refresh yourself and we are
back here in 10 minutes.
`Christina Schenck, Vice President Treasury & Investor Relations `
Welcome back to our analyst and investor Q&A. I'm very happy to have with me `Ola Kallenius, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, our
CEO; `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer, CFO; and `Markus Schafer, Chief Technology Officer, Development & Procurement, CTO.Please bear with me. I will take you through the safe harbor wording for a minute before we start.
Would like to remind everyone that presentation and Q&A are governed by the safe harbor
wording that you find in our published documents.
Please note that our presentations and comments contain forward-looking statements that
reflect management's current views with respect to future events. Such statements are subject to
many risks and uncertainties. If the assumptions underlying any of these statements prove
incorrect, then actual results may be materially different from those expressed or implied by such
statements. Forward-looking statements speak only to the date on which they are made.
Now, just a few practical points. Please ask your questions in English and as a matter of fairness,
please limit it to two questions. Please state your name when I call you and the name of your
institution and then ask your questions. For representatives of the media, please understand we
have the analyst and the investor Q&A first. Yours will follow straight after.
To the investors and analysts following us online, you're welcome to send us questions to the
email address you will see on the screen. We've also shared it this morning. And now for the
participants in the room, please raise your hand if you want to ask a question and I will call you up.
Once it's your turn, please unmute yourself clicking the speaking button and once you're finished,
please also mute yourself again.
Ladies and gentlemen, I don't have to ask you to raise your hand, so I see lots of hands here. I will
start with you Tim. Over to you.
Questions And Answers
Q - `Tim Rokossa, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Yeah. Thank you very much. This works. Tech is amazing here, Ola. That's good.
I have two questions, please. The first one will probably go to you, Ola. You said it's about
distilling the DNA of the brand in many of the things that you are deciding to do. Can you help us
distilling the essence of today? You left us with a lot of information, a bit we already knew. You
made it sound like a very logical continuation of what we learned in Monaco three years ago. Yet
the world has totally changed. You're taking our capacity, you're reversing back from the BEV
focus towards more ICE focus again. So you're actually changing quite a few things, which is
pretty difficult, I assume.
I think most of us left Monaco thinking you want to do luxury and you want to do Beth [ph]. What
are the two things you can leave us with today?
And then secondly, Harald, perhaps more to you. We already had the discussion post Monaco
that we find it very difficult to judge how much you can control internally if you don't give us
reference number for things like fixed costs, investment numbers, we kind of know, right, but that
sort of stuff. It's kind of the same today. I think most people would assume your assumption that
pricing is stable sounds quite ambitious with everything that's going on in the world, or the more
important it is for us to understand the cost side.
Can you help us to drill down on that a little bit more? Is there any net number that you want to
leave us with that you want to achieve in terms of cost savings? Thank you.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerYeah. Thanks, Tim. I'll start with answering your question. So, whereas the market conditions are
indeed different now and the landscape is different, and I would say we all agree that
transformation is not a linear thing and probably in many markets it's going to take longer. What
are the two things that you need to take with you. In terms of the product portfolio, we said we
wanted to elevate ourselves in the different segments that we operate in, top end, core and
entry.
So this product that we're launching now this year, I think is the first proof point of that. In the
entry, narrowing the portfolio to the positions that we think are going to be most successful on a
worldwide basis, elevating the substance of the product, but also the appearance of the product
and trying to gain a healthy margin development in that segment.
Same time we said we want to grow the core. We had, let's say, a gap in the portfolio. The
biggest volume position for BEVs in core is clearly the GLC segment and the C-Class segment.
That is about to be filled next year. And we said we wanted to grow organically in core and then
we wanted to put more emphasis on the top end.
If you remember the chart in my presentation with the number of models in the next three years,
you could clearly see that the highest number of models is in the top end. Not only to defend, I
think you said that also how to defend our position with this, which is strong there, but also try to
build it and venture into new things like AMG.EA, where we want to kick off an electric chapter
also in the performance segment in an authentic, incredible way. So from that point of view, even
though the market conditions have shifted significantly, even though China is a different place
now than it was maybe three or four years ago, I would say that we're staying the course. And if
somebody would be looking at saying, well, you could sell more cars if you do a car that is smaller
than this car, yes, we could. But would it really be profitable growth? We don't think so. And with
the brand that we have, the cost structure that comes together with that brand, honing that, I
think we use the diamond as a honing that, we're largely staying the course.
One thing has changed. Even though we had the insurance policy built in, we thought some years
ago that the progression towards EV on a worldwide basis would go faster.
We had said we will be able to serve markets by the end of this decade fully electrically, comma,
where market conditions allow. If you don't believe that market conditions will be dominant
electric in 2030, 70%, 80% or more percent, it would not make economic sense to just cut off
your very healthy and profitable ICE business.
So a little over a year ago we made a decision to do a dual track to activate the insurance policy.
You saw the new V8 yesterday at AMG. I mean, we never stopped readying the engines and
transmission combinations for the next generation, but we're now adding the vehicles to it. So
yes, that is a -- that is a change, but it's a change that does not lead to disruption. It's not like we
stopped and it's like, oh my goodness, let's dust off the room, Markus, and start again. It is
happening in a flow. It has an impact on our investment profile.
But in spite of that, I think what Harald showed we're managing this in a sensible way. So we're
staying the course. But if the world changes, you cannot be so stubborn that you're not willing to
adapt. You have to adapt as well and that's what we're doing on the BEV-ICE dual track.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
On your second question, Tim, well, I think we give quite a lot of data points. You will understand
that we're not giving the pricing objective for June 2025 on a given product. We said we want tostay disciplined which means the strategy in terms of value over volumes absolutely still applies.
However, I mean we will be competitive as well.
So where we deem appropriate, it means we can also strike. But this is case by case, market by
market, product by product. I think on this one, one cannot give an absolute reference.
Definitely the product momentum to come will use a part of that momentum in the step up of
the product. Also to step up competitiveness of the offering further. But altogether therefore, I
think the assumption to go for a stable pricing moving forward, if you take all of that into account,
I think is a fair one.
When it comes to absolute references on production cost, on material cost, I think it's a bit
difficult. As you know by heart that there's volume mix structure. So giving a number doesn't
mean anything. Yeah. But you see the percentage improvements which we did, which we want to
do moving forward, which I think are very ambitious in a pretty short period of time. You did see in
the bridge for 2024 already how much that yields in terms of year-on-year performance. EUR1
billion industrial performance underlying even higher, as I said, as you have one time inside. And
for fixed cost and investment, actually you have actual references on the investment side. Clearly
you did see EUR12.1 billion for cars in R&D and PPE in 2024.
So it goes up by EUR1 billion, then it comes down in '26 and it will be 10% below 2024 in 2027 and
that means 20% below 2029. So I think you have the references here. And on the fixed cost, let
me say -- and I'd say it's going to be more than 10%. You do not --you cannot retrieve all of the
fixed cost from the P&L statement as a part is obviously in SG&A, a part is in COGS. But let me
say if you achieve the incremental 10% by 2027, fixed cost will be at the edge of a single to a
double digit billion number, which I think is a quite meaningful guide.
A - `Christina Schenck, Vice President Treasury & Investor Relations `
Patrick, you were very fast. So you go next.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS `
Okay. Perfect. Thank you and good morning. Thanks for your presentation. Two questions from
my end. First one is regarding the growth you envisage in the top end segment. There seems to
be a significant increase in that bridge for 2027 and I'm curious to understand how the split
between BEV and ICE would look like for that year within the top end segment and also how you
think about it by region?
I just generally think we have a lot of evidence in the market that BEVs in the top end segment
are not an easy sell when it comes to residual values, when it comes to consumers that expect
roaring V8 engines, et cetera. So I'm just trying to better understand how much optimism or
aggressiveness you've baked into your TVE share growth driven by BEV.
And my second question regarding Daimler Trucks. You had it on a slide, Harald. But if I look at
the authorization, the EUR5 billion share buybacks you're going to do or plan to do over the next
24 months, you would just max out that 10% authorization without any potential for returning even
more in case of a Daimler Truck stake sale.
So I'm wondering, does that mean we should think about another spin of Daimler Truck shares or
a special dividend in case you sell down your Daimler Truck stake? Or how would you go about it?
Thank you.A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
So I think I'll start with the first one. If I double click on the chart with all the cars on it, and you
could see that there were a lot of positions on the top end, some of which I referred to, so you
get a major, major refresh of the S-Class and the equivalent Maybach next year, you get a major
refresh of the GLS also next year. So here you have the main vehicles that carry the ICE side of
that operation.
You saw last night at AMG that maybe we're kind of plugging some holes. So the resurrection of
the V8, the brand new flat crank V8, I mean, who is insane enough to do something like this at
this day and age? Well, the AMG people are. And if you carefully looked at the chart that Michael
showed yesterday, you could see that there were other ICE variants also in the AMG portfolio
coming. So I would say on the ICE side, we're refreshing, renewing and maybe tidying up the
picture a bit.
Now to your question on the BEVs. Yes, we're investing into this AMG.EA architecture. I remember
when we went to our test track down in Immendingen in the fall and it was the first, like, real
drive. I had driven the AMG.EA early prototypes up in the north of Sweden on ICE, but it's not the
same thing. And I drove this thing and again like, holy shit. This -- sorry for the expression, this is
what performance should feel like. And the guy said, even programmed and we will most likely
launch that.
They'd even programmed what they called a V8 mode. So I turned on the V8 mode and it
sounded like a V8 on the inside, on the outside and software emulated the gear shifts. Good job
there of the team, even if you don't need it, technically speaking, on it on an electric car. So I was
thinking to myself, this is insane performance. It's proprietary technology.
So when do we break the psychological barrier of the customer saying, wow, this is so good, I
desire this and I want it. That is the attempt that we're going to make. But even the AMG version
of this here 400 kilowatt plus with those same features and everything, they're going to be a
blast to drive. So we will do our utmost to change the perception or maybe create the perception
of a valuable performance electric vehicle as well.
Is there some uncertainty? Sure, there's some uncertainty, but the technological package will be
the real deal and that is part of the growth. And I did not take out my yardstick here to measure
exactly on the graph, but I think we were a little bit more cautious on what that absolute number
is going to be like in 2027 than we thought some years ago when the market conditions were
different. So we were now at 280,000-ish [ph] and I think it's reasonable to believe that we can
climb above the 300,000 [ph] again and then build upon that.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
With regard to your second question, I think there are two elements to answer. I mean, number
one is a more technical. As by corporate law, and you know it, I mean you can only seek 10%
authorization from the AGM. So given the market cap, well this is maybe slightly above EUR5
billion, but it is not EUR10 billion or is not EUR8 billion. Maybe -- it would be different, I mean, if you
would have a different view. But I mean as of today it is what it is.
So therefore, I mean the authorization is a precondition. And obviously what we proposed, I mean
to the supervisory board and what got approved needs to be in sync with that authorization.
That's why it is an envelope also technically in the order of EUR5 billion supported by cash flow
and monetization of the Daimler truck stake.To your second question, I mean could we expect something else on the DT stake? No, we
checked it carefully. From a legal point of view, there is no precedent of a minority spin in
corporate law. It would be a pretty complex operation with lots of uncertainty, would require lots
of approvals. It would also constitute probably tax risk or I mean tax burden for many of the
investors but which you don't want to see. And frankly I think we're not in a hurry here.
I always said it. It's a great performance, evolution of DT over time. There's more potential to
come. So a careful market-friendly monetization, I mean over time, and you know what the
liquidity can absorb, I mean, you know that better than me. I think this is the way to go. And that
will support the cash generation in '24, 2025 and we'll use EUR5 billion of that to buy back shares
and that's what it is.
A - `Christina Schenck, Vice President Treasury & Investor Relations `
George, over to you.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Great. Thank you for taking my questions. `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. The first
question I wanted to start with is what do you think is the benchmark today in China for a
premium car player with respect to level two ADAS? Is it point-to-point driving, operating 98% of
the time with minimal need for the driver to intervene? Is it lower than that? And how is the CLA
going to perform relative to that benchmark?
The second question I had was just with respect to the net liquidity. EUR30 billion-plus is a very
big number. Why is that required? Some of your global peers are saying they need effectively
close to zero. I think in the past Daimler talked about a number of EUR10 billion when you were a
larger company with trucks. Is this level of liquidity required because there might be M&A you
have to pursue from a technology perspective? Is it required because the earnings in China could
be read at some point? Is it required because maybe if Europe keeps the 2035 ban on internal
combustion engines, we'll go into a period of very low volume in Europe? I think the market really
wants to understand why that security blanket is needed.
A - `Christina Schenck, Vice President Treasury & Investor Relations `
Markus, you want to start?
A - `Markus Schafer, Chief Technology Officer, Development & Procurement `
Yeah, I think you're hitting the point. I think one of the great customer benefits that customers
enjoy in China right now is assisted driving and especially what we call level two-plus-plus driving.
And this is really an additional help and assistance to the customer. The clear goal, we have to be
at benchmark levels with this car, with this AI, with the supercomputer in the car, with the sensor
set that we have in the car, with the compute algorithm to hit this benchmark level, point to point
driving in very, very dense urban traffic.
And the key of the system was developed especially in busy, busy China streets. So that's exactly
what we're targeting. What are we doing in terms of, even topping the competition there is
reducing the hardware set there. So we are driving a high-definition mapless, because we're not
using a high definition map. And over development with our algorithms, we were able also delete
the LiDAR in the car. So we are able to perform on the same level as benchmark in China with
less hardware. Plus -- and we should elaborate in another workshop what we call functional safety.
So we have a long, long history of developing ADAS system. 25 years we are working on that in-house, especially when it comes to functional safety which is a key requirement from our point of
view there, to put you a in safe space there. I think also we are going to define a benchmark
when it comes to functional safety.
Third point is cooperative steering. Typically, when you interfere in the system in China and start
to move the steering wheel, then you kick out the system. And we have a long tradition that you
can do both at the same time. And this gives you even additional feel of safety and security and
that you are in control if you want to be. So I think we are adding additional flavor here, defining
really, really top when it comes to assisted driving, especially in China but also in the US. Then
Europe, as you know, it's not allowed yet. But you will drive this car this afternoon even here in
Germany in Sindelfingen, so you will get the experience in Sindelfingen. So we are able to scale
the system also globally if legally and regulatorily allowed.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
And George, to your question on the nil, I agree with you. EUR30 billion is a very comfortable
number. But there -- is there any hidden agenda behind the EUR30 billion in terms of retain
them? Clearly no. How to illustrate that? Well, I mean if we would see the risk of China basically
turning into red, I think I wouldn't stand here and talk about the objective to retain BBAC in
double-digit territory. If we would see the risk of volume collapsing globally as a function of
market, ICE, EV, whatever, I think we would not stand here and give a margin target for 2027 as
we did. And if we would have any material M&A in mind, I think we would not stand here and and
say that we intend to generate free cash flow from the organic business and then use a DTE
stake, I mean, to do the EUR5 billion share buyback, it would be just totally inconsistent, wouldn't
it be?
So yes, it is a very healthy balance sheet. I think it's good to have it. But I think there is at the same
time a very generous return policy to shareholders as demonstrated, I think, earlier today with my
little maths in terms of total shareholder return of 100% or the EUR100, EUR200 example. And I
think with the EUR5 billion and the DVO for EUR30, you see the commitment to continue in that
direction.
A - `Christina Schenck, Vice President Treasury & Investor Relations `
Jose?
Q - `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Thank you very much. Jose from JP Morgan. Thank you for the presentation. A couple of
questions. I was very impressed with the China margin. So I would love to hear a little bit more
around the material cost and the fixed cost initiatives in the region to sustain the margin in the
double-digit level. Is there also maybe tactically an option to maybe take down some of the
capacity in the region? I think you mentioned on the slides optionality. So how do we think about
that, maybe in '25 and '26?
And then second on the sale of the Daimler Truck stake, do you have any KPIs, any margins you
would like to see, any elements you would like to see from Daimler Truck to maybe judge a little
bit better the timing of the sale? Thank you.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, thanks, Jose. Maybe very quickly on the DT stake, I think we said everything which has to be
said on the subject matter. So we intend -- we would consider monetization in the doses, in theway I described it before, and do that in a market-friendly manner. But I think any other indication,
I think we'll know. Let's see, as we go along, we have two years as part of the SPB program as
obviously that is going hand in hand. So nothing to be added I think in this respect.
On the China margin -- and first, I mean let me say, yeah, 15% is a good departure point but it's a
good competitive environment. You saw all of the initiatives to protect that moving forward. But I
would say if we're able to retain the BBAC at a healthy margin level in a super competitive
environment, with having the right products in the market, adjusting the cost base down,
grabbing into the opportunities also for more local sourcing, this is the fitness check which then I
think makes -- I mean, BBAC is super robust and maybe is even an opportunity, I mean, to take
some of that opportunities over to rest of world. Yeah?
And I would also say, maybe I'm talking about BBAC 15% here today, 2024. This is BBAC result
only. I think you all know by heart that we're doing supply business which has a decent margin and
there are other profit pools on top of it. So the entirety I think is good and demonstrated in a
super competitive environment 2024 that it is resilient and we will make it even more resilient
moving forward, jointly with a partner, jointly with BAIC, absolutely determined. Also, I think pretty
clear is that they have a joint interest with us to make BBAC successful in the future in terms of its
products but also in terms of its bottom line.
A - `Markus Schafer, Chief Technology Officer, Development & Procurement `
But maybe also to add partnerships. I mean we were proving with our four-cylinder engine to
have a local development of components there with local specification, with local partners, could
take us to cost levels that we have not seen before. So follow the source was the typical
approach in the -- actually in the present. But doing more localization with local partners there.
This is the key focus right now of the R&D and procurement team in China, and elaborating on
further partnerships also when it comes to components.
A - `Christina Schenck, Vice President Treasury & Investor Relations `
Henning?
Q - `Henning Cosman, Analyst, Barclays `
Yeah. Thank you very much. First one perhaps for Harald to come back to the pricing. I appreciate
you don't want to give us price points for '26, but I just wanted to check with you if you agree
that. Well, I think you gave a very reasonable guide overall, right, for 2025. Would you agree that
within that pricing is perhaps the most volatile or uncertain assumption and indeed whether it's
stable or not stable could make the difference between the eight and the six? Would you agree
with that? And I think in previous calls you've gone through the elements of pricing list, price
discounts, dealer compensation, residual values, if you could touch on that and how you see that
-- the stability element.
And the second question is also a little bit geared to 2027 and maybe to bring in Markus again.
On the slide, you had the 30% xEV penetration. If we assume the increment comes from BEVs is
double of what it is today, how do we think about that in terms of margin parity, because if you
double the EVs, you go to 20% EV alone. While you have the 10% margin ambition, does that
necessitate getting close to parity? Is that an assumption that's baked in? Thank you.
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `Yeah. On the pricing, I think it's fair to say as you do that probably is one of the most volatile
assumptions in any outlook at this juncture. We have a determination to be disciplined in this
respect. But we are not the only one in town. Right? So it also depends obviously what's
happening in other places by other people. So, we do consider, I mean some volatility in any
outlook, obviously. But considering either a massive step up or a massive step down, where do
you put the line? So -- but the backbone is disciplined approach and product, product, product,
product is at the end. I think the product makes the pricing and nothing else.
A - `Markus Schafer, Chief Technology Officer, Development & Procurement `
On the margin side, basically we're now bringing the cost of the EV down by more 15%. We do
not assume price premium on the EV over the ICE. That means that we can narrow the gap. But I
say it also loud and clear, any statement that you can close the gap, we find that a difficult
statement and we don't want to promise things we cannot do. So all of the effort is on getting
the right products out and getting the cost down by more than 15%, the variable cost of the
product, thereby the margin gap will narrow and the higher for longer ICE, obviously builds a nice
bridge meant to absorb that moving forward.
A - `Christina Schenck, Vice President Treasury & Investor Relations `
Stephen? Yeah.
Q - `Stephen Stephen, Analyst, Societe Generale `
Got it. Thank you. Marvels of technology. Thank you very much. Could I ask about the CLA again?
First of all, maybe a simpler one. You talked -- you're saying the public introduction of the vehicle
will be in a month's time. Are you going to order -- are you going to open the order book at that
time as well? And when will the first customer delivery start for this vehicle? And if you give
maybe by geography as well.
And secondly, you mentioned about that you understand that BEVs cannot command a premium
to the ICE vehicles. When this vehicle was first introduced to us, I think we saw this in May 2022. I
think thinking afterwards was that it would have a -- with all the technologies, would command a
premium. Now, you've mentioned the 15% reduction in BEV costs that are coming in with this, but
that would have probably been baked in already into some of your thinking. So could you
describe some of the other steps you've taken to bring the cost of this vehicle down in order to
reach the sort of the new realities of how you can price this in today's market? Thank you.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
So I'll start with the timing. We will have what we call the -- we're following our normal procedure
here. We'll have what we call the world premiere in about four weeks' time, which will be at the
big event in Europe. Invite the world to look at the car. Then we take the camouflage off, we show
all the details of the technology. We have teased a lot of the things today. Then usually some
weeks after that, we have what we call a sales release. So that happens later in the spring on the
way towards early summer. Then you can actually go in order. We start in Europe first. The
production of this vehicle starts in our plant here in Arnstadt. Then we kick off production in the
fall in China. Usually have this gap, four, five, six months roughly, historically. And we also start
production in the summer, then late summer for the United States, but then we have the
shipping. So China and the United States then come in the fall, and it's kind of then the rest of the
world. So that's how it's going to unfold.
A - `Markus Schafer, Chief Technology Officer, Development & Procurement `On the margin side, let's not confuse things, please. So let me clarify. So when you say there --
we do not assume price premium of an EV over an ICE product, it means this EV product should
have roughly similar pricing than the respective main combustion ICE sibling of that product.
Right? When we say the margin gap between or the margin improvement with a 15% cost down
we're doing, we're comparing with predecessor product. So which means if you compare -- we
don't have predecessor of CLAs. But let me take a GLA. So a future GLA electric to be compared
with an EQA today will have a definitely better margin, thanks to the cost work we're talking
about. So please, let's separate the two.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
And maybe one thing to mention, I think Markus actually mentioned that. Markus and his team,
they've done a sensational job on the combustion one. So on the combustion side, our
powertrain, I would say, by our standards, cost-wise is very competitive.
A - `Christina Schenck, Vice President Treasury & Investor Relations `
Okay, Anthony, over to you.
Q - `Anthony Dick, Analyst, ODDO BHF `
Yes, thank you. Three questions on my side. The first is on CO2 compliance. So thanks for
providing the kind of indication of the impact on the cars business. On the vans business, could
you just remind us what would be the impact? I just noted it would be higher. And then could you
also break down a little bit how that splits between potential mix dilution and also any kind of
costs that you would pay out to your pooling partner? And then lastly on this kind of topic, if we
were to get some relief on the regulation front from the EU, maybe in a couple of weeks, how
would that impact your estimate for this compliance cost in 2025?
Then my second question is on China. Just wondering how, you know, considering what we're
seeing, the very high levels of price discounting in that market, how you're balancing value and
volume, are you targeting a specific market share or defending a market share in China?
And then the last question is on investments. Could you maybe talk us a bit about ICE
investments for the year to come, again, considering that the lifetime basically of the ICE has
likely been extended with what we've seen in the market over the last couple of months and
years? Thank you.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Maybe quickly I get started on the CO2 and you pick up on the regulatory and maybe the partner
framework. And I mentioned that, I mean the number on the car side is a low three-digit number
in the walk from '24 to '25. Maybe let me do it, I mean the following way. It's a very low three-digit
number which sits in there and the absolute number which sits in the van bridge year-over-year is
maybe a bit less than double of that amount which sits on the car side for the reasons Ola
explained before, given the higher CO2 footprint obviously of a van vehicle compared to a
passenger car vehicle. I hope that explains number one on the car side. But number two, that
actually also the walk on the margin from 2024 to 2025, a quite significant chunk of the margin
deterioration or dilution still holding at a nice 10% to 12%, however, is coming from that CO2
impact in 2025. On the regulatory side, at the kick-off dialogue, the so-called Strategic
Automotive Industry Dialogue at the end of January, pretty much every single industry
representative at that meeting and certainly the Auto Industry Association that I happened to
lead this year, as well as the Supplier Association, said loud and clear, five or six years ago whenthe targets were set certain assumptions were made. It's very clear that in terms of natural
demand in the market, proliferation of charging infrastructure, et cetera, some of those
assumptions have not come to fruition. So it is wholly reasonable from a regulatory point of view
to review this and think about some relief, especially in the context of what's going on in the
global economics. So you have two other strong economic regions, North America, United States,
North America and China, that are not -- they're not taking money away from the auto industry.
They are actually doing the other thing around, they are putting money into the auto industry. Is it
the most rational thing for Europe right now to rigidly stick to that or have some flexibility and
pragmatism in mind, that's what we're advocating for. Whether or not the EU Commission will
decide to change 2025, that is unknown. So I don't think it would be serious to put a number to it.
We have just said it is a sensible thing to do. If they do, do it, though, the way we have structured
our agreements is we can flex. So, indeed, if they create relief, we would have some relief and
we'll see what happens. Maybe on the market share, for every single car, you look at your relative
market share, you look at your relative pricing. It should come as no surprise that we have done
the same calculation for this car in China. So we have a hypothesis, but you said it, Harald, we're
not alone in the market and the market is a dynamic place as you have to be able to calibrate that
in your mind as you get closer to market introduction. But of course we have the hypothesis.
We're not going to name individual volume targets on individual vehicles here. We never have.
But that is in place and it's a balanced approach. Value over volume is our general philosophy, but
it's not no volume. So it is also volume in a market that we have discussed is highly competitive.
A - `Markus Schafer, Chief Technology Officer, Development & Procurement `
And the investment profile, I think we touched base on that one. Clearly, what you saw on
product portfolio and on component evolution serves an ICE portfolio very well far into the 30s.
And the investments needed for that on vehicle side, on component side, on software side, are
embedded in the investment plan we laid out here today. How can it work, however, then with an
investment coming down. You heard the streamlining of the drivetrain components on the ICE
side, and I think largely accomplished as -- I mean they meet EU7 targets. So we need to be there
anyhow. So the investments are largely behind us. And so we can really leverage that well into the
future. And many other components, not ICE-related but EV and ICE in the US I think is the most
prominent example, obviously, can be leveraged. So, what's left, so to say, on a pure ICE
platform is nothing but obviously is a much lower effort which is needed to get the competitive
products into the -- well, the 30s. And all of that is embedded in the investment plan.
A - `Christina Schenck, Vice President Treasury & Investor Relations `
Okay, I see some red flashes on the screen, so I think we're running out of time. For everyone in
the room, thank you so much for asking your questions. Of course, thank you to you also for
answering all of the questions. And for everyone joining us online, we will now take a quick break
and take a few minutes until the media Q&A will continue. So for everyone (Technical Difficulty)
Welcome back to our media Q&A in the framework of the annual results conference and annual --
and Capital Market Day. I would like to welcome our CFO -- our CEO, Kallenius; our CFO, Harald
Wilhelm and CTO, `Markus Schafer, Chief Technology Officer, Development & Procurement. I would like to hand back to the operator because we also
have guests who take part digitally.
Operator
Welcome to the Mercedes Benz telephone conference. This conference will be recorded. The
recording and our information about privacy can be found on the website of the company. After a
brief round of introduction, you have time for Q&A. (Operator Instructions) And please rememberthat there are a few risks and uncertainties which are illustrated by way of example in the
documents published.
If the assumptions that look ahead into the future should turn out to be not correct, the actual
events could deviate from whatever is said today. We do not intend to be held liable for forecasts
and we do not intend to update these because these are based merely on the circumstances
prevailing on the day of publication.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Well, good morning. You listened to the Q&A session of analysts and the presentations. Now you
have the opportunity to ask questions yourselves. Before we get started, let me tell you that the
operator will explain what you have to do if you ask your questions online. (Operator Instructions)
And once your question has been answered, please push the button again so that your question
so that others can get back and ask their questions. We will finish at about 12:15. The recording of
the call will be put on our website after the call. If you don't agree to have your question
recorded, please let us know by 1 PM and we will take this into account. Please ask slowly so that
the interpreters can do a good job when you ask your questions. Thank you very much.
Operator
(Operator Instructions) We will now register and record your questions. Ms. Wissenbach. We will
start here in the audience. `Ilona Wissenbach, Analyst, Reuters, Reuters.
Q - `Ilona Wissenbach, Analyst, Reuters
Now I can ask in German. I'm still a bit confused about the group EBIT. Why is it supposed to go
down so drastically, more than 15% or roughly more than EUR2 billion? Can you please summarize
the three most important factors? Because there are so many imponderable, so many
uncertainties? I'm getting a bit lost here. One factor, of course, I understand is that you don't
launch so many models this year. But what are the other factors regarding markets and demand?
My second question. I'm missing a few figures about which we've read a lot in recent weeks. Now,
the cost saving program, will it be EUR5 million, Mr. Wilhelm? I couldn't find it on the slides and
maybe you mentioned it, but I didn't hear it. And then you said about costs that they will go down
by 10%. What do you intend to do regarding headcount? Will you also reduce it by 10%? And this
would be about 16,000 persons would be affected around the world.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Okay. So, three questions. Harald?
A - `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Thank you. So today we explained at the division or business level for cars what is our
prospect, our perspective for the market, our forecast. We are very cautious and we explained
the results. So as far as passenger cars are concerned, we said 6% to 8% volume but with a lower
volume. As regards funds, we said we'd also adopt a very cautious approach looking at the
markets. Lower volume combined with a lower ROS of 10% to 12% compared to 14% to 16%.
Now, if you do your math, you will quickly realize that mechanically consolidated at group level
EBIT will go down drastically, significantly below prior level on the basis of this guidance.Regarding cost, I think we've presented many reference points and many targets regarding our
ambitions. And also costs, we presented at absolute values and also changes in terms of
percentages. Again and again you will see figures, or we refer to figures. And now reporting
EUR5 billion, you mentioned that. Now let me say EUR5 billion compared to internal planning, well,
none of you are familiar with the internal planning unless you have it. So it doesn't make sense to
talk too much about it.
So we've communicated everything the way we did today, compared to absolute actuals or
changes when it comes to material and production cost. Talking about cost cuts, all types of costs
are concerned. And I think we've made this point clear today. And this includes HR cost too, of
course. Our leading dimension, however, euros, and then it's broken down to all functions across
the world, all countries.
Of course, this will entail headcount reduction in certain countries and also in Germany, especially
in the indirect area. I think I hinted at that today. But we do not want to quantify this. We are having
constructive talks and of course the head of department is responsible for implementing the
targets defined in the program and to initiate corresponding measures.
And you can rest assured that whenever we do restructuring regarding HR, we do that in a
responsible manner as we did in recent -- in the years in the past. Mr. Zwick [ph]?
Q - Unidentified Participant
Yes. Thank you very much. I have two questions. One is more political in nature. We have federal
elections on Sunday. You said that you want to shift production from Germany to Eastern Europe
because these countries are less costly. What could a new federal government do in order to
persuade you to invest more in Germany? So in concrete terms, what would they have to do to
make you stay and invest more here?
And the other question is about the ban on ICE cars in the European Union. I'm talking about
2035. I mean, this ban is put into question again. The lineup that you've presented, could you
actually go beyond 2035? Now you presented ICE cars until 2027 and they will surely last until '35.
But what about after '35?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Now, let me start by citing two interesting articles that were published last year. The so-called
letter report in the spring of last year and then later, on behalf of the commission, the Draghi
report. Now, both reports are worthwhile reading. Why? Because they analyze excellently where
we are as Europeans. So they do some kind of stock taking of our competitiveness. And there is a
specific chapter on the automotive industry in the Draghi report.
Before Christmas I had a chance to talk to that with Mr. Draghi personally and to hear from the
horse's mouth, as it were, what he thinks about it. And I left this conversation thinking, why don't
we do that? I mean, it says everything, but there are many, many different suggestions that are
not easy to implement politically. However, in our brief and this year, I have the honor of being the
spokesperson for (inaudible), it's a rotating post. Regarding competitiveness, we, as I say, I only
said this, do read the drug report and do what it says. There's a lot of information in that goes far
beyond classical industry, up to capital market unions and many things that could generate
growth, and growth is exactly what we need. Now, if I break this down to the Federal Republic of
Germany, the biggest national economy in Europe, I mean, basically it's the same thing. And you
can do a litmus test. Every law that's planned and proposed, you can ask, will it generate more
growth and more competitiveness for the entrepreneurs, for the industry? And if the answer tothat question is yes, there will be more economic growth. If the answer is no, there won't be
economic growth, most probably, and capital always is looking for a risk adjusted return. The
capital doesn't know a party and not a country. The capital votes for return and other national
economies, adjacent economies that try to improve their situation. Based on this equation, we
have to start thinking about how to improve our location. Germany as an investment location, how
can we make it more attractive? So we invested EUR14 billion, EUR15 billion, EUR16 billion into R&D
tools, plants, et cetera, and most of it in Germany. So it's difficult to show even more commitment
than we've shown so far. But the relative competitiveness of Europe is really up to be tested and
we would like to see some action.
Your question about 2035. Well, the automotive industry in Europe wants to talk about that. What
have we achieved during the first part of the transformation, the first chapter of the
transformation over the last five years, ever since the green deal has been around. Now we only
have 10 years to go to 2035. What about the charging infrastructure? How far have we
progressed? How ready are customers emotionally and mentally to change over. Do we believe
that the complete remainder of the journey can be traveled up to a certain target in 2035. Now
the doubts are growing, especially among suppliers. Now if you listen attentively to what CLEPA
says, that is the association of suppliers in Europe and this is where most of the employment is.
Many thousands of companies are combined under this umbrella. Now they raise the alarms and
say if it doesn't work out, the situation will become extremely serious. In such a situation, you
really have to check how to align the growth targets, growth, prosperity, jobs, et cetera. And the
automotive industry doesn't put this into question. We are the stakeholders, the stakeholder that
by far by a long shot, invests the most money into decarbonization, three digit billions. So if there
is one stakeholder that believes in decarbonization, it's the automotive industry, it's us. But if the
conditions are not right, you have to think of other scenarios and you have to be more flexible.
And this is a discussion that we have to have, especially because the other two big economic
regions do not have such a target, but they are way more flexible, especially the Chinese, but
also the Americans. And we as Mercedes in this case, we can respond to everything. You have
seen our product portfolio and what we can do with it.
Operator
So we have two questions from the telephone, the participants that dialed in telephonically.
Q - Unidentified Participant
So this is from Handelsblatt. I have two questions. Now in terms of the big picture, Mr. Kallenius,
Mr. Wilhelm, if you adapt production capacities and at least with a view towards 2025, you talked
about this decline in sales. On the one hand side, is this not worth anything anymore? What
happened to your growth ambitions because you wanted to increase the number of units to 3
million and now you are actually going down even further. So this is not the perspective that I
thought you would show me. So I just wanted to pull that up. And then also in a previous
message, you also pre announced that you might look into increasing production capacities and
other capacities in China. So does this relate to vehicle production and engine production or just
one and not the other? Maybe you can talk a little bit more about that. Thank you.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Okay. So just going from -- well, starting with the first question. In terms of the outlook and the
financial expectations for 2025 and beyond that, that we talked about today, I believe that we
emphasize the fact that we do not -- we only apply that cautious view to market developments.
And in particular when it comes to China, does that mean that we don't want to fight for moremarket share? No, of course not. We will do that, but we also need to have the products and cost
competitiveness and we will definitely attack, but it's just a matter of fact that we might have
been below EUR2 million in 2024 because we also saw that as a sensible operating point. And by
applying a sense, a cautious perspective for '25, we said a little bit lower than in '24, but with the
product fireworks in '25 and '26 and '27, will generate different type of dynamics. And then for '25
and following -- for '27 and following, the numbers should be different. This is what we have been
preparing and this is also what we have fought for in the market. And in order for that to be able
competitive, we need to be competitive in terms of costs as well, and that is why we went on at
such great detail about what we're doing in the world.
And of course there's this underlying principle that we need to adapt capacities to market
conditions. And the fact that this has changed substantially as compared to a few years ago and
the fact that competition is a lot fiercer in terms of participants and the means that they use is
something we also know. And we just have to be prepared for that and adjust capacities
accordingly and ensure that you remain competitive on that basis and with the plans. And with the
capacity expansions that we talked about day, we are confident we can do that. Also with this
reduction in fixed costs, we believe that we'll be able to do that. And we also achieved that in the
past few years in the actuals, and this is what we're going to do in future as well.
Operator
So Ms. Waldersee of Reuters dialed in telephonically as well.
Q - `Victoria Waldersee, Analyst, Reuters
Can you hear me okay?
Operator
Yes, we can hear you okay.
Q - `Victoria Waldersee, Analyst, Reuters
Thank you. All right, I have two questions. One on the future of the German plants, you said
you're not going to close down any plants, but you're going to move some capacity to Hungary.
When do you think that move will take place? In the medium term, at the end of the decade, et
cetera. And what are you going to do with the excess capacity in Germany and linked up to that?
My second question. Some investors and also employee representatives lose trust in the strategy
because they believe that they need 2 million units per year in order to utilize plants efficiently.
But the question is, why have you made the decision the way you have and what is it based on?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Well, this is not about a shift from one car to another or one plant to another. It's about making
sure that with a product campaign that we're looking at the 20 plus models in three years, we
need to have the production location set up right. And this goes back to what `Harald Wilhelm, Chief Financial Officer
said, and that we need to make sure that we will use the plant structure in Hungary even more,
and that's going to take -- that's going to lead to more competitive production costs, but we also
have a perspective and target pictures for the German plants. And if we make any adaptations in
Germany, we'll do this in a sensible, responsible manner and will also do this according to centers
of competence. Today we're (inaudible), this is the competence center for the upper range
vehicles with the S-Class as a flagship. We also have a competence center for the vehicles into change about that. And of course you're going to take a closer look at what makes sense in
the respective sites, and we take a very, apply a very thorough logic and analysis and we need to
take general competitiveness into account. As Harald said, we keep investing in new products
because we want to grow profitably. It's our clear intention to grow, to keep growing and to
create this balance around 2 million units. We've shown that in the last two years that this is a
good balance, and we'll have 200 vans that go on top. And if you then translate that into
revenue, then we'll be one of the key players. And it's not growth for the sake of growth, but
profitable growth is what we're after. Also, with new products that we are going to introduce, it
wouldn't make any sense to say, well, maybe there is a volume segment just below the MP
vehicles. You could do that. But the question is, would that really bring about a sensible margin?
Because we are a premium luxury manufacturer, we don't have the same cost structure as the
large volume manufacturers. You could go for volume, but you also don't have a saver going to a
savings bank and accept much lower interest as with another bank, and we should also not do
that with the capital that our shareholders entrusted with us and just stick to what we can do best,
entry, core and top end. This is what we're going to stick to and we're going to consistently
implement this strategy.
Operator
Okay. I have Mr. Demling of the SPIEGEL here in the room.
Q - `Alexander Demling, Analyst, DER SPIEGEL
Yes. I have three questions, I think one for each of you, if I'm not mistaken. Now, first of all, you
mentioned that you looked into the effect, whether you're going to introduce a core model in the
US. Does this have to do with tariffs? Is it a mixture, maybe. And if these tariffs were to be
introduced, what time-frame are we talking about, Mr. Kallenius.
And then secondly, the question to Mr. Wilhelm. Your projection for 2025, does this include any
spending for this pool of CO2 that you already said you would go and invest in or not yet. And if
so, how high would that be? And then also BYD introduced the God's Eye system a few years
ago and wants to basically produce very cheap models, Level 2 systems that is. Do you believe
that this is something that will have an impact in China or elsewhere on the drive pilot system and
other systems that you would like to sell and make money with or how do you think this is going
to influence this market?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
On the first question, well, we've been present in the US for more than 100 years now. And if you
just look at that from an economic standpoint and just look at the $29 billion of GDP, this is by far
the largest economic potential that this represents. The fact that after decades of successful
business dealings, we want to take part even more actively is something that doesn't come as a
surprise. So this is nothing that is short-term. We are saying the US from a strategic standpoint is a
market in which we can grow. Now the question is which one is the next product. It's the product
that you believe you can also establish the greatest market footprint with. This is what drives our
considerations for the tariffs. It's very difficult to know what's going to happen. If something were
to happen and you wanted to respond to that, you also need to make sure that you relocating a
plant is something that takes two, three, maybe four years. So it's nothing that allows you to
respond in the short term. But we believe -- in the U.S., we believe in growth in the U.S. and we
want to grow in the U.S., and this is what has been guiding us in our strategy.
On that second question, and just to say that upfront, it is and has been the target with theWe believe that this will happen because of the appeal of the plug-in portfolio, which is the
strongest portfolio in the market. And also, the way how these vehicles, CLA, MMA, but then also
the volumes segment, the C and GLC segments, these also will contribute to us getting closer to
the target zone when it comes to the regulatory requirements.
Now on your specific question, the burden from arrangement pooling, is that included in the 2025
guidance? Of course, this is included. I also told you that -- and this was also an investor question,
for passenger cars, this would be a very low three-digit number and you will know what that
means. Whereas with vans, due to the CO2 impact coming from the size of the vehicle, this
impact will be higher and will be a little bit less than double the volume for CO2 and for
passenger cars and for this aspect of achieving CO2 targets.
Now in terms of efficiency systems, we're actually not caught by surprise by the developments in
China because we've been preparing for that. And the system that we're going to show with a
new CLA is going to address that very fact, including this expectation and this claim to get to the
top with level two plus. So you enter a target address and the vehicle will find its way in dense
traffic also. This will be the target picture, and we believe that we'll also be at the top of the
competition in China with that.
And in addition to that, we have this very intelligent artificial intelligence models, new models that
are not rule-based, but are large models, end-to-end models. And with that, we can also use the
hardware very efficiently that's installed in the vehicle and get to a very high safety level. And
also, in comparison to the Chinese competitors, which we take very seriously, also when it comes
to costs and the performance of the system, we are on a very competitive level. You always need
to look at the details to see what the system -- the competition offers really can provide. And
we're doing that and we have been showing what that can do and we think we will be in the lead.
In terms of pricing that into the products, we'll do that once we enter that market and we will
surely also be competitive and also include that in our pricing from that standpoint.
A - Unidentified Speaker
We don't have a lot of time, but many requests from the floor. So please limit yourselves to
asking one question. Mr. Wagner [ph].
Q - Unidentified Participant
A very brief follow-up question on the volume. You presented the CLA and the CLA family is
supposed to replace the A and B class. Do you believe that the unit numbers of the CLA family
with which you want to replace the A and B class?
Well, a question for Mr. Schafer. Well, you had the DRIVE PILOT and presented it with speeds up
to 95 kilometers per hour. Can you tell me when the system will be launched in which car?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
As regards the MMA architecture, we have these four models that we selected and we believe
they have the biggest potential globally.
Q - Unidentified Participant
And the volume models below the MMA architecture models?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerWell, this is not the CLA. This is the first one. The volume models are the SUVs definitely because
they are highly coveted. GLA, GLB, all the models that will be launched over the course of the
next two and a half years. And in this volume, well, about 2 million units, Harald said, we are
talking about 500,000 units plus minus. And this is the region that would be adequate here.
Well, DRIVE PILOT is available with the S-Class and the EQS and it'll be available and can be
ordered these days also via software. It can be downloaded to existing models that are
authorized up to 60 kmh. So you can do a software update and have it on board.
Operator
`Patricia Neilson, Analyst, Financial Times [ph], Financial Times. You have a question? Patricia, can you hear us? Okay. It
doesn't work. So let's continue here in this room. `William Wilkes, Analyst, , .
Q - `William Wilkes, Analyst,  `
Just had a question on the China stimulus measures. Are you in contact with Chinese authorities
about their stimulus plans? And do you expect that to have much of an effect on demand for your
vehicles this year?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
I'm supposed to answer in German. German. Okay. We maintain very good contact with the
policymakers in China. There are ongoing talks. So we are always in close contact with them. We
know what's going on. And over the last six months, we can say that the policymakers in China
have initiated various measures in order to stimulate the economy.
Whether this has arrived psychologically in the customers' mind, not yet. But the blocks -- I mean,
they are now putting blocks on top of each other, and this is a positive movement. In which way
this will impact the market in 2025 remains to be seen. As Harald said, we opted to present a
very cautious outlook on 2025. But you can see various indications that would suggest that
growth is very high on the agenda and that they start doing something.
Let's wait and see what kind of impact this will have.
Operator
`Stephen Wilmot, Analyst, The Wall Street Journal from Wall Street Journal also here in this room.
Q - `Stephen Wilmot, Analyst, The Wall Street Journal
Yes. Good morning. The optional localization of product, you gave an answer to my colleague.,
but what does this option depend on?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
I couldn't quite understand. Your question relates to the China footprint?
Q - `Stephen Wilmot, Analyst, The Wall Street Journal
I'll ask in English. Okay. You talked in your presentation about the optional localization of additional
product in the core segment, which you gave an answer to my colleague. I'm just wondering,
what does the option depend on?
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerWell, you do study. You check the economic feasibility, you check the market potential, and then
you take a decision. We haven't taken it formally yet. This is why he said optional.
Operator
Okay. Let's try our luck again with `Patricia Neilson, Analyst, Financial Times.
Q - `Patricia Neilson, Analyst, Financial Times `
Hi. Thank you for that. I'm not sure what went wrong. My question was. I know that you're
launching more ICE than EV vehicles over the next two years. And I was wondering, can you give a
bit more detail as to what this means in terms of your R&D spend? Are you ramping up spend on
combustion engine models again?
And a second question. This morning, you gave investors a steer on how margins would be
impacted by US import tariffs raising to 10%. Trump yesterday said he's considering tariffs of 25%.
Are you underestimating the risks in the US market? Thank you.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Patricia, I will answer in German. Patricia, I'll answer in German. Actually, we presented a fairly
balanced picture. Now I didn't count plus minus three months up or down, but I think our picture
was fairly balanced with a phenomenal, a fantastic EV push. MB.EA -- AMG.EA, MB.EA. VAN wasn't
in the focus today maybe, but we mentioned it several times. VAN.EA. So whatever is going on,
on the EV side, is really something that writes history in our books. But the market is very
heterogeneous. It's not a straight line that leads from A to B when we talk about zero emissions.
So we make sure that our ICE portfolio, our high tech electrified ICE portfolio, including class-
leading plug-in hybrids, will be at the same technical level.
So whenever you come to a Mercedes dealer, I mean, this is dreamlike for the customer.
Customers can choose from whatever, but it has to be coherent. So technologically, it has to be
state of the art. And this is the reason why we have a number of updated ICE vehicles that we
want to offer tariffs. Harald mentioned 10% to have some kind of reference value. What will
actually happen? I don't think it would be really responsible to speculate about the results of
potential negotiations. Mentally, we are preparing for all sorts of scenarios. We wanted to convey
some impression of the order of magnitude to our investors. This is why we choose the 10%.
And Robin Villa, DPR [Ph]. The last question in this room.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Yes, thank you very much. Also, a follow-up question on headcount reduction, especially in
Germany. Mr. Willem, you said you didn't want to quantify this any further, but I'd like to try again
because many in this country are interested in that. Could you actually mention a ballpark figure?
Are you --are we talking 100 headcount, a few thousand, maybe even 10,000? And then I'm also
interested in your recruitment policy. On the one hand, you want to reduce employment figures
here, but you want to create more jobs.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Well, actually you -- you're grinding your -- you're biting on a hard rock. This is a hard nut for me
[ph]. I'll hand over to Ola.
A - `Ola Kallenius, Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerWell, I think you mentioned a very important point with the second part of your question, and this
is also part of my answer. If you take a look at your organization, checking what you need, you
don't just apply an all-or-nothing approach, but you want to define your target. So it doesn't really
make sense to quote a figure. Yes, HR cost is part of the total cost, but Harald also mentioned
material cost, production cost, fixed cost, variable cost, and HR cost will be part of that. But we
will not sort of cut everything right, left and center. We will have clearly defined target pictures
and we will proceed prudently. And let me repeat, whenever we do something like this, we do it
in a responsible manner. And this is what we'll do in this regard as well.
Okay, so this brings us to the end of our media representatives' Q&A. Thank you very much,
everyone. If you have further questions, we still have time in the afternoon. Do not hesitate to
approach us. Right now, I would like to wish you a very nice day, and we will now have lunch, which
is also very important. In addition to -- well, actually next to the accreditation desk, which is where
you came inside the building, you will find lunch being served in a small adjacent room. At 1:05
[ph], we will begin with a product experience and my colleagues will pick you up and lead you to
the various rooms. Okay, so enjoy your lunch break and have a nice afternoon.