Q4 2014 Earnings Call

Operator
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to today's Fiat Chrysler Automobiles Full
Year 2014 Results Conference Call. For your information, today's conference is being recorded.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Joe Veltri, Head of FCA Global Investor Relations.
Mr. Veltri, please go ahead, sir.
`Joseph Veltri, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Ann, and good day to everyone on today's call covering our full year 2014 results. The
earnings release issued earlier today together with the presentation material from this call are
available on our Investor Relations website.
As is customary, today's call will be hosted by the group's Chief Executive, `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director;
and Mr. Richard Palmer, the group's Chief Financial Officer. After their introductory remarks, they
will be available for your questions.
Before we begin, let me remind you that any forward-looking statements we might make during
today's call are subject to the risks and uncertainties mentioned in the Safe Harbor statement
included on page 2 of today's presentation. And as always, the call will be governed by this
language.
With that, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director.
`Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks, Joe, and good morning. I think probably the best way to summarize 2014 in terms of the
financial results is that they were certainly at the upper end of our own internal expectations. We
managed to get a number of things done in 2014. Most of this information is contained on page 4of the presentation, which I would ask Richard not to go through because it is a painstaking
account of all the things that were done in 2014, but 2014 was a momentous year for us, it
allowed us to put all the pieces in place to create FCA, to have this now seventh largest carmaker
in the world, operate as a unified entity in terms of ownership to be listed in New York and do a
variety of other things that have been in our strategic objectives now for a number of years.
A couple of things that I think we need to keep in mind. One, for the fourth quarter of this year,
the EMEA region was at EBIT level positive. So, when you look at fourth quarter performance for
the business for a whole of FCA, we have now no regions which are bleeding and for those of
you who have been into this business long enough to remember, our travels from 2007 until
today and the level of skepticism that was associated with our strategic redirection of our assets
and the redeployment of our manufacturing activities in a particular direction. This is the first
indication, the first tangible proof of the fact that this thing can be turned. And that certainly in
2015 subject to the startup losses associated with launch of Alfa Romeo that the machine will
continue to make progress and that we should see black numbers across all regions. That's the
first issue. Secondly, (3:20) in terms of cash generation for the business overall, we've invested
what the machine produced. So we have done nothing really out of whack and we have laid the
foundation for a set of objectives in 2015 which are very clear milestone towards 2016 and the
achievement of our 2018 objectives.
I was talking to Richard yesterday about trying to understand the impact that these unusuals have
had on our numbers and without trying to redefine GAAP and non-GAAP numbers, I look at them
in a pretty simple way. But if I look at EBIT as it was in 2013, we made slightly north of €3 billion if I
take out all the unusual and the noise.
In 2014, we made €4.3 billion. And so, this is – while it also deals with all the recall matters which
are now playing in this industry a bit. We all know that these things are noise, they're noise in the
sense that to become structural to the business, they will be passed on to the consumer and
we'll see the benefit of the recovery of this cost through pricing and through margin. But
fundamentally, like-for-like 2013 to 2014 was a huge step forward. It was nearly a 50%
improvement in operating performance, a little of that was due to foreign exchange and that's
notwithstanding the slowdown in Latin America which has been an area that's caused all of us
some concern. I think you can see from the numbers that we continue to perform positively in
Latin America in 2014 and certainly the expectation is up as we open this new plant up in
Pernambuco that the margin recovery story will become clearly visible by the end of 2015.
Great year, I think great performances across the regions. I don't have to sit here and sing the
praises of what has been accomplished with Jeep and Ram I think has been self-evident. But I
think we've done a tremendous job of turning this machine around. I think I'm incredibly pleased
at the work that Alfredo and his team have done in EMEA in terms of bringing back the region to
profitability and we're just beginning now, so they lay the groundwork for a more successful and
the operation going forward. I really have nothing else to add and I'll pass it on to Richard to give
you the more granular aspects of 2014 performance.
Richard?
`Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you. Good morning, good afternoon to everybody. I will start on page 5 following advice to
leave 4 alone and go through the highlights of 2014. So our worldwide shipments were 4.6 million
units with the Jeep brand achieving over 1 million global shipments for the year. Our group net
revenue were just north of €96 billion, up 12% at constant exchange. Our EBIT was €3.2 billion or€632 million or €1 billion adjusted for unusual items. Net industrial debt closed at €7.7 billion and
included the €2.3 billion benefit of the Q4 capital transactions. So, excluding that, we would have
closed at €10 billion in line with our guidance of €9.8 billion to €10.3 billion.
Our total available liquidity for the group by the end of the year was €26.2 billion. During the year,
we accessed the capital markets to repay the Chrysler debt regarding the VEBA Trust and we
also, as you know, got listed on the New York Stock Exchange on the 13th of October and issued
$2.9 billion of mandatory convertibles and 100 million common shares in December and that is
the net impact of those is the €2.3 billion impact on our net debt.
From a product standpoint, the key launches for the group in 2014 included the all-new Jeep
Renegade, the brand's first small SUV and the first vehicle designed in the U.S. and crafted in Italy
and the all-new Chrysler 200 mid-size sedan.
Our guidance for 2015 is indicated on page 5. These figures do not include any impacts from the
previously announced capital transactions regarding Ferrari, which will occur in 2015. So,
worldwide shipments are forecasted 4.8 million to 5 million units. Net revenues of about €108
billion, EBIT in the €4.1 billion to €4.5 billion range, net income from €1.1 billion to €1.2 billion and net
industrial debt basically flat in the €7.5 billion to €8 billion range.
Moving on to slide 6, as I said, group shipments were up 6% with all the regions increasing except
LATAM, which declined by 13%, NAFTA and APAC were up 11% and 35% respectively, while EMEA
was up 5% and Maserati was up 137%.
Group revenues for the year were up 11%, mainly attributable to the high shipment number and
EBIT for the group was €3.2 billion, up 7% from 2013, or 9% at constant exchange and adjusted
for unusual items was €3.7 billion compared to €3.5 billion in 2013.
We will look at more details on shipments revenues and EBIT by region on the following slides.
Net profit was €632 million in 2014 versus €2 billion last year which included a one-off positive
deferred tax impact of €1.5 billion, adjusted for unusual items in both periods 2014 net profit was
€955 million versus €943 million in 2013.
Net industrial debt was €7.7 billion at year end. As I mentioned before, excluding the effect of the
capital transactions in Q4, our net industrial debt increased by €0.3 billion compared to last year.
CapEx came in at €8.1 billion and was basically covered by cash flow from operations. CapEx was
in line with our guidance of between €7.5 billion and €8.5 billion for the year.
Total available liquidity was €26.2 billion at December 31, €3.5 billion higher than last year,
primarily reflecting the €3 billion of cash proceeds from the capital transactions in December
2014, positive translation effect of €1.3 billion and the €2.7 billion outflow for the acquisitions of
minority interest in Chrysler in January.
Turning to page 7, you can see the year-over-year changes in EBIT for the various areas of the
group. I'll provide more details of these in their respective sections of the presentation. However,
it's worth to mention here that EBIT includes a negative unusual net charge for €0.4 billion in 2014
compared to a €0.5 billion charge in 2013.
In 2014, unusual items included nearly €500 million charge for the UAW MoU entered into by
Chrysler on January 2014. And nearly €100 million negative impact for the devaluation of the
Venezuelan bolivar and a €223 million non-cash non-taxable gain which resulted from the fair
value measurement of the options representing 10% of the Chrysler net equity when Fiat bought
the 41.5% from the VEBA Trust in January 2014.EBIT adjusted for these unusual items increased by €130 million and was driven by strong
improvements in EMEA, APAC, Ferrari, Maserati and Components more than offsetting the drop
in LATAM. The NAFTA decline of €643 million was mainly related to the €500 million charge in
connection with the UAW Memorandum of Understanding. Adjusted for unusual items EBIT for
2014 in NAFTA was substantially in line with the prior year.
On slide 8, you can see the evolution of net industrial debt during 2014. Net industrial debt at
December 31 was €7 billion. However, if we consider the purchase of the VEBA minority stake in
January, the pro forma net industrial debt at the beginning of the year was €9.7 billion. Cash flow
from operating activities before CapEx was positive by $8 billion, comprised of industrial EBITDA
of €8.4 billion, positive contributions from both working capital and provisions on the back of
higher volumes. This was offset by net financial charges and current tax expenses for €2.4 billion
combined. The cash flows from operating activities nearly covered the €8.1 billion in capital
expenditures for the year.
Net industrial debt at December 31 before the various capital transactions we executed in
December was €10 billion and was in line with our guidance. After taking into account the
mandatory convertible securities and net stock issued, our actual net industrial debt was €7.7
billion.
Moving to slide 9, we look at the performance by region, starting with NAFTA. The industry
remained strong in 2014 with the U.S. and Canada both up 6%. Group sales were up 15%,
outpacing the industry in both markets. Group sales in the U.S. were up 16% at 2.1 million units
versus 1.8 million in the prior year. The Jeep brand posted its best sales ever, up 41% from prior
year to 692,000 vehicles with all Jeep models increasing sales. The Ram brand sold 469,000
units, up 28% marking its best year since 2005 and achieving the highest level of pickup truck
sales in more than a decade. The Fiat brand posted its best annual sales since the brand was
reintroduced into the United States with 46,000 units, up 7%.
Market share for the year increased 100 basis points, the highest share growth for any OEM in
the United States, driven by an 18% increase in retail sales, while our fleet mix of the total sales in
the United States dropped to 21% compared to 22% in the prior year.
Dealer inventory ended the year at 72 days of supply versus 79 days at the end of 2013.
In Canada, vehicle sales were up 12% to 290,000 vehicles, the highest annual sales in the
company's history. FCA was the Canadian market leader in the fourth quarter. And for the year,
market share reached 15.4%, up 80 basis points versus prior year.
In Q4, we presented the refreshed Dodge Charger with nearly every exterior panel re-sculpted
as well as a refreshed Chrysler 200 with new interior, and exterior design elements.
Moving to page 10, NAFTA shipments were up 11% year-over-year to 2.5 million units, due
primarily to increases in Jeep Cherokee, Ram pickups and minivans. U.S. shipments were up 13%,
Canada was up 10%, and Mexico was down 6%.
Net revenues increased 15% year-over-year in part with the higher (15:14) volumes.
Looking at the EBIT walk, volume and mix improved by €1.1 billion, primarily due to the higher
shipments, and net price improved by $400 million due to positive pricing actions partially offset
by higher incentives on certain vehicles, and negative FX transition impacts of the Canadian dollar
and Mexican peso.Industrial costs reflect higher base material cost of vehicle content enhancements and the
increased warranty and recall costs of about $650 million for the year partially offset by
purchasing savings. The negative impacts in investments, FX, and other is primarily due to the
one-off charge in connection with the UAW MoU entered into in January 2014. Net of unusual
items, EBIT for NAFTA in 2014 were substantially in line with the prior year. EBIT margin adjusted
for unusuals for 2014 was 4.1% compared to 4.8% in 2013. The main driver of this reduced margin
was the increased warranty and campaign cost which weighed on margins by over 100 basis
points.
Moving to slide 11, the LATAM region. In 2014, the LATAM industry was down 13%, reflecting
weaker trading conditions compared to the record 2013 levels. More specifically, the Brazilian
market was down 7% while Argentina was down 29% due to import restrictions and additional
taxes on high end segments.
Group sales were down 103,000 units or 11% despite market share in the region being up 30
basis points versus prior year. The group continued its market leadership in Brazil with a gap over
its nearest competitor increasing to 350 basis points despite total share declining by 30 basis
points. Palio was the country's biggest selling model in 2014 ending 27 years of Volkswagen Gol
leadership. Strada continued its strong performance achieving segment leading share of 56%
marking the 15th consecutive year as segment leader.
In Argentina, share increased by 140 basis points in the year with combined A/B segment share at
17% supported by the strong performance of the new Palio. Stock levels in the region remained in
line with the previous year. The Strada Hard Working special series model was launched in
October, which includes unique body graphics, new wheels and tires as well as interior
enhancements.
Turning to page 12, shipments in LATAM were down 13%, with Brazil down 10% versus 2013 due to
the market weakness and Argentina down 22%. Net revenues were down 13%, and EBIT declined
to €177 million with a negative impact from volume and mix as shipments which were down
123,000 units were only partially offset by better mix.
Positive pricing actions in Brazil and Argentina were more than offset by increased industrial costs,
reflecting higher input cost inflation and FX on imported materials, as well as higher SG&A
primarily related to startup costs of Pernambuco.
Moving to slide 13, in APAC, the industry rose by 8% driven by growth in China, South Korea, India
and Japan, partially offset by a slight decline in Australia. Group sales were 267,000 vehicles, up
34%, outperforming the industry in each major market. In fact, sales in China, South Korea,
Australia and India, all grew by more than 25% with Japan achieving sales growth of 11%.
Jeep sales were up 42% year-over-year, driven by Grand Cherokee and Cherokee, and
represented half of this group's sales in the region. Fiat brand sales were up 35%, driven by
Viaggio and Ottimo, while Dodge brand sales rose by 42% on the back of the journey. The group
gained share in all major markets, most notably in Australia with a 90 basis points improvement.
In Q4, Fiat launched the Avventura, a small crossover with rugged good looks and the high level
of utility that will compete in India's fastest growing car segment.
Turning to slide 14, APAC continued its strong performance and shipments were up 35%, with the
Jeep, Fiat and Dodge brands all increasing by more than 20%. Net revenues were up 34%, driven
by higher shipments and improved mix. EBIT for the year reached a record level of €537 million,
primarily on the back of the volume improvements.Net price deterioration primarily reflects higher incentives in response to the increasingly
competitive trading environment particularly in China and some negative FX impact on Australian
sales. Industrial cost related to R&D and fixed manufacturing along with SG&A increased to
support volume growth in the region.
For the EMEA region, slide 15, the passenger car industry for EU28+EFTA registered its first year
of growth since 2007 with demand up 5% to 13 million vehicles. Most major markets experienced
growth, with Germany up 3%, UK up 9%, Italy up 4% and Spain up 18%. France was flat year-over-
year.
For the group, passenger car sales rose 1% to 886,000 units of which 760,000 was sold in the
EU. Group share was down slightly by 20 basis points in the EU, driven by 100 basis points share
loss in Italy, due principally to the run-out of certain models. However, share was stable in the EU
ex-Italy at 3.3%. In Europe, Fiat continued its market leadership for the 500 family in the A & L0
segments.
During Q4, the all-new Jeep Renegade which recently received a 5-star Euro NCAP safety rating
was launched in 13 additional European countries. In December, the Renegade was the top-
selling small SUV in Italy and also ranked in the top 10 of all SUVs sold in the country. The light
commercial vehicle industry in Europe was up 10% to 1.7 million units, driven by a recovery in all
major markets. Fiat Professional sales were up 6% for the year with higher sales in all major
markets except France. The New Ducato ranked top in its segment with a 21% share with more
than 110,000 units sold. Group LCV share in the EU was down slightly 10 basis points compared to
last year.
Looking at EMEA's financial performance for the year on slide 16, shipments were up 5% to just
over 1 million units, with passenger cars and LCV shipments up 4% and 8% respectively. These
higher shipments along with favorable mix from LCVs, the Fiat 500 family and the Jeep brand
resulted in the 4% increase in net revenues during the year.
EBIT adjusted for unusual items improved by €198 million, driven by higher volumes, better mix
and lower industrial costs which benefited from improved manufacturing and purchasing
efficiencies, partially offset by startup costs in Melfi. The impact from pricing was negative in the
region, driven by a continued competitive pressure in the passenger car segments.
SG&A increased primarily due to Jeep advertising to support brand growth, including the
commercial launch of the all-new Renegade. The improvement in EBIT also reflects the unusual
charge in 2013 to write off previously capitalized R&D related to a new model development for
Alfa Romeo product, which was switched to a new flat – platform considered more appropriate
for the brand. It is important to note that EMEA did return to profitability in Q4, which was earlier
than forecasted, achieving a positive EBIT of $32 million or $28 million adjusted for unusual items.
Moving to Ferrari on slide 17, shipments were 7,255 vehicles for the year with 12-cylinder models
up 7% and 8-cylinder models up 3%. The U.S. remains a number one market for the brand with
shipments up 6%. Asia was up 17%, while shipments to the main European markets were flat.
Net revenues were up 18% due to higher volumes and better mix, many thanks to the Ferrari.
EBIT was up 7% and 11% for EBIT adjusted for unusual items. In Q4, the Ferrari FXX K concept was
introduced. This will be Ferrari's first hybrid vehicle.
Turning to slide 18, Maserati had an extraordinary year with shipments up 137% to over 36,000
units on the back of continued strong performance for the Quattroporte and Ghibli. Maseratishipments in North America, Greater China and Europe were more than double the level for
those markets in 2013.
Net revenues were up 67%, driven by the increased shipments with EBIT, up 159% reflecting a
10% margin. EBIT adjusted for unusual items increased 61%. During 2014, Maserati celebrated the
100-year anniversary of the brand which included the introduction of various Centennial Edition
models.
On slide 19, the Components businesses posted combined revenues of €8.6 billion, representing
a 7% increase versus last year and a combined EBIT at €260 million versus €146 million last year.
For Magneti Marelli, net revenues were up 9% with growth in North America, China and Europe
offsetting reduction in Brazil. EBIT adjusted for unusual items, which excludes unusual charges of
€20 million in 2014 increased by €56 million, thanks to volume growth and cost containment
actions and efficiencies. Order intake was at €2.4 billion of which 40% related to captive business.
The Lighting business was up 16% and Electronic division was up 15%, while Powertrain was flat.
Teksid revenues were down 7% and EBIT loss was reduced to €4 million. Looking at Comau, net
revenues were up 6%, mainly attributable to the Body Welding business with EBIT up 28% to €60
million.
Slide 20 provides an update on our industrial and product activities. Our plant in Melfi, Italy, has
been revamped with an investment of approximately €1 billion for the production of the all-new
Jeep Renegade which started in Q4 2014 and the Fiat 500X which started in January 2015. Both
of these vehicles will be sold in more than 100 markets globally. This is now one of the most
advanced car assembly plants in the world and thanks to the strong initial performance of
Renegade and 500X, we have announced the hiring of 1,500 new workers in the first half of 2015
in addition to the current 5,400 employees.
In Pernambuco, Brazil, we have built an all-new state-of-the-art greenfield facility with an adjacent
supplier park where production of the Jeep Renegade will start this quarter. The plant has
capacity to produce more than 250,000 vehicles a year and is capable of building three different
models.
In Windsor, Canada, where we currently build the Chrysler Town & Country and Dodge Grand
Caravan, production will be suspended from February for three months to re-tool for the next
generation minivan to be launched in first quarter of 2016 on an all-new architecture.
Modifications will also allow the plant to concurrently build a hybrid electric minivan and potential
derivative products as well as the current minivan.
As far as new upcoming products, we just revealed at the Detroit Auto Show the new Alfa
Romeo 4C Spider for the U.S. market which will arrive at dealerships in the summer of 2015. This
continues the rollout of the Alfa Romeo brand to North America after the 4C Coupé launch in
2014.
We can now move to slide 21 to review our expectations for full year 2015 market demand in
each region. For NAFTA, we assume the industry to be stable at approximately 20 million units
with the U.S. slightly up to approximately 17 million units and Canada more or less flat at the
record levels of 2014. The LATAM industry is expected to decline slightly to about 5.1 million units,
reflecting economic uncertainties in the region. In Brazil, we expect the market to be 3.2 million
units from the 3.3 million in 2014 due to the GDP slowdown, and fully IPI tax increase in January
2015, while the industry in Argentina is expected to decline 8%.In APAC, continued growth is forecasted with the industry projected to be up 6%, driven by
increases in China, India and Australia partially offset by contraction in Japan and South Korea.
For the EMEA region, passenger cars in Europe are expected to continue to grow slightly while
the LCV market is expected to be stable versus 2014. Finally, on slide 22 where we show our
targets for 2015. These figures do not include any impacts from the previously announced capital
transactions regarding Ferrari.
Worldwide shipments between 4.8 million to 5 million units, net revenues at €108 billion, that
includes about a €5 billion impact for FX translation mainly related to the U.S. dollar. EBIT in the
€4.1 billion to €4.5 billion range, which includes also a positive impact to a translation offset by
negative transaction on some currencies for a net impact of about €200 million, net profit
between €1 billion to €1.2 billion and net industrial debt in the €7.5 billion to €8 billion range.
`Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Richard. Ann, I think we will turn the call over to you to begin the Q&A session, please.
Q&A
Operator
Certainly. We will take our first question from Adam Jonas from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Q - `Adam Michael Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Thanks. Good morning and good afternoon, everybody. First question on foreign exchange, can
you give us an idea of what FX rate you're assuming for 2015 with your forecasts? And the
second, just to follow on that, can you tell us what your open position is to the U.S. dollar at the
group level and could you hopefully distinguish how much of the open position is within the North
American operations and within Ferrari and Maserati? And maybe you could add on the hedging
strategy, if there's anything you'd like to share for expectations? Thanks.
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
So the dollar we're assuming is $1.20, Adam, to the euro. And on the reais, we're assuming three,
just a second, I'll get you that number and get back to you on the reais. The impact of the U.S.
dollar between – on the mass market side is basically zero on transactional because we have
imports coming in from Europe into the U.S. and going also in the other direction, which basically
offset in 2015. Obviously, that number is going to change going forward as we increase
production in Italy for Alfa Romeo and Maserati. But at the moment, the position is basically
offsetting.
If you look at translation, we have a positive impact of about €400 million for the dollar, but that is
basically offset in large part by a negative transaction impacts of the Canadian dollar against the
U.S. dollar for the units we sell into Canada out of the U.S. and also for negative transaction
exposure we have on Mexico and Australian dollar.
So, overall, the net impact is about €200 million positive between translation and transaction. We
also have obviously a positive impact on Ferrari and Maserati, but those are relatively small in
2015 because we have hedges in place for the vast majority of the exposure we have. The rate
we're using for the euro to the Brazilian reais is 3.42.Q - `Adam Michael Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Thank you. Can I just ask one follow-on on the North American operations? You're posting a 4%
operating margin – or EBIT margin in the fourth quarter, relatively a clean quarter under IFRS. I
know you're not disclosing the capitalized R&D benefits at this point, but one could assume that
you're under U.S. GAAP, your margin would be maybe 100 basis points or 200 basis points less.
Just in comparison to players like maybe GM and Ford, your U.S. competitors doing possibly two
times or three times as high on profitability. I'm not asking you to comment on GM and Ford's
business so much as maybe to explain to investors on this call what is it, how do you explain
these types of gaps as a very low single-digit margin at such a heady time when you're making
such great commercial progress? I know you've alluded to some of these things, the warranty
costs and the content, but are we missing something else you'd like to highlight? Thank you.
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
So, yeah, one piece obviously is impacting heavily is the warranty cost for the year. As we
mentioned before, it was about €650 million on NAFTA, which is 120 basis points of margin.
Beyond that, we are still spending a lot of money on both R&D and on the CapEx to drive the
product renewal in NAFTA. Those – year-over-year, the difference between GAAP and IFRS is
diminishing significantly, because the amortization is coming up. So it's about $750 million this
year compared to $1 billion last year, and that's coming down to about $0.5 billion in 2015 of net
adjustment from IFRS – from U.S. GAAP to IFRS.
Q - `Adam Michael Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Is that global or was that just NAFTA?
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
It's global, but it's basically – mostly it's NAFTA.
Q - `Adam Michael Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Thank you.
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
And obviously, we need to continue to work on the operating leverage. But as we mentioned
before, we're still working through a number of industrial issues in the past as we get the
operations into a more stable footprint going forward. So I think we're looking into 2015 optimistic
to start improving margins in NAFTA as I think the cost base we have in place now is pretty stable
and doesn't need to have the type of interventions we've had over the last five years.
Q - `Adam Michael Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Thanks very much.
Operator
We will now take our next question from Charles Winston from Redburn. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.
Q - `Charles A. Winston, Analyst, Redburn Partners LLP `Yeah. Hi, good afternoon. Thanks for taking my questions. Just a couple from me. On Chrysler, in
the past, you've disclosed that the Chrysler EBIT under IFRS, I think it's about €3.15 billion or
thereabouts in 2013. Given the decline in the benefit from the capitalization that you've just
referred to, would it be fair to say that the Chrysler results under IFRS is above or below where it
was in 2013? I mean ideally, I'd like to ask you exactly what it was under IFRS, but I doubt you can
perhaps give us that. If you could, it would be great. If not, was it above or below where it was
last year?
Second question was just on the industrial cost in NAFTA. We talked about €650 million of
warranty and recall costs. Would it be fair to say that the rest of the €1.5 billion was predominantly
content or is there other bits and pieces in there which should be more material?
And just very quickly, a third point, the $4 billion raised on the capital issue converted to €2.4
billion when we look at the cash walk. I'm guessing there's something here to do with the
treatment of the convertible, partly as equity and partly as debt. I was wondering if you could help
us out in understanding that. Thank you.
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Okay. So I'll start with the last one. The $3.9 billion, obviously, converted into euros gets you down
to about €3 billion at the rate at the time. And then we have two impacts to get to the net
proceeds, one being the fact that we were issuing 100 million shares, but about half, 54 million of
those shares were actually repurchased because we went through the merger process. So, that
isn't improving (36:58) on net proceeds.
And the accounting for the mandatory convertible basically, the coupon on the mandatory
convertible is accounted for as debt and so about $450 million has gone into the net debt as
debt. So the net impact on reduction in net debt is the €2.3 billion as a result.
Q - `Charles A. Winston, Analyst, Redburn Partners LLP `
Got it. Thanks.
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Sorry. The Chrysler contribution to earnings is higher. I don't really want to get into how much
higher. It's clearly we're looking at this as one company going forward. So the regions need to be
looked at as such. So do you have another question, Charles, or did I miss one?
Q - `Charles A. Winston, Analyst, Redburn Partners LLP `
Yeah. Sorry. Just the breakdown in the industrial cost in NAFTA, if €650 million was the warranty
and recall issue, would it be fair to say the bulk of the rest is content or perhaps you could give a
little bit more detail on how the rest of that fleshes out? Thank you.
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, the bulk of it is content and obviously that number going forward is going to come down
significantly because we now basically had full year impacts of a lot of the launches that came in
end of 2013 and beginning of 2014.
Q - `Charles A. Winston, Analyst, Redburn Partners LLP `
Clear. Thanks a lot.Operator
We will now take our next question from Richard Hilgert from Morningstar. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.
Q - `Richard John Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar Research `
Good morning and good afternoon and thanks for taking my questions. Richard, you just
mentioned – my first question was going to be on the industrial cost at NAFTA. You just
mentioned how the bulk of the remainder past the €650 million is the content but then you also
referenced launches. So I am curious, at some point, we anniversary the new content that's
coming in. And I take it that this new content is because of older models that didn't have anything
to do with launches. So I was wondering if you could kind of clarify when we anniversary all of the
large amount of content that hits that industrial cost line and what part is launches?
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, we basically anniversaried all of the launches at this stage. So going into 2015, that number
is going to be significantly lower. The big launch coming up which could have a similar impact on
industrial cost would be the revamp of the minivan which will be launched at the beginning of
2016. But obviously, the 200 is now basically at nearly its full first year of volumes. The
interventions that we made on the diesels on Grand Cherokee and light duty have also come
through. So at this stage really everything is anniversaried and so I don't expect to have any big
impacts in 2015 vis-à-vis industrial costs like we did in 2014.
Q - `Richard John Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar Research `
Okay. But when I think of, it had a content...
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
I should quality that that's NAFTA, because obviously we have launches in other regions which will
have an impact.
Q - `Richard John Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar Research `
Okay. When I think of other content, though, Richard, I'm thinking of additional features or options
that get put into a vehicle under a certain pricing scheme and you, year-over-year, have that
added cost of putting that content in and the reason why you're putting that content in is
because that vehicle or that model might be getting a bit long in the tooth and you're trying to
incentivize more sales of that vehicle. Is that what you mean by added content because you
seem to be including launches when you're talking about content too?
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, yeah, I'm including. When we launch an all-new nameplate, so we launched the new 200.
The new 200 has more content than the prior 200 and so that is impacting our cost of the
product which is going through that line. And as you said, when you come up to the anniversary,
then that impact will no longer be in the variance analysis, but it is for the first year.
Q - `Richard John Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar Research `
Okay. Okay, I understand the difference. The other couple of questions I had deal with
Pernambuco and Windsor. For Pernambuco, it's launching here in the first quarter. The capacity ofthe plant is up to 250,000 units and it can do up to three differentiated models, if I remember
correctly. At what point do you get to normalized run rate and at what point do you get to having
those three additional models and having the additional tooling put in to get to the eventual
capacity levels.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Q3 of 2016.
Q - `Richard John Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar Research `
For just the current tooling or for...
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
All three, all tooled.
Q - `Richard John Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar Research `
Third quarter 2016.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Q3 2016.
Q - `Richard John Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar Research `
Yeah. Okay, thank you. And then on Windsor, is Windsor going to be – you're converting over the
tooling for the next model lineup for minivan. Does that wind-up being lower capacity in Windsor
since you are talking about...
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
No.
Q - `Richard John Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar Research `
...removing the Dodge version?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
No. Capacity is maintained.
Q - `Richard John Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar Research `
Okay, so – okay. And then finally on Melfi, you are going to be hiring in additional workers in the
first half so then we can assume that third quarter 2015 we get to a normalized run rate or do you
expect additional volume at Melfi too later on?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Q3 should be a run rate.
Q - `Richard John Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar Research `
Okay, great. Thank you.A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Great.
Operator
We will now take our next question from Max Warburton from Bernstein. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.
Q - `Max E. Warburton, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. `
Hi, there, everyone. Got a couple of financial questions, please, and then I'm wondering if I could
ask a question or two on Ferrari. I don't know if this is a good time to do that. Just on the
financials, the 2015 guidance, I think, is sort of broadly where most of us are at the operating line,
but seems a bit light at the EPS line.
Richard, could you talk us through what the factors behind that are particularly on interest
charges? I mean we're looking at this quite material balance sheet improvement from the capital
raised, but I went back to your slides from the Capital Markets Events in Detroit in May and
obviously that was pretty all the details and you suggested that interest cost would remain at
about €2 billion until 2016. What is the interest cost assumption now for 2015 and 2016 and is that
really why we're seeing this EPS forecast?
And then the second question on the balance sheet, slide 29 of the pack has some detail on
factored receivables which seem to have gone up about €1 billion from last year. Can you just
remind us does that get knocked off industrial net debt and where do we see it, does it come
out of the cash flow statement, is – am I right to understand that there has been €1 billion
contribution from that during the year? Thanks.
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. The factored receivables is the financial services activities, not in the net industrial debt
walk. The increase – so in terms of EPS, year-over-year we have an increase in the impact of
deferred taxes, charges going through the income statement. In 2014, we had some recognition
of deferred tax assets as we went through some (45:25-45:33) so those positive impacts aren't
being repeated in 2015 in the guidance.
And in terms of interest charges, we're about €150 million above the €2 billion number at the
moment. Obviously, we had all of the positive impact of the capital raise that you said. We are
holding that on the balance sheet at present. We obviously need to go after the restructuring of
the Chrysler balance sheet through this year. And as we go through that, we'll see how the
interest charge could be managed. But at the moment, it's not included.
Q - `Max E. Warburton, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. `
Okay. I mean, on that subject, I remember you and Sergio having a discussion about it back in May
and you were talking about interest charges coming down to a €1 billion, but it wasn't really clear
when that would be. I mean, is that sort of the final year of the five-year plan that as analysts we
should think about it being quite back-end loaded when the interest cost comes down?
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
I think it's going to start to come down significantly as we get through the middle of 2017 because
we need to get through 2016 and hold our net debt number basically flat. And then we start togenerate significant cash flow and then I think we can reduce the level of liquidity we're holding
down to the €15 billion number which we indicated on May 6. So, that's not going to come in 2016.
What we're looking at obviously for 2016 is the first Chrysler bond, the 8% bond which the co-
protection comes off at the end of May of this year, we will be looking at basically repaying that
early and we're starting to restructure the balance sheet. But all of that's not going to get done
until the middle of 2016 as a second bond co-protection comes due. We'll be looking at how we
can maybe anticipate that event, but at the moment, it's back end of 2016 and the balance sheet
starts to get cleaner and therefore the interest charge comes down.
Q - `Max E. Warburton, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. `
Okay, very clear. Can I ask you a couple of quick questions on Ferrari in this forum? I think a
number I was trying to get the grips of it, trying to understand it really for later this year. Am I
correct that the business can't sell more than 10,000 cars globally and still be compliant with it, so
the special derogation under U.S. emissions rules or am I missing something? And secondly....
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
You're missing something and we'll leave it at that.
Q - `Max E. Warburton, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. `
Okay. Will you be able to talk about that at some point?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah. Whenever I take priority on the road, you will be the first guy to know.
Q - `Max E. Warburton, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. `
Okay. And the other one, now is the time for it. Sergio, you said something on the Q3 call where
you said I think, making cars is kind of incidental, which left me scratching my head, because it
looks on the outside that most of the revenues are from making cars. What am I missing on the
merchandising business if that's what you're alluding to? I mean, I can't figure out how it makes
more than a 100 to 150 (48:30) of revenue?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah. I know but the way I think...
Q - `Max E. Warburton, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. `
Can you figure on both?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah, I know, but you and I are talking about two different things. This is not a merchandising
exercise. If I wanted to merchandise, then I'd be merchandising Fiat, t-shirts, and running shoes. I
mean this is not what we're doing here. Ferrari is capable of being a fully fledged luxury brand,
and as such it would occupy a space in the luxury goods sector, which shares its name with Ferrari,
and maintains the same level of attachment to exclusivity, which has characterized the business of
its GT business going forward. So I think it's a different proposition. I think it's not a question of
running Ferrari stores, selling baby shoes to people, I think we are beyond that stage. I think the
intention here is to develop a business that is fully fledged on its own merits that can becompared to other luxury goods makers outside of car making, but they utilizes Ferrari as the
basis of the brand.
Q - `Max E. Warburton, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. `
So what does that mean exactly? I mean does that mean you're going to...
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
That means that...
Q - `Max E. Warburton, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. `
...say you can make the same returns by making cars?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
That means that if you work really hard, one day you will be able to buy a non-car produced
Ferrari luxury goods. We will leave it at that and we'll talk when we take it on the road, otherwise
we are just going to spend the whole day here talking about Ferrari.
Q - `Max E. Warburton, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. `
Got it, okay. Thanks anyway.
Operator
We will now take our next question from John Murphy from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please
go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Good afternoon and I apologize. The first question I have is just a follow-up on Ferrari. If we think
about the benefit to the balance sheet of the 10% IPO, could they potentially be even greater if
you did a 20% IPO. And I'm just trying to understand as you go through this process, when you
think about bolstering the balance sheet at the old FCAU, would there be an opportunity to
maybe do more and bolster the balance sheet further?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
No. I think we've had this discussion with the board. I think we feel comfortable that at 10%
flotation with the distribution or the remainder 80% is the right mix. We have also gone on the
road and effectively told people who have also bought into our converts, into our shares, that
was the intended plan, I don't think we feel comfortable at all moving the numbers. I don't know,
and none of these, if there is more cash coming into the house, there's more cash coming into
the house. But I'm not sure that it's from a capital market standpoint, that's the right thing to do,
right? I feel comfortable that 10% IPO, the 80% distributed is the right mix. So I think life goes on
and I think the objective is to try and get this done in 2015, that's what keeps us up at nights now.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
But there is no limitations on what you could do. I mean this is purely the mix that you think is best.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `Technically, there is no limit.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. Second question, yeah, we've got the UAW negotiations that are coming up in the spring
for the contract that expires at the end of August, and you've been given some sort of favoritism
in the contract relative to GM and Ford particularly around the entry level or (51:46) ...
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
I'm sorry. Before I get really excited. The favoritism is...
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Well, there is one unique point, okay? I guess I agree, but on the entry level that you have about
40% of your workers are entry level workers with GM and Ford around 20% as their cap, so you
have a higher cap on entry level workers. I mean just curious if you ...
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
I do because we're the fastest growing North American brand that we've had to hire people to
get volumes up.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
So, the question is, though, can you hold on to that 40% because GM and Ford are capped
around 20%. So, I'm just curious if you think you can hold on to that mix?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Well, look, I think the discussion is much more complex because – and I said this at the Auto Show
in Detroit and I'm willing to repeat it to you now. I do not think that it is a stable environment to
promote an environment within our plans when you've got two tier wages and you got people
doing fundamentally the same type of work with a two-tier wage structure. That needs to go
away.
And I've said what I think ought to happen. I think we need to grandfather the ones and I think we
need to work on the twos and we need to open up to them the possibility of effectively through
a variable pay scale make as much as a one makes, but knowing fully well on a down cycle that
we will not be able to benefit from the same type of wage structure. It's a complicated structure.
We need – but you and I are discussing this, John, it's unhelpful because I need to have a
conversation with Dennis Williams and his people at UAW. I've been trying to do that now for five
years. But we need to have that conversation and have with them relatively quickly. I think that the
right answer is in that direction. It's not a question whether you got 20 or 40 Tier 1s, the Tier 1 –
the Tier 1, Tier 2 structure, it does not view one class as being grandfathered is by definition
unstable.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay, that's very helpful. And then just one last question on the U.S. pension, I was wondering if
you could give us the marks on the liability or the PBO and the asset at the end of 2014 versus
what they were at the end of 2013 so that we could just understand the funding status there.
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `So the number IFRS on FCAU's books as the deficit is increased by about €1 billion – the net
deficit. About – most of that is translation impact on dollar to euro year-over-year. In dollars, I think
it's about a €300 million increase in the liability.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. Do you have the PBO in the asset base for that, I just want to understand the size?
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
I have them. John, I'll give them to you after the call. Obviously, I have them but don't have them
to hand at the moment.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much.
Operator
We will now take our next question from `Alberto Villa, Analyst, Intermonte Sim SpA from Intermonte. Please go ahead. Your line
is open.
Q - `Alberto Villa, Analyst, Intermonte Sim SpA `
Hi. Good afternoon and good morning. I just have a couple of questions. The first one is on the
slide, the 28th. When you say that the shipment outlook is pretty stable for the Ferrari/Maserati
brand to 40,000 units, I was wondering if that implies Maserati being flat or I'm missing
something there?
And the second one is on the CapEx for 2015. Should we expect a significant increase compared
to 2014 due to Alfa Romeo and if you can give us an idea of a regional CapEx forecast for 2015?
And finally, a final question on Ferrari, are you confirming that the timing of the IPO by first half
2015 and I was wondering what the time lag would be between the IPO and then the spin-off to
Fiat, FCA shareholders of the remaining Ferrari?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Let me deal with the last issue. I would like to get everything done within 2015 IPO and spin. And I
think if we cannot make each one of this year, it's purely for regulatory reason. So we may spill
over into Q3, but fundamentally that's what we're looking at. And Richard will confirm to you that
the Ferrari/Maserati volumes for 2015 are flat on 2014 basically.
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. And the CapEx guidance is €8.5 billion to €9.5 billion, the increase year-over-year being
principally driven by the investments for Alfa Romeo.
Q - `Alberto Villa, Analyst, Intermonte Sim SpA `
Okay, thank you.
Operator
We will now take our next question from `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux from Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Thank you very much. `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux. A few questions, please. Sorry, if I come back once more
to slide 10 on your NAFTA operations. Would you mind telling us what you had in terms of
equivalent warranty and recall costs in 2013 and what you assume it's going to be in 2015, and tell
us whether you think you're going to take that adjustments from here or whether you think it's
part of your ongoing business from here? Thank you.
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, the impact year-over-year 2013 didn't have anything particularly significant apart from the
recall campaign for Jeep which we classified in the unusuals. So if you look at EBIT ex-unusuals,
the €650 million is an increase over 2013 and basically rates the most of the extraordinary recalls
that we had beyond what we would normally expect to get in a stable environment. So going
forward, to be frank, we're watching this very closely and we'll see how we perform in the first
half of 2015.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Okay. May I ask what's the difference between the 2013 Jeep recall that you decided to classify
as unusual and the difference recall that affected you in 2014, why were they not classified as
unusual?
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Well, basically, that the Jeep recall related to an issue that we've been dealing with for some
time, it was an old item we just considered unusual given that we hadn't had...
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
If I can just give you a hand, the Jeep issue was one that was a multi-year evaluation by some
people that went back to the 1990s and it had to do with vehicles and architectures that were no
longer available within the fold, they did not represent what I considered to be standard. So the
production issue within FCA and it was really related to the past that had nothing to do with
current operations. So that's why it was singled out.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Okay. Clear. May I ask you one follow-up question on your introduction, Mr. Marchionne, please? If
I understood correctly, you said that 2014 marked a 50% improvement in your operating
performance on what you consider to be comparable figures. Did I understand correctly, because
I mean July 26...
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah. If I take out all the noise on the numbers that were reported, we could spend a lot of time
talking about what is capitalized, what is not capitalized, what is one-off, what isn't. If I take out all
that crap to the P&L, it went from €3 billion to about €4.3 billion.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Okay. Can you explain me how you move from a €3.5 billion and €3.7 billion to €3 billion and €4.3
billion? I mean, the numbers I've mentioned being those on page 26 of your presentation.A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Okay. The recall costs are built into the – I'm sorry, I'm just doing this out loud. Richard is looking
for his numbers. He will be with you.
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So the EBIT ex-unusuals went from €3.5 billion to €4.3 billion. The EBIT before unusuals is €3
billion. So the correct comparison, and this is my mistake, would be to compare ex-unusuals at
€3.5 billion to €4.3 billion being – and the difference between €3.650 billion and €4.3 billion, is the
€650 million is the recall campaign delta.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Okay, very clear. I have one last quick question for you, please. Could you please share with us
the currency split between your net debt and gross cash so that we try and anticipate the
currency impact in 2015?
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Sorry, sorry, could you repeat the question?
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Sure. You mentioned in the press release today that there has been a €1.3 billion positive
currency impact on your cash. Could you give us at the start of 2015 the currency split roughly
between euro and dollar?
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, all of that impact is basically dollar, and about half our cash is dollar and the rest is principally
euro and real.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Great. Thank you very much.
Operator
We will now take our next question from Philippe Houchois from UBS. Please go ahead. Your line
is open.
Q - `Philippe J. Houchois, Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker) `
Yes, good afternoon. Three questions from my side. The first one is, am I right in assuming what
you're telling us in terms of transaction benefit and currency Canadian dollar, U.S. dollar is based
on an average 2014 rate and doesn't necessarily take into account that the Canadian dollar's
weakened quite a lot in the past two months against U.S. dollars. In other words, there is a bit of
upside risk to your NAFTA numbers on the basis of that weaker Canadian dollar. That's my first
question. The second one is it seems to me that...
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yes. The answer is yes.Q - `Philippe J. Houchois, Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker) `
Is yes. So we got a bit of an upside now. Good, thanks. The other one is in Brazil it seems from
the market standpoint the production has come down much more than sales, so at market level
we have very, very low inventory. Could you confirm that's the case and that – no, from that
standpoint, your run rate in production is even if we have down market this year again the risk to
your (1:02:16) production is less severe than it was in 2014?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yes.
Q - `Philippe J. Houchois, Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker) `
Yeah. Thank you. And the last one, on Ferrari, I have looked at the IFRS group accounts for Ferrari,
we can get online to 2013. On those accounts and I think those are – can be matched with your
FCA numbers. There is a €3.1 billion total balance sheet, €1.5 billion of booked equity and Ferrari
disclosed €1.35 billion of net liquidity which I can rework in some adjustments. What would those
numbers be for 2014, please?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
I don't know whether Richard knows.
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
No, I don't. I don't have those numbers for you yet, Philippe. We will give you them going forward.
Q - `Philippe J. Houchois, Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker) `
Right.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
We will release the numbers for Ferrari (1:03:04).
Q - `Philippe J. Houchois, Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker) `
Right. At least maybe the net liquidity just to get a sense of kind of retained liquidity of this
business in 2014?
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
It's slightly higher than the number you quoted for 2013.
Q - `Philippe J. Houchois, Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker) `
Right, okay. Right. I will wait for those numbers and thank you very much.
Operator
We will now take our next question from `José Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc from JPMorgan. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.
Q - `José Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities PlcThank you. (1:03:30). The first one on pricing and the impact on the bridge, can you talk a bit
about the dynamics in LATAM and APAC and the impressive momentum in LATAM, slightly
worrying in APAC. So what is the momentum going to 2015, should we expect the same increase
in prices in Latin America in 2015.
The second element on industrial costs in North America, I had gone back to this, but did you
reflect the cost of the Takata airbag recall at year end or is this coming in 2015? And can you give
us some sense of this industrial cost going into 2015, are there likely to be less of a headwind
versus 2014, that will be my assumption at least.
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes.
Q - `José Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
And the final one is to Mr. Marchionne on the quality front. Can you talk a bit about the changes
you've done on the management front, on the quality front, and how you are, you have the right
structure now to deliver improved at least – to avoid what we had last year in 2015? Thank you.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
That's right. Before I answer the question, what do we have last year that I missed?
Q - `José Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
You had a few recalls on...
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
I see, yeah, yeah. Okay.
Q - `José Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Sure.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Well, look, I think I've been public on this recall issue. The recall matter is something which is a
reflection of a changing paradigm for the auto sector. I think we have made changes while
adjusting our internal structures to deal with this new state of affairs. It is my expectation that this
cost will come down as we progress through reconstitution of the management process of
what's going on here. We had what I consider to be a pretty robust system in place, we have
strengthened it further, we have curved it out from the rest of operations. We have set a very,
very senior technical person to head up these activities. So I think we're making progress in
making sure that at least not only are we dealing with what's on our plate but we're actually
becoming much more proactive and identifying potential exposures going forward. So as we do
this, I think these numbers will stabilize and we'll see a steady state.
On the question about Takata, I think Richard will tell you that I think it has been booked (1:05:53).
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. We have booked the Takata item in Q4. In 2015, as I said before, we expect the industrial
cost headwind to be significantly less than it was in 2014 because of the fact that all theselaunches with extra content have had a 12-month cycle now. So, year-over-year, they're in the
numbers. Pricing in LATAM, I think, we expect to continue to try and price as much as we can for
cost inflation in the marketplace as we did relatively successfully in 2014.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
No, I think pricing will improve throughout 2015 in LATAM. I mean, we have zero optionality. I think
the more problematic issue is APAC, as I think APAC as you've seen now, especially out of China
you've seen some adjustments that are being made by the competition in the region. I think we
need to be very watchful that we adjust properly to changing market conditions. We're obviously
studying it very carefully and I think it's embedded in the number that we forecast for APAC for
2015. There would be some level of skepticism about the level of profitability of the region.
Look, I got you on the phone (1:07:12). Let me try and deal with one issue which I think Richard is
trying to stab, which is a question about NAFTA profitability. We get it, I mean I made the last call –
when we were on the last call for the third quarter, we did tell you that we'd stop benchmarking
Q1 2015 numbers out of NAFTA, because we have really run on a runway now in terms of trying to
explain why we have a structural difference between us and the competition. So I would just ask
you to bear with us as we finish off 2014 and just move it on. We got to move it on, right? I hear all
the stories, comp, and the wonderful stories, but gradually this content (1:07:49) why we're not
being paid for it. So we will come back to you. Give us the time at the end of Q1.
Q - `José Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Okay. We'll follow up. On the EMEA pricing, it has been (1:08:00) so positive pricing in EMEA. I
think it finally showed up in the fourth quarter?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah.
Q - `José Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
What are the signals, what are you seeing in the European car market, and obviously with Jeep
it's definitely going to be a boost in 2015?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah, but I'm not opening any bottles of champagne. I think we have seen some improved pricing
conditions. The question is how long will it last. Certainly, I'm encouraged by the direction that the
business has taken. And not only am I'm encouraged, but I'm confident that we'll be in the black
for the whole year. It's a bigger question, it seems to me as to – strangely enough for a guy who
has been as negative on EMEA as I have been now for the last four or five years. I'm actually
turning positive. I think there is upside from what we are. I think if we don't, we screw it up badly
just in terms of management of the member states. I'm quite confident that 2015 is going to be a
significant year of recovery, and it won't take much to let that happen, because we've been at
the bottom of the pile now for so long that even a slightest uptick in volumes was going to be
taken as an indication of life. So just bear with us. I think 2015 will be all right.
Q - `José Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Okay, very good. Thanks very much.
OperatorOur final question comes from Stephen Reitman from Société Générale. Please go ahead. Your
line is open.
Q - `Stephen M. Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (Broker) `
Thanks. Good afternoon. Question, first of all, on Maserati and the margin development in the
fourth quarter?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
A wrong mix.
Q - `Stephen M. Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (Broker) `
Mix.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
More arguably than (1:09:35).
Q - `Stephen M. Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (Broker) `
Right. Okay. Thank you. Secondly, on Renegade, I know you don't like – normally like giving volume
targets and such, but are we talking about a significant number – we presume you're talking
about quite a significant number of Renegades being destined for the United Sates or for the
NAFTA market in 2015.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Define significant for me?
Q - `Stephen M. Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (Broker) `
Well, I guess something else of 100,000.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
That may be at the very, very high end of expectations.
Q - `Stephen M. Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (Broker) `
All right. Okay. And with that in mind, can you talk a little bit about the capacity that you have in the
system in...
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
300.
Q - `Stephen M. Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (Broker) `
... in North America in terms of particularly relating – as it relates to Ram and to Jeep?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
We're tapped out on both cases in both the case of Ram and Jeep with the exception of capacity
on the Compass and the Patriot which has got some leeway. Everything else was just pushed up.Q - `Stephen M. Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (Broker) `
So, even so there are not very immediate obvious steps to increase output year-on-year in 2015
on those product lines?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
We have a number of initiatives that are intended to do two things: one, debottleneck the
existing installations across the Jeep and Ram brands and also look at ways in which we increase
capacity out of the system by introducing additional shifts. These things will be looked at
piecemeal. I think we've got a number of studies that are underway. Hopefully, we will have clarity
and numbers coming out of those plants within the first half of this year.
Q - `Stephen M. Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (Broker) `
And can you comment a little bit about the pricing, what you're seeing in terms of average pricing
on the light duty in the wake of the lower fuel prices, are people opting out?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
No, I think pricing is out with the exception of a couple of stupid days in December which I didn't
understand there was snowfall but otherwise. But I think the pricing is held.
Q - `Stephen M. Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (Broker) `
Right.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
So, we have not seen significant shifts in pricing or in demand on the product because of the
change in fuel prices. As a matter of fact, the demand for the Ram diesel continues unfettered. I
mean we have not seen a drop in demand notwithstanding the fact that gas is below €2 a gallon.
Q - `Stephen M. Reitman, Analyst, Société Générale SA (Broker) `
Thank you.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
You're welcome.
Operator
That will conclude the question-and-answer session. I would now like to turn the call back over to
Joe Veltri for closing remarks.
A - `Joseph Veltri, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Ann, and we'd like to thank everyone for joining the call today. My team and I will be
available to follow up with any further questions you have. And please note that very soon we will
be publishing the plan dates for the reporting of our quarterly results for 2015. Thank you and
have a pleasant day.
OperatorThat will conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation, ladies and gentlemen.
You may now disconnect.