Q4 2015 Earnings Call

Operator
Good afternoon or good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to today's FCA 2015 Full
Year Results Conference Call. For your information today's conference is being recorded. At this
time I would like to turn the call over to Joe Veltri, Head of FCA Global Investor Relations. Mr.
Veltri, please go ahead, sir.
`Joseph Veltri, Vice President - Global Investor Relations `
Thank you, Rhonda, and good day to everyone on today's call. As we have previously noted, in
addition to covering the group's 2015 results we will also present an update to our five-year
business plan, which was originally presented in May 2014. The presentation for both the earnings
and for the business plan have been posted to our Investor Relations website.
Today's call will be hosted by our group's Chief Executive Officer, `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director; and Richard
Palmer, our Chief Financial Officer. After presenting both the full year results and the business
plan update, they will be available to answer your questions.
Before we begin, let me remind you that any forward-looking statements we might make during
today's call are subject to the risks and uncertainties mentioned in the Safe Harbor statement
included on page two of both presentations. And as always, the call will be governed by this
language.
With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Marchionne.
`Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `Thank you, Joe. I just want to make a – sort of an opening remark before I pass it on to Richard,
who, as usual, will be doing most of the heavy lifting during this call. We have made a decision
here to conform our guidance to what other industry participants have chosen as an appropriate
set of parameters. And contrary to what we've done in the past where we have provided a
phenomenal amount of granularity in the forecast, we have decided to limit ourselves to what we
consider to be sort of directional shifts in the movement of the key metrics that govern this
business. And I think it's been done in order to provide sort of a very simple set of reference
points within which we can manage the business, and they can act as a point of reference and
measurement in terms of the achievements that we intend to deliver, certainly within 2016 and
ultimately the completion of 2018 plan.
So I apologize for not giving you sort of all the gory details that go into the preparation of this
forecast, but I think it's better for all of us to stick to a set of simple parameters that will guide the
business going forward.
And on that notice – on that note, I will pass it on to Mr. Palmer who is going to try and explain
what I consider to be a phenomenal year for FCA. Thanks.
`Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
Thank you and good morning, good afternoon to everybody. Before starting, I would like to
remind you that the group's results presented today include those of Ferrari unless otherwise
stated. This is to promote comparability with prior periods, the prior quarters of the year and our
previously provided guidance. Under IFRS accounting standards for the 2015 financial statements,
Ferrari will be accounted for as a discontinued operation for 2015 and for prior periods.
Clearly, beginning from Q1 2016, FCA will no longer include Ferrari's reported results. Ferrari is
planning to have an announcement of its results on February 2 and will comment on its results
then. So we won't be commenting on Ferrari performance during this call.
Looking at the group result for 2015, we closed well in excess of guidance. Worldwide shipments
totaled 4.6 million units, with the Jeep brand continuing its strong performance, posting an all-
time record shipments number of 1.3 million units, up 21% year-over-year. As a result, group
revenues were up to €113 billion. Our adjusted EBIT was €5.3 billion, with 4.7% margins, up from
3.9% last year, and with all segments profitable in Q4.
Adjusted EBIT margin in NAFTA was 6.4% for the full year and reached 7.1% in Q4, in excess of our
previously given guidance. Adjusted net profit was just over €2 billion for the year.
In Q4, we recognized a one-off charge of €830 million due to the realignment of our U.S.
production portfolio, which we will discuss later in the NAFTA section. After giving effect to the
January 16 Ferrari spin-off, our net industrial debt stood at €5 billion and total available liquidity
stood at €24.6 billion.
The key product launches for the year in 2015 included the commercialization of the Jeep
Renegade on a global scale, the start of the local production of Jeep Cherokee in China, of the
new Fiat Tipo sedan in EMEA, and the new Fiat Toro mid-size pickup truck in Latin America.
In December, we prepaid the FCA US 2021 senior secured notes using cash on hand, and this is
another important step towards our plan to remove the ring-fencing provisions around our debt
in the first quarter of 2016.
Our guidance for the full year 2016 is as follows. Net revenues greater than €110 billion, adjustedwill improve below the €5 billion level that it stands at today.
Moving on to slide five. This shows the operating highlights for the year. As I mentioned, group
shipments were in line with last year, with EMEA up 12% and NAFTA up 9%. These increases offset
declines in LATAM, APAC and Maserati. Group net revenues were up 18% to €113 billion, up 6% at
constant exchange, driven mainly by the growth in NAFTA and EMEA.
Our adjusted EBIT at €5.3 billion is 40% higher than 2014 and our margin was up 80 basis points
to 4.7%. The adjusted net profit number was just over €2 billion, up 91% from prior year. Net
industrial debt was reduced to €5 billion post the Ferrari spin-off from €7.7 billion at the end of last
year, driven by the €1.5 billion from the separation of Ferrari, positive cash flows from operating
activities, and some favorable FX, mainly due to the devaluation of the real.
Total available liquidity, as I said, was €24.6 billion post the Ferrari spin-off, and included €2.5
billion of the syndicated RCF, which would increase to €5 billion of availability after removal of the
ring-fencing provisions.
Going to slide six, you can see the year-over-year changes in adjusted EBIT for the various
segments of the group, of which I will provide details in their respective sections. Adjusted EBIT
increased by €1.5 billion in the year and was driven by strong improvements in NAFTA, EMEA,
Ferrari, and the Components businesses, which more than offset the drop in other segments.
Moving to slide seven, we detail the reduction in net industrial debt from the €7.7 billion at
December 2014 to the €5 billion. This reduction is comprised of positive cash flows from
operating activities, driven by improved EBITDA, up to €10.7 billion, and net of capital
expenditures, which came in at €9.2 billion for the year. There were positive translation impacts of
about €0.7 billion and €1.5 billion impact of the IPO and spin-off of Ferrari.
We'll now move to the performance by region, beginning with NAFTA on page eight. The industry
in both the U.S. and Canada remained strong in 2015, reaching record sales levels, while group
sales in NAFTA were up 7% year-over-year. In the U.S., the group sold 2.2 million vehicles, up 7%,
with market share up 20 basis points to 12.6%. The Jeep brand posted its best sales ever, up
25% from the prior year to 865,000 vehicles. The Jeep Grand Cherokee had its strongest sales
in the U.S. since 2005, and all other Jeep models reported all-time record sales in the United
States.
Ram sales were up 5% to 494,000 units in the U.S., making it its best year since 2005 and the
sixth consecutive year of sales growth for the brand. The Chrysler brand was also up 5% for the
year, despite the slowdown at the end of the year for the changeover of the minivan. Dodge
brand was down 10% for the year due to the discontinuance of the Avenger model. Our fleet mix
was substantially in line with prior year at 22%.
U.S. dealer inventory ended the year at 81 days of supply versus 76 days at the end of
September. The increase was primarily driven by product changeovers.
In Canada, the group was the market leader, reaching market share of 15.2%, with record vehicle
sales of 293,000 units. The Jeep and Ram brands both posted record annual sales. In Mexico,
we had our best annual sales since 2013, with sales up 13% to 87,000 vehicles.
At the November Los Angeles Auto Show, we presented the all-new Fiat Spider, which will
support Fiat brand expansion in North America, and the Jeep Wrangler Backcountry Special
Edition.Moving to slide nine, NAFTA shipments were up 9% year-over-year to 2.7 million vehicles, with
growth in each market. Net revenues increased to €70 billion due to higher shipments, positive
net pricing and favorable FX translation.
Adjusted EBIT more than doubled versus 2014 to €4.5 billion. Adjusted EBIT margin for the year
was 6.4%, up 220 basis points year-over-year, and 7.1% for Q4. The strong improvement in
adjusted EBIT was primarily driven by volume growth, mainly from the Jeep and Ram brands, led
by the Jeep Renegade and Cherokee; also by positive net pricing which more than offset the FX
impact of the Canadian dollar and Mexican peso. This was partially offset by higher industrial
costs due to vehicle content enhancements as well as warranty and recall costs, partially offset by
purchasing efficiencies.
NAFTA 2015 adjusted EBIT excludes the charges previously mentioned regarding the realignment
of the production capacity to better align with market demand, and the €760 million charge
recognized in Q3 related to the change in estimate of recall campaign costs.
Moving to slide 10, LATAM industry was down 21% versus 2014, driven by continued
macroeconomic weakness, with Brazil down 26%. Sales for the group were down 30%. The
decrease was larger than the industry decline as pricing actions were taken to protect margins.
The group remained the market leader in Brazil and increased its lead over its nearest
competitor to 380 basis points. However, market share in Brazil declined by 170 basis points to
19.5% due to strong competition and pricing pressures. FCA also maintained its leadership in the
Brazil A/B segment with a 22% share.
Fiat Strada and Fiorino confirmed their leadership with segment share of 54% and 70%
respectively. The all-new Jeep Renegade continued its growth trend, reaching a 30% segment
share in Brazil for the fourth quarter. In Argentina, market share was 12%, 150 basis points down
from 2014, mainly due to continued import restrictions. Stock levels in the region were at 39 days
of supply, in line with the end of September.
The Jeep Renegade was named Brazil's 2016 Car of the Year, and in July, the Renegade earned
the title of Safest Brazilian-made vehicle by Latin NCAP, achieving a five-star safety rating.
Moving to slide 11, shipments in LATAM were down 33% with Brazil down 35%, and Argentina
down 18%. As a result, net revenues were down 25%. Adjusted EBIT was negative €87 million for
the year compared to a positive €289 million for the prior year, mainly due to the lower volumes.
Positive pricing actions more than offset higher industrial costs related to input cost inflation and
the start-up costs of the Pernambuco plant, while SG&A increased to support the Jeep Renegade
launch costs.
Adjusted EBIT margin was negative 1.4%, as adjusted EBIT margin in the fourth quarter was
positive. 2015 adjusted EBIT excludes charges of €219 million basically related – both related to
devaluations in Valenzuela and Argentina.
Moving to APAC on slide 12. Industry increased by 5%, with growth in all major markets except
Japan. Group sales declined 16% due to the contraction and demand for imported vehicles in
China as competition from local producers continue to intensify, as well as the interruption of
supply due to the Tianjin port explosion in August. Sales in Australia declined 21%, with demand
impacted by price increases made to offset the weakness of the Australian dollar.
Jeep continues to represent more than half of the group's sales in the region. Inventories at the
end of December were down to 84,000 units from 99,000 units at the end of Q3. In November,
full production of the Jeep Cherokee began at our joint venture plant in Changsha.Turning to slide 13, shipments in APAC were down 32%, resulting in a 22% decrease in revenues,
mainly due to strong competition from local producers and the Tianjin port issue. Adjusted EBIT
for the year was €52 million, driven by the lower volumes, negative net pricing due to higher
incentive in China, and unfavorable FX impacts, partially offset by reduced SG&A. Adjusted EBIT
margin for the year was 1.1%. 2015 adjusted EBIT excludes charges of €200 million primarily
related to the Tianjin port explosion.
For the EMEA region, slide 14, the passenger car industry for EU28+EFTA was up 9% to 14 million
vehicles, with growth in all major markets. Group sales rose 11% to 988,000 units, with sales in the
EU up 14%. The Jeep brand sets an all-time record in Europe with 118,000 units sold, up 56%
year-over-year. Group share was up 30 basis points in the EU, driven by growth in Italy, France
and Spain, with Germany and UK flat.
In Europe, Fiat continued its market leadership in mini car and small MPV segments, with
combined share of 27.7% in the year. The new Fiat 500X achieved the leadership in its segment
in Italy, with market share at 18.1%. Inventories at December end were 62 days of supply versus
64 days at the end of September. In Q4, Fiat launched the new Tipo compact sedan in Turkey
and Italy. The Tipo will be available in the rest of Europe from first quarter 2016.
Light commercial vehicle industry in Europe was up 11% to 1.9 million vehicles, driven by continued
growth in all major markets. Fiat Professional sales were up in line with the market at 11%, with a
share of 11.3%, and Ducato confirmed its segment leadership with 13% growth.
Looking at our EMEA's financial performance on slide 15, shipments were up 12% to 1.1 million
units, with passenger cars and LCV shipments up 12% and 10%, respectively. Adjusted EBIT
improved by €254 million to €213 million for the year, driven by higher volumes and mix, positive
pricing actions in non-EU markets and some FX in the UK.
Industrial costs were impacted by stronger U.S. dollar for imported vehicles, partially offset by
cost efficiencies. SG&A increase was due to the commercial launches of the 500X and the
Renegade.
Turning to slide 16 on Maserati, shipments were down 11% at 32,500 units, with China down 28%
and North America down 14%. Net revenues were down 13% to €2.4 billion, primarily due to
decreased Quattroporte volumes resulting from weaker segment demand in the U.S. and China.
Adjusted EBIT decreased to €105 million due to the lower volumes and unfavorable mix. Adjusted
EBIT margin was 4.4% for the year.
Moving to slide 17, the Components businesses, Magneti Marelli had a good year with net
revenues up 12% to €7.3 billion. Adjusted EBIT was up 40% to €321 million, driven by higher
volumes and cost containment actions. Adjusted EBIT margin improved to 4.4% versus 3.5% in
the prior year, and reached 5.7% in the fourth quarter.
Comau also had a solid year with net revenues up 26% to €2 billion, and adjusted EBIT increased
20% from 2014 to €72 million.
Teksid net revenues were down slightly to €631 million. Adjusted EBIT was €2 million for the year
compared to a €4 million loss in 2014.
Slide 18 provides an update on some key events as part of the spin-off of Ferrari. Ferrari common
shares also began trading in Milan on January 4. The all-new Chrysler Pacifica was revealed at the
North American International Auto Show in January. It is based on an all-new platform with class-
leading powertrains, and later in the year, it will be available as the industry's first hybrid minivanwith an expected rating of 80 miles per gallon. The all-new Fiat 124 Spider will make its European
debut at the upcoming Geneva Motor Show, and it will be available in dealerships from Q2 in
Europe.
I'll now move to slide 19 to review our expectations for full year 2016 market demand by region.
For NAFTA, we expect the industry to be flat to slightly higher, between 21 million and 21.5 million
units. The LATAM industry is uncertain and we expect it to be flat to down again this year,
between 3.6 million to 4.1 million units, reflecting a continuation of the challenging trading
conditions in Brazil. In APAC, the passenger car industry for key markets where FCA operates is
projected up slightly to approximately 29 million units. And for the EU, the industry is expected to
be slightly up at between 16.1 million to 16.6 million units.
Finally, turning to page 20, the group indicates the following full year 2016 guidance. Net
revenues, as I said before, €110 billion Euros or higher, adjusted EBIT in excess of €5 billion,
adjusted net profit above €1.9 billion, and improvement in net debt below €5 billion. This guidance
is based on expected continued improvement in NAFTA and EMEA margins, with LATAM and
APAC seeing improved results in the second half as a result of local production of new Jeep
products, and Maserati also improving in the second half following the launch of the new Levante.
CapEx is expected to be in line with 2015 of between €8.5 billion and €9 billion.
Thank you. And with that, we will proceed with the presentation of the update to our business
plan.
`Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you, Richard. I'm going to start – I'm going to give you a brief introduction to the plan. And
want to start with slide number three, which includes the quotation of a statement that was
published by Mark Twain a number of years ago. This was introduced in the pitch in the last
couple of days and it follows the announcement that was made by Max Warburton that he will be
leaving this industry after 16 years – after spending 16 years trying to understand the car business.
And in connection with his departure, he's issued the longest Dear John letter I've ever seen in
my life, 422 pages, where he's described – where he scoffed at the demise of this industry and a
very negative view on the sector going forward.
Apart from the fact that Max has probably outlived most other automotive CEOs in this business,
you think he's the longest-serving non-CEO CEO that I've ever seen in the sector. I think, over the
last few years, we have had heated exchanges and diametrically opposed views about how this
business will evolve. I think it's been done well. I think we are going to miss Max, certainly out of
FCA, he has provided a good sparring partner for the development of our strategy. We do wish
him the best.
But just as a general remark about the type of literature that is now coming out, not only from
analysts but also in the press about the negative side of this industry, we are not, inside FCA, of
the view that this industry is facing an impending demise. And I think that part of this presentation
today is designed to provide you with some comfort that we have appropriate or adequate
controls over the strategic development of this business that we do feel that we will be able to
navigate through these rough waters and that we will come out of this process as better
organization.
I make the comment not just on behalf of FCA, but I think on behalf of the industry, which I think
has unfortunately been the subject of some severe criticism, and in some cases justified, but I
think that ultimately trying to move the discussion away from the concept of automaking, trying toterm really doesn't do much service to the sort of needs and objectives (24:25) that it faces
today.
I think even if I were to assume for a moment that this new world that we're describing, which is a
much wider, much more encompassing world of transportation, were effectively to materialize,
we need to be able to cross the desert. We need to get to the other side. I think the purpose of
our presentation here is to give you the comfort that you need in understanding how FCA intends
to travel through that desert and the fact that at the end of that process we will be in a much
better position than we're in today.
I think the last less than two years since we pitched the plan – and if I can just move for a second
to slide number four and then I'll give it back to Richard for comments, but we have been able to
accomplish a lot in less than two years. We talked to you again on the plan back in May of 2014.
We took you through a one-day marathon of the development of the brands and the
development of our businesses across the four regions. But in the interim, we've been able to
accomplish a lot.
Finally, we've unlocked the value of Ferrari out of FCA. We've been able to move margins in
NAFTA, up to levels that we had effectively pitched for 2018. We were able to move EMEA to
profitability. The last quarter of EMEA, which made over €100 million, is an indication of the
intensity with which that organization has reacted to the challenge.
Jeep has had a phenomenal year. We're well in excess of 1.2 million cars, more than 200,000
cars more than we sold last year. And as we deploy the architectures globally, we will see this
number increase. And Richard will explain to you that we've targeted a number in excess of 2
million cars.
The mandatory convertible, we went a long way in terms of providing comfort on the capital side.
We were able to lock in about €3 billion worth of capital as a result of the issuance back in 2014.
And I think the thing that people keep on ignoring is the fact that as of today, we started 2016
with a €5 billion number, which is significantly ahead of any internal expectations that we had for
where we would be at the end of 2015.
On the negative side, obviously Brazil has come out of left field and has left most of us staring at
a set of very uncertain market conditions. Notwithstanding that, we continue to be profitable in
the region. I think we're hitting now levels – and it's very difficult to call the bottom of this market,
but I think 2016 will tell a lot about the speed of recovery of that market.
China, again, has also come out of left field for a variety of reasons; not only the fire in Tianjin but
the significant shift in market conditions as it impacts premium or luxury goods has slowed down
by necessity our development of both the Maserati and the Alfa Romeo brand.
And on the Alfa Romeo side, it's required a slowdown of the rollout of the development plans for
Alfa, and Richard will take you through that. But fundamentally, we confirm the direction. We
confirm the development of the architectures and the models that we had in the original plan. It's
going to take us longer to get there, because our primary area of focus for the development of
Alfa is now going to be NAFTA and EMEA. And I think China will play more of a secondary role in
the development of that brand.
The other thing that's obviously happened and was absolutely unforeseen was the development
of a much greater degree of consciousness when it comes to emissions and the regulatory
environment. Some of them which were caused by the industry, some of which I think a result of
something which has been brewing within the system, especially in the EMEA side now for anumber of years. But all these things will require resolution over the next three years or four years
and they will have costs, which we have incorporated in our plan.
But when I look back at the last two years, I feel comfortable that we've been able to create an
organization that's got a much more defensible, a much more durable capital structure. And as
you will see when we go through the proposed realignment of our manufacturing footprint in the
U.S., that we've taken some relatively decisive steps in ensuring that we have the right
manufacturing framework to deal with expected permanent changes in demand, which we have
now seen develop over the last two years.
So on that note, I'll pass it on to Richard. Richard will take you through the next set of slides. Slide
number five, and I'll make one brief comment about the achievement of the 2014 and 2015 plan.
Those things are not inconsequential. Our travel to 2018 was a relatively well-articulated five-year
program that had milestones, tangible milestones of achievement of financial results. Those
continue to be the key drivers of this plan and the reformulation of the targets going forward.
We've upgrade the guidance on all the key metrics.
I know that sooner or later, somewhere on this phone call, there's going to be somebody who's
going to ask me the question about where's the 7 million car number that was presented back in
2014, and the answer is that fundamentally it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter because the 7
million number was a number that was substantiating or supporting a view of markets as we saw
them back in May 2014. We have readjusted all of our plans to reflect current market conditions.
We have seen the Brazilian market, which was expected to perform much, much better, lose over
1 million cars in less than 18 months to 24 months, which has had pretty significant impacts on our
volume ambition.
So, we have recast all those. We're going to stay away going forward from enunciating goals that
relate to volumes, because the real key issue for us is the achievement of the financial metrics
that you see on page five.
And on that note, I'll pass it to Richard.
`Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
Thank you. So on the forward-looking part of page five, we have basically given you a look in the
column which says 2018 May 2014 plan ex-Ferrari, what we look like in terms of our original plan
objectives for 2018 excluding Ferrari and the impacts of the capital markets transactions at the
end of 2014.
So you can see that compared to that comparable metric restated now for 2018, we're looking at
revenues being up at €136 billion for the 2018 period. Adjusted EBIT, in a range between €8.7
billion to €9.8 billion, with margins the same level as those with the plan ex-Ferrari. Adjusted net
profit of €4.7 billion to €5.5 billion, up from the restated number. And a net cash number by the
end of the plan period up between €4 billion and €5 billion.
Clearly, we are ahead of our original plan at the end of 2015. Our original plan, as you remember,
said that we would be at around €9.8 billion to €10.3 billion of net industrial debt in the period
through 2016. So, we're about €5 billion better.
And so, that is reflected going forward. €1 billion of that is performance. And we're looking at the
end of the plan of bringing in another €1 billion to €1.5 billion of better performance to bring us up
to a €4 million to €5 million cash number by the end of the plan period. We'll talk a little bit aboutSo, page six basically talks about how we have been clearly focused on the deleveraging of our
balance sheet. We have undertaken a series of transactions since May 2014, the impact of which
have been just under €4 billion on our net industrial debt number.
In addition, this has also allowed us to act quickly regarding the repayment of the FCA US senior
secured notes in April and December of last year. And so clearly, we're moving forward with
speed to remove the ring-fencing provisions in our current debt agreements in the FCA U.S. area
so that we can move towards a unified financing platform from the second half of 2016.
Moving on to slide seven and this following slides, we're going to talk a little bit about the status
of each region and our market and margin expectations. Sales have been stronger in NAFTA than
our original plan, and we're forecasting industry volume levels in 2016 to remain at what we
consider a peak level. But we do see the industry remaining strong throughout the plan period for
NAFTA at around 20 million units, with U.S. market sales remaining above 16 million units through
2018.
We've seen a trend of low fuel prices that we expect to continue, and this is part of the reason
that we're seeing also a shift in market demand away from passenger cars towards trucks and
UVs. This has obviously been a part of our ability to achieve margin expansion faster than we had
envisaged in our original plan. And so, in order to continue to capitalize on this market shift, we
have made some plans to shift some of our production capacity to be able to address more fully
the demand of truck and UV going forward.
So in terms of that impact in our margins, our original plan had adjusted EBIT margin range of 6%
to 7% by 2018. We've already hit 6.4% in 2015 and we are increasing our margin expectations for
the NAFTA region to be around 9% by 2018.
If we move on to slide eight on LATAM, we expect the market uncertainties to continue in Brazil in
the industry and the region to reach around 4.5 million units in 2018, with Brazil recovering but not
to the levels we had expected in our original plan to around 3 million units. Despite the
challenges in the market, we have been profitable in the last two quarters of 2015 and have been
taking pricing actions to offset inflation.
Going forward, the key to our strategy remains the Pernambuco plant and our ability to capitalize
on the Jeep brand introduction into Latin America. By the end of this year, we will introduce the
third vehicle into Pernambuco to add to the very successful launch of the Jeep Renegade and the
current launch of the Fiat Toro pickup from that production plant.
We have decided to moderate our margin expectations given the market performance in LATAM.
So instead of a more than 10% target, we're looking at margins greater than 7% by the end of the
plan period, very much sustained by the Pernambuco products and the shift in mix and
profitability that the new products from that plant provides.
Moving to slide nine, Asia Pacific, we have clearly been impacted significantly given our import
structure at present by the contraction in the import segments in the Chinese market. This has
significantly slowed down our volumes. And we've also been hit by competitive pressures
obviously from local Chinese brands.
Outside of China, also Australia has been impacted by a much weaker Aussie dollar for which we
have priced, but that has also impacted negatively our volumes.
So obviously, the key for us in Asia Pacific is to quickly localize the Jeep brand, which we have
been working on. We have started production of the Jeep Cherokee and we are working towardstwo more Jeeps during 2016. And ultimately, we will also be launching the Alfa Romeo brand, but
we look to re-cadence that launch based on the pressures in the premium segment and the
import segment of the Chinese market to refocus it principally on EMEA and North America in the
short term.
But given all of that, localization is the key to Asia Pacific and Jeep is the focus. We expect to
become a 500,000-unit brand by 2018 from our local production sites, and we consider that a
10%-plus margin target is still a reasonable target to set for the Jeep brand and a localized
footprint.
Moving to slide 10, EMEA. The recovery in the region that we have been seeing, slowly but surely,
we forecast to continue through 2018, with a market in the EU to reach around 17 million units by
the end of the plan period.
From a performance standpoint, our margin improvement is ahead of schedule, thanks to a
strong performance of the new products like the Jeep Renegade, the Fiat 500X. And so, our
guidance for EMEA in terms of margins has been revised upwards from 2% to 3% in our original
plan to an excess of 4% by 2018. And obviously, we're very focused still on continuing to increase
the volume of Jeep brand and also to maintain a very tight control on the cost profile of the
EMEA business.
Moving to slide 11, Maserati. The key, really, for the short term on Maserati is the launch of the
new crossover, the Levante. So, that is coming in the second quarter of this year. That vehicle will
allow us to address the largest luxury segment worldwide and the important segment in China
and in the U.S.
We have the opportunity as we work towards also the Alfa brand launches to strengthen our
network presence in these key markets. And so, we expect to bring Maserati to 15% margins by
the end of the plan, as was our original target in May 2014.
As regard the Components businesses, I think driven primarily by the improvement we're seeing
in Marelli margins, we've revised our expectations from a 4% to 5% margin to in excess of 6%,
driven by continued success in some of the more profitable businesses within Marelli.
Moving to slide 12, we talked a lot about Jeep and clearly Jeep is the bedrock of this business
plan. We originally had a target to produce and sell more than 1.9 million units in the May 2014
plan. We are revising that upwards to be in excess of 2 million units by 2018. This is on the back of
a strong performance since 2009 across all the products we've launched under the Jeep brand
and in all regions.
Brand sales have grown over 250% to 1.2 million units, significantly outpacing the global UV
industry which grew by over 150%. But obviously, it is a growth segment, so this is a very
important focus for us. Sales in Jeep's main NAFTA market grew by nearly 250% between 2009
and 2015, and sales in EMEA and APAC both reached over 100,000 units in 2015.
On a product line basis, each model, from Wrangler to Compass, has more than doubled
volumes since 2009, and global Cherokee sales reached 233,000 units in 2015.
So, I'll move on to page 13, Alfa Romeo. The commitment to the overall brand remains in place,
as does the product strategy. We're looking at, as I mentioned before, a different cadence to our
launches given the tough situation of the Chinese premium and import market and also because
of some of the restrictions around imports.We're shifting our focus initially to be primarily on EMEA and NAFTA and retiming some of the
product introductions, which will also allow us to reduce the CapEx outlay through 2018. And
obviously, the first launch of this brand is coming shortly with the Giulia.
I'll hand it over, back to Mr. Marchionne. Thank you.
`Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah, let me try and deal with the next couple of slides. The first one, which deals with the
assembly plant loading for NAFTA, this is very much a U.S.-centric view. We've seen a significant
shift in the product mix of cars being sold in United States. Part of this has been driven, as Richard
has said, by continuing low prices, which certainly in terms of our forecast period we do not
expect to see fundamentally change directionally.
I've said this before and I continue to repeat it here, that I've always viewed the development of
our portfolio in the United States as being really driven by the regulatory environment, and by this
– by the need for all of us in the market to achieve the 2025 standards and to achieve the
greenhouse gas emission targets that we've all signed up to.
And so, one of the things that we've seen, although the actual absolute numbers obviously from
2009 and 2015 have gone up, there's been in our view a permanent shift towards UVs and
pickup trucks. And we have seen, certainly in terms of our ability to meet market demand, some
severe restriction in terms of the dexterity of our manufacturing system to accomplish that end.
And so, one of the things that we decided to do is to effectively de-focus from a manufacturing
standpoint in the U.S., to de-focus the passenger car market. There are two cars in particular: the
Dodge Dart and the Chrysler 200, which will run their course. But without creating additional
capacity in the United States, we need to reutilize those plant infrastructures to try and deal with
the development of both Jeep and the Ram brand.
So there will be a number of things that will be put in place in the next 18 months, things that have
been agreed and detailed, that will effectively withdraw the current Chrysler 200 and Dodge Dart
from the marketplace over a prolonged period of time, during which we will be continuing
discussions with potential partners that will be able to allow us to access their architecture and
effectively provide us a product from their facilities that will allow us to continue to cover the
market.
The important thing is that as we transition to these new vehicles – the new Wrangler is coming
out of Toledo in 2017, the continuation of the Cherokee, which as you well know is essential to the
development of the brand, especially in NAFTA – that these things happen with us without us
losing any volume in the Jeep or the Ram brand.
These are things which are fundamental, and I think that they've obviously have some cost in
terms of the achievement of the objective but it is a cost that is managed and certainly justified in
terms of the margin generation associated with the shifts.
So, we continue to work with our partners. Hopefully in a relatively short period of time, we'll be
able to detail the cooperation plan going forward. I think the important thing for us to reinforce is
the fact that the Wrangler, in its new home in Toledo, will have additional production capacity
available to try and meet demand on a global scale. And I think it's important for us to have found
a home for the Grand Wagoneer family, both the Grand Wagoneer and the Wagoneer in
whatever shape they come, and that we find that space without creating additional production
capacity.I think we've been able to accomplish that as a result of the realignment decisions that we've
made. I think we have taken a one-off charge in 2015 to account for some of the cost associated
with that realignment we think that the costs are well-justified in view of the significant expansion
of margins that we'll be able to obtain from the U.S.
Now, I'm not going to spend a lot of time on page 15, which deals with the regulatory compliance
plan in terms of greenhouse gas on a global scale. I think we all know that there is directionally a
desire to bring down CO2 emissions. I think as I read some of the reports that have been issued
in connection with FCA, there appears to be some concern that we do not have adequate
technologies to try and deal with this. So, I'm going to spend a couple of slides trying to reassure
you that all the things that are required to try and make the numbers are in fact in place and
available.
And I won't take you through all these items that are listed on slide 15, but the introduction of
electrification in our world is not avoidable. I think that we're going to be seeing applications in a
mild hybrid for the first time in 2018, with the introduction of the Ram pickup truck. You will see in
addition to hybrid vehicles, which were already launched by Chrysler back in 2008 prior to the
bankruptcy, a continuation of the development of both hybrid and plug-in hybrids throughout the
plan.
I think the objective obviously is to optimize and leverage the know-how of the group across its
regions to ensure that we achieved the least costly compliance scheme that we can. And if you
look at page 16, there was unfortunately a rather misinformed article that came out a few days
ago that dealt with our greenhouse gas compliance. And I think one of the things that you can
see from the chart is that as a result of the combination of what I considered to be economically
sound acquisitions of credits and the rollout of technologies that we're well ahead of the curve in
terms of achieving targets that we have throughout the plan.
And I will make point here; there appears to be sort of a negative view that we have accessed
purchase credits as a means of making the target. The reality is that we always run numbers
internally about the possibility of avoiding the rollout of technology if we can purchase the credits
at a more reasonable price. And I think that analysis will continue going forward. I think it's
essential that economically based decisions are made in terms of the rollout of technology in the
marketplace, especially when margins are being threatened.
And if you look at page 17, this is only designed to give you an idea of how, these three of the
significant vehicles that we have in our plan, will make the numbers. And you can see this from the
chart that these vehicles really have to make certain targets based on the footprint of the vehicle.
And therefore, the larger the vehicle – which is one of the reasons why people keep on favoring
these in terms of development, is because there's more latitude involved in terms of achieving
the target. But as you can see, both the current Ram 1500, which today is compliant with 2015
standards, will in its next incarnation, when the truck gets launched in 2018, meet both the 2018
and the 2022 targets. And that same is true of the Wrangler, it's true of the Town & Country.
And I think it's important to keep this in mind; the house has been busy and it continues to be
busy on optimized methods to achieve the targets. It will continue to do so. And it will do this in a
most cost-effective way.
One word on the European side. I think that after the advent of dieselgate, for a lack of a better
term, FCA has undertaken a pretty thorough review and a thorough audit of its compliance
teams. I think we feel comfortable in making the statement that there are no defeat mechanismsor devices present in our vehicles. And I think the cars perform in the same way on the road as
they do in the lab under the same operating conditions.
This is an area of heightened concern. And so we've put in – we have established now as part of
our compliance mechanism training for all emission calibration engineers. We do have a best
practice program to ensure that we calibrate and certify properly. And I think that we will – just to
make sure that the system is not going off the reservation, we will carry out random checks of our
fleet to ensure that we achieve compliance.
And on that note, I'll give it to Richard who is still punching away numbers to try to reconcile his
targets with page 19. Go ahead, Richard.
`Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
Thanks for the transparency to all our listeners. So, the key takeaways on page 19, we have
basically confirmed that our key initiatives, as per our plan, remain intact. There are no significant
changes in the strategy.
I think we've made some important progress towards deleveraging and strengthening our
balance sheet both through operating performance and through the transactions that we have
completed regarding the mandatory convertible and Ferrari.
As a result, I think we feel that our plan is somewhat derisked in that regard. The targets, despite
the exit of Ferrari, have been revised upwards. And in particular, I think we feel confident that
going forward we can generate positive cash flow in each of the remaining three years of the
plan to get us to the €4 billion to €5 billion net cash target. That is obviously front and center for
us by the end of 2018.
`Joseph Veltri, Vice President - Global Investor Relations `
Thanks, Richard. Before we turn it over to the question-and-answer, I just want to point out that as
Ferrari is now a publicly traded company, as Richard mentioned before, they are going to publish
and release their results here around February 2. And therefore, we would appreciate if you
would hold any questions you have on Ferrari on this call in order to allow them to publish their
results.
With that, I'm going to turn it back to Rhonda and we will begin the Q&A session.
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. And we'll take the first question from Rod Lache of Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.
Q - `Rod A. Lache, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Hello, everybody. Thanks for taking my question. I had a couple things I wanted to ask. One is just
at a very high level, there's a lot of discussion in the industry about spending in preparation for
new mobility paradigms and it's expected by a lot of people to require autonomous driving and
investments in transportation platforms. And I think you alluded to some of these comments in
your prepared remarks. Ford actually mentioned that their investments are one of the reasons
why their North American margins will be down in 2016.
So, if you can just maybe give us your sense of what the house view is on mobility, how that'sA - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Well, the answer is that it is contemplated in this plan. And I think we need to be very, very careful
about describing sort of mobility paradigms that have sort of an unclear economic context and an
unclear economic outcome.
I'm absolutely convinced that all the things that have been talked about by other industry
participants will effectively materialize over a period of time. I'm absolutely convinced that the
relevance of the automaker in that process is not going to be as key as it has been historically in
terms of the development of the automotive sector. We're going to have to rely by necessity in
efficient supplier base, and there is one, which continues to break barriers and continues to
provide solutions which are going to be available to us and to others.
And so one of the things, and I raise this issue just – I'm not sure that it can be debated, but one
of the questions that we all have to ask ourselves is what is the value of a brand in the presence
of autonomous driving if effectively at the end of the day it is not the driver that effectively
exercises control? And the way in which that reflects itself in margins and positioning and the
relevance of the brand in a marketplace is an unknown issue.
And so, we need to be very, very careful that we don't start spending – we've done – by the way,
this industry has done a tremendous amount – if you look at even its recent past, it has always
looked for ways to sort of defocus its primary function of making cars and making them relevant
in a marketplace by looking for ancillary site solutions that somehow will change the paradigm.
We've done this with rental cars. We have all owned rental car companies. We've all owned
finance companies. We've all owned a variety of things historically that have tended to defocus
the actual objective of making a car and making it relevant in a marketplace.
So, I accept the challenge. And I think we're on the page – and I think the capital program that
Richard talked about encompasses an adequate amount of spending to explore and make that
technology available and relevant in the cars that we sell. I do not think that between now and
2018 that technology is going to fundamentally change the paradigm. I do think that the capital
that's required to make us relevant post-2018 is in the plan and I think it will defend the business
going forward.
Q - `Rod A. Lache, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Okay, thank you. And just in terms of the now to 2018 plan, could you give us a little bit more
insight into the magnitude of this capacity change? How much additional capacity do you think you
can come up with for Jeep and pickups? You're still selling 22% of your business in cars. Does that
get diminished significantly? And do you subscribe to the view that just generally, margins are
going to come under increased pressure within NAFTA? Because it sounds like you do subscribe
to the view that volumes are peaking.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
No, I do subscribe to the notion that we are looking at top-ish volumes today. The rate of
adjustment is unknown. I also know that there's a phenomenal amount of allowed amplitude in
the oscillation of volumes. I mean if we went down to 16 million, it's not going to be the end of
the world in terms of size and I think that we will all adjust to reflect those market conditions.
It has been my experience, at least in the last six years, that in the majority of cases there is
adequate price discipline in the marketplace and then nobody has done anything which I consider
to be irrational and out of bounds in terms of managing their pricing expectations.But to answer your question, Rod, I think it would be improper for us to try and talk about how
much more volume we will get out of Ram and how much more we will get out of Jeep as a
result of the realignment. Because we are structurally constrained in both pickup trucks and
Wranglers, and those are the single largest drivers of the shift in the manufacturing footprint in
the U.S.
For purposes of this analysis, the partnered vehicles that will replace – over time, that will replace
the passenger cars that are currently in production in the U.S., we've assumed to have negligible
margin contribution to the overall plan. So even in the absence of those vehicles, we're not going
to drastically change our forecasts, and I think we've contained any adjustment associated with
that within the numbers that we've published.
So, I would defocus -if I can make a suggestion – I would defocus everybody from focusing on
absolute numbers of cars being sold. I'm not trying to set up a system to acquiring an abnormal
amount of share. I just think we need to be physically present and active with proper supply in the
key segments that are relevant to FCA, which are pickup trucks and UVs through Jeep.
Q - `Rod A. Lache, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Great, thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We will take the next question from John Murphy of Bank of America. Please go
ahead.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, BofA Merrill Lynch `
Good morning. Can you hear me?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, BofA Merrill Lynch `
Just if I could follow up just first on Rod's question, because this mix shift in North America seems
like it's such a critical swing factor in your plans going forward. If you could sort of tell us what your
current capitalization is on pickups, Wranglers and utes in North America.
And also, I know you're not going to give an exact number on what percent of your total mix will
be trucks and utes going forward, but I mean is there any sort of asymptotic limit or is this the
kind of thing that could potentially even just go to 100%?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Nothing could ever go to 100%. I mean I understand the suggestion. In terms of capacity
utilization, we have debottlenecked our pickup truck lines to the extent that we can. And while the
unfortunate consequences of prior management arrangement is that unfortunately our Warren
Truck Plant would've not been kept after a relevant manufacturing standard and I think it requires,
as a result of its current state, would require a substantial amount of investment.
But I'll give you a couple of data points which I think make our life somewhat uncomfortable.
We're running flat out today out of Toledo. We're running effectively nearly seven days a weekarrangement in our Warren Truck Plant. So, that is unsustainable. Even if I use a Harbor definition,
we've blown through the 100% mark consistently now for probably the last five or six years, and I
think that needs to be adjusted.
So, the capacity that's coming on-stream to deal with the new Wrangler and with the new pickup
truck will avoid the excessive utilization of that capacity. Just it's unhealthy and I think it's causing
some substantial manufacturing inefficiency because of the speed at which we're driving that bus.
So without giving you numbers, I think that whatever we put in place, we'll deal with demand and
unmet demand as we see it today.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, BofA Merrill Lynch `
Okay. And then, just as a follow-up as we think about the midterm review on CAFE and emission
standards in the U.S. in 2017. I mean are you expecting any changes there? I mean when those
were initially put in place, gas was around $4; we're now sub-$2. Seems like there's a lot of
discussion around potentially easing those standards. Could you get a lot of help from that?
And also, as you think about that and implementing hybridization, whether it be your regular
hybrid or plug-in in your fleet going forward, what percentage of your fleet do you think could
ultimately be hybridized or electrified?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Well, look, in the medium term, I think more than half of our fleet in the United States is going to
be in some form of hybrid. Calling the right time for that conversion is difficult to tell. I mean if you
include 48-volt systems, belt start generators as a solution, that's going to occupy the majority of
the pickup production in the United States anyway. So, we're going to be marrying hybridization
as a way of life relatively quickly.
In terms of the midterm review of the standards, I think it would be improper for me to express
our views on this on this call. There's not a single doubt that a relaxation of the standards will be
helpful, but I think that we're talking about a relaxation of the standards only in terms of timing
and not necessarily of direction or quantum. And so, if it does come, I think it will alleviate some
of the concerns that we have in terms of capital, but it will not make the issue go away. I think
those fixes are structural and they're needed over time. Interventions in terms of time are more
than welcome, but I don't think we can change the direction.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, BofA Merrill Lynch `
Okay. And then just lastly, as we look at the plan out to 2018 or maybe even beyond, would you
contemplate any other asset sales or are there any other actions or parts of the business that
you think you could monetize going forward?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Well, the answer is yes. There are things that I can think that I can monetize, I mean including my
office chair. The question is, do I need to do that? Again, the plan is calling for a €5 billion cash
holding by the end of 2018. I think you guys should be asking for distributions at that point in time
as opposed to worrying about my monetizing assets.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, BofA Merrill Lynch `
Okay, we hope you at least hold on to your seat. Thank you very much.Operator
Thank you. We'll move to the next question from Charles Winston of Redburn Partners. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Charles A. Winston, Analyst, Redburn Partners LLP `
Yeah, hi. Good afternoon. Charles from Redburn. A couple of quick questions, if you don't mind.
Just firstly, I guess in terms of the revision to the 2018 targets, would you have made the
revisions were you reporting in dollars? In other words, when you set the targets in 2014 I think
the dollar was about $1.36 to the euro; it's now about $1.09. You've seen roughly €700 million of
FX gain on translation in 2015, which is actually bigger than the upgrade you've made in your EBIT.
In other words, is this basically an FX move or is there something more fundamental than that?
And I guess the second question is...
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
God, you're devious.
Q - `Charles A. Winston, Analyst, Redburn Partners LLP `
The second question is just in terms of the CO2 strategy. Purchasing credits is surely a risky
strategy, because as others potentially need to start buying credits as well, GM springs to mind,
particularly when the flex to your credit system disappears. The danger is the price of credits
goes up. So, you are going to have to comply in some shape or form, and I was just sort of
thinking about the business risk here.
Could you comment on that at all? And in particular, I mean for instance in model year 2014, your
tailpipe emissions actually went up slightly from 344 gram/miles to 346 gram/miles. So, just really
just think about the business risk here in terms of that strategy. Thank you.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah. By the way, I read the same article you read on the tailpipe emissions, and I agree with the
numbers as reported. What it doesn't do is it doesn't tell you the percentage by which the
number has been coming down over the last three years or four years and our starting point.
But just as a general remark about your fear about the pricing of credits and the fact that it may
become prohibitive to acquire them in terms of compliance. I made the comment in my remarks
that as long as we find an economically justifiable model that justifies the price that we pay, we
will take it over the rollout of technology in the vehicles. But it's subject to an economic model
supporting the acquisition. And we have walked away from – at least in the past, not recently, but
we walked away from potential offers where we thought that the request was outside of the
boundaries of our economic model. So, that's not the issue.
And so, we won't buy them, which means that we'll just roll out technology instead, and that's life.
And I think that will impact all of us across the whole industry as the pricing equation adjusts on
credits. That's the first issue.
The second one, which I think it is a devious question, I think that we would have still been revising
our targets going forward regardless of what our reporting currency was.
Q - `Charles A. Winston, Analyst, Redburn Partners LLP `Okay. Forgive me, even though you've got about €700 million of gains so far, just looking at the
translation effect in 2015?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Even with those in.
Q - `Charles A. Winston, Analyst, Redburn Partners LLP `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take the next question from `Massimo Vecchio, Analyst, Mediobanca Banca di Credito Finanziario SpA (Broker) of Mediobanca. Please go ahead.
Q - `Massimo Vecchio, Analyst, Mediobanca Banca di Credito Finanziario SpA (Broker) `
Yes. Good afternoon. A couple of questions from my side. I'm trying to understand what your
2016 EBIT margin could be in NAFTA. Now, a number of differences with the 2015 new labor
contract and recall provisions on the negative side, minivan retooling and dealer discount on the
positive side. All of those factors were already in play in Q4 2015, and you had a 7.1% margin. So is
the 7.1% a good indication of what could happen in NAFTA in 2016, or are there any other forces...
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
The number is greater than it was for 2015.
Q - `Massimo Vecchio, Analyst, Mediobanca Banca di Credito Finanziario SpA (Broker) `
Okay. But still below the 8%, 9% target for 2018, so this should be a kind of progression going
there.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
It's a transition year to the 2018 target. Yeah.
Q - `Massimo Vecchio, Analyst, Mediobanca Banca di Credito Finanziario SpA (Broker) `
Okay. Second question, if I may. What is your capacity utilization in Italy or in Europe right now?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
I'm going off the top of my head, but it's – on a Harbour basis, it's about 72%, 73% on a combined
basis across all plants.
Q - `Massimo Vecchio, Analyst, Mediobanca Banca di Credito Finanziario SpA (Broker) `
Okay. Last question, there were unions in Italy saying that the Giulia production could start in
March. Can you give some indication on when we could expect this car...
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Q1.
Q - `Massimo Vecchio, Analyst, Mediobanca Banca di Credito Finanziario SpA (Broker) `To hit the road?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
It'll be starting to get produced in Q1.
Q - `Massimo Vecchio, Analyst, Mediobanca Banca di Credito Finanziario SpA (Broker) `
Okay. All right. Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take the next question from `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore ISI of Evercore. Please go ahead.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Thank you for taking my questions. First one, you've made great strides on net debt, and for
2015, you came in significantly ahead of guidance. You now forecast net debt less than €5 billion
this year, improving to net cash of €5 billion in 2018. Can you give some indication on the cadence
of the improvement in net debt and how much improvement we will see in 2016 versus 2017 and
2018?
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
Yeah, George. Well, basically, as we've guided, we're going to generate cash in 2016. I think it's a
bit early to give you any more precision than that, given that, obviously, there is some uncertainty
about our Latin America position in particular. But I think we're confident it's going to be a positive
number. The cadence of cash is biased towards 2017 and 2018, though, because especially as we
go through this realignment of the production capacity in NAFTA, that is going to help us
obviously to get a further increase in our NAFTA margins and improve cash flow as a subsequent
– subsequent to that.
So I don't want to get into giving you overly precise numbers that would be falsely precise, but I
think what's important is that we'll be cash positive each year. This year we're going to be cash
positive, which is a continuation of a very positive performance also in 2015. And this is reducing
the level of risk that we had in our original plan, where obviously a lot more of our cash flow was
bunched into 2018.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Thank you. And then secondly just on NAFTA, where you've made similarly big progress on the
NAFTA margin, the plan implies a further 2.6% margin expansion. Given the comment that 2015-
2016 are seen as industry peak years, could you maybe shed some light on what you assume for
pricing at a market level and also for FCA in NAFTA between today and 2018?
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
Well, I think the key for us is we're not depending – our results don't depend on pricing – price
increases across the market. We expect the pricing to remain relatively benign and disciplined as
it has been. And we think that the SAAR is going to be strong. We've been prudent about our
expectations around 2018. I think to be as realistic as possible in terms of SAAR, but we don't
expect any significant degradation in pricing.
I think our pricing, specifically, obviously, we have some important vehicle launches in the nextearlier, the new pickup. And those will give us, I think, some pricing opportunity, but we aren't
basing our performance through 2018 on unrealistic pricing expectations.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
One correction to a question that was asked on capacity utilization in EMEA, it's 85% of 2015
using Harbour.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Great. Thank you very much.
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We'll now move to Martino De Ambroggi of Equita. Please go ahead.
Q - `Martino de Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
Thank you. Good afternoon, good morning, everybody. The first question is on 2018 targets, just
wondering what are the CapEx implied in the guidance for 2017 and 2018? And what is a rough
indication of the R&D net capitalization effect? And if possible also for 2015?
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
So I think the positive thing is that we, as I said, we're going to be generating cash through the
plan period, and we don't expect any significant spikes in CapEx going forward. I think, therefore,
we have some benefit of the changing cadence of the launches in Alfa, which will help us. And so
I think there's going to be some changes, some increasing CapEx maybe in 2017, 2018 compared
to current run rate, but nothing overly significant. I think a number up to €9.5 billion compared to
the €8.5 billion to €9 billion, €9.5 billion to €10 billion would be the maximum level on an annual
basis. But we are – we'll be working through this as we complete the plan. And we don't expect
to exceed significantly the level of CapEx we're guiding to for 2016.
In terms of R&D capitalization, there's nothing significantly different going forward to what we've
seen in the past.
Q - `Martino de Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
Okay. If I may, short-term question regarding LATAM, you stated that you expect a positive EBIT
this year, and you are guiding for a market between flat and minus 12%. So just to understand the
resilience of your business, are you able to confirm the positive EBIT, maybe slightly positive,
even in the worst case scenario, of a market down double digit and you performing more or less
in line?
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
Martino, the key to our performance in Latin America, obviously, is Brazil in the Pernambuco plant.
So we've launched, commercially, the Renegade. It's performing extremely well, as we
mentioned. We're top of the segment after five months of activity. I think we're now launching the
Toro, the Fiat pickup, out of Pernambuco, and then at the end of the year, in Q3, we'll beour ability to make money in a market that could still be down is the success of the Pernambuco
installation.
The mix effect of those units, both because of their position in the market, their branding and the
incentives package we have out of Pernambuco, helped us be very positive compared to our
production out of Betim. So that is our focus, and it gives us a reasonable basis for targeting a
positive EBIT for the year.
Q - `Martino de Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
Okay. Thank you. And just one more question. Am I right in stating that the EMEA improvement in
terms of rate of non-sales above 4% is essentially driven by mix effect? Because I remember in
Detroit when you presented the business plan, the 1%, 2% rate of non-sale was already
considered a very, very difficult target to be achieved.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah. When we talked about this in Detroit in May of 2014, we had a much more negative view of
Europe and its development than we're currently seeing. So it's a combination of mix and volume,
but volume does play a part. I think we're also encouraged by the results of our utilization of our
Melfi plant in terms of the production of the Renegade and the 500X and its export functions. So
the combination of this gives us a much better feel for the absorption rate of fixed costs within
the region.
Q - `Martino de Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
Okay. Despite the delay in Alfa Romeo?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Yeah. Yeah, notwithstanding the delay in Alfa Romeo. It doesn't matter. But it was much more
important for us to launch a perfect product than to launch a product early and incomplete. And
the project is a complicated project, you'll see it when people start driving the car.
Q - `Martino de Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
Okay.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thanks.
Q - `Martino de Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take the next question from `José Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc of JPMorgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `José Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Thanks very much. I just wanted to come back to these American margins in 2016 and just
confirm. So Richard and Sergio, you are guiding for margin expansion in 2016 versus 2015 in North
America, is that how we are reading it?A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
Yes.
Q - `José Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
And Richard, can you just help me a little bit. So volume, obviously, positive contribution. Mix also
positive meaningful contribution in 2016?
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
Yeah. Marginally.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Marginally.
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
There's also a positive impact on materials, commodities, particularly in NAFTA and, obviously,
the carryover of our pricing actions and the dealer discount actions we took in 2015 also.
Q - `José Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Right. So raw mats and price action offsets the incremental labor costs? That a reasonable way of
looking at it maybe?
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
Yeah. We're offsetting those labor costs basically with our material performance.
Q - `José Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
And then are there any positivity gains? So you had a plant last year that was not properly running.
You have the ramp-up of Pacifica left. How meaningful is that in terms of earnings contribution in
2016?
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
Well, I think, really, it's the volume impact on the minivan because, obviously, we're going to have
the plant up for the full year and, obviously, it depends on the success of the Pacifica, but the
initial reactions have been extremely positive to the unveiling at the Auto Show.
Q - `José Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Okay. And then so what I'm trying to sort of struggle to understand is how pricing is going to be
meaningful as a positive contribution in 2016. Are we not in the latest stage of the cycle, would
you not need to increase incentives to sell additional light trucks and SUVs? What am I getting
wrong in terms of the cycle?
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
Like I said before, I don't think we're looking at any meaningful pricing impact being necessary for
us to continue to improve our margins in NAFTA. I mean we need to work on the mix impact, as
you said. We need to renew our product portfolio, which we're doing. We need to work on thecost function and the efficiency in the manufacturing footprint, as we mentioned earlier, which is
also helped by this realignment of our capacity. So all those aspects will allow us to continue to
expand margins.
Q - `José Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
And this is all based on IFRS? When are you moving to U.S. GAAP?
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
This is based on IFRS because that's what we're showing you today. So I'm not going to get –
make it more complicated and try and tell you what it would look like in a different accounting
system.
Q - `José Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
And when are you moving to U.S. GAAP finally, please?
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
Well, we are – we have – we've looked at that, and at the moment, we are not – I'm not going to
give you an exact date for moving to U.S. GAAP because we're still considering the timing of that
implementation.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
But we're going to look at this at the end of 2016, and then we'll make the call.
Q - `José Asumendi, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
All right. Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take the next question from Brian Jacoby of Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.
Q - `Brian J. Jacoby, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. Just a quick one regarding the ring-fencing, is it accurate to
assume that you have to refinance all the first lien term loans at FCA US in order to get complete
removal of the ring-fencing? And should we interpret it that the aim is to unify it and bring all the
debt up to the FCA parent company level, and do it through that means? If you could clarify that,
that'd be helpful. Thank you.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
We don't have to repay all the debt. I think we can get there without it. And I think it would be
economically not advantageous to repay the debt today and refi.
Q - `Brian J. Jacoby, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Would you need to get some type of concession related to the covenants? Or you think...
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
That's right.Q - `Brian J. Jacoby, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Okay. All right. Thank you very much. Appreciate it.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
You're welcome.
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
Thanks, Brian.
Operator
Thank you. We'll now move to `Richard Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar Research of Morningstar. Please go ahead.
Q - `Richard Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar Research `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question this morning. Wanted to get a little bit more color around some
of the guidance. If I take a look at the markets which you're calling for in your updated 2018 plan, I
look around, I see relatively peak-ish NAFTA, maybe another slight decline in LATAM, possibly a
trough APAC, or peak, depending on which markets you're looking at. EMEA, nascent recovery, a
richer product mix. I'm kind of a little bit confused on why the base guidance for net revenue
would be €110 billion versus €111 billion, excluding Ferrari, in 2015?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Richard, it's greater than €111 billion. It's a typo. If it said €110, the only thing we tried to tell you is
that it's more than last year.
Q - `Richard Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar Research `
Okay. And then is the adjusted EBIT and adjusted net profit guidance there, being greater than
those numbers that you've got, is that a base off of €111 billion in revenue, or is that based on a
higher amount of revenue, greater than €111 billion?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
It's whatever makes the number work, and the revenues are in excess of €111 billion. The EBIT is
going to be in excess of €5 billion. Those are the only kind of – and I made this comment when
we opened the conference tonight, but the fact that it is better for us to give you directional
views on the movement of the key metrics that impact this business as opposed to giving you
granular targets that we're going to be chasing for the rest of the year. We're going to do better
than €111 billion. We're going to do better than €5 billion in operating profit – in EBIT.
Q - `Richard Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar Research `
All right. Congratulations on the third year in a row of having the diesel from the Ram in the
Ward's Top 10 Best Engines list.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Thank you.
Q - `Richard Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar Research `Your plan for achieving the CO2 and the CAFE standards, you've talked mostly about
electrification of the portfolio to get there. Given that you have this quality of an engine in the
portfolio, would it be unreasonable to see more diesel in the portfolio, especially in North
America? Or do you think Volkswagen just pretty much poisoned the well for that type of
powertrain in the United States?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
No. Actually, I don't think the well has been poisoned by anybody. But I do think that there is just
the way in which the regulations work, there's a point in time in which diesel in its present
configuration becomes offensive to the fleet. And I mean let's not discuss the timing of that
inversion. Right now, diesels are positive to the fleet. I think between now and sometime in the
next five years, it will become offensive because of the changes in regulation. And so at that
point in time, I think we need to take a very hard look at diesel and find out whether it's worth
keeping in the structure.
Q - `Richard Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar Research `
Okay. Great. Thanks again for taking my questions.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take the next question from Christophe Boulanger of Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Christophe G. Boulanger, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
Yes. Hi. Good afternoon. I will ask a question on balance sheet management and specifically on
your target of liquidity of €15 billion to €20 billion by the end of the plan. First I want to know
whether you confirm this target? And then secondly, will you be using the excess liquidity to repay
existing debt? And if so, under what timing?
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
We confirm the target, Christophe. And yeah, we will obviously, as we move forward here, be
using some of the cash as and when we deem it's appropriate to reduce our gross debt levels.
Q - `Christophe G. Boulanger, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
So basically, just to be clear, if we include the €2.5 billion of additional liquidity, you would get
possible with the ring-fencing, you are standing at €27 billion of liquidity. Is it correct?
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
Correct.
Q - `Christophe G. Boulanger, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `
And you target €15 billion to €20 billion?
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
Yeah. So we have more than enough cash to significantly reduce our debt levels in the next few –
next couple of years.
Q - `Christophe G. Boulanger, Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. `Okay. Thank you.
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take the next question from `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Intesa Sanpaolo-Banca IMI of Banca IMI. Please go ahead.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Intesa Sanpaolo-Banca IMI `
Good afternoon, everyone. I would have a question on the pricing (01:31:22) APAC. As you
mentioned, you told us that APAC will have a two-speed year in 2016. I'm just wondering if you
are still expecting a positive adjusted EBIT for the APAC countries?
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
Yeah, we're targeting to make money in APAC in 2016, but as I said, there could be a ramp-up as
we go through the localization process being completed in the first half.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Intesa Sanpaolo-Banca IMI `
Okay. So basically, do you expect a positive adjusted EBIT?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
By the end of the year, yes.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Intesa Sanpaolo-Banca IMI `
Okay. At the end of the year, okay. Thank you. And the second question is, I'm just trying to figure
out what could be the extraordinary figures for 2016. Do you expect further realignment in
capacity production or a further one-off?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
Hopefully not.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Intesa Sanpaolo-Banca IMI `
Okay. So we shouldn't project similar numbers?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
I don't have any notion today of booking any one-offs. Any...
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Intesa Sanpaolo-Banca IMI `
Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We'll take the last question from Rodolphe Ranouil of RBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Rodolphe J. Ranouil, Credit Trading Strategist, Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (Broker) `Yes. Good morning to you, and thank you for that clear presentation. I just have one question
regarding the plan, deleveraging, liquidity, cash flow generation, all of that is trending up very
significantly in the next two years to three years. Have you shared all of these with the rating
agencies or have you basically given up?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director `
No, I thought we'd share it with you first and then we go hit them. What do you think?
Q - `Rodolphe J. Ranouil, Credit Trading Strategist, Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (Broker) `
I think that's probably a better course.
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
We work, obviously, joking apart, consistently with the rating agencies, and we expect, as we
execute these numbers, our rating to improve going forward. So that's clearly a big focus for us.
Q - `Rodolphe J. Ranouil, Credit Trading Strategist, Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (Broker) `
Okay. Thank you very much.
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. That will conclude the question-and-answer session. I would now like to turn the call
back over to Joe Veltri for any additional or closing remarks.
A - `Joseph Veltri, Vice President - Global Investor Relations `
Thank you, Rhonda, and we'd like to thank everybody for joining the call today. If you have follow-
up questions, you can please contact me or others on the IR team. Thank you and have a great
day.
Operator
That will conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation, ladies and gentlemen.
You may now disconnect.