Q4 2016 Earnings Call

Operator
Good afternoon or good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to today's Fiat Chrysler
Automobiles 2016 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Results Webcast and Conference Call. For your
information, today's conference is being recorded.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Joe Veltri, Head of FCA Global Investor Relations.
Mr. Veltri, please go ahead, sir.
`Joseph Veltri, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Alex, and welcome to everyone who's joining us today. The presentation material for
this webcast and conference call, along with the earnings release that was issued early today by
the company, are both posted in the Investor Relations section of the FCA group website.
Our call today is hosted by `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Executive Officer; and Richard Palmer,
the group's Chief Financial Officer. Both gentlemen will be available to answer your questions
after their introductory remarks.
Before we begin, I just want to point out that any forward-looking statements we might make
during this call are subject to the risks and uncertainties that are mentioned in the Safe Harbor
statement on page 2 of today's presentation. And as always, the call will be governed by that
language.
With that, I'll turn the call over to `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer.
`Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Joe. As usual, we're going to ask – I'm going to ask Richard to do all the heavy lifting in
the call, but I just want to make a couple of remarks before we start. The first, as you've seen itfrom the numbers and you've seen the press release, this has been a record year for FCA. But
more importantly, as Richard will show you, we are now 60% done with the 2014 to 2018 plan.
And the most comforting thing about having delivered this result is that they are a confirmation of
the fact that, directionally, we're moving in a very methodical and very precise way towards the
accomplishments of 2018 target.
When we spent a day together back in 2014 and we outlined the plan, I think it was fair to say that
there was a high level of incredulity about the doability of the plan. As we look at the 2016 results,
and Richard will now take you through the progress that we've made about the accomplishment
of 2018, those 2018 numbers don't look as undoable as they look then.
And that's a big sign of comfort to the management team, which is now fully focused on the
execution of the remaining two years of the five-year plan. We have made all the industrial
decisions that need to be made to make the 2018 numbers. I mean, there's not much we can do
between now and December of 2018 to change the strategic commitment that we've made with
other brand development or infrastructure build, and capital required to deliver those products in
the marketplace. And so, our objective here is to execute flawlessly on decisions that have been
made now in the last three years and to effectively deliver the earnings that fits in the (3:05) 2018
plan.
I'm not going to address the issue of diesel directly in my remarks, although I'll be more than glad
to answer any questions you may have after the presentation. We are in the midst of a series of
pretty intense discussions with both EPA and CARB on the certification of the 2017 models for
both the Ram 1500 diesel and the Grand Cherokee diesel. I think, discussions are proceeding
well and I think there are confirmation of the – certainly of the goodwill that's been established
with the regulatory agencies now for a number of years and it's something that I expect to – will
continue – hopefully, will bring the 2017 cert to a conclusion relatively quickly. And I think it will allow
us to deal with both the 2014, 2015 and 2016 models of those cars in an efficient way that can
hopefully be accomplished by simply reflashing the ECU.
So, I think we've made progress and obviously, it's a legal matter and I'm reminded and warned
by counsel not to explain comments beyond what I can talk about. But I'd be more than glad to
answer any concerns you may have.
And on that note, I'll pass it on to Richard.
`Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
Thanks very much. So, good morning and good afternoon to everybody. Moving to page 4, I'm
going to take you through the 2016 full-year performance. So, our financial results as mentioned
were another record year for FCA. We exceeded our guidance both on earnings and on net
industrial debt. Our full-year adjusted EBIT was €6.1 billion and our margins were up to 5.5% for
the year, plus 130 basis points year-over-year. And our net industrial debt was reduced to €4.6
billion from the €5.1 billion we started with at the beginning of the year.
I think on the product side, we've launched nine all-new products worldwide, six of which were
sort of white-space additions to our portfolio. So, those are clearly very important thinking about
our future performance in 2017. Those include Levante, Giulia, Tipo in Europe, the Toro in Latin
America, the Fullback in Europe and the Fiat 124. So, we've also completed the localization of our
Jeep production with Pernambuco and the production facility on our China JV now fully
operational from the beginning of this year.As you're aware, we've been working hard on our capital structure. We did complete the Ferrari
spin at the beginning of the year. It seems like a lot longer ago, but it was only January last. We've
eliminated the ring-fencing in the U.S., which allowed us also to activate the second part of our
revolver and getting us another €2.5 billion of liquidity. And we reduced the gross debt through
the year by €3.7 billion.
As we talked about on the last call, our NAFTA capacity realignment is going as scheduled.
Dodge Dart and Chrysler 200 production ceased at the end of 2016. And now, those plants are
being realigned to produce truck and SUV, so that will allow us to continue to capitalize on the
strength of Jeep and Ram, and satisfy demand in those growing segments of the market.
And looking it forward to 2017, we are issuing guidance which we believe showed continuing
progress towards our 2018 targets. And those are net revenues up to between €115 billion to
€120 billion, adjusted EBIT over €7 billion, adjusted net profit over €3 billion, and the further
reduction in net industrial debt down to less than €2.5 billion by the end of the year.
So, a little bit more about the guidance later, but I'm moving to page 5. Here, we're showing
three of the key products that we are now launching into the marketplace. The Stelvio for Alfa
Romeo is the second vehicle of the new platform. It was revealed in Los Angeles and is now
being launched in Q1 in EMEA and will be launched in Q2 in NAFTA. The Jeep Compass was also
revealed last year in Q4 in Los Angeles. It will be sold globally and has already been launched in
Latin America and is now launching in China and in the U.S. in the first quarter. And then, the PHEV
is also being launched now in NAFTA as an application on the new Pacifica Minivan.
Moving to page 6. We have the financial summary. So, our consolidated shipments were down,
although our combined shipments were basically flat, and the big movements there where
NAFTA was down due to the Dart and 200 being reduced in terms of fleet volumes and now
ceasing production at the end of the year. That was partially offset by an improvement in our Ram
performance.
Latin America was down because of the market situation. We had APAC consolidated shipments
down as we move into a localized production in the JV, but the JV was up 83,000 units year-
over-year, which more than compensates for the reduction on CBU (9:47) export. And then, EMEA
was up, driven by network product, the Tipo, the Alfa Giulia at the end of the year and also the
LCV portfolio performed very well.
So, overall, I think it was a strong year from a commercial point of view and our transition in Asia
Pacific is substantially complete. So, now, we have a full year of the three Jeeps in the JV in China.
Net revenues for the year were basically flat, flat at €111 billion, and the reduction in consolidated
shipments was offset by improved mix in NAFTA and also across the other regions and in
particular, also with Maserati as we launched the Levante in the second half of the year.
So, the improved mix was one of the major drivers of our improvement in adjusted EBIT to €6.1
billion from the €4.8 billion in the prior year. And margins, as I've said, were up 130 basis points to
5.5%. We'll look at the main drivers in a second. Adjusted net profit was up to €2.5 billion,
substantially driven by the operating performance, some reduction in net financial expenses as
we reduced our gross debt, which was partially offset by higher income taxes and higher tax rate
because of the higher contribution of U.S. EBT.
And then, our net industrial debt, as I mentioned, was down to €4.6 billion. And notwithstanding,
we used cash to reduce gross debt, we maintained our available liquidity just short of €24 billion
with the increase in the revolver of €2.5 billion in the year.Moving to page 7, you can see the contribution to the improvement in EBIT by segment. And
NAFTA continues to be the main driver as it was in the prior year. Although, I think very
importantly, we're starting to see significant contributions also from EMEA and from Maserati. So,
NAFTA margins were up 100 basis points year-over-year. EMEA adjusted EBIT improved by more
than 150%, and final full-year margins were 2.5%. And Maserati more than tripled its adjusted EBIT
to reach a full-year margin of nearly 10%.
And moving to page 8, you can see that by operational driver. The key driver for the year, as I
mentioned earlier, was positive mix in most all of the regions driven by Jeep globally, as well as
Ram volumes in NAFTA, the launch of the Fiat Toro and the Compass in Latin America, the Fiat
Tipo launch and improved LCV performance in Europe. And these more than offset the negative
volumes in NAFTA and Latin America. And obviously, also, Maserati showed both positive volumes
and positive mix driven by the launch of the Levante.
On the cost side, you can see that basically, we are flat year-over-year with costs,
notwithstanding that we did have some increase on the product cost side with the new launches.
And that was more than offset by purchasing savings, some help from commodity prices also,
and those allowed us to continue to control our costs while not (13:40) launching new products.
SG&A was a negative, basically as we spend money in Europe on the launches of the vehicles I
mentioned earlier, and also the Levante launch from Maserati.
Moving to page 9, you can see the net industrial debt walk. Our full-year operating cash flow net
of CapEx, so before any FX impact, increased to €1.8 billion from €0.4 billion in the prior year and
the main driver of the improvement was an increase in EBITDA from €10 billion to €11.8 billion.
Working capital and change in provisions were positive but down from prior-year levels, and the
reduction in volumes in NAFTA was partially offset in Q4 as we ramp up production for Toro,
Levante and Giulia on the European side.
Inventory was reduced in the year as we reduce production of Dart, 200, and Compass, Patriot in
Q4 as those cars came down for transition. So, I think, overall, we had a good cash flow
performance. We will, obviously, need to continue focus on cash flow as we move into 2017 and
the target to reduce our net industrial debt to below €2.5 billion.
Moving now to the regions on page 10, starting with NAFTA. The full year SAAR for the U.S. was
17.9 million, and Q4 was actually higher at 18.4 million, whereas Canadian SAAR was 1.9 billion for
the year, and about 2 billion for the quarter. So, overall, the markets were pretty flat. Our U.S.
sales were also flat, with the phase-out of 200 and Dart from a market share perspective being
covered by Jeep and Ram sales improvements.
Our U.S. dealer days of sale, days of supply, increased slightly over year-end 2015, but mainly
because of some of the transitions that we're managing, principally on Compass, Patriot. U.S.
fleet mix started to come down, as we talked about in the last quarter call. And so overall, an
improvement in mix as a result of those shifts (16:11) allowed us to improve our overall volume and
mix, notwithstanding the reduction in shipments.
Also, we were very active on pricing, particularly in Canada and Mexico, to try and offset the
impact of exchange as the hedges started to roll off, particularly in the second half of the year. I
mentioned industrial cost improvements already in NAFTA was a very positive result for this year,
and something we need to continue as we go into 2017. So overall, I think the 7.4% margins, up
100 basis points year-over-year, was a good performance, and all is well for 2017.Latin America, clearly the market continues to be very tough. Industry was down 11%, with Brazil
down 20%, slightly offset by Argentina. We continue to be the market leader in Brazil,
notwithstanding that we've been quite disciplined on the pricing side and lost some share, as you
can see. We held Latin leadership in the A segment, which is historically the strongest segment
for the Fiat brand. And we have expanded our leadership in LCV and pickup, building on the
Strada presence in the smaller pickups with the launch of the new Toro pickup in the second half
of the year.
And with Jeep coming in also from the Pernambuco plant, we've been able to get to 20% share
of the SUV segment. So, overall, that important contribution of positive mix from the vehicles
coming out of Pernambuco helped us to offset the impact of volume in the more traditional
segments where Fiat played in the past and allowed us, together with some very aggressive cost
actions on the cost structure in Bateem (18:08), to get to a breakeven for the full year, an
improvement year-over-year.
Moving to Asia Pacific. The industry was up, with China up 15%. Group combined sales increased
by 8% with our share flat, notwithstanding that we lost volume in Australia as we continue to price
to try and offset the Aussie dollar deterioration over the last few years.
The Jeep brand represented 76% of our regional sales and was up 50% year-over-year, driven by
the local production of Cherokee and Renegade. And our combined shipments, including the JV,
were up 23% year-over-year.
So, if you look at the walk across on adjusted EBIT, you can see the consolidated volume came
down but was offset by the SG&A positive, which is basically a shift of sales and marketing
expenses into the JV, where the activity is now managed. And then, the positive impact of the JV
results coming into the other line there, driving the €150 million improvement year-over-year. So,
we get to a 2.9% margin with €100 million, compared to the €52 million we made last year.
Moving on to EMEA. I think, together with Maserati, probably one of the best story for the 2016
numbers, we had – we more than doubled our EBIT year-over-year, getting to 2.5% margin for
the year. And that was driven by a significant performance from the new Fiat Tipo family of
products, very strong performance from Jeep with the Renegade, and lastly, the launch of the
Alfa Romeo Giulia. And LCV also performed well year-over-year, growing some share and
continuing to show our strength in that segment.
We obviously spent more money launching the products, but overall, I think getting to 2.5%
margin was a good performance. But clearly, we still have opportunity to improve as we look at
some of the competitors' margins in the EMEA region.
Then Maserati, also had a very strong second half with the success of the Levante. We got to
42,000 units shipped, of which about 15,000 were Levante. And so, our adjusted EBIT, driven by
that improved mix was up three-folds to €339 million and a nearly 10% margin for the year. I think
also importantly, our distribution channels are in very good shape. Our inventory is in good shape
looking into 2017, as we continue to launch this brand with the new impetus off of the new
Levante products.
Moving to page 15 on the components side, I think a strong performance from Marelli, which
continues to improve its volumes and its margins, and drove the 60-basis-point improvement, up
to 4.6% for the year, and continue to be around 70% non-captive business in Marelli, as lighting
and powertrain continue to compete well in the market.So, that's for 2016 performance. The next few slides, I'll just take stock a little bit on where we are
and why we feel 2017 and 2018 targets are achievable. So, page 17, just very quickly, not to dwell
on the past, but clearly, we have come a long way since 2014 and I think, most importantly, we've
significantly reduced our net industrial debt down to the €4.6 billion, where the original plan
issued in May 2014 had a €10 billion number at about this time. So, obviously, there was the Ferrari
spend, there was the mandatory (22:30) convertible, also improved operating cash flow both last
year and this year, driving that improvement.
And I think moving on to page 18, just quickly to show we're not expecting any miracles from any
of the markets. I think keeping that to flat for 2017 and 2018 is a very reasonable call on the U.S.
market. APAC and China, showing some slow growth continuing. Latin America, some level of
recovery we expect to come in the second half of 2017, but we are prepared, if necessary, for a
slower trend from Brazil. And I think EMEA, continuing to show some level of positive trend as
we've seen in 2016. And we have now the product to be able to continue to improve our share
performance.
Page 19 just reiterates the 2017 guidance that I talked about on the first page. I think we do
expect first quarter to be a difficult comparative to last year, in large part because NAFTA, we
have Compass, Patriot down in Belvidere as we start to prepare for the Cherokee installation
there. And so we'll be looking at a tough first quarter.
But I think overall for the year, we do have a number of product launches which I mentioned
earlier, and you can see on the bottom of this slide, which will allow us to continue the progress
shown in 2016 particularly in EMEA in Maserati and with Alfa on a global scale. So, we feel we have
the product to continue the trend of improvement that we've shown. And I think we'll be very
focused also on the cost equation in NAFTA. Obviously, NAFTA doesn't have the same level of
renewal of product as we've had in the past. We do have some important launches coming at the
end of 2017, the beginning of 2018. I think 2017 is going to be very focused on continuing to
improve our mix performance with the current product and also working on the cost equation.
Moving to page 20, the message on this slide is principally that to get from the €4.6 billion of net
industrial debt at the end of 2016 to the net cash position that we are targeting for the end of
2018, clearly the key driver is generation of EBITDA. Our 2016 EBITDA was about €12 billion. We're
looking at a target of above €13.5 billion for 2017, and then above €16.5 billion for 2018, so,
generally, that €30 billion you can see on the first column here of adjusted industrial EBITDA
driven by the businesses we've already talked about. And I think that's clearly the key driver.
We're not planning for working capital to be the key driver. Most of the working capital impact in
the two years will be in the second year, I think. But I think we're looking at a solid EBITDA growth
continuing, with CapEx flat at about €8.5 billion to €9 billion a year to get us to our next cash
target.
And then finally, the last page is 21. Basically, we iterate that our planned guidance target stands.
The sort of growth we're looking at here, an annual growth rate in 2016 to 2018 is comparable to
the type of growth we saw from 2013 to 2016 and about 23%, 24%. Clearly, the drivers are
different. We had a growing market in the U.S. in the first part of the plan. But I think we have, in
the second part, a more robust portfolio of businesses. We have less dependence on NAFTA for
the growth in 2017 and 2018. And Maserati, Alfa and the other regions will help us to continue the
growth that we have see thus far.
So, with that, I'll close the presentation and hand it back to the operator to take questions. Thank
you.Q&A
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, today's question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically. We
would take our first question from John Murphy of Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please go
ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Good morning, guys. First question on the 2017 and 2018 outlook. Obviously, this looks a little bit
optimistic to us and I think it's admirable that you're increasing these (27:41) targets. I'm just
curious as you fight the clock (27:46) on the North American cycle specifically, if you saw the
market deteriorate a little bit and this 2018 outlook may not be achievable to 2019 and 2020, are
there any levers that you may pull on the cost or product or pricing side to try to hit this in 2018?
I'm just trying to understand if sort of the market dynamics don't shape up quite as well as you
think they might be, if you just would accept that you might just hit these targets a year or two
later and not going to rush to get there.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Just to be clear, I'm not sure where your level of skepticism about 2018 comes from, but I think
that we have a relatively benign view of the NAFTA market in 2017 and 2018. And I don't think we
would see any sort of upheaval on the demand function in U.S. especially after the recent election
and the focus that the President of the United States has placed on economic growth for the
United States. So, I feel relatively comfortable over the next 24 months. At least from a volume
standpoint that's going to be relatively benign. They may not – and I think our forecast reflected
some of the – they may replicate what we saw in 2016, but they're certainly within range.
One of the things about the 2018 plan is that, as you well know it's the composite of a set of
targets that have come across from the regions. I think that we have been prudent both in terms
of EMEA and Latin America in terms of expectations, and I think that there is potential upside
from those regions in terms of delivery of performance. As Richard mentioned, Maserati has
delivered, certainly, numbers that are consistent with our original expectations, but they also
indicate that this is a business which, when cycling with a limited product range up to about
75,000 to 80,000 vehicles a year, can probably produce one (29:57) in excess of €1 billion of
EBIT. And I think that these are important elements of the composition of our earnings profile in
2018.
So, if you would ask me today, do I have reservations about the ability to deliver the composite
number? The answer is no. I am going to be dead-on in terms of the exact origin of those
numbers I made. There may be deviations, but some will not differ in my view.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. Maybe if I could just ask a follow-up on that. I mean, as we look at it, is there an absolute
need to be at that net cash position in 2018 given what you see going on in the macro
environment? I guess it's maybe the more specific question. Or if you hit this in 2019 – and
obviously, you want to hit your targets so I understand that. But is there something that you see
that you absolutely need to be in this net cash position in 2018 that would lead you to take some
kind of action in case the macro was not shaping up or the market dynamics is not shaping up for
you to hit that number.A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
No. I mean, I think that whatever adjustments that we would have to make, we would do anyway.
And we have done these sort of in the past on a regional basis to try and adapt to market
conditions. I think the achievement of the 2018 net cash number was a fundamental and integral
part of the plan. The capital that is being committed in 2017 and 2018 is capital that will not see
benefits accrued 31:26) to the P&L well into 2019 or 2020. And these are commitments that I
made to ensure that there's a day after the completion of the plan, that there is life after the
schmuck steps down. And so, I would be very leary to try and talk back the profile – the intent of
the plan was to allow FCA to join the ranks of the respectable in the OEM space. I mean, we were
the only ones that were levered given our origin. I think we have gone a long way in sort of
gaining part of that respectability back. We need to complete the task and we need to put €5
billion on the balance sheet. I mean, it's that simple.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. And then just a second to the last question. I mean, as we look at the truck market in the
U.S., it's holding together fairly well, but there has been some comments from companies like
Ford and other market participants, I think you kind of endorsed these to some degree that the
truck market pricing has been a little bit more competitive. I was wondering if you can comment
on that. And also, just sort of the leasing levels you're seeing in crossovers and pickup trucks at
this point, what you're doing and what you're seeing in the market.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
No. We are in the – just the deal with the leasing (32:38) the extent that we don't run a captive,
our ability to excess leasing and to make that a viable part of our offering strategy is somewhat
limited because, obviously, whenever we build that into our pricing equation in terms of a lease
portfolio offerings in a marketplace, we end up realizing our expenses and (32:58) And so, we
have been reluctant and leery to engage in heavy usage of leasing and most of the residual risk
associated with those, not all of it, is not fitting on our balance sheet. Having said that, we have
seen leasing being used by others in an aggressive fashion to maintain share.
I see nothing disturbing on the truck side that I will not consider to be the normal competitive
behavior. I think we're all – it's a market that is run fundamentally by three large players. And I think
it continues to be disciplined. It continues to be incredibly competitive as it has been for a while.
But I have not seen anything that's structurally dysfunctional in the marketplace to get me to
worry.
The good thing about this plan is that we're eight quarters away from completion. So, we'll have
a chance to update you on what we see in the marketplace as we go through this. But as of now, I
will not be a crying wolf (34:02).
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
I'm sorry. And just one last real quick one. When you look at the way that Ford is discussing their
outlook for how Trump's policies which would be the border tax adjustments and sort of a whole
bunch of other policies might be a net positive for them. Maybe you kind of run the same sort of
scenario analysis as we look at the various puts and takes between border tax adjustments,
interest deductibility and lower tax rates and how that would impact you if you would be in a
similar situation or – it does attribute for the industry at large, it might be a net negative, but
curious on your take.A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
I'm a – by the way, somebody just flashed me a copy of the Ford earnings release, and I'm trying
to compare it to our measly PowerPoint presentation. The day I stop putting my picture on the
press release, I think, is the day that you should probably go in the other direction in terms of
holding the position long or short. There's no doubt that the full delivery of the set of financial –
the set of economic parameters that President Trump has raised are overall positive for us. I
mean, this whole notion of deductibility of capital that the border tax adjustments, if properly
executed with symmetrical treatment of revenues and cost of goods sold, if all those things were
to happen including a reduction in corporate rates, these things are all bottom-line accretive.
It is very difficult even after a meeting that I attended in Washington a couple of days ago. I'm
unsure as to what part of that package, if any, is going to get rolled out. And I think we intend to
work with President Trump and his staff to try and sort of at least give them our view as to what
the impact is. Overall, the sum of all of them is very positive.
What concerns me is the asymmetrical treatment of some of these proposals, especially on the
border tax side. And so, we need to – we have run the numbers. Overall, they're good things. Not
many of them are doable within which period of time we're talking about here. This is a two-year
view after the end of 2018. I just don't know whether some or any of them will work their way
through the 2018 numbers. That's why I think we presented them reflecting the current state of
affairs. But the policy direction that is being taken by President Trump is something that we
appreciate.
And Mark, apart from joking on (36:39) Mark's picture, Mark was clear when he met with the
press on the way out from The White House over the fact that we appreciated the President's
repeal of any effort to try and introduce (36:52). That's something that we share. Directionally, we
have – I think it was a good thing. And as part of an overall economic framework, we're moving in
the right direction. So, overall, positive, and if it does get executed, I think it will benefit us at the
end.
Q - `John J. Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. Thank you very much.
Operator
We will take our next question from `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS of UBS. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS `
Yes. Thank you. Good morning, good afternoon, and thanks for taking my questions. My first
question relates to the EBIT bridge 2017 that's about €1 billion uplift year-over-year. You've talked
about product launches driving that growth. Can you give us an indication what sort of pricing
situation you have baked in, in particular for the NAFTA market. That's the A part of the question.
The B part relates to the growth in net income and adjusted net income that you're guiding for
which is about €0.5 billion. I appreciate that you have to pay taxes on the incremental EBIT. But
nonetheless, in light of debt reductions and, as a consequence, reduced interest payments, I
would have expected the net income line to increase a bit faster. Is there any offsetting tax item
that we should be prepared for 2017? That's my first question.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `Yeah. I'm answering on behalf of Richard Palmer. Richard Palmer is stashing again.
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
I could be. I think we all have relatively prudent view on the tax rate, Patrick. So, whatever is going
to work on that as we go through the year. It obviously depends on the mix of the earnings
themselves. But I think, yeah, I agree with you that if we hit these numbers then we would expect
to the potential upside on the difference between adjusted EBIT and net income.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS `
Okay. Thank you. And on pricing assumptions for the EBIT bridge 2017?
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
Yeah. I mean, I think, as we mentioned before the U.S market we expect to continue in a similar
trend to what we've seen in 2016. So, the overall pricing environment has been very competitive.
But I think we've seen us being able, as an industry, to increase average transaction prices as new
products are launched. And so, we are looking at some launches in 2017. I think at the end of 2017,
beginning of 2018, we have some significant launches which will allow us to continue that trend.
But I think for us, in NAFTA, the key is to continue to work on driving positive mix on truck and on
jeep and working on the cost equation with prices being at a similar trend to 2016.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS `
Okay. Thank you. My second question regarding 2018, your EBITDA guidance, €30 billion. You're
saying you expect €13.5 in 2017. That suggests obviously €16.5 million in 2018, another €3 billion.
Can you remind us on the products side – I mean, it's the big launch here of the new Ram 1500. Is
that going to be the predominant driver in getting you another €3 billion EBITDA year-over-year?
Or is there anything else that we should be aware of?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
The new Wrangler is launching at the end of this year.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS `
Okay. But I guess the lion's share would be with the Ram 1500?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
I think it's equally shared between Ram 1500 and the Wrangler.
And then the final question...
There are other factors are impacting on their growth. But from the products side, the single
largest contributors are those two.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS `
All right. Thank you. And finally, it seems President Trump puts a strong emphasis on doing
investments and creating jobs in the U.S. Based on the meeting you had with the President and –
yeah, I'm just interested in your thinking at this point in the cycle, you're obviously doing your
investments anyway in retooling Sterling Heights. Is there any potential investment you would beconsidering on top of this? And in light of that we are sort of at a plateau situation in the U.S.
market, are you ready to commit any additional budget for investments in the U.S. as needed?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
One of the things that we announced as part of the industrialization of the Wrangler pickup truck
out of the Toledo region was that the completion of the industrial realignment plan and the
refurbishing of warrant which currently makes the Ram 1500, with the introduction of the Jeep
Grand Cherokee would have actually made that architecture available for further utilization.
And one of the things the press release made reference to is the fact that although there is no
commitment to do so, this realignment will allow at the relevant time for the U.S. manufacturer of
the Ram heavy-duty truck, which is currently being produced in Mexico.
When taken through its full expansion as possible, that if we were to find the right economic
environment to do so, whether it's in terms of taxation or incentives or otherwise, that we will find
– that we will be in a position to strengthen our pickup – our U.S. manufacturing of pickup trucks in
a significant way starting with a heavy-duty truck, which could start as early as 2019 or 2020.
But we need to see more in terms of the deployment of the economic plan that President Trump
has in mind. I think our willingness to follow the president and his direction was made clear even
before he announced – even before our meeting early this week. And I think we have the
wherewithal now, because of what we've started doing and the completion of that work which will
be visible by the end of 2018.
We effectively entertain a repatriation of the truck manufacturing back in the U.S., and which has
been one of those things that has been anomalous about the split of roles between United
States and Mexico now for a number of years, with such a large portion of the pick-up truck
market being manufactured in Mexico.
We will continue to look at this. I mean, there's no commitment on my end to get it done. But
certainly, the infrastructure to accomplish that shift is in place. And I think, properly motivated, it
could be executed relatively quickly by FCA.
Q - `Patrick Hummel, Analyst, UBS `
Okay. Very clear. Thanks very much.
Operator
We will take our next question from Adam Jonas of Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.
Q - `Adam Michael Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Hey, guys and Sergio. Sergio, you may be a lot of things, but you are not a schmuck. From what I
understand, I believe that Trump – well, actually, I'm going to quote you, I'm going to quote you. I
think you said a couple – few days ago, from what I understand, I believe Trump should like a GM-
Chrysler tie-up. I think you said that. How did you come to that understanding? And did you
actually talk to him about that?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Well, let me answer. I never spoke to President Trump about that option.Q - `Adam Michael Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Okay.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
And I did not use any sort of Ouija board or prognostication techniques that are really that weird. I
mean, the benefit of that tie-up – and I don't want to spend a lot of time on this, because it's not
in the cards. I think we've gone through this before. It's been turned down. We were rejected. I
get all that. And I think we – I don't want this house to be disturbed by anything other than the
accomplishment of the 2018 plan. I mean, this is the only priority we have.
But, as a beer conversation at a bar, one of the things – the reason why that comment was made,
and I made it en passant to somebody, was that – I think it was the press. But it was – it's clearly
indicated that a tie-up of that caliber will create the largest American car company. And it will
create the largest car company on the world and it will be American-based. And if I follow this
argument about America first, it doesn't take a rocket scientist to associate the creation of that
entity within American soil.
But we should – by the way, I made these comments and I said these are – this is just cocktail
conversation. It's irrelevant vis-à-vis the plan. I don't want our people inside our house to be
worried about this. Things that are inevitable will ultimately happen. If it's in the cards, it will
transact at a relevant point in time. It is irrelevant vis-à-vis the accomplishment of 2018.
Q - `Adam Michael Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
That's it. That's all I have. Thanks.
Operator
We will take our next question from `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA of Equita. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
Thank you. Good morning. Good afternoon, everybody. My first question is on the slide number
20, regarding the free cash flow. And the bulk of the improvement is related to EBITDA and
working capital. And I was wondering, what is the underlying volume assumption? I remember
that the original assumption was in excess of 6 million units, and you already answered clearly
that the main driver will be mix.
But maybe, in order to offset the presumably lower volumes, there will be also some contribution
from costs, presumably ForEx. And also, if you could provide us, what is the underlying
assumption?
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
Hi, Martino. I don't want to give a target on a volume basis. I think we are focused on producing
the EBITDA and the cash flow. I think, as we talked about the different businesses, clearly, the
(47:43) is the product that we're bringing in to the marketplace, and the performance that that
creates. We have, at the end of 2017 and beginning of 2018, as we just mentioned, some key
launches in the NAFTA market being the new Wrangler and the new light duty truck, which will
allow us to grow the NAFTA position in SUV and in truck. And also, with the increase in capacity on
the Wrangler, to further globalize the Jeep brand.So, that's going to give us volumes and margins. And I think we also are looking at growth coming
out of EMEA and Maserati that we've seen this year also giving us further contributions as we
consolidate on the introduction of Jeep and the introduction of the Levante.
So, I don't want to get into giving you an Excel spreadsheet version of the variance analysis. But I
think that we've given you the broad brush targets by segment back in January 2016. And we are
confirming that, broad brush, we're continuing with our strategy, and nothing has substantially
changed. And as we mentioned earlier, the capital has been spent and the products are coming.
So, there are no big changes that we can make on the product end. (49:23) And so, we just need
to execute to get to the targets that we outlined in January 2016 and which we're confirming now.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
Okay. Thank you. And a second question on Alfa Romeo. If you could provide us an update on its
contribution, what portion of CapEx were spent so far, and how the new distribution network –
global distribution network is progressing? Thank you.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Let me answer the easy questions, and then the other – first question, I do not know the answer
to. But Richard must have some idea. I would assume that our number is in excess of €2.5 billion
that were spent on the relaunch of Alfa, and I think that he's trying to – (50:09) so it must be €2.5
billion because of the two cars that were launched.
In terms of contribution in 2016, it was negative. It's expected to be negative in 2017. We're still
going through the ramp-up phase. As I mentioned to you, the investment in Alfa Romeo, and
certainly the technical investment in the architecture, was (50:30) benefit more than Alfa in and
by itself effectively. And I'll repeat this again for the record, it is designed to provide the technical
underpinnings for the whole Maserati development going forward, certainly beyond 2018.
For the large UV vehicles that are going to be made available to Jeep, and for the rear-wheel
drive cars that will eventually replace the current fleet of Dodge vehicles that are being sold in
NAFTA. So, it was a wide ranging exercise which is going to – as all these things work, it's going to
take time to implement and execute a variety – through a variety of brands and applications.
The development of the network is going well. We have made good progress in the United
States. We're beginning to make significant progress now in Asia Pacific. The European network
has pretty well been cleaned up. I think the pairing of Alfa and Jeep has represented premium
offerings and their context is beginning to take hold. So, distribution is not going to be our
problem, I don't think. I think we need to be very careful that we launch products which are
consistent with the newly re-established DNA of the brand, and I feel comfortable that both the
Giulia and the Stelvio are very, very good first starts into that venture.
I can tell you that if you read – and again, I ask you, if you are bored stiff and you want to go read
car magazines and evaluation of the performance of the Giulia, then you will find that it's been
set. (52:06) The Giulia does set the new standard of performance in that segment of vehicles.
I expect that the Stelvio will eventually be recognized from the same level of contribution to the
automotive landscape. So, I'm happy about what has happened. I'm happy about the way in which
the cars are rolling out, and I'm happy that we have finally found clarity of thoughts, and the
extension of these architectures will be on the Alfa.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `Okay. Thank you.
Operator
We will take our next question from `Rod Lache, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. of Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Hi, everyone. Two things I wanted to ask about. One is, I believe the biggest driver of the 2018
improvement is the – or the drivers – would be the capacity realignment in NAFTA, the new
products here. And I think also some Latin America margin improvement that you've spoken
about before. Can you give us any thoughts on some of the key drivers? I think you've said
before, or I know you've said before there's 600,000 units being realigned in NAFTA between
Sterling Heights and Toledo North but presumably not all of that is available in 2018. And then
what the key drivers might be in LATAM if you're not expecting a dramatic improvement from a
macro perspective?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
If I can just – Rod, if I can just add at least to the first sort of assumptions that you made about the
capacity realignment in the U.S. One of the things and this is something that should be totally
certainly understood by our competitors. This capacity realignment that we have instituted by
effectively lessening the reliance on manufacturing of passenger cars and shifting most to the
U.S., if not all of the U.S., network to SUVs and pickup trucks.
In addition to the potential benefit of serving the U.S. market, it has, as a primary objective that of
strengthening the export capabilities of the United States. We have gone for a long period of
time for all the upper-end vehicles of Jeep. We have suffered from the inability to provide
products internationally. And so, both the Wrangler and the Grand Cherokee have been severely
curtailed in terms of international sales. The realignment of the footprint is going to unleash the
possibility of using those assets more intelligently.
The one product that has not had that problem for a variety of reasons also because of lack of
attention has been the Cherokee and this is something that we, by moving it to Belvidere now,
we will have both the capacity and phenomenally focused approach to try and turn that into a
similar success story as the Grand Cherokee and the Wrangler have been.
But the upside to the story on the realignment of the U.S. footprint has been the export
capabilities out of the U.S. And it's a significant portion of the benefit that accrues to us. It comes
to us at a lesser margin but in terms of utilization of plant infrastructure. It is phenomenally helpful.
And it is one of the reasons why I think we expect to be able to improve margin in a market in the
United States which we consider best to be flat or in line with 2016. There were the same type of
competitive characteristics that have characterized the performance of the business in the last
couple of years.
So, we should not be focusing on the U.S. market as being the absolute necessity for this plan to
be accomplished. I think the industrial realignment was absolutely necessary to allow us to do a
variety of things, one of which was to serve the U.S. market.
But on the Brazilian story, I'll get Richard to give you a view about what's coming down the pipe in
terms of 2017 and 2018, which is significant because now that we've launched the Pernambucoplant and it's running three products, I think we have shifted our attention to the sort of classic
mass market options that were available out of Betim.
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
Yeah. I think the first thing is that Pernambuco did about 110,000 units last year. So, even in a
relatively flat market, we believe that with the two Jeeps and the Toro out of Pernambuco, we
continue to grow performance out of that plant. And clearly, as we've mentioned before, that
plant is the main driver of profitability in Latin America for us.
The second point is Betim. We do have some key launches coming for renewals of some of the
key vehicles out of our Betim plant, which have been in the past the bedrock of the Fiat brand.
We had sort of delayed the investments there to focus on the introduction of Jeep and the
pickup out of Pernambuco. But we are going to be investing in Betim. They are not that significant
investments as compared to Pernambuco. So, we're making incremental improvements in the
product and in the powertrains also for improved performance. But Betim will start to improve as
we get into 2018.
And then also Argentina; we have seen a good financial performance out of Argentina, which is
contributing positively to our LatAm result. And we really need also to extend our Latin America
coverage to the rest of Latin America where, historically, we have had limited focus because of
both the fact that Brazil was out of capacity, and also, we didn't necessarily have the right sort of
product offerings to be competitive.
So, I think we have an opportunity also there to satisfy demand which in the past we haven't. So,
those things, I think, will all occur and improve our performance even in a relatively and exciting
growth of the market. And clearly, if we do see any sort of improvement in economic conditions
then a return to the sorts of market levels that we have seen in the past then I think we're very
well positioned, but we're not – we're not assuming that's going to happen. I think the key is for
us to – first of all, max out Pernambuco; secondly, promote the brands into the rest of Latin
America because we do have capacity now. And then, at the same time, we're making our
product portfolio in Betim renewed.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Yeah. Go ahead.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
(59:25) by Richard. One of the things that has never happened because of historical constraints
from demand and supply conditions in Brazil is that we have never been able to use the South
American plants as export hub. And so, some of the products is making its way into Brazil now is
Brazilian origin. I think we need to find better ways to use that infrastructure to effectively gain
global distribution. And so, this is a part of a big task.
We have Davide Mele with us here. He was attending this meeting – the last meeting that he's
attending in his current capacity. I'm not sure exactly (59:57) or something. But Davide is making
his way down to Brazil as Deputy Chief Operating Officer. I think he has worked there in the past
and he's going to be down there in a couple weeks to take on the role. And I feel relatively
comfortable that with him and Stefan they will be able to drive a much better performance at
Latin America and not just in terms of the Brazilian context but to make this globally relevant.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `Okay. And just a second question if I may. We've – and I think others have done some calculations
on what order taxes specifically could do to the cost of an average car sold or vehicle sold, I
should say, in the U.S. And the numbers are north of $2,000 of vehicles, something like $2,300 to
$2,600 increase in cost per vehicle, for Fiat Chrysler, significantly less.
As the – just given that, but at the same time, you're the only one of the Detroit Three paying
cash taxes right now. Do you think that this policy – that the order tax adjustments specifically
could have competitive implications for you versus the D3 or you versus others? And it sounds
like you are acknowledging that it could have some implications for capital spending in the future.
Is that correct?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Rod, your question is loaded. I'm just going to avoid playing with it because of the historical – of
the origins of the tax (1:01:33) of my colleagues in Detroit. As you well know, we were not blessed
with an endowment, so we've had to scratch our way out of the grave and we never had that
dowry available for utilization. But I'll get – I think that it does have implications vis-à-vis our capital
commitments – the potential capital commitments that we're making in the U.S. post 2018.
And I'll get Richard to answer the specific question on the border-type (1:02:03) differential.
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
Well, I think on the border-type (1:02:09) differential, clearly we have – the overall net impact to us
of imports and exports is balanced by our ability to manage both the U.S. plants for export to
Canada and Mexico and vice versa, we have the volume going the other way. I don't think we are
significantly different to General Motors in that configuration.
I think as we go forward, we are making Jeeps for global distribution out of the U.S. And as we
globalize the Jeep brand, I think we have possibility to continue to improve that position and help
our overall impact on any border tax impact.
So, given the lack of clarity of exactly what the mechanism could be, I don't really want to get into
a dollars per unit discussion. I think the globalization of Jeep gives us a lever which is important in
our ability to maintain competitivity in the presence of that type of tax mechanism.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. And by the way, it's unique to us here and because the globalized reach of Jeep is – I mean
is pretty well established now. We crossed 1,400,000 mark in 2016. We need to whack over
1,600,000 cars up by the end of 2017, and we should be hitting the 2 million number by 2018,
with Jeep coming on relatively stronger with the U.S. infrastructure and the rest of China.
So, I think overall, of the three, we are the ones that could potentially benefit most as we go
through the expansion plans on Jeep. But as Richard said, let's wait for the details to come out
and then we'll be able to make a more intelligent call.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Great. Thank you.
OperatorWe will take our next question from `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore of Evercore. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore `
Hi. Good afternoon. I have two questions. First is just on raw materials. We've clearly seen a move
in the spot rate on major raw materials between the average last year and where they are today.
What more (1:04:35) raw material headwind do you expecting through (1:04:36) next year?
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
We're expecting around €300 million of impact negative in 2017 compared to 2016,
notwithstanding that I think, as we've been talking about, we're making a lot of progress on our
ability to improve both our technical and commercial savings on a more global product portfolio
that we now have in place. So, we would expect to more than offset that number overall. But
there is definitely a negative impact year-over-year because of steel prices in particular.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore `
Okay. Thank you. And then the second question was just very specifically around the Jeep
Cherokee and the sales performance in the U.S. in Q4. It looks like Cherokee sales were down
around 35% year-on-year. Could you perhaps just speak to the dynamics around the Cherokee?
Was it just that you're pulling out of some leasing or less profitable business or is there an
explanation you can provide for that?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
The simple answer is that we have withdrawn that car from the fleet pool that were made
otherwise available through fleet sales. And that shows the – and that's really has an impact on
absolute numbers. The profitability of the process has been improved on a per unit basis, but
(1:06:07) gone down.
The interesting thing about Cherokee is that that is the single largest issue that we need to deal
with in 2017. As we walk into the MCA (1:06:18) and launch again in 2018 with a refreshed look for
the Cherokee, we need to make sure that that car is nurtured through the distribution channels in
2017, not just in the United States but internationally.
The move to the Belvidere plant, which was designed to provide additional capacity, needs to be
fully justified that we need to use that capacity to try and accompany the rest of the Jeep brand
as it reaches outside the U.S. into the global market.
So, that, Manley, who has now been repatriated from his APAC assignment has got that as his
primary task in 2017. So, I expect a much better performance than you've seen at least
numerically coming out of the U.S. in 2016.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore `
Great. Very helpful. Thank you.
Operator
We will take our next question from `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Banca IMI of Banca IMI. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Banca IMI `Yes. So, thank you for taking my question. I would have – can you hear me well?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Banca IMI `
Okay, perfect. Just two quick questions. The first is, could you please quantify if it's possible the
Obamacare cost in 2015, and the second one is maybe it's too early to ask, but do you plan to
account some potential provisions from the EPA fine in 2017?
And I have also two more general questions. One is on Europe and Brazil. Do you see still further
room of improvement in margins in EMEA given the stable situation and outlook in 2017? And
what do you think about a potential margin in Brazil even in the worst case scenario which means
flat volumes?
And the very last question is just your feeling. What could happen in case of complete
repatriation of the plants? So, it's just my question. What do you believe could be the net final
impact on the automotive sector if the manufacturing footprint might be moved from Mexico to
U.S.A. net for net? And could this accelerate a consolidation trend? Thank you very much.
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
Monica, I'm afraid I don't know the cost of Obamacare. So, we'll get back to you on that one. I
don't think it's that relevant for our financial performance. But I don't have it here.
In terms of the EPA, obviously, we have a discussion at year end. We don't have any elements to
make any sort of provision at this stage or – and so, obviously, we'll be following it through as it
develops. But, at this stage, we haven't booked any provision.
In terms of European margin, I think we have – we've seen a good performance in 2016 from the
EMEA team. And getting to 2.5% was a good year-over-year improvement. We are still a ways
away from some of our competition's margins in the same jurisdiction. And I think we are, as we
talked about, forecasting that the EMEA market should continue to have slow but positive trend
into 2017 from a total market point of view. And we are going to continue to work on the launches
of the new products that we had in 2016 for the full year for Tipo and the full year for Compass,
full year for the Fullback.
And so we have, I think, Pollock (1:10:36) and the full year for (1:10:38) all of those things are going
to help us to continue the progression in margins as we try and close the gap to competition.
Brazil margins in a worst case, to some extent, hope would be that we've just seen it. We're
breakeven in 2016. The market was pretty horrible. I think we took a lot of actions on cost. We
have been ramping up Pernambuco, but it's not – it wasn't a – we didn't have a full portfolio in the
plant for the year. But I think, as we go forward, we would expect to improve the profitability in
Brazil, given the opportunities from Pernambuco in particular, and the other things that I talked
about earlier.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Banca IMI `
Yeah. But...
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `Sorry?
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Banca IMI `
Sorry. We just – let's say that, taking into account your outlook for Brazil, taking into account
Pernambuco and the fiscal incentives, the introduction of the two new Jeeps, et cetera, can we
assume that we can achieve at least a mid single-digit margin, or I'm totally wrong?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
A mid-single-digit margin, anything in excess of zero up to...
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Banca IMI `
Okay.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
... 9.9? It will be in – okay (1:12:14), I'll take the range. But just to kill the other question that you've
asked, which I think is going to send Richard into apoplectic. The question about repatriation of all
the manufacturing footprint into the United States has got monumental consequences to the
industry overall. And I – given the smallest guy out of Detroit, I should not be the one that's being
asked to answer that question. I think there are repercussions that go well beyond FCA.
And since you've got – Mark Fields is going to be on the air in about 45 minutes. You should ask
Mark. I agreed with that – with him, when I saw him in Washington, that if I couldn't answer any
questions, I would ask you to pass it on to him. He's got 45 minutes to get an answer ready, so by
all means, ask Mark.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Banca IMI `
Okay. Okay. Thank you very much.
Operator
We'll take our next question from Charles Winston of Redburn. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.
Q - `Charles Alastair Winston, Analyst, Redburn (Europe) Ltd. `
Yeah. Hi. Good afternoon. Charles from Redburn. Just two for me. Thank you. The first one is the
– basically the other activities, the eliminations, that number, which I think was minus 511 (1:13:27) in
the year, and about minus 250 (1:13:30), I think, in the fourth quarter. It's a pretty simple question.
What is it? It's gone up a lot since last year, and it was pretty big in the fourth quarter. If you could
help us understand what's in that number? It's now getting quite sizeable. And where that might
go in the next year or two would be useful.
And the second question is just on that small negative pricing that we saw for the NAFTA region
in the fourth quarter. Can you just confirm that was all an FX impact, and that underlying pricing
net of FX was still largely positive, or was there some elements of pricing in there? And if there
was, was it any – relation to any particular products on that number? Thank you.
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `So, the eliminations (1:14:16) is principally eliminations, and also includes intercompany profit
eliminations, and also includes launch cost of the Alfa Romeo Giulia Platform. So, as we've been
working on that launch, we haven't been debiting the cost to the regions yet, because they
haven't been getting any vehicles. And as we go into 2017 now, we will be assigning, based on
sales, both the revenues and the cost of those vehicles to the regions. But as we were in the
launch phase, we held those centrally. So, that's why there's an increase year-over-year.
Then the price question, in NAFTA, yeah, there is exchange on Canada and Mexico. The fourth
quarter pricing trend was pretty much in line with the prior year trend, although we did have a
quite a competitive few months on the pickup in Q4. I think the ebbs and flows of the seasonality
of pickup with year-end market increases are fairly normal. But I don't think we saw anything that
concerns us going into 2017 for NAFTA.
Q - `Charles Alastair Winston, Analyst, Redburn (Europe) Ltd. `
Got it. Can I just very quickly follow up on the eliminations? What region are we mostly eliminating
from? In other words, that's an elimination of a profit that you've shown in a region, and then
you're eliminating it out. Is there any particular region? I mean, would I be right to assume it's
mostly stuff we're eliminating out from NAFTA, or is it from another region?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
Q - `Charles Alastair Winston, Analyst, Redburn (Europe) Ltd. `
Thank you.
Operator
We will take our next question from `Richard Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar, Inc. (Research) of Morningstar. Please go ahead. Your line is
open.
Q - `Richard Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar, Inc. (Research) `
Thanks for taking my question this morning. Halfway through the plan, you've gotten away from
discussing the shipments and increased the revenue number up to €136 billion. With the release
of the results here in this quarter, we've seen, on the different regions, the volume and mix bars
are pretty much green, with shipments being pretty much negative relative to the amount or
degree of change in volume and mix.
That €136 billion at the end of the plan, the mix that we're looking at, is this something that's
going to be dependent wholly on China? Is the mix got to change substantially in NAFTA? And
also in South America and all the different regions, or is there one or two regions in particular that
make a big difference? That's the first question. What's going on with the mix versus the number
of shipments?
And then, on the CapEx, going at a run rate of €8 billion to €9 billion throughout 2018 now, a lot
of that being spent on developing the product portfolio, getting plants outside of the U.S. up and
running, what kind of a run rate for CapEx, once we get past this additional incremental spending
that's been going on throughout this five-year plan, what does it look like beyond 2018? Does it
pull back from this level, or is this kind of a run rate that we should expect for the next few years
afterwards?A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
Hi. In terms of volume mix, Richard, you're right about the 2016 over 2015 performance being
driven by a lot of mix improvement. I think as we go into the 2017, 2018 period, we're going to
see volume improvements coming from Alfa, from Maserati, from Jeep, to get to the 2 million
number, and those are all driven by product launches. We have the NAFTA realignment to help us
with that, plus the extra capacity we talked about earlier.
I think Latin America, we aren't expecting it to go back to 3.6 million vehicles in Brazil in terms of
the market, but we are expecting some improvement there as well. So, the improvement in
revenues is driven by mix improvements, continuing that also by volumes, as particularly – as we
get to the second half of 2017 and 2018.
The other question on CapEx. I think you're right, we have been going through a fairly intensive
product renewal and manufacturing footprint upgrade over the last few years. It's a good
question, as we look at 2019, 2020 in terms of spending, where we think we're going to be. I
think, on a prudent level, from a planning point of view, we're looking at spending, between
CapEx and R&D, about €10.5 billion as we look to all of the (1:19:51) expense R&D.
I think it's likely that, from a planning point of view, we are looking at relatively stable level of
spend through 2018, and then we'll look at the amount of investment we'll need on the
technology side from R&D. And I think we'll see a change in the mix from more – less capital on
plants and platforms, and more of the R&D on the technology side, as we apply that technology
across the portfolio, which – for which the platforms we are implementing have been designed.
Q - `Richard Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar, Inc. (Research) `
Okay. Very good. Thank you very much.
Operator
Our final question comes from Philippe Houchois of Jefferies. Please go ahead. Your line is open.
Q - `Philippe Jean Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd. `
Yes. Good afternoon. Few questions on my end. The first one, Mr. Marchionne, we've had some
worried (1:20:53) numbers from the Santander yesterday and, of course, Ford's been talking
about it. At this stage strategically, do you think you're better off not having a FinCo (1:21:01) or
would you – so, you are kind of neutral position having access to funding partners by Santander?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
I got to be careful here because, one, I have a huge amount of appreciation over Ana Botín. I
have a huge amount of respect for Santander. So, any comments that I make about FinCo's
(1:21:23) are not designed to reflect either positively or negatively on our partners, including
(1:21:29) here in Europe.
But let's just agree that every time I see numbers being reported by our competitors, I drool over
a portion of their P&L which I don't have. And I just saw the numbers come across Ford and the
number was in excess of €1 billion. And when you see that kind of profitability that's being left on
the table and we cannot participate, I wonder whether it's something that we shouldn't look
again.I can tell you that because of our capital structure and because of our history, dreaming in
technical or having our own FinCo (1:22:03) would have been pretty unrealistic sort of set of
expectations. And I – and we have never played it in an effective way because of the fact that we
couldn't. And it's certainly not envisioned in the – up to the 2018 plan that we would enter that
field and play actively. I think it's up to my successor in 2019 and later to try and determine
whether that's a proper strategy to use or not.
I never had the luxury of having that option. So, I will follow it from interest from the outside, but
it's – I couldn't afford to do it, and as Ford can't afford to do it until – well after the completion of
the plan.
Q - `Philippe Jean Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd. `
Yeah. Although, that billion of earnings is not cash. As long as you're growing, it's actually cash
negative. So, I'm just wondering from a value creation whether you are really missing out on not
having it?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `
You know what, the reason why I justified not having it when I was young and foolish like about 10
years ago was about the fact that I thought that it will actually distort commercial decisions on the
commercial side. Every time I meet with the commercial team, I'm reminded of how much of an
idiot I am. But I understand the cash drainage associated with FinCo's (1:23:21) property run, I think
that the cash drainage will not worry me. If they get abused and distorted by commercial realities
to do things that are fundamentally unnatural, I worry. And if you – I mean, all of us will remember
that the (1:23:39) or going back to the last decade. Remember that the reason why that went
sideways is because of the fact that they started doing things that were already outside of its
mandate.
And subprime mortgages are not far away from people who lend money and I remember having
a conversation with both Fritz Henderson and Rich Wagner way back at the time about the size
(1:24:05) the market and underestimated the value of the subprime mortgage portfolio inside
GMAC.
And within three years, all that will (1:24:10) turn upside and the reality disappear. So, we need to
be careful. I maintain one principle which I think is true and I think it's characterized our operations
here for about 13 years. Our objective is to make money selling cars. And the minute that we
distort that objective in some fashion by creating ancillary services that effectively provide a
better opportunity is a minute that we should really rethink the way in which we operate.
So, we have stayed pretty steady on that objective. We have not wavered. I think whoever comes
in after me to look at this and maintain that objective; otherwise, we will end up with a very
potentially dysfunctional result from the business.
Q - `Philippe Jean Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd. `
Yes. If I can follow up on the – if I look at your bridge to €4 billion to €5 billion net cash in 2018 on
page 20. Looking at the moving parts and where do you think you could surprise possibly
negatively. From my perspective, I think the €6 billion of financial charge in tax. If you aggressively
deleverage, you might surprise positively there?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer `Right. So, Richard, what do you think?
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, COO-Systems & Casting `
No. Where we probably – I mean, obviously the easiest way to try and positively surprise is by
over delivering on the operating earnings performance. The machine can and I think if I take a
benign view of delivery across the regions and across the brands, I envision a number which is in
excess of what's on paper. And so, it's quite possible. I mean, if the machine runs and it runs as I
would expect, I think we should be in excess of the number.
As large as it appears on paper, I mean, I told Richard about putting €30 billion in EBITDA in a
sheet of paper is going to spook the hell out of most people. But fundamentally, it's made up of
two components of eight quarters of successful execution of the plan. €14 million this year, €16
million next year. I mean Richard wants to be professionally detailed by calling it €13.5 million, we'll
be well above €14 billion in 2017.
But the key to delivery of the plan is still operational delivery of earnings in cash. Everything else
that comes on top of this, was it a better working capital manager and a reduction of financial
charges, taxes and more benign tax environment in the United States, which somebody correctly
pointed out. We're still paying cash taxes in the jurisdiction. All those things will help meet the
target. But the biggest single driver is operational delivery. This is – some in cars making money
and making sure that we're extracting as much of a margin from those (1:27:04).
Q - `Philippe Jean Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies International Ltd. `
All right. Thank you very much again.
Operator
That will conclude the question-and-answer session. I would now like to turn the call back over to
Joe Veltri for any additional or closing remarks.
A - `Joseph Veltri, Head-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Alex. With that, I think we will close today's call. Thank you again for joining us and
have a pleasant day.
Operator
That will conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation, ladies and gentlemen.
You may now disconnect.