Q4 2017 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good afternoon or good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to today's Fiat Chrysler
Automobiles 2017 Full Year Results Webcast and Conference Call. For your information, today's
conference is being recorded.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to `Joe Veltri, Vice President, Head of FCA, Global Investor Relations.
Mr. Veltri, please go ahead, sir.
`Joe Veltri, Vice President `
Thank you, Steffie, and welcome to everybody who is joining us today. You'll find the presentation
material we will go through along with the related earnings release posted under the Investors
Section of FCA's group website. Our call today is going to be hosted by our Chief Executive
Officer, `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer; and `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Financial Officer. After their
presentation, we will be holding the customary question-and-answer session. Before we begin, I
would like to point out that any forward-looking statements we might make during today's call are
subject to the risks and uncertainties mentioned in the Safe Harbor statement, which you can find
on page two of today's presentation. And as always, the call will be governed by that language.
With that, I'd like to turn the call over to `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer.
`Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Joe. I'm going to keep my comments to a minimum this morning before I pass it on to
Richard for a detailed look at '17. Couple of things, one, as you well know this is the fourth year in
a five-year plan that we launched back in '14. And I think we went back and looked at some of theskepticism that was expressed back in '14 were the likelihood of us making these numbers for '14
-- for '17 and '18.
And I think -- as a management team, I think we feel relatively good about the fact that we have -
- now, we haven't missed a year since the plan was launched. And we have maintained an
upgraded guidance notwithstanding the fact that we have lost Ferrari from the midst. And so,
overall, we feel pretty good about what we've been able to achieve for the first four years of the
plan.
The important thing is that we now are in the final stretch of this five-year exercise. And we can
see the '18 numbers as we originally laid out not only doable, but obviously we need to do a lot
of work, especially in North America, to make sure that we execute well on the re-industrialization
of the US manufacturing footprint.
We've launched Wrangler in Q4, '17. We're in the midst of starting up the production of the new
pickup. And we are in the midst of launching the revised and upgraded Cherokee . These are key
elements of our commercial activities in the United States, which still cost the two [ph] of those.
As you can tell from the numbers, the largest portion of the operating income performance of
this house.
But Joe was kind enough to give me a couple of the comments that have come back from the
analysts, at least some of the first reads from the data. Before -- and I just wanted to give you
one of the reasons [ph], no matter, if we're going to spend a lot of time doing this. We're not
going to reconcile the P&L for you. And we're not -- people are looking for the impact of the tax
reform and upgrade the guidance. So we'll wait until the third quarter of this year as we have
normally done. At which point, we'll give you an upgraded view where '18 will be.
The important thing is that the numbers that we laid out are doable. I think we're going -- we're
looking forward to finally walk -- hopefully walking into this meeting in Q2 and telling you that we
no longer have debts. That's something that Richard has taken on as a personal sort of objective
to beat everybody into a cash delivery mechanism in the second quarter of this year to make
sure that we can share this, so this -- that's [ph] our history that we've had now for quite a while.
So it's going to be a big day here when we get there. The important thing is to understand.
And I've looked at by the way guidance coming from our competitors in Detroit, I think there is a
very strong likelihood that we will outperform Ford in terms of operating earnings in 2018. And
that's something that if I told any of us in the room here, that would have been doable five years
ago. Nobody would have believed this.
So I -- we feel relatively good about what's going on. A lot of work to be done in the next 12
months. We are confirming June 1 as the date in which we do the upgrade for the plan for 2022. It
will be done in Europe, probably it will be done in Balocco, which is where the original sort of plan
in 2004 was launched. So it's going to be an interesting anniversary. But I think the important thing
is that for us now is to complete what we started back in '14 to deliver '18 properly and to set the
stage for the next phase of growth of the Group.
And on that basis, I'll pass it on to Richard. He'll take you through the intricacies of 2017.
`Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks very much. So good day to everybody on the call. Moving to page three on the slide deck.
We have a summary of the 2017 highlights. So, as mentioned before, this was the fourth year of
our five-year plan that we issued in May of '14 and upgraded in January '16 following the spin-offof Ferrari. The results were another record for FCA and do mean that we have met all the key
targets in the first four years of our business plan.
Our adjusted EBIT was up to EUR7.1 billion. And our margins were up 90 basis points, 6.4%. Our
cash flows were over 2 billion for the year and we reduced our net debt down to EUR2.4 billion.
The NAFTA capacity realignment is proceeding. We started production of the new Jeep Wrangler
in Q4. And we will be starting production of the Ram 1500 and the new Jeep Cherokee in Q1 of
this year. We also introduced a new Alfa Romeo Giulia and Stelvio in most of the major markets
for the premium customers. We've got some movement from our friends at the rating agencies
on the ratings, moving Moody's and S&P, both moved our outlook to positive from stable and
Fitch upgraded us. And on the basis of the 2017 results and all of the product actions I mentioned
earlier, our 2018 guidance confirms our business plan key targets with net revenues at around
EUR125 billion, adjusted EBIT in excess or equal to 8.7 billion, adjusted net profit of around EUR5
billion and net industrial cash of around EUR4 billion.
Moving to page four, a little bit more information on the key product launches for 2018. So with
the new Wrangler is in the process of being ramped up in production at our Toledo North plant,
it's an all-new vehicle. It has a modernized design but maintains its heritage as the icon of the
Jeep brand. It will have an all new two liter turbo with an eTorque mild hybrid and linked with the
new 8-speed automatic transmission. So a very important vehicle obviously for the Jeep brand.
Let me move on to the Ram 1500, which is also all-new. The key vehicle for the Ram brand, this
vehicle will be built at Sterling Heights with the commercial launch in this first quarter of 2018. We
believe it's the most technologically advanced pickup in the market. It features all-new design,
both exterior and interior, and also this will come with an eTorque mild hybrid powertrain.
We'll also be launching a new version of the Jeep Cherokee, which will be built in Belvidere
following the move. Also this product, it will have an all-new advanced four cylinder turbo engine
and that vehicle will also be launched in the first quarter of this year.
And finally in Latin America, we've been substantially absent from the B-segment Sedan area of
the market. We'll be launching the new Cronos built in Argentina for Latin American distribution in
the first quarter of '18, which will complete to a large extent the renewal of the Fiat passenger car
lineup in Brazil, with we have a new Mobi launched last year, actually they are late '16, the Argo
launched last year and the Cronos is now launching. There are lots of product -- there are lots of
product news, important product news for 2018.
Moving to page five, we see the financial summary for full year 2017. So our consolidated
shipments were down about 60,000 units, driven by NAFTA, which was down 186,000 units, of
which, 150,000 was due to planned US fleet reductions, principally due also to discontinued
models, that's 200 the Dart and the Patriot. Our LATAM shipments were up 65,000, driven by
the new Jeep Compass in Pernambuco and the new Mobi as I mentioned earlier, and EMEA was
also up 60,000 units. Our combined volumes were up 20,000 units due to an increase of around
80,000 units, mainly due to the Chinese JV, which was up 44%.
Our revenues were flat at EUR111 billion. Adjusted EBIT was up 16% to EUR7.1 billion, I mentioned
earlier. Our adjusted net profit was -- reached EUR3.8 billion, up 50%. And our net profit doubled
to EUR3.5 billion, following the strong operating performance and also reduction in financial
charges as we delevered the balance sheet. Our gross debt was down, including some FX
translation effects, by about EUR6 billion for the year. Our net industrial debt, as I mentioned
earlier, closed at EUR2.4 billion, down from the EUR4.6 billion, we closed 2016 at. And ouravailable liquidity remains very strong at EUR20.4 billion, of which EUR7.6 billion is the revolver and
committed credit lines.
Moving on next to page six, we show the details of the improvement in adjusted EBIT of EUR1
billion in the year. All the segments contributed positively to the year-over-year improvement,
although APAC did benefit from the insurance recovery from the Tianjin port issue that we've
talked about in the year. The margin improvement of 90 basis points to 6.4% was driven by all
segments with NAFTA reaching 7.9% margins, EMEA 3.2% margins, and Maserati 13.8% margins,
with also LATAM starting to see some improvement in its margins with the market conditions
getting better in Brazil, reaching 2.3%.
The chart also shows the year-over-year improvement was substantially driven by improved sales
mix on the bottom chart, which was basically the key driver in all regions and also from Maserati.
We have the discontinuation of the lower margin vehicles in NAFTA. We have the strong
performance from Ram and Grand Cherokee. We had increased volumes from Pernambuco, in
Brazil for Latin America, where we make the two Jeeps and the Toro pickup and also Alfa Romeo
volumes started to grow as did Levante volumes for Maserati. The pricing negative was
substantially driven by the impact of the pound sterling in the EMEA markets and US dollar
renminbi weakening impacting Maserati, partially offset by positive pricing in LATAM to cover cost
inflation.
Moving to page seven, this shows the improvement in net industrial debt during the year. Our
industrial EBIT improved year-over-year by EUR880 million to 12.7 billion, an increase of 7%.
Margins were up to 11.7% compared to 10.8% for the prior year. Financial charges and taxes
improved by 700 million, mainly due to reduction in financial charges of EUR0.5 billion as a result
of the gross debt reduction, I mentioned earlier, and neutralization of tax credits and deferred tax
assets on the tax line reduced cash taxes by 200 million.
Our working capital was negative for the year, mainly due to an increase in inventories due to
ramp up of vehicles at year-end including the Alfa Stelvio and the new Wrangler. Our CapEx for
the year was consistent with the prior year number at about EUR8.7 billion. And FX and other
includes the benefit of the sale of our stake in CNHI in the first quarter and some positive FX
impacts on our cash flow hedges.
Moving to the segments on page eight. We start with NAFTA. Overall NAFTA performed well in
2017. We have a strong focus on mix improvement offsetting reduced volumes due to the
planned reduction in fleet volumes, I mentioned earlier, and the discontinuation of Dart 200 and
Patriot. Margins improved 50 basis points to 7.9%, and our overall market share was down in the
US due to reduced fleet volumes while retail share was substantially flat. Q4 SAAR was
substantially flat year-over-year with the US strong 18.2 million vehicles and Canada also strong at
2 million vehicles.
Our US dealer inventory days were slightly higher year-over-year, but this was basically driven by
the lower fleet sales. And also overall, our absolute inventory number was down 12,000 units in
US dealer inventory. Shipments were down, as I mentioned earlier, driven by the fleet decrease
and the discontinuation of the products. Notwithstanding that, our net revenues were down at
only 3%, offsetting some of the 7% reduction in shipments, due to favorable mix of vehicles and
channels. So our adjusted EBIT, as I mentioned, was up to 50 basis points. You can see in the walk
underneath that notwithstanding the 186,000 reduction in volumes, we offset that by positive mix
both in terms of the products and also substantial improvement in our sales mix, with retail mix up
to 80% of total US sales versus 75% in the prior year.We had some level of positive pricing in the year largely offset by incentives. And our industrial
costs were negative. We had a good performance from the sourcing organization and lower DNA
and warranty costs. These were slightly -- these were offset by the cost for the capacity
realignment plan, which is substantially complete now. We still obviously are completing the
launch of the light duty truck in Sterling Heights and some higher product costs for content
enhancements on the Compass and the Pacifica new models.
Moving to page nine. Latin America, the Brazil industry was -- sorry, up 9% year-over-year to 2.2
million vehicles for the year, and in the fourth quarter, was up 14% year-over-year, so an improving
trend in Brazil. Argentina was up 26% for the year, and in Q4, showed continued growth at around
20% versus the prior Q4. Our market share was down in Brazil from 18.4% to 17.5%, mainly due to
discontinuance of Palio vehicles and the ramp-up of the Argo launched in July.
In 2018, as I mentioned before, we'll be launching the Fiat Cronos in the first quarter, which is
important for our passenger car share as well as the full year of the Argo will also support share
in 2018.
Inventories were down slightly from the end of Q3 and -- but slightly up compared to the end of
last year, ready frankly to manage the launches, I talked about, and also the improving market
conditions we're seeing in Brazil. Shipments were up 14%, driven by the Mobi, the Argo and the
Jeep Compass. And as a result, our revenues were up 24% at constant exchange with the extra
growth compared to shipments due to the improved vehicle mix.
Adjusted margins were up to 1.9% from breakeven in 2016, basically driven by the volume
increase and the positive mix due to 45,000 of the 65,000 unit increase being related to the
Jeep Compass launch out of Pernambuco.
Moving to Asia-Pacific on page 10. For the year, the industry was up 1% in China and Australia, and
9% in India, which was heavily impacted by improvement in the SUV segments of 27% year-over-
year. For Q4, China was flat, Australia was up 3%, and India was up 6%. FCA combined sales were
up 19%, and Jeep sales reached 240,000 units in the region, up 30% -- 35% year-over-year, and
accounting for 87% of our sales in the region.
Our inventory level -- sorry, our consolidated shipments and revenues are down around 9%. And
this was offset overall by our improvement in our JV shipments of [ph] 44% due to the launch of
the new Compass. Adjusted EBIT margins were up to 5.3%, but as I mentioned earlier, excluding
the Tianjin insurance recovery, the number would have been around 2.5%. We had a positive mix
effect for higher Alfa sales with the launch of Alfa and the non-repeat of the Tianjin selldown that
we completed last year and also some positive pricing impacts due to non-repeat of discounts
related to the sale of those damaged vehicles.
Industrial costs were up as we invested in the launch of the Alfa Romeo vehicles and had some
negative transaction impacts for the Aussie dollar and the Chinese renminbi. You can see SG&A
was also up as we support the launch of the Alfa brand in the region.
Moving to page 11, we can look at the performance of EMEA. EMEA was up 5% in terms of sales
driven by also the market, which was up 3% for passenger car in EU and 6% for LCV. Our
inventories were stable at 71 days, in line with the prior year number. Our shipments were up 5%
to 1.365 million units, driven by the launch of Alfa and of the Jeep Compass as well as continued
improvement in volumes of the Fiat Tipo family. Revenues increased 4% to EUR22.7 billion and
our margins were up from 2.5% to 3.2%.As you look to see -- in the walk below, important contribution both from volume and mix are the
Stelvio Compass and Tipo positively impacted our profitability, also a negative impact on pricing,
more than half of which was driven by the GB pound devaluation impact year-over-year, for which
last year we had some hedge coverages here [ph], we have none left. And then on the industrial
side, a strong performance on purchasing, savings and manufacturing helped us to continue to
improve our margin performance.
Moving to page 12. We see Maserati had a good year for the brand with sales up 22%, also
shipments up 22%, adjusted EBIT was up 65% to EUR560 million, with 13.8% margin for the year.
Large part of this improvement was driven by continued improvement in Levante volumes, which
is driving strong mix and the EBIT performance through the brand.
Moving to page 13, you can see the performance of our components business. Revenues were
up 5%, adjusted EBIT was up 20% with a 15% improvement in our margins to 5.3% from 4.6%. All
businesses showed some volume growth, in particular, strong performance from Marelli in
lighting and in its chassis business lines as well as good efficiencies on the manufacturing side
from Magneti Marelli.
On page 14, we turn our attention to 2018. The industry outlook shows, overall, we expect stable
to positive markets with improvements expected to continue in LATAM, slight improvements in
APAC and EMEA and NAFTA forecast slightly down, but strong in terms of overall margin -- overall
volumes. So NAFTA you can see, we are forecasting out [ph]20.7 million units, down from 21.2
million in '17, with our US market strong at 17.3 million units and Canada at 2 million units.
Latin America as I mentioned, we've seen improvements in Brazil in the second half of 2017 and
we're expecting Brazil to get to 2.4 million units, up from 2.2 million in 2017. And so overall LATAM
volumes up to 4.4 million from 4.1 million in '17. Asia Pacific substantially flat, and EMEA up 0.5
million units with (inaudible) up driven by Italy and France with some decline in the UK and Spain.
On page 15, just a couple of comments about the impacts of US tax reform. In 2017, we didn't
have any significant impact as we close the books to show the effect of tax reform. Our net
income was reduced by EUR88 million, due principally to the deemed repatriation tax being
booked. Obviously, as you know, this tax will be paid over the next eight years. We had an
immaterial benefit as we re-valued our deferred taxes, since we have a small deferred tax liability
in the US and so a slight benefit to income of that revaluation.
Looking forward to 2018, as I mentioned earlier, we substantially use all of our losses and credits
through the end of 2017. In the US, the impact on 2018 guidance as we've already mentioned, is a
saving compared to the prior regime of about EUR800 million, which takes our effective tax rate
to about 25% for 2018.
Other considerations we don't expect any other significant impacts and no impact on the
deductibility of our interest expense or of the base erosion minimum tax as our cushions on both
of these items are substantial.
Moving to page 18, to reiterate -- sorry, page 16, I think, yeah, to reiterate our 2018 guidance,
we're confirming our business plan targets for adjusted EBIT, adjusted net income and net
industrial cash as they were upgraded in 2016 following the spinoff of Ferrari.
Our top line growth will be driven by the launches of the new products, some of which I
mentioned earlier. Clearly key to our ability to reach these targets is the execution of production
ramp ups in the first half of the year for the Jeep Wrangler, the Ram 1500 and the new Jeep
Cherokee in the US. And just to be clear, they're obviously that the US dollar against the euro thuscreate some headwinds for us. We're basically assuming in this guidance a rate of 120 and there
would be some negative impact against the numbers, if we continue to see a weakening of the
US dollar.
The revenue increase is substantially driven by NAFTA, as I mentioned on the key products. All
our business segments are expected to improve margins with NAFTA confirming its target from
the business plan at around 9%, up from the 7.9% we saw in '17. Also EMEA at around 4%
confirming Maserati is targeting the 15% level and Components also confirming at 6% [ph].
LATAM and APAC are below the targets that we had in the business plan, but are showing year-
over-year improvements.
With that I will -- I've concluded my remarks and I will hand over to Joe to start questions. Thank
you.
`Joe Veltri, Vice President `
Thank you, Richard. With that Steffie, I think we're ready to take some callers in the queue,
please.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Certainly. Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We will take now our first question from Rod Lache
from Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead, sir.
Q - `Shreyas Patil, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Hi. This is `Shreyas Patil, Analyst, Deutsche Bank on for Rod. I have a question regarding NAFTA. The latest round of
negotiations are currently underway. And I was curious if you have any thoughts on where things
stand? And how do you think about FCA's exposure? We know about the scheduled relocation of
the heavy duty Ram to Warren in 2020, but I was just curious about the level of component
sourcing from Mexico and maybe just some of the other products being built down there?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
There's no easy answer to your question because it is incredibly complex. We have -- let me put it
this way, I think that base on what we know, you and I follow for the bid-ask positions from the U.S.
administration on where the other jurisdictions are positioning their views on. Once we relocate
the heavy-duty trucks out of Mexico into the U.S., I think we will be fine.
And I think that our exposure to any potential tax associated with the withdrawal of the U.S. from
NAFTA is manageable and certainly not enough to -- for us to change our forecast. I think that the
issue is a little more complex because it -- we have had the chance now to look at this -- at the
Canadian proposal that we sort of released yesterday.
And I -- our view is that the least within the structure was being proposed by the Canadians, there
appears to be the beginning of a solution to this problem. I think we can live -- and a lot of the
data that's contained in the Canadian proposal is also more quantified. I think it's left for later
negotiation. But the concept embedded in the Canadian proposal is defensible. I think this whole
notion of moving away from some of the antiquated terms that we used in NAFTA back in the
'90s is a good thing.I'm -- it's very difficult for us to tell you whether this thing is going to be successful or not. I think
the U.S. has been trying to get a repatriation of the build of components and cars back in the
United States. I don't know how successful. I mean, certainly we -- by us bringing back the heavy-
duty, we've done a lot because I think we are adding up 2,500 jobs back into Michigan and having
the new Mexican asset dedicated to do something else is an important part of the solution. I think
that we're getting closer to something that's ultimately manageable, but I think there's a lot of
negotiation that needs to go on.
I'm encouraged by what I see from the participants. I think this round of negotiations that's
underway in Montreal bears promise, but I -- I'm -- let's wait until it comes through the U.S. They
certainly -- has been negotiating very heavily on this issue. I think we need to be careful that we
don't -- they don't press too hard that we end up doing more damage than good, right? But I
think we're moving in the right direction. And I think the Canadians are trying to help.
Q - `Shreyas Patil, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Okay. And then just one last one that was maybe for Richard. How should we be thinking about
commodities in 2018? It's affecting obviously some of your competitors, but I'm just curious what
the impact will be for FCA?
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So we have an impact to about 1.2% in terms of negative impact on our overall APV, which is
equivalent to about EUR850 million. We are relatively confident in terms of the sourcing
organization. We can continue to more than offset that number, getting to a gross savings of in
excess of that and also offsetting with some of the positive impacts of the lower costs in NAFTA
for the realignment of the capacity, which clearly here, was substantially completed in 2017. So
whilst, we do see commodity prices up. We don't think it's an issue to offset them with other
efficiencies.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, just to translate all that into a very simple statement. We are not modifying guidance from
the basis of commodity price increases. I mean it's built into our calculation as to how much is
actually obtainable on the purchase in between technical and commercial savings and on that
basis, we're positive compared to 2017.
Q - `Shreyas Patil, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Okay. Thanks.
Operator
Thank you. We now take a question from `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore ISI from Evercore ISI.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Good afternoon and thank you for taking my question. I just wanted to ask around the free cash
flow. If I take your net cash target of 4 billion and look at the delta the way you finished net debt
in 2017, it would imply free cash flow of around 6.4 billion. Can you just give some insight into
what you're expecting in terms of working capital this year and also CapEx for 2018?
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `So George, in terms of working capital, you saw that in 2017, we had a negative impact on
working capital, where the volumes are flat, and also we had a lot of launches at the end of the
year. So we're expecting working capital to improve to a positive number around EUR2 billion for
2018 based on the volume growth and also some optimization in terms of inventories as we get
through the launch process.
In terms of CapEx, we closed the year 2017 EUR8.7 billion. And we're expecting our number to
come in a little lower than that in 2018 as obviously in '17 we had those significant programs such
as the Wrangler and light-duty Ram. So we're expecting a number between EUR8 billion and
EUR8.5 billion.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
All right. And then just on the tax savings. The 800 million, which you flagged, is that both -- is that
a similar number both in terms of the P&L impact and the cash impact or was that specific to the
P&L?
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
It's a similar number in terms of both P&L and cash compared to the prior regime applied to the
2018 guidance. So if we calculate the tax charge on 2018 with or without the tax reform, we get a
benefit both in cash and in tax charge. Year-over-year, we do have an increase in cash taxes in the
US notwithstanding the benefit of tax reform, because as I mentioned, we've used up credits that
we had accumulated and also some deferred tax assets in the US. So our cash taxes, we expect
to go up from about 0.5 billion in 2017 to 1.2 billion, 1.3 billion in 2018.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
Did that make sense to you?
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Great.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
Did it make sense to you?
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
To me?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
It makes sense how you describe it. Yes. It's just --
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. That's all I -- no, that's how I wanted to describe it, right? I'd -- I found it intriguing. Cash
taxes are up 2017 to 2018, they are not on an accounting basis, '17 to '18, just to be clear.Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Right.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
So the P&L is going to reflect the better tax charge than the cash pool. The cash pool will be in
excess to '17 and it's built into the number -- and it is built into the number of 4 billion of cash that
we're forecasting for the end of 2018. All right. Are we are clear?
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Got it. Yeah. That's clear. Thank you.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
Good.
Operator
Thank you. We now move on and take our next question from `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Plc from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Plc `
Yes. Thank you for taking the question. I want to continue our kind of dialog around pickup trucks
that we've put on several recent calls and those auto show. We talked at the other show about
the plan to run out Warren to push with the low end of the market. And in the past, I am pretty
clear whether you connect where you're headed at the higher end of the market with the Ram.
That's a very similar strategy, of course, that where Silverado is heading.
But I want to get to sort of, push back we've got and we've heard this from one of your
competitors yesterday call that brand loyalty is so high in the pickup truck market. It's unrealistic
for competitors to think that they're going to get share away from what they would describe as
the nation's top selling truck. And so, how are you thinking about the brand loyalists? Are there --
is there some pent-up demand as they wait for the new Ram. How do you think about the jump-
ball segment and positioning the Ram there?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
Go ahead. I'm intrigued by Richard's answer to the question. Go ahead.
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
So as the Ram brand leader. So, I think you saw the truck that we build in Detroit.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
Can I help you and give you an answer? I -- but -- we're not going to enter into the discussion. A
couple of data points and then we can put it to bed. The first one is that when we started this
process back at the beginning of the cycle, back in '09, '10, we've actually increased share by
about 50% in the pickup truck market. So -- and then we picked up that share in a growing
market, so technically we've -- that growth was available to everybody the fact that we've picked
it up and positioned Ram back in '09 properly in this market is a good sign.I don't think -- I'm not interested by the way in starting a share war in the United States. That is
not what the objective is with the new truck. It certainly is not the objective in keeping the older
version of the Ram in place. It was designed to try and cover a market need especially on the
fleet side. And the commercial fleet side would be ill-suited by the technology that is now
embedded in the new pickup truck.
So whoever was on the call yesterday was claiming from our -- competitor was claiming sort of
the importance of brand loyalty and the inability to dislocate aficionados from the truck. God
bless them. I mean I don't want to sort of disturb their view of that brand. And I think if they
accomplish, they got more power to them. I've got a very humble ambition of trying to position
what I consider to be the most technologically advanced truck in the marketplace and then filling
the bottom end of this thing on the commercial fleet side, with something which is both priced
and technologically relevant for that segment and nothing else.
So I -- don't drag me into a discussion about pricing, and market share, what we're going do to
Ford, to GM or Silverado. We're just going to do our best. And I think we'll leave it at that. Did that
answer your question, Brian?
Q - `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Plc `
Yeah. So a follow-up and kind of thinking about that commercial end of the market. Are you
seeing anything -- are your dealers talking about anything out of the tax reform -- not at your level
with cash taxes but small business people, who now enjoy passive deductions. It seems to be
some improvement around the ability to write-off pickup trucks. So, have you looked at that what
are the dealers saying? Do you think that will help with that commercial end of the market?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
I think that there is an incredible level of optimism that we're picking up from the dealer body
about what effectively the customer base is and how the customer base is going to react to tax
reform in terms of purchasing of this vehicle. So I think overall I expect -- Richard made reference
to the 17.3 million number and I keep on being shocked at the level of granularity that we're using
giving you a forecast, so I don't think it's incredibly accurate, I'm impressed.
But 17.3 million reflects ,I think the level of optimism about the way in which the commercial sort of
truck side is going to react. I think '18 is going to be a good year. I think it's the first year post tax
reform. I think you're going to see the benefits. Eventually, the system will metabolize the tax
rate. And this issue will eventually taper into normality. But right now, I think '18 is going to get a
boost.
Q - `Brian Johnson, Analyst, Barclays Plc `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We now move on and take our next question from `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thanks, everyone. Just, first, a kind of clarification. If I look at the delta of your year-end net debt
moving to the EUR4 billion net cash. And I believe you reiterated in Detroit that there was nothing
one-off in there, that's true underlying free cash flow, including the increased tax -- cash tax, asyou mentioned. Can you just confirm that because if that's true, EUR6.5 billion of free cash flow,
you are going to be well above GM and Ford and you're probably nipping up the Germans there,
just wanted to kind of laminate that statement.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I'm confirming the statement. I don't -- I can't comment on the comparisons you've made.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Okay.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
I mean, that's how it's going to be (inaudible) I haven't analyzed the number, Adam. But the
number that we gave you includes no one-offs.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Okay. Sergio. This is your last year -- last full year, what do you want to be remembered for?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
Being able to answer your questions, Adam.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
All right. Then let me finish with something real quick and we'll move on. You -- back in 2004,
when you were first introduced to the auto industry, a lot of people were thinking who the hell is
this guy, right? I was one of them, frankly. We hadn't seen anything like you. You took $2 billion
roughly and you turned it into, I think, around 72 billion. And more important than that there are
many hundreds of thousands of families across many nations that are better off, because of you
and your team, and you beat the skeptics every step of the way. So I just had to say God bless
you, Sergio. We're never going to see anyone like you again. I don't care what people on this call
think of me for saying that. I don't care at all. I just had to say that. Thanks again.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, thanks, Adam.
Operator
Thank you. We now take our next question from `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America, Merrill Lynch from Bank of America, Merrill Lynch.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America, Merrill Lynch `
Hi, good morning, good afternoon, guys. Just a first question, I mean, when you spin Magneti
Marelli, Sergio, what do you think could be an appropriate leverage ratio there, meaning, I mean,
you talked about a billion dollars of EBITDA roughly when you were in Detroit for Magneti, could
two to three turns be normal or do you think you've kind shoot a little bit lower than the one turn
range?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `The answer to be honest, John, I don't know, but the important thing you've got to realize is that
whatever guidance we're giving you on the cash does not include any dumping of cash on this
spin. I forgot to mention -- did I mention -- did you mention, I did not mention -- this issue about
Marelli is going to the Board in February. So hopefully after the Board meeting, we'll be able to
tell you exactly what we do, because we need to incorporate the plan of '18, '22, that we're going
to show you for -- on June 1st.
The December 31st cash balance that we show for FCA does not include the potential impact of
any leverage that will move with Marelli on the spin. So it's additive to that number, whatever that
number may be, but obviously it's a zero-sum gain [ph], when you add up Marelli and FCA at the
end of the day. But I don't know, we'll do the prudent thing. And there's no use overlevering
these things. We'll certainly put this in the -- whatever debt is required by the market, but it's
going to be a mid-range leverage position, nothing extreme.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America, Merrill Lynch `
Okay. And then a second question, I mean, on net price, particularly in North America, in the
fourth quarter, you had a real significant positive of 130 million, Ford was talking about net price
down 75 million. So I was just curious, what do you think is going on in the market that you're able
to price so strong and Ford is slipping a little bit and also maybe more importantly than just the
fourth quarter, as you think about the net price gap in some of your products, is there more
opportunity to simplistically get closer to your competition on price, so do you think you've closed
that gap at this point?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
I don't think we've closed it. I still think we're pricing off the competition not across all segments,
obviously I think some part of the Jeep portfolio prices at the premium. But I think we still have
pricing gains to be made. I don't know, most of these I think should be recovered in '18, by the
time we finish the '18. So I think we'll finish the fourth quarter on a -- at part with our competition.
In terms of what the other guys are seeing, I think a lot of the pricing issues that we're seeing is
mix and not necessarily -- I'm looking at Richard. I mean, do you think it's purely mix? Or do you
actually think that there is stuff in price brand? I mean, there is pricing pressure on the
marketplace. That's not singled out. And we have seen in some cases in cent to spend go up,
which has negatively -- some of those is also the residual impacts of inventory overhangs in some
of our competitors. We're trying to clear the debts. And that -- that's something that we have
learned early enough in our life back in 2009 that we would never -- that we will never allow that
to happen. So we've been very, very careful about allowing inventory builds that could not be in
our view digested.
So we are probably in a slightly better place than most others. We continue to watch it. But I don't
think we have suffered. We have not -- I mean, we haven't suffered a net price decrease on our
vehicles, I think overall. (Multiple Speakers)
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America, Merrill Lynch `
Okay. So there is no room to close that a little bit.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
There is. There is. It's built on the numbers, John.Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America, Merrill Lynch `
Okay. And cost for capacity realignment in 2017 that will not repeat in 2018, do you guys have a
ballpark number, or hopefully sort of a specific number that we could use?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
So one that Richard keeps on threatening me with is about 300 million, isn't it. He is now nodding.
So I must have gotten it right. It's about 300 million.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America, Merrill Lynch `
That's perfect. And then just lastly, I mean, I saw him mentioned of Alfa returning to F-1. Just
curious what that means for your Alfa brand, what the cost will be. And then for you, Sergio, I
mean, it's like two children racing each other here. How are you going to pick between Ferrari and
Alfa in the fight there?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, let's be clear, Subaru of Fortune has the not enviable distinction, I think, having ranked last in
the Formula One last year. So I think my -- many expectation on this child would try and take on
sort of the contender for the title position of Formula One is a bit optimistic. I think I still have time
to try and make the choice about the children as we go forward.
And hopefully, I will no longer be the CEO of FCA by the time that happens, so I will not be
conflicted. I maybe emotionally, but I'm not in principle terms. The real issue is that I think, from an
Alfa standpoint, as you all know, it has a pretty successful history of Formula One that won the
race. I think it's -- as we look at the circus and way in which Formula One is shaping up, I think
there's going to be an opportunity for carmakers to be associated with smaller teams.
And in fact, where you get the name back on the track to race -- given the magnitude of the
forecast that we have on the table for 2018, I don't think that the number that we're paying
Sauber for the sponsorship required separate disclosure, notwithstanding the attempt by Richard
to become so incredibly granular about the results that I find it almost shocking. The numbers --
we're not going to forecast, because of the sponsorship. We have enough money to cover it out
of marketing Ram. So I'm really looking forward to 2018. I think it's going to be an interesting year.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America, Merrill Lynch `
Great, thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. We now move on and take our next question from `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA from Equita.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
Yeah, thank you. Good morning, everybody. Three quick questions on the guidance for Richard.
First, you mentioned the dollar assumption is 120, if you could remind us the sensitivity under the
current parameter? [ph]
Second, you mentioned 2 billion networking capital effect this year. I was wondering what the
underlying assumption in terms of volumes, because I clearly understand the beginning -- at thebeginning you have this sell-in of the new models, but for the full year, I suppose there should be
-- there will be some volume growth underlying.
And the third is on the R&D capitalized and what is the balance that you have in your guidance
considering in 2017, it was positive by more than 1.1 billion at EBIT level?
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
So in terms of USD sensitivity, every cent of weakening of the US dollar in terms of translation is
worth about 60 million negative for translation. And there is a smaller impact on transaction as we
have about half of the exposure hedged. But basically it's about 60 million percent [ph] of
weakening.
In terms of working capital, I mean we're growing the business. We have a negative working
capital position. So that is basically the answer. And we obviously need to grow the business
throughout 2018. And then on R&D, the numbers going to come down few 100 million. But I don't
think that's not going to change our results for 2018. It's all embedded in the projection.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
Okay. And the second question is on -- for Sergio. I know you already discussed it during the
Detroit event, but you changed your view, telling that you are not anymore looking for a partner. If
you could elaborate a little bit more, if it's just a matter of the fact that you are in a much better
shape or it was impossible to find a potential interested partner? Or what else? Thank you.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
Or both. I mean, at the end of the day, you're looking at a balance sheet, whether it's 4 billion, 5
billion, I mean, we're now looking like we're joining in the rest of the sort of the other motor
ranks. We were the only leveraged automaker in the world. We're no longer leveraged. And I
think we're now fighting with equal arms from a financial standpoint with our competitors you've
seen, sort of our progression in operating performance. We have identified since we introduced
the discussion on Capital Junkie. A number of initiatives that guaranteed us including some painful
ones in the US about reindustrializing the manufacturing footprint.
We have identified now a number of initiatives that allowed us to get to the plan. I asked Joe to
show me, what we originally showed you in 2014. I keep on forgetting this. But when we gave you
the plan in '14, we assume that we were going to be debt free, but with little cash at the end of
'18. I just remind everybody that we distributed an asset worth 20 billion to the shareholders in
the interim. And we are now forecasting a 4 billion cash balance.
But we've got a long, long way and I think we've proven not -- this is not just a reflection of me,
it's a reflection of this management team, which I think has embraced the project back in '14 with
a certain degree of vigor that it's executing it now. And I hate to say this, but it's executing in
almost perfectly, which is maybe it's a bit of a stretch, but it certainly is doing a phenomenal job
of executing the plan.
I think that those elements will continue post my retirement. That's what we've been trying to
build here, since I started this project back in '04, is a leadership class that understands what
matters in running these businesses. And I'm confident that it can continue to execute well, which
means that the necessity to find a partner to try and guarantee our survival going forward is put
the bed. I mean, we're done.And by the way I go back to what I said. I had an opportunity to say this in an interview. We were --
nobody came to the invitation. So it's no use dreaming in technicolor about the fact that you're
going to do stuff. So we're going to run our business and we're going to run it hard. I think the '18
forecast is an indication of what this machine can produce.
And I think I have every expectation that '18 to '22 is going to be of that caliber, obviously subject
to market conditions. But fundamentally, they will continue to execute well. And it doesn't take a
dancing away from the conclusions that were contained in Capital Junkie. Capital Junkie is as
accurate today as it was back in '14 -- '15 when I showed it. This is something which is endemic to
the industry. All industries which are this reliant on capital expenditures would benefit from
consolidation. You don't have to go to Harvard to figure this out. I think most people will tell you
that it's common sense.
In an ideal world, people who are rational economically would do it. But this is not an industry,
which is driven by what I call that highest level of economic rationality. It just isn't. So let's take it
for what it is and let's drive it down park. And I think that given the parameters of this industry,
FCA is well-positioned to be a top performer. That's all I care about.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita SIM SpA `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes now from `Max Warburton, Analyst, Sanford Bernstein from Bernstein. Please go ahead.
Q - `Max Warburton, Analyst, Sanford Bernstein `
Yeah, hello. Just got two questions, please. The first one is on the 2018 guidance. I'm very
reluctant to sound like I'm questioning it, given all the achievements so far, but it is -- it's still a
huge increase year-on-year certainly compared to your peers. What are the biggest risks here? Is
it safe to assume that Jeep -- Jeep is the biggest problem here, given if I go back and look at
2014, Jeep seems to be the business that's farthest away from its original volume target, yet it's
still delivering good profitability. Can we just hone in on what you most worry about in '18?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
In '19 or '18, Max?
Q - `Max Warburton, Analyst, Sanford Bernstein `
Sorry in '18, the 18 number.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
I know you wish you were already in the post-Sergio here as though you can pick from the next
guy, but listen to me. I think that it's -- we've had this conversation for about -- sort of the cruel
side of Richard's desire to have volume ambitions spelled out in the number of cars in our plan,
which we keep on paying over and over again, because every -- when we include a 7 million [ph]
number into 2014 plan, we've had to explain deviations of that number forever.
The reality is that the Jeep brand and the Ram brand and together plus Maserati and the others
have been well in excess of our profitability ambitions that we had embedded in the plan. It'sallowed us to bring forward a set of numbers, which are totally consistent with the '14 to '18 plan,
although in our completed is a mix that we had in mind.
And that by the way, it's the way we manage this business. I mean we committed to deliver
financial results and we let ourselves the freedom to adapt and change and modify the execution
of that plan in a way they guarantee delivery of the financial results.
I think that the biggest risk to answer your fundamental question about '18, and it's a post-Q1
event, because Q1 is -- Q1, it reflects so many startups in terms of the Cherokees and the Ram,
their volumes will not really be visible until Q2 to Q4, is that we screw up all those launches. And
then we can't deliver the volumes that are built into the plan to guarantee the -- nearly 9 billion in
operating profit that we set for ourselves in 2018.
That's the real issue, is that we can't make it. And that we keep on slipping on execution. It's
happened before by the way in this industry. We're not -- and even in our own cases, we've had
instances where some of our startups have been delayed. We had issues when we launched the
Cherokee, because the transmission matters, there is a whole part of issues. I think we've
derisked most of those choices in 2018, but it's possible, unlikely, but it's possible.
Q - `Max Warburton, Analyst, Sanford Bernstein `
Okay. You, said something fascinating in Detroit. And I wasn't in the room, so it maybe
misreported. But you said, if I missed 50,000 Jeeps then I'll have private discussions with Manley,
but if I missed the 9 billion that's [ph] in EBIT, we're having a public discussion with all of you and
that's not a good discussion. I mean how far short does this Jeep fall for the number to be at
risk?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
I don't -- to be perfectly, I don't even know how to answer your question, Max. And I'm not trying
to avoid it, because -- if I miss 100,000 Wranglers, I'll feel the pain. But I have to miss 100,000
Wranglers, which is roughly --
it's not a third, but it's probably 40% of what the machine will deliver. So that will be painful.
But the equivalent to 100,000 Wranglers is -- 160,000 Grand Cherokees, it's 300,000
Cherokees, I mean they're multipliers associated with the Jeep portfolio depending on
profitability. So a lot of it is product specific, but the biggest risk if you have to ask me is, I can't
produce enough Wranglers with the new car.
That's the one -- that's got the biggest profit potential. And what's also attached to it is the
global expansion of the Jeep brand, because we've been underselling internationally, because of
the local demand in the US. And so it's part of a complicated relaunch strategy of Jeep, which
embeds a relatively significant export function out of the US into a whole parts of world, which
has been historically shortchanged because of the lack of availability of Wrangler. So it's a
complex structure. But that's probably the weak point -- the weak sister of the package.
Everything else will work through okay.
Q - `Max Warburton, Analyst, Sanford Bernstein `
Okay, very helpful. Thank you. And then my last question is just on the succession. You're having
this event on the 1st of June. Are you going to announce your successor there at the same time?
And if not, why not?A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
The answer is not because I think that what we're going to be discussing on the 1st of June is the
plan. And the plan embeds the collective ambitions of the group of leaders that will be there that
day and that have been running this company now for a number of years.
My successor is coming from those ranks. So you don't have to go outside and look at other
industries. We're not into fashion or aircraft making or anything else. We're going to stick to
people who have been in this business now for a number of years. The -- my successor will be in
the room.
And to the extent that this reflects the collective ambitions, it will be fine, I mean. It's not as if
we're going to start making hot chocolates starting in 2020. We're going to make cars, and we're
going to make cars which are in-line with the brand strategy that we've laid out. The execution of
that strategy, the way in which this organization responds to the challenges that it face, but the
market will be my successor's problem. He'll have to adapt to those challenges.
And as you see here in this particular case, it may imply significant shift in execution strategy. We
did that in the US, when we dumped cars and we embraced SUVs and pickup trucks that was not
built into the 2014 plan. It had to be adapted to make sure that we could deliver the numbers.
And I would expect the same level of dexterity and nimble behavior from my successor, but he
will be in the room, so you'll be able to judge from the number of people who may be presenting
that day as to whether you think there is somebody who is worthy of being the leader of the
south going forward. I don't have a bloody out of my mind, Max, the leaders in that room. And I
also don't have any bloody out, Max, that there is more than one leader in the room that could do
that job.
As a matter of fact, I've no doubt Max that we are blooding not only my successor, but the next
Group and that to me is equally important. We have enough management debt in this house to
run this thing well beyond my successor's time here.
Q - `Max Warburton, Analyst, Sanford Bernstein `
Right. I think we'll all be looking forward to the 1st of June. See you there.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Max.
Operator
Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. We now move on and take our next question from Jose
Asumendi from JP Morgan.
Q - `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Thanks very much. Couple of questions, please. Richard, can you quantify the realignment
charges, you took in '17 in North America. Just give us some guidance on that? Also, if you could
quantify how much additional capacity is coming on stream in 2018 in the US? And roughly how
are you going to utilize the destination capacity between Ram and Jeep of your first block.
And second block be on the suppliers love to hear about the profitability, the underlying EBIT
margin of Magneti Marelli -- and it's a bit early in terms of the planning to yourself, but it doessound like it's ahead of the number you report for components. And can you take this to an 8%
[ph] margin business in the next two years? Thank you.
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
So the number for 2017 was up EUR450 million for the capacity realignment cost. So we're going
to save EUR300 million of that going into 2018, obviously there is still some completion
particularly for Sterling heights. In terms of capacity, clearly, we have SHAP coming up. That plant
can produce more light-duty Rams than they produces at the plant at Warren. I think the numbers
are about 50,000 more.
And then also the new Wrangler is coming up at Toledo North. We can produce about 50,000,
60,000 more Wranglers in that plant than we could at the previous as a plant on an annualized
basis, yeah. So obviously, we're ramping up in '18, but on a full-year annual basis, those are the
deltas in terms of the -- those two key products for capacity.
For Marelli, obviously, we'll give you a better look at Marelli as we go through the process. We'll
be discussing as the Board and as the boss said earlier, I don't see any reason why Marelli
through its business plan can't get to the source of margins that you mentioned. Clearly there are
parts of the business that are stronger than others. But overall, I don't see why I can't get to the
8%. We've seen good improvements over the last couple of years, but we'll give you a bit more
detail there as we go through the process for the spin.
Q - `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Very good. On interest charges, are we still on 300 million or so reductions in 2018 versus 2017?
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
In terms of -- yeah not far off, 150 million, 200 million, yeah.
Q - `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Thanks. Fantastic. Thank you very much.
Operator
Thank you. We now take a question from `Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies from Jefferies. Please go ahead.
Q - `Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies `
Yes. Good afternoon, good morning. Two questions from me. The first one on -- the South
America used to be the most profitable part of Fiat for years, double digit, et cetera, and it's a
struggle now to get to those levels for you but for others as well. Is there something that has
fundamentally changed in the structure for the economics of South America that we should not
expect. I mean you've certainly guided down compared to the previous performance.
And just wondering, I think one of your competitors, Carlos Tavares, kind of hinted that you might
be interested in some consolidation there. Do you think that we should see consolidation in South
America and as a condition to go back to attractive level of profitability, is my first question? And
the second one --
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `Q - `Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies `
Yeah. Sure.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
The answer that Carlos Tavares' request for consolidation is no. He doesn't have anything in Latin
America that I wish to consolidate with, that's the first problem. Secondly --
Q - `Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies `
Not just for you, just in general. Yeah.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
Now, if you want in general, then I think you can find a suitable partner elsewhere. I don't think we
are in a dominant position in Latin America. We will continue to hold it. What's missing, Philippe, is
a million cars in Brazil against the forecast for 2018 for the cost for 2.4 million cars, people forget
that, that market was clocking between 3.4 million and 3.6 million after 2012 or 2013.
We're missing a million cars. And we've seen the impact of volume loss of that caliber in the
market. We see it in the US, when we went down from '17 to 9.5 million cars in 2008 and 2009. So
I think we need to be careful. We understand that this business is incredibly volume sensitive. And
when you end up losing that kind of volume support from the market, you end up bleeding. I think
we've done a commendable job between our operations up in Pernambuco, our recommitment
to Argentina that we've done through our plant in Cordova and to the local market.
We have done a commendable job of restoring profitability to these levels. I expect that progress
to continue as the Brazilian market recovers. And I have zeroed out that, that will also happen.
Whether we get to a number like 3.4 million by 2022, I can't tell. I think, Richard's view is about us
reaching 2.4 million for Brazil in 2018 is eminently doable and certainly based on the forecast that I
have seen, is probably -- we can probably go slightly in excess of that number.
I think the market is recovering from a variety of shocks, most of which by the way were politically
induced, have to do with the succession at the level of the President of Brazil and there are
elections, which I'm -- in play out for 2018, I think you are going to see clarity as we work our way
through the remainder of this year and I think the numbers are relatively safe.
Q - `Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies `
Okay. So your view is we need to get the volume back up to historic levels et cetera. There is
nothing structurally different that would prevent you from going back to very high levels of
profitability, especially when you are (multiple speakers) (inaudible) footprint?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
Correct. And there is nothing that will prevent us from going back up to double-digit performance
at the right level.
Q - `Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies `
Okay. And the other question, just a bit housekeeping for Richard, maybe is, I don't think you've
given us any number on your end of your pension deficit, any indication of what it might be, I think
the last number we had from you was 9 billion at the end of Q3 for the provision. Discount rateshave gone up. Can you comment about what the deficit might be, pension OPEB and any kind of
reduction in your requirement just to put cash into those pension plans?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. The pension and OPEB is down slightly because of exchange. It was slightly up in dollar
terms, but down in the exchange as it's 7.6 billion for some pension and OPEB. We had -- we did
have a discount rate impact in the US. The discount rate went down from 4.4% to 3.8%. And we
also had a very strong asset returns in the US, that offset that impact. So it's relatively flat, slightly
down year-over-year, mainly due to exchange.
Q - `Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies `
Okay. So you don't anticipate that you have to put cash into pension in '18?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
No, nothing significant of beyond what we did already in '17.
Q - `Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies `
Sure. Okay. Thank you very much.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks.
Operator
Thank you. We now take our next question from `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Banca IMI from Banca IMI. Please go ahead.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Banca IMI `
Good morning and good afternoon everyone and thanks for taking my question. I understand the
execution on on Jeep is crucial for FCA. I'm just wondering, if you can just give us an indication of
what kind of volumes would you have in mind behind the 2018 targets. And if you can give us
some flavor also for the volumes of Alfa and just some further comments on Alfa as for F1?
Thanks very much.
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Monica, I think we are committing to the financial targets as we outlines them. I don't think we
want to get into discussion about specific volume target for the brands. The brands obviously
focused on delivering the financial results that we've outlined.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Banca IMI `
Okay. I'll do my map. (inaudible) Thank you.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Q - `Monica Bosio, Analyst, Banca IMI `
Thank you.Operator
Thank you. And now a question from `Michael Tyndall, Analyst, Citi from Citi.
Q - `Michael Tyndall, Analyst, Citi `
Yeah, hi. It's Mike Tyndall from Citi. A couple from me if I can, I guess the first ones is for Richard.
Richard, if I look at slide 22 of the deck industrial costs for NAFTA, you've got a negative 104 in
Q4, but I can't square that away with what you've reported throughout the year. So I'm just
wondering was there some sort of reclassification on the industrial side versus volume and mix?
And then just looking at that negative is that one-off, is that related to perhaps bonuses that
you're paying or is it a function of, we are now building cars that are more expensive and as a
consequence we expect to get better pricing and that's the trade-off for that. That's kind of the
first question.
The second question relates to CO2 and I'm not sure if perhaps it's too early to talk about it, but I
wonder if you could -- a read on what your average CO2 was in 2017 in Europe versus the 120 in
'16. And in my head, where I'm struggling a little bit is the guide is for R&D to go down, for CapEx
to go down and that seems at odds with everybody else that is paying up to try and meet the
forthcoming CO2 targets. I'm wondering, perhaps, is it a case of the savings are so big in North
America that it's obscuring, what's happening in Europe, but if you could talk through that, that
would be great? Thanks.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
So, in terms about of the industrial costs to NAFTA, as you've seen we've been negative through
the year not that the fourth quarter should be higher, but basically because of the intense activity
on completion of the NAFTA realignment and the launches of some key vehicles. So that's really
the key driver for Q4. In terms of your question about CapEx and R&D, the answer is yes. I think
we've been very clear about how much money we've been spending on the product lineup in --
for Jeep and for Ram. And so those significant projects are coming down in terms of activity
going to '18, offset the spending that we are doing on the areas that you mentioned in 2018 and
beyond.
Q - `Michael Tyndall, Analyst, Citi `
Okay. Thanks.
Operator
Thank you. We now take our next question from `Richard Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar from Morningstar.
Q - `Richard Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar `
Good morning, everyone. Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my questions this morning. I would
like to get your perspectives from the rear view mirror with the current five-year plan and looking
out the windshield into the vista to come. On the rear view mirror side, Sergio, one or two,
maybe big items for you that are lessons learned by the organization that really need to be
applied and be fundamental to the organization in the next round of five year planning.
And for Richard, some of your perspectives on the lessons learned on the finance side and the
capital structure side over the past five years that need to be applied going forward. And how do
you see yourself or see the organization as being capital funded, capital structured. And what arethe focus areas of funding? We've gone from a very onerous net debt position to being net cash
over the past five years. So that's been a big focus. Do we see a change then in funding in R&D,
in capital expenditures? Do we start to see dividends? How should we be thinking about the way
that the company is going to develop its overarching capital deployment going forward?
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
Richard, If I can just try and take Richard off the hot seat here, because otherwise he's going to
get himself into trouble. This question about, what we do with capital structure for the group
going forward is best reserved for the June 1st presentation. It needs to go through a scrubbing
process with the Board, which is ultimately responsible for this business. And we're going to go
air all our so-called dirty laundry or versions of our dirty laundry with the Board, between now and
June 1st that I think Richard will be a lot more comfortable giving his views on structure and share
buybacks and dividends then.
In terms of the things that we've learned, a couple of -- we have learned here all the time -- I
mean, if I've known that US market was going to go two-thirds UVs and pickup trucks back in
2014, it may have saved me a few hundreds of millions of dollars to try and get that done. I mean
certainly, we would have postponed positions like the Chrysler 200, and maybe the Dodge Dart
early enough for the process to try and redevelop our resources to something else.
The good thing about this is that the decision to re-industrialize the way in which we have done
the set of pay backs from less than six months we properly executed. So, we actually -- it may
have been a painful decision at the time, but the correction mechanism I think made the pain a lot
more tolerable than it would have been otherwise.
The other thing that I think is that I certainly have learned going back to 2014 is that this place is
actually in a sense at least for part of the plan, if I've grown, its capability of producing leaders
that were sufficiently deep international to be moved around. And that's something that I think we
started investing and now halfway through the plan to make sure that we've got people who are
sufficient, that they adopt to foreign environments, regardless of what their origins and whether
they're Europeans or North American or Latin American, to try and allow them to have a global
reach that allows them to sit at the table and effectively co-manage this business with the CEO or
the leadership of the house.
We've invested in that process now. I think I feel relatively comfortable that we've put that to bed.
And as I mentioned earlier when I was talking to Max, I think that we have adequate resources to
be not only with my succession -- but the succession that comes thereafter. But it's going to be --
it requires a very careful nurturing of the DNA of the leadership class here. And I think that we
started this process as early as three years ago. And I think we're deep enough now to face the
next one.
I don't know whether you want to add anything else to hear, to your cat, to your financial learnings
from the last -- it's kind of hard to learn anything. When you owe money to people, you just pay
them back, that's a rule number one. And then, Richard?
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Somebody poll the wisdom on that now. I think the other thing we've done that we've focused on
and we need to continue to focus on is the importance of the brand, because, I think from a
financial point of view a dollar spent on one brand isn't the same as the dollar spent on another,
and I think something that we've learned, and it's been clear from the way our financials have
performed and it needs to be maintained as a key focus going forward.A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I think that what distinguishes us from the rest of it -- I mean obviously the premium brands
are very keen on their brands, so people will play in that space by definition, fight and protect the
brand aggressively. People who have got sort of the mix background like us, which still play
actively in the mass market and have made forays into the premium side, has to learn the
discipline of keeping these brands distinct. And I think we are learning, we have learned a lot and I
think we continue to learn on how to do that well.
Q - `Richard Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar `
Okay. And then just if I could follow-up, briefly, not getting into and stealing any thunder from the
June meeting on the finance side, is it safe to say though that with the cash focus no longer
needing to be on the debt reduction side, it makes sense that we could see on a percentage
basis increased investments in R&D, capitalized development, capital expenditure along with
some of these other things at some point.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
No, no.
Q - `Richard Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar `
Okay.
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
No, I mean I keep on saying no, when you're talking to me, because I think that's going to be
instinctive response of a traditional player in this market. If Capital Junkie is true as a thesis that
was especially in 2015, we can't change colors. And I think one of the things that came along with
being poor, which is a way in which we started our life back in '04 and again in '09, is one of the
things that you learn, you learn how to do with less and that's something that we cannot -- I am
not freaking out and I think that there's nobody in the leadership team that has forgotten, what it
felt like at the time and I -- whoever comes after us needs to have the same level of
consciousness about the importance of the usage of capital.
This is key. Because this business will kill if you misuse cash. And when you're making cash and
you're accumulating it, the easiest thing to do is to go stir-crazy and start spending it. So, by all
means, when you hear about this plan on June 1st, you should be the first person to criticize any
attempt at recreating expansion as theories that are designed to conquer the world at the
expense of shareholders.
Our biggest obligation that we have is to be fair, not only to our people and to the constituency
of people whose lives have been entrusted to us, but also to be fair to the people who provide
us capital and to compensate them for that usage, including share buybacks in the events that
cash accumulation were to justify it. I'm a big proponent of contraction of capital. I think if I can
give any advice to my successor and to the board is there it should be an integral part of the plan
coming forward until 2022. So I'll leave it at that and then we'll park it for June 1st.
Q - `Richard Hilgert, Analyst, Morningstar `
Very good. Thank you very much.Thank you. And we now take a question from `Lello della Ragione, Analyst, Intermonte from Intermonte.
Q - `Lello della Ragione, Analyst, Intermonte `
Hi, thank you for taking my questions. Three left from my side. On free cash flow for the first one.
You mentioned about CapEx and working capital. I was wondering especially on the working
capital side, if the fact that the launches of Jeep will change the usual pattern that we have,
meaning negative in the first and third quarter and very positive towards the other one. Or is
there any other strange pattern that we see in the free cash flow over the course of the quarter
in 2018?
The other question relates to Alfa. On the Alfa side on profitability if you could comment in the
past, you aimed at the -- being positive. We understand that we are not still there due to the
Chinese and NAFTA also deliveries, where we send at this point?
And the other one relates on the issue of Maserati in China. If that thing is -- I mean we are not
seeing probably in deliveries, but profitability was quite high. And we are wondering, it seems the
extended holidays in Italy, if that issue is solved especially on Levante or you're just delivering in
other regions for the time being. Thank you.
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
So as we mentioned before, the first quarter, we're ramping up the key products. So we are
going to see positive impact from the launches in the volumes of those new products from Q2
onwards. So that's what's going to impact the free cash flow profile for 2018. In terms of Alfa, we
have talked about --
A - `Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer `
It's not profitable in '18. Let me take Richard off the hot seat here. (Multiple Speakers) We're still
building the brand, obviously the losses are shrinking, but we need more volumes. So that's the
objective.
Q - `Lello della Ragione, Analyst, Intermonte `
Maserati in China?
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Maserati is performing fine in China, no particular issue. We just need to continue to build the
performance particularly I think of Levante. I think we've done a good job so far, but it's clear that
Maserati is known as a luxury sedan brand in some markets. I'm not sure that the Levante is as
visible as it could be. And we have -- we still have room to improve performance. Now, from a
profitability point of view, you saw the year, it was a good performance and we don't have any
inventory issues or anything else. We just need to manage supply chain, no disagreement.
Q - `Lello della Ragione, Analyst, Intermonte `
Okay. Thank you.
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks.Operator
Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, as there are no further question, that will conclude
the question-and-answer session. I would now like to turn the call over back to `Joe Veltri, Vice President for any
additional or closing remarks. Thank you.
A - `Joe Veltri, Vice President `
Thank you, Steffie. Well, I think with that, we'll close today's call and I'd like to once again thank
everyone for joining us. Have a pleasant day.
Operator
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this will conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your
participation. You may now disconnect.