Q4 2018 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good afternoon and good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to today's Group
results for 2018 Full Year Conference Call. For your information, today's conference is being
recorded.
At this time, I would like to turn the call over to `Joe Veltri, Vice President of Investor Relations, Head of FCA Global Investor Relations,
Mr. Veltri, please go ahead, sir.
`Joe Veltri, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Tara. And welcome to everyone joining us today as we review FCA's full year 2018
results. You will find today's presentation material along with the related earnings release posted
under the Investors Section of FCA's Group website. Our call today will be hosted by Mike
Manley, the Group's Chief Executive Officer; and `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer and Business Development, our Chief Financial Officer.
After their presentation, we will be holding the customary question-and-answer session. But
before we begin, I just want to point out that any forward-looking statements that might be made
during today's call are subject to the risks and uncertainties that are noted in the Safe Harbor
statement, which is included on Page 2 of today's presentation deck. And as always, the call will
be governed by that language.
With that, I want to turn the call over to Mike Manley.
`Michael Manley, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Joe. Hello, everyone. Well, 2018 was an extraordinary year for FCA in many ways I
believe it represents an inflection point for our company. So to begin with, we delivered another
record-breaking year of earnings and generated significant industrial free cash flow enabling us
to end the year for the first time cash positive. And after achieved a record performance with
adjusted EBIT up 19% and margin to a new high of 8.6%. LATAM more than doubled margin and
EBIT year-over-year and we've reached new global sales records for both Jeep and Ram brands.2018 was also a year we strengthened our business in other ways as well. The agreement to sell
Magneti Marelli allows us to strengthen our balance sheet and to make a distribution to our
shareholders. They will provide more capital stability and flexibility for the Group and importantly,
it provides a secure and exciting future for Magneti Marelli and its employees.
Now during the year, we completed the most complex and intensive phase of our NAFTA
capacity realignment plan for the launch of the all-new Ram light-duty pickup in our Sterling
Heights Assembly Plant.
And in the mobility space, we strengthened our partnership with Waymo and the agreement to
provide additional Pacifica minivans for conversion to autonomous vehicles. And in addition to
that, we confirmed our cooperation with BMW to develop autonomous driving technologies.
Now, eliminating our net debt in turning cash positive allows us to stop paying regular dividends in
addition to a special dividend in 2019. This is a significant milestone as the last time we distributed
the dividend was nearly a decade ago. So you're accustomed to FCA telling it like it is, we'll also
know, well that practice is not changing. So you will see here that we've learned some lessons in
2018 and encountered some new challenges.
We're extremely pleased with the enthusiastic reception of the new Ram light-duty pickup truck
win already of multiple awards, including North America Truck of the Year. However, we were not
pleased with this launch.
We were slow getting up to full production rate. Now, there were a variety of reasons for that and
we've corrected them and production is now up to full speed. And the lessons we learned have
already helped to ensure that our all-new Ram heavy-duty truck is hitting its production targets to
nearly part of the launch curve, and I'm pleased to say that the all-new Jeep Gladiator is also on
track to stop production on schedule.
EMEA, longer challenging market for our industry was no less so in 2018, especially in the second
half and we were not immune to those challenges. Among other things, we have to cope with
regulatory disruptions brought about by the introduction of new emission testing rules. We face
significant hurdles in China including duty changes, the transition to China 6 emission regulations
and increased competition. And most concerning was the unexpected slump in the Chinese auto
market, which hit hard in the last half of the year.
I'm not going to spend much time detailing the challenges the industry faces in 2019. I think most
of them are well known. So, what I would say is challenges are not new and one of our strengths
that I think we have is that we've consistently demonstrated our ability to face challenges and
overcome them. So I want to spend a little bit of time talking about how we will do that.
Now, I won't read into the points on this slide, but I will call out some common themes. Among
them is the fact that we are starting the year with new leadership team members with the
experience and the mandate to improve our operations. Personally, spent a lot of time with the
leadership in APAC and EMEA being in those markets on multiple occasions over the last five
months. And you will see that we are taking restructuring actions and rationalizing markets in
EMEA to bring down operative and administration costs.
We also launched a new industrial plan to improve our capacity utilization in our European plants,
and that is a problem that has been with us for years. We'll continue to focus on improving our
channel mix and initiatives that is beginning to yield results. And in China, we are aggressively
reducing our vehicle direct material cost and restructuring our joint venture in conjunction with our
partners to enhance operating cost and efficiency. We continue to manage our brands closely. Forexample, even though Maserati is in a quite period for new product. We will bridge the gap by
developing specialty models and focusing our marketing to areas where we can win.
And by the way, I look forward to closing the sale of Magneti Marelli later this year. And I also look
forward to exploring options for our other non-core businesses Texas and Comau that will focus
on strengthening those businesses.
So in short, 2019 will be another important year for us. So looking even beyond 2019, the to-do
list we laid out in our new five-year plan includes expanding our portfolio with white-space
products in high-margin segments. It also includes developing our investments in electric vehicle
strategies and capacities in line with our brand identities. And I'm excited about the potential for
our brands to build share in this segments well into the five-year plan.
Now, I'm confident that we can do these things on our own. And as I've said, in the past that
doesn't mean that we would rule out potential partnerships. We obviously have a number of
those already that I think are working well and partnerships that complement our strengths or
invest -- or optimize our investments are certainly things that we we're open to.
So now let me say a few words on guidance. We expect full-year operating performance to
exceed our record results in 2018. We see continued strong performance in NAFTA and LATAM
with higher year-over-year adjusted EBIT and margin. But it is important to talk about expected
cadence of earnings during the year.
Now you should note that the first half of the year, we'll see lower year-over-year results due to
the fact that we will not repeat last year's benefits of overlapping production of the old
generation Wrangler alongside the new one. And in NAFTA, we will see reduced productions of
Ram heavy-duty as we ramp up the production of the new model.
Now in Q2, we will have reduced production of Wrangler as Toledo North goes down to prepare
for the launch of the new plug-in hybrid Wrangler in early 2020. And that is a primary reason why
we are currently long on inventory in those model lines. But notwithstanding that we ended the
year with a days supply four days above prior year.
With that said, we're going to continue actions to manage dealer inventories in Q1 and Q2. And
by the end of the first half, I expect our retail days of supply to be in line with our sales run rate.
Maserati will be down year-over-year in the first half as we apply the same discipline to destock
our global dealer network and work to improve the sales performance which frankly is
unacceptable in 2018. And that was one of the key drivers of the leadership changes that we
made in our sales and marketing organization.
Now, in the second half of the year, NAFTA will benefit from the all-new Jeep Gladiator and Ram
heavy-duty, along with more actions to improve margins with industrial efficiencies. EMEA actions
will progressively take effect throughout the year with the full benefits being seen in 2020. And
we do expect market and commercial challenges to continue in China albeit with improvement
throughout the year, but having visited there on a number of occasions and work with the
leadership team, I think the actions that they have put in place, not just on cost and efficiency, but
also with our vehicle products will begin to be shown as we get into the back half of this year. And
I'm confident that both of these regions will be key contributors towards our 2022 plan.
Now, you will see our year-over-year industrial free cash flows reduced compared to 2018 due to
higher CapEx spending on our electrification strategy and the renewal and expansion of our
portfolio. Cash flow will also be impacted by the EUR500 million cash payments for costs related
to the U.S. diesel emissions settlement.And finally, we come into the year with strong product momentum with the launch of the all-new
Jeep Gladiator scheduled for Q2, which will enter white-space for our Jeep brand. And as I
previously mentioned, the all-new heavy-duty will start hitting showrooms this quarter. And we
have a full year of the new Jeep Wrangler and Ram light-duty truck, both of which received Motor
Trend Vehicle of the Year Awards in their respective segments.
And with that, I'm going to hand you over to Richard, who will take you through the numbers in
detail. Thank you. Richard?
`Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer and Business Development `
Thank you, Mike. So moving to Page 7, we review the financial performance in a bit more detail.
Combined shipments for the year for FCA were up 2% with consolidated shipments up 5%, which
was driven by NAFTA and LATAM, both up, offsetting EMEA and Maserati which were down. Our
joint venture shipments were down in Asia Pacific and also in EMEA, which was -- which were
impacted by the China market and the Turkey market respectively.
Our revenues increased 4% or 9% at constant FX to EUR115 billion and our shipments drove
around EUR4.8 billion increase with positive mix and price of over $5 billion offsetting negative
exchange, due to weakening of the U.S. dollar, the CAD and the Brazilian real against the Euro.
Adjusted EBIT was EUR7.3 billion, with a 6.3% margin and represented a record performance as
Mike said, up 3% and up 9% at constant exchange. Margin was down slightly year-over-year due
to deterioration of margins in EMEA, Maserati and Asia Pacific.
Adjusted net profit was EUR5 billion for the year and was up 34% or 41% at constant exchange.
Financial charges were down EUR300 million due to our lower average gross debt through the
year as we continue to deleverage the balance sheet.
And our adjusted effective tax rate for the full year was just over 17.5% due to US tax rate benefits
that we had in the year compared to statutory rate, as we had tax planning and also pension
contributions in the year which offset some of the unrecognized DTAs in the regions where we
were in a loss position.
If we look at net industrial cash, you can see we closed the year with EUR1.9 billion, up from
EUR2.4 billion of net industrial debt at the beginning of the year. And our industrial free cash flows
more than doubled year-over-year to EUR4.3 billion with the lower CapEx due to program timing
a major factor. We also made a EUR0.5 billion of accelerated discretion U.S. pension plan
contributions in Q3 as you know.
Our available liquidity at the end of the year was strong at EUR21.1 billion. And gross debt as I said
before was reduced through the year by over EUR3 billion.
Moving to Page 8. We show the components of the improved adjusted EBIT. As we did for Q3,
we show for completeness the results of Magneti Marelli separately as it will be shown as
discontinued operations as explained in Q3 in our financial statements until closing of the
transaction. The performance of NAFTA and LATAM were fundamental for the 2018 financial
results, with NAFTA in particular performing strongly with the new products that Mike mentioned.
APAC and Maserati had a tough year due to challenges in China and the major profitability was
effectively breakeven in the second half with negative volumes and price mix. We will review the
segments in more detail in the next few pages.Moving to Page 9. We see the cash flow for the year. Our net industrial cash position was EUR1.9
billion at year-end as I mentioned. Industrial free cash flow is EUR4.3 billion for the year, an
improvement of EUR2.8 billion year-over-year, driven in particular by lower CapEx spending due
to program timing. Our CapEx spend for Q4 was starting to show the increase that we expect in
2019 and was up to EUR1.8 billion.
Adjusted industrial EBITDA was up EUR100 million or EUR800 million at constant exchange. As I
mentioned before, finance charges were down around EUR300 million and taxes were up
approximately EUR400 million as credits and losses were no longer available to offset our U.S. tax
liability. Working capital and provisions were EUR750 million negative with the debt reduction in
year-end payables, due to lower production levels in EMEA and increased tax receivables in
LATAM being partially offset by reduced new and used car inventory levels.
While we are talking about the balance sheet, just a brief comment on our pension OPEB funded
status. Total pension deficit decreased from EUR4.3 billion to EUR4.0 billion with discount rate
increases of 60 basis points in the U.S. and 30 basis points in Canada, offsetting negative asset
returns through the year. Our OPEB liability was also down EUR0.3 billion to EUR3 billion at year-
end.
On Page 10, we look at the NAFTA performance for the year. NAFTA volumes in terms of industry
were flat year-over-year at 21.1 million units. FCA sales were up 5%, 2.5 million units driven by
Jeep, up 146,000 units or 16% due to Compass and Cherokee and Wrangler, partially offset by
discontinued Patriot. Ram sales were up 26,000 units or 4%, driven by the new light-duty, which
was up 40,000 units, slightly offset -- offset slightly by lower sales of heavy-duty due to product
availability.
Fleet mix was up from a low 19% in 2017 to 21% for the year. Our U.S. dealer inventories increased
by four days in 2018 compared to the end of 2017, due to the new product launches mentioned
and also to cover planned downtime in first half '19 for Wrangler and for our heavy-duty launch.
We therefore expect modest reduction in inventory levels through the first half of 2019.
Shipments were up 10% to 2.6 million units and our revenues were also up 10% to EUR72 billion,
up 14% at constant exchange.
Adjusted EBIT margin finished at 8.6% versus 7.9% last year. You can see in our walk below the
themes for the year being fairly clear. We had a strong performance in terms of volumes, pricing
and mix to tune of EUR5.3 billion in total, which offset the increased product cost for the new
products, which is within the EUR4.3 billion and was worth about EUR3 billion of that number. And
also some inefficiencies due to some of the launch problems we had on the light-duty in
particular and logistics, which were worth about EUR1 billion overall.
Moving on to Page 11. We look at Latin America results. LATAM had a strong year and closed with
Q4 adjusted EBIT of nearly doubled 2017. Full year performance shows the business able to
rapidly respond to the economic issues in Argentina in the second half. The full year industry was
up 7% to 4.4 million units, driven by Brazil, up 14% to 2.5 million, and partially offset by the
reduction in Argentina in the second half, which finished with reduction year-over-year of 10% to
770,000 units.
FCA sales were up 10% to 566,000 units, driven by the Fiat Argo, Jeep Compass, Jeep
Renegade and the new Fiat Cronos.
Our market share in Brazil was flat at 17.5%, was up in Argentina 60 basis points and Jeep remain
the leader in Brazil SUV segments with a combined share of over 21%. Our inventories werestable compared to last year at 34 days of sales -- days of supply. Shipments were up 12% and
net revenues were up 3% in euro or 21% at constant exchange.
Our adjusted EBIT margin reached 4.4% with Q4 at 4.6%, so good run rate going into 2019. And
you can see in the walk for the EBIT that we had a strong performance in terms of volumes with
Betim, the plant that basically produces the Fiat brand, up 30,000 units and showing a increased
utilization of 10 points to 76%, Pernambuco was up 45,000 units for Jeep and the Fiat pickup with
utilization rates up, and we added the third shift in Q2, which will help us also going into Q3 to
continue to grow in those segments.
Argentina, the plant was down due to the economic situation in the second half of the year. And
as you can see, we also manage to get some positive pricing in a difficult environment in
Argentina. We didn't offset the whole impact of the devaluations in the second half. So we expect
to see some positive pricing going into 2019, as we carry over those actions, and we also had
positive pricing in our Brazilian market.
In terms of industrial costs, FX was a big impact negative due to the weaker real for U.S. dollar
and Europe -- and euro-denominated supply. Also, we had higher depreciation and amortization
for new vehicles launched.
We worked hard to contain the SG&A costs and allowed us also to invest in advertising to
continue to support the new product launches I mentioned earlier. And then, we had unfavorable
translation for the currencies I mentioned.
Moving to Asia-Pacific on Page 12. We had a difficult year as Mike already mentioned. The industry
in major markets where FCA has present was down 4% year-over-year, mainly due to China,
which was down 6% and down 20% in Q4. SUV segments in China were down 8% and 22% in Q4.
FCA combined sales in region were down 18% with our JV sales down 26%. Combined JEEP sales
were down 18% driven by the reduction in the China JV performance, where Jeep Cherokee
volumes were particularly disappointing.
Our inventory days supply were down six days to 80 days at the end of '18, as production was
adjusted to demand. Consolidated shipments were flat at about 85,000 units. Our net revenues
were down 13% to EUR2.7 billion, due to negative mix and vehicle mix and market mix.
Our loss for the year was EUR296 million. As you can see in the walk below, this was driven by
lower volumes and negative mix, as we had less BUX volume in China, offset by more volume
coming out of our Indian produced Compass. Net price was negative due to actions in China,
driven in part by duty changes and actions to sell down stock as we come through the first half of
this year into China 6. Our G&A and advertising were positive contributors as we continue to cut
costs and simplify the structure as Mike mentioned earlier. And our JV results were down to a loss
and our non -- we had a non-repeat of the Tianjin insurance recoveries of last year, which was
worth about EUR92 million.
On Page 13, we show you the EMEA results. Sales were down 4% in a market, which was down in
Italy 3% and the overall EU28+EFTA was flat year-over-year. For passenger car and for LTV, the
industry was up 4%, but with Italy down 3%, our share was down 30 basis points, primarily due to
Italian market.
Our overall inventories and in terms of days supply were up year-over-year 88 days, but down
from 98 days of September '18, as we continue to manage the supply chain down to demand, as
we clean some of the inventory we had in channel mix issues. Shipments were down 3% and ourrevenues were flat at EUR22.8 billion, with positive vehicle mix offsetting some of the volume
reduction.
Adjusted EBIT margin for the year was 1.8%. As you can see in the walk below, we were down
about EUR0.5 billion in terms of volume mix and net price. That was also predominantly 60% of
that was in the second half of the year as we dealt with the WLTP introduction. We offset some of
that with actions in terms of industrial costs and some favorable FX on buys in USD and Turkish
lira production. And that got us to the 1.8% margin for the year.
On Page 14, we move to Maserati. Maserati had a disappointing year in terms of sales
performance with global sales down 28%. And in particular, poor performance in China where our
sales were down 43%. That led to our shipments being down 32% and net revenues being down
34% and adjusted EBIT down EUR400 million from EUR560 million to EUR150 million for the year.
So our margins were impacted, down from 13.8% to 5.7%.
As we move forward to look again at 2019, we saw inventory outlook on Page 15. So NAFTA, we
are forecasting a slight decrease in U.S. industry from 17.7 million units to 17.2 units for the year.
And we forecast in Canada and Mexico to be stable at 2 million units and 1.4 million units,
respectively, This is slightly down from our Capital Markets Day guidance, which was at EUR20.8
million for NAFTA.
LATAM, we've revised, but down slightly also basically due to Argentina being down 0.2 million
units year-over-year and that compares the total forecast of 4.4 million units flat year-over-year
compares to an increase in our Capital Markets Day forecasts up to 4.7 million units. Asia Pacific,
we've revised down significantly from 36.9 million at Capital Markets Day to 32.6 million, driven by
China which we forecast to be flat year-over-year. And EMEA is also down from Capital Markets
Day by about 2 million units, driven by lower industry in Turkey, the UK and Italy in particular. And
we are expecting year-over-year slight decrease in EU industry from 18 million units to 17.8 million
units.
Mike already explained the guidance. So with that, I will hand back to Joe and we'll take questions.
`Joe Veltri, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Richard. Tara, that concludes our opening remarks. So with that, I'm going to turn it
back over to you. And we can start taking questions please.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you (Operator Instructions) We will now take our first question from `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research from Wolfe
Research. Your line is open. Please go ahead.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Hi, everybody. Thanks for taking my question. I wanted to ask you if you can just give us a little bit
more color on the outlook for 2019. At the Capital Markets Day, you talked about CapEx going up
by EUR3 billion through 2020. Is it already rising by EUR2 billion to EUR2.5 billion or something like
that in 2019?
And can you give us a little bit more color on how you're thinking about industrial costs? You
talked about an increase through 2022, but it seems like a lot of that until now was contentrelated as opposed to structural or fixed costs. How should we be thinking about the structural
costs going forward given some of those statements you made about restructuring?
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer and Business Development `
Well, I think, Rod, obviously, our structural costs, we are managing extremely carefully, given the
performance in some of the businesses that we just talked about. And so I think -- I don't think
we're seeing any increase in structural costs going into 2019. We're taking actions to take out cost
across our portfolio, and in particular in EMEA and Asia Pacific. And so, I don't see us going
forward with any significant cost increases in the short term, as we work through, obviously, some
of the performance issues we have in those businesses.
In terms of CapEx, we are forecasting to be at around EUR8.5 billion for 2019, which is up EUR3
billion compared to where we finished 2018. That number is substantially consistent for 2019 with
the sort of run rate, we expected through our planned period. That includes investments in
renewing product as well as new product in particular, Grand Cherokee and Grand Wagoneer in
the U.S. and it also includes electrification investments across the portfolio, obviously, for the
compliance challenges that we have in the industry in general, which is about 20% of the number.
So, and going into '19 -- going into '20, we'll give you a better view on CapEx, obviously, as we
get closer to '20. I don't see it being significantly different to the sort of run rate we are looking at
for 2019.
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Okay. And you commented in your deck about improvement that you expect in the second half in
EMEA, Maserati and Asia Pacific. It sounds like some of that is cost savings and some of that is just
cycling through some of the inventory adjustments. Can you just give us some color on what
would be that big drivers of that back half improvement?
A - `Michael Manley, Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, sure. Rob, this is Mike. Let's say China first, I think just on the industry level, my view
whether it's right or wrong, but it is the view that I have is that the industry in China will get bumpy
again in the first half. And then as we get into the second half, we'll see some year-over-year
growth. So I think there will be some industry help in the second half. A lot of the work that the
team in China done has been focused on our direct material cost, some of that you can get too
quickly, some of that because it involves reengineering and testing takes a little bit of time. So
when I think about the amount of work that they've done and really the flow of that coming
through, it will begin in the second half of 2019. And then you'll see as I think I mentioned in the --
more benefit in 2020.
In EMEA, some of their actions are more -- we'll have an impact quicker. Some of the restructuring
actions we started this process, I mean to looking at our structures early at the end of '18. So
some of those will get the benefit from. But as we change our channel mix, I think that's where
EMEA need to continue to really focus and it's a balance, because as we make this transition, we
bump into a headline number that says our share has dropped. And what's important for us is
that we don't react to that in the way that we have done historically. So I think as we increase
penetration into retail channels, that takes a little bit of time. I mentioned I've seen some traction
on that, which we have. For example, we are seeing an improvement in the retail channel and
we're also seeing some improvement -- slight share improvement outside of Italy, which I think is
good for the balance of the business.And Maserati is really focused in the first half of cleaning down their inventory levels. As I
mentioned, I'm not happy with the '18 sales result. The new sales team that's on board led by
Harald. And as you know, we appointed a new Head of Sales and Marketing that really worked on
what I think is relatively comprehensive plan for this year, but we need to make sure that we get
our inventory where it is, because it also speaks the engagement of our dealer body around the
world, and that really will take the first half for us to complete that process. Does that help?
Q - `Rod Lache, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Okay. Yes, it does. Thank you.
Operator
We will now take our next question from `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Your
line is open.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Good morning, guys. I just want to focus on two products in North America, and obviously the
biggies here. When you look at Wrangler, as well as the Gladiator, I'm just curious where you think
the volumes can go with those combined programs in Toledo North and Toledo South? I mean
the Wrangler is already running I think mid 200,000 -- around 200,000 plus or minus, it kind of
historically itself have been 150,000. So it's been a big step-up already where it exists, but I'm
just curious as you think about the opportunity for that, plus the Gladiator where you think these
volumes can go sort of an ongoing basis?
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer and Business Development `
Yeah, thanks. I'll start, John. Firstly, we looked and try to do as much work as possible to say if we
found that there would be a large percentage of substitution between the two vehicles. And in
our plans, we are expecting somewhere of the order of maybe 10%, 15%. So as I think about the
combined volume going forward, that really I think give some illustration of maybe people moving
from Wrangler to Gladiator. In terms of where the volumes can go, I have no doubt that given the
reception we've seen on Gladiator, that the production that we have this year will be very quickly
taken up by dealers. And then hopefully, we'll see the market take it up equally fast as they arise.
Wrangler, a max point on Wrangler is difficult to cool, because the traditional peak selling period
for Wrangler is around spring and as we get into early summer as you know. So when I think about
the fact that Wrangler has been up double-digit numbers and even in January, which is relatively
low number, it was up over 8%. The headroom I think for both notwithstanding that 10% to 15%
substitution, got to be -- I don't know 50,000 units something like that, maybe more.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. That's helpful. And then as we think about the Ram and the light-duty and the heavy-duty, I
mean, there's obviously a lot of competition coming in to the market. I think, we often get a little
bit kind of confused about talking about market share, but your key customer being your
traditional Ram and HD buyers as well as some folks sort of on the margin that you might be able
to conquest. I mean, how do you think about those programs and their success you sort of -- and
then you determine really the opportunity that you have in 2019 and 2020?
A - `Michael Manley, Chief Executive Officer `
John, I apologize, could you just repeat the first part of that question for some reason, I lost you.Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Well, I think there is often this view that there is these market share shifts in the pickup market
and that is I guess mathematically true in any given year. But the reality is, you have a new
products on the light-duty Ram and heavy-duty Ram, which should bring a lot of your buyers into
the market, which should help your market share just on pure math basis. But I'm just curious as
the competition is ramping on the Silverado and Sierra, and the HD, GM, how you kind of think
about sort of the market dynamics there, and the upside opportunity from your core buyers and
maybe some conquest buyers?
A - `Michael Manley, Chief Executive Officer `
Firstly, when I look at the development of the brand on Ram light-duty that area that we focus
from when we launched it all the way through now was to drive up our conquest/defection ratio
and our loyalty. And as I look at that measure, Ram now is one of the most loyal light-duty pickups
in the market. And the last time I checked, which was maybe I don't know two months ago, we
had the highest, the best conquest/defection ratio. So that gives me comfort. And when I lay on
top of that, the awards that it won, the North American auto show, as well as Motor Trend Truck
of the Year. I'm feeling very positive about the vehicle.
Heavy-duty for us is obviously a vital segment. And last year, we were -- we're the oldest truck in
the market. We were basically flat in the segment that went down. So we actually grew share. If
you take January as an example and that's with our old truck. So I think that you will see sustained
opportunity for us to grow share. Notwithstanding, the monthly fluctuations, John, that you
referred to, which frankly in this market happen, maybe three, four, five times a year. But if you
look at just light-duty and what we were able to achieve over 2018, I think we got a fairly
significant share gain. Notwithstanding, the peaks and troughs that we're in the year.
So the other thing that I will turn to then is obviously the pricing dynamics. And clearly, when you
got a lot of activity in the market, everybody is looking to demonstrate that their truck is better
and they tend to refer to share. But what I actually think you may see is a bit more price discipline,
even though '18 was pretty good, because the other thing you get when people launch a new
vehicle is they tend to use that as an opportunity to be very disciplined in terms of incentives and
disciplined in terms of how they want to change their mix. That's good for us. What that means is,
if that's true and I think it will be. Then it's going to come down to brand and to product. And as I
said, we worked hard on our brand. And if the awards are anything to go by, we've got very
competitive product and we use the same recipe for heavy-duty. So yeah, there are going to be
some launches in the marketplace, but I think we're positioned very well.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
And Mike, you have sort of a very helpful 50,000 unit potential headroom on the Wrangler and
Gladiator there. When you think about the Ram and the HD, what kind of headroom do you think
there is in 2019 versus 2018? I mean like obviously you said, I mean your fight with older trucks,
you got the new trucks in there. What kind of headroom do you think you might have in '19 versus
'18 on those trucks?
A - `Michael Manley, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, I think it's more about where the headroom will be. Obviously, the retail markets where
you've seen a lot of fluctuations. But we've had a very longstanding weakness in, what I think is an
important part of the fleet world and that's commercial fleet business. Our strategy of havingpenetrate in that area, it's not been a strength in the past, so that to me remains upside
opportunity.
So as I think about 2019, what I'm really asking the sales team to do is to focus on our price and
our mix in the retail channel. Improve that. And we saw a lot of improvement in terms of our
average transaction price through 2018. It was up roughly 10% from the beginning to the end of
the year. But in those areas where we've been performing particularly poor, like commercial fleet
where market share is well below our retail market share is where I think we can really see some
upside leverage in our classic strategy. In terms of putting a number on it, if I may John, I don't
really want to do that. But my sales teams will probably tell you I do have a number in mind. So, if I
may, I'll just duck part of the question.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
We'll ask it at a later date. Just lastly, when you look at the dividend decision I mean, obviously,
there is the ongoing and then the potential onetime post Magneti. I'm just curious as you look at
the balance sheet, the cash flow, the stepped-up need in CapEx and investment in product,
which seems like there's opportunity to invest that money in a very productive way over time,
how do you make this decision around the dividend? I mean, there is a lot of uncertainty there in
the market. There's a lot of product investment that needs to be made. It seems like it might be
more prudent to hold of a little bit, but I'm just curious how you're in the system of Fiat Chrysler
from the board level to your level. How this decision is being made?
A - `Michael Manley, Chief Executive Officer `
John, I don't think this is any different to any other company. Clearly, we've looked at our actions
going forward, we looked at our current balance sheet position, as we said we delevered a
significantly in 2018. We've got one agency to give us a -- us with great credit rating. Our outlook
is very positive. I know maybe some people working on our guidance for '19 and thinking is
disappointing, but I think we're coming off a record year in 2018 and a series of year-over-year.
I think to some extent there is a bit of a reset in some way to some of our businesses, which we
clearly need to work on. We're not happy about it. But we don't think it's life threatening in
anyway. And so, I think we're working through those issues. We have some good big product
coming in the future. We will sustain the NAFTA business and the Jeep business in particular.
Number of our key products, as you know, are new in the market as we sit here today.
So if I look at our projections into 2019 and including the proceeds from the Magneti Marelli sale, I
think we are pretty confident that when we go process formally with the shareholder meeting
and everything else on the dividend, on the ordinary dividend, the extraordinary dividend of
those things make sense. It's been a long time since our shareholders have received any
dividend from us. Focused our cash flows exclusively on improving our balance sheet and
improving our broad product line up. Pretty confident that we can continue to do that and
finances -- finance the dividend going forward.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. Thank you very much, guys.
Operator
And we will now take our next question from `Martino De Ambroggi, Analsyt, Equita from Equita. Your line is open.Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analsyt, Equita `
Thank you. Good morning. Good evening, everybody. The first is a general question on the
pricing environment. If you could elaborate a little bit on the trend that you expect for you in 2019
in the different -- in the four main regions?
And the second question is a more precised question on the CapEx side. You already answered,
but maybe I missed the reason of EUR1 billion roughly EUR1 billion lower CapEx last year. And I
was wondering if the EUR45 billion plan over the five years, is still confirm or it must be adjusted
for Magneti Marelli consolidation?
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer and Business Development `
I'll take the CapEx question if you want. Mike?
A - `Michael Manley, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes.
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer and Business Development `
So, our CapEx was a bit lower in 2018 due to timing through the year, and also maybe you're
looking at the final number ex-Marelli is EUR5 billion. But obviously through the year, we've been
talking about a number with Marelli, which is EUR600 million higher. So that's the difference. And
going into the EUR45 billion, that was ex Marelli anyway, because we were either going to spin
Marelli or make some sort of transaction, which is what we eventually did. So that number was
already excluding Marelli.
Obviously, there are things in that number, which will obviously need to be approved through the
next few years. And so it's obviously not an absolute commitment to spend EUR45 billion. We
were viewing on an ongoing basis various parts of our business as you can imagine. And so, that's
the spend that we indicated. We expect to spend a large part of it. Obviously, all the business
cases need to stand up individually as we go through the next few years.
A - `Michael Manley, Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. I will pickup the -- our view on the industry around the regions are very quickly if I start with
LATAM. Obviously, we've seen improvement in Brazil following the election. We think that
improvement is going to continue into this year. Argentina last year, after first quarter, significant
contraction. We think that will continue at least through the first half, maybe through -- into the
third quarter. And as you know, the election scheduled for that period, very much dependent on
how the broader economy recovers, but we're forecasting Argentina to be down. But in total,
LATAM to be basically flat. NAFTA, I think I talked about a little bit earlier, in terms of our view on
the industry just slightly down this year, but the indicators same relatively strong at this moment in
time.
Europe, I think will be again broadly flat, maybe slightly down, with obviously Italy being our big
market. And I think that will be flat. Germany was down slightly. But I think that as we get into the
back end of the year, it will recover. China, the first couple of quarters down recovering in the
fourth quarter, so flat basically. And that's my whirlwind tour of how I see the industries.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analsyt, Equita `
Okay, thank you. Last question on the raw material assumptions in your '19 guidance?A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer and Business Development `
So, we have EUR750 million of raw material and that want to include tariffs in there as well in
terms of the 301 and 223 issues in the U.S. So, not far off the number we had for 2018, in fact,
which was about a EUR850 million.
The mix is a little bit different in terms of steel being the predominant inflated commodity based
on our current assumptions. Obviously, there's a lot of volatility in the pricing at the moment. But
at EUR750 million, we expect to more than offset that with purchasing savings, technical, and
commercial through the year. So, we'll offset the headwind with the actions in terms of
efficiencies.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analsyt, Equita `
So you expect that balance around the zero?
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer and Business Development `
No, I expect a positive balance of about EUR500 billion.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analsyt, Equita `
Okay, thank you.
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer and Business Development `
Thank you.
Operator
We will now take our next question from `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley with Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thanks. Two brief questions. Mike, can you confirm whether FCA will bring back the Dakota
midsize pickup? Everybody else is doing it.
A - `Michael Manley, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, as you know Gladiator is going to go straight into that segment. So, technically, that's a
technical answer even though it's a very much a lifestyle plan, it won't be on the commercial end
on the pricing. That's for sure. I think we'll be able to get significant pricing for that vehicle. One of
the things that's important for me when I think about our overall commercial vehicle business is
given the strength that we have at Fiat professional here in Europe and the rest of world with
Ram and with Fiat is that where we sit today, the only vehicle missing in our portfolio is metric ton
pickup which is mid-size pickups in the U.S. I'm working hard with the team to try and solve that. I
haven't solved it yet, but if that gets solved, it will give us the opportunity to bring a mid-size truck
in the marketplace. Obviously, some of our competitors are going to launch their new mid-size
truck. So as all segments are, they tend to get more competitive. But once we solve that metric
ton problem, which we will, then we'll be able to decide because it's a slightly different
configuration to the U.S. We'll decide if -- onto the U.S.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `Thanks, Mike. Just as a follow-up to that answer there. Is it unreasonable to assume that there
may be that as you solve that metric-ton problem, that there may be some expenses in the
forward year related to exploring that problem?
A - `Michael Manley, Chief Executive Officer `
I wouldn't see any significant expenses in terms of the exploration of that problem. Obviously,
you will see some CapEx. You'll see some CapEx to solve the problem, but no expenses in
exploration.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Understood. Okay. And then finally, for Europe and Sergio, I know you're listening here from
above, does something radical need to happen in Europe to address continued structural cost
and competitive factors in the region?
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer and Business Development `
Adam, I will -- if I may, step in and answer to that. I think when I look at Europe going forward,
obviously one of our issues, and let me focus on our company has been historically we have not
had, I'd say, strong utilization of our plants, and obviously that to certain extent is weighed on us. I
think the industrial plan that we announced to a very large extent solves that issue, as long as we
can make the sales volume associated with that.
And then, again in our business and this is what we're working on. We need to remove some of
the cost, so that we can become more competitive. But I mentioned earlier that we are open to
partnerships, one of the key things that will solve ultimately is scale, whether that scale comes,
because people leave the market or whether it comes, because you form partnerships, we'll
obviously see. So we have a number of partnerships already that have worked well for us. We
work with Peugeot on commercial vehicles. You know the BMW one as well. So I think what you're
going to see is more collaboration in Europe to try and drive the scale that will drive the costs
down particularly as you get into the early to mid-'20.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Analyst, Morgan Stanley `
Thanks, Mike.
Operator
We will now take our next question from `Dominic O'Brien, Analyst, Exane of Exane. Your line is open.
Q - `Dominic O'Brien, Analyst, Exane
Hey guys, thanks for taking my question. And it's actually just a follow on from what Adam was
saying. And so, on this partnership side, could you just explain what you really think of it just
conceptually? Have you had already had discussions with anyone on this? And would you choose
to limit is sort of an arm-length technology share, or could you consider integrating more deeply
with another OEM?
And just following on from that, Richard, you mentioned for each CapEx investment, the
economics would have to stand up for itself. And it doesn't make economic sense for Fiat to
develop another generation of its small and mini car platforms on its own, because as an outside
observer, it just seems that economic case to those now is more -- well, greatly diminished I
would say. Thank you.A - `Michael Manley, Chief Executive Officer `
So, Dominic, I'll try and get to the answer to the first question for you. Following on from my
previous answer, obviously what we're looking for is scale in any platform and how best for us to
guess for scale?
What's becoming increasingly apparent is that with the different types and the different
approaches to go to and formity in that area is that, the concept of a really true global vehicle is
probably not what it was a few years ago.
So how do we find scale? We can either find it within our brands and I think we have opportunity
to do that or we can find it with a partnership. And as long as that partnership is with people who
have very similar values to us and has ended into a win-win basis then we'd be interested in
talking to people.
And by the way, we're talking to people all of the time and have in the past. So whilst we're
already talking to people the answer is yes. But that's something that's not new today. It's
something that's been going on for some time. The scope of any partnership will very much
depend upon those talks and the opportunities that are there. So it's difficult for me to say would
I restrict myself to something. What I'd like to try to do is to find the best partnership that's -- a
particular situation out.
Q - `Dominic O'Brien, Analyst, Exane
With regard to...
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer and Business Development `
Dominic, do you got to follow up?
Q - `Dominic O'Brien, Analyst, Exane
No, no. Go ahead, sorry.
A - `Michael Manley, Chief Executive Officer `
With regard to the platform, I think we have a very strong position in the mini car platform
historically. Obviously, Italy is the biggest market in Europe for that. 500 or Panda vehicle, Ypsilon
vehicle they're all very strong competitors. They make sense for us. Obviously, challenges going
forward create an economic challenge in that platform as they do in others frankly.
I think to get back to your prior question, I think we have enough volume ourselves to build a
business in that area. We need to be extremely careful about spending capital efficiently to
differentiate as a brand that we offer, but to maximize the commonality of the vehicles and the
powertrain offerings that we have including electrification.
And if we can find a partner do that with as Mike talked about it would help the scale, but I don't
think it's absolutely necessary, because we already have a lot of scale in that segment and it's
about us making sure that we find commonality and maximize efficiency. We have a great plant in
Poland, which does that very well today. And so I think going forward, we can continue to be
competitive in that segment.
Q - `Dominic O'Brien, Analyst, ExaneOkay. Thank you. That makes sense. And just one follow-up on a different note. For the 2020
guidance, the EUR9.2 billion to EUR10.4 billion of adjusted EBIT, is that now off the table? And
should we think of these 2019 guidance as we're basing those expectations?
A - `Michael Manley, Chief Executive Officer `
No, absolutely not, Dominic. I would like to give you my -- if you like my thought process with
regard to that. So one of the things that is becoming very, very clear if you look back from 2014 to
where we ended up is what's very, very important to us is obviously the numbers. We lay out what
we think is a root to getting there, but we have proven to be very flexible in terms of if we need
to change, if we need to switch, we will do that but very much focused on the numbers. So let me
just think about 2020 with you and see if what I say makes sense to you.
So if you strip out Magneti, we ended up with a -- was it 6.1% margin, Richard? 6.1% margin and we
targeted 7.5% to 8.5%. So on the margin front, I think here we have every opportunity to get to a
margin within that range, whether it's a low-end of the range or not, it could get to within that
range. Now obviously you have to have NAFTA at least 10% plus. And we hit 10% plus in NAFTA. It
just needs to be sustained. And I think some of the product launches that we've got planned in
the scheduled as well as some of the work that we're doing on our cost and efficiency is going to
make it much easier for us to do that.
And then that 6.1% was based upon very difficult circumstances in APAC for example EMEA and
Maserati's performance. And I think the work that we are doing as we get into 2020 you'll begin
to see the benefits. So, on the assumption that we can get to that margin range than it's about
revenue, and as I said, you'll have Gladiator for full year heavy-duty LATAM, they'll have the new
Strada for example plus other launches that are there. So I wouldn't put 2020 out of the picture. I
think it's something that is still very much there. And if our opinion changes, we'll let you know.
Q - `Dominic O'Brien, Analyst, Exane
Hey, great. Thank you for your answers, guys. Appreciate that.
Operator
And we will now take our next question from Philippe Houchois from Jefferies. Your line is open.
Philippe, your line is open.
A - `Joe Veltri, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Tara, why don't you go to the next question, please, if Philippe is...
Operator
Sure. So we will now take our next question from `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler of Kepler. Your line is open.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler `
Hi, it's `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler with Kepler Cheuvreux. I have a couple of questions for you. I'd like to first
come back to the question on from John on the dividend. Can you give us an idea on the timeline
on when we're going to know what dividends you suggest and what dividends is approved in
terms of regular dividend and confirm that the special deal will be EUR2 billion once the Magneti
Marelli deal is closed?
A - `Michael Manley, Chief Executive Officer `Yeah, well the dividends will be confirmed as we go through the AGM, which is the middle of
April, plus the timeline. And so far, what we've talked about is our dividend policy through the
plan, for ordinary dividends will be 20% of net income. Overall, through the plan period and the
special dividend related to closing the transaction from Marelli will be EUR2 billion subject to
approval. So that's the timeline.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler `
Thank you. And when you talk about 20% of net income, it's the published net income, not the
adjusted net income, right?
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer and Business Development `
It's the adjusted net income, basically because we regard the -- obviously the non-recurring items
is non-recurring items.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler `
Okay. Thank you very much for the clarification. I need another one, if I may. On Magneti, the
contribution of the business improved substantially '18 versus '17, even if that goes away, do you
mind explaining why please? And can you confirm also that the EUR1.9 billion net cash you're
showing in your press release is excluding Magneti Marelli?
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer and Business Development `
Okay. So the ex-Magneti Marelli, we won't have any significant impact in terms of cash beyond
the proceeds, which we talked about in Q3 of around EUR6 billion. And so the business itself
generated -- if we look at the EBITDA, it was in line with our expectations. It's just over -- just
around EUR900 million. There were some D&A changes because of the accounting for the
transaction going into Q4. But in terms of EBITDA performance, it was actually slightly -- it was
basically flat year-over-year.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler `
Okay. Thank you. And in terms of the net debt post at EUR1.9 billion is excluding the Magneti
Marelli?
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer and Business Development `
Yeah, the EUR1.9 billion includes the whole business, but when we sell Marelli, we will get the
proceeds and that will be it.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler `
Okay, perfect. Thank you very much.
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer and Business Development `
Thank you.
Operator
I would now like to turn the call back to Mr. Veltri for any additional or closing remarks.
A - `Joe Veltri, Vice President of Investor Relations `Thank you, Tara. With that, we are going to close today's call. Again, I would like to thank
everyone for joining us today. Have a pleasant afternoon. Thank you.
Operator
This concludes today's call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.