Q4 2019 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good afternoon or good morning ladies and gentlemen. And welcome to today's Fiat Chrysler
Automobiles 2019 Full Year Results Webcast and Conference Call. For your information, today's
conference is being recorded.
At this time, I would like now to turn the conference over to Joe Veltri, Head of FCA Global
Investor Relations. Mr. Veltri, please go ahead, sir.
`Joseph Veltri, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you, Stephanie. And welcome to everyone who is joining us today as we review FCA's
2019 full-year operating results. The presentation material for today's call, along with the related
press release can be found under the Investors section of FCA's group website. Our call today
will be hosted by the group's Chief Executive Officer, Mike Manley and Richard Palmer, the
group's Chief Financial Officer. After their presentations both Mike and Richard will be available to
answer the questions from the sell-side analysts.
But before we begin, I just want to point out that any forward-looking statements that might be
made during today's call are subject to both the risks and uncertainties that are laid out in the
Safe Harbor statement, which is included on page 2 of today's presentation. And as customary,
the call will be governed by this language. With that, I'm going to turn the call over to Mike.
`Michael M. Manley, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thank you, Joe. Well, good morning, good afternoon everyone and welcome to the call and
thank you for joining us today. Now 2019 was an important year for our Company and not only did
we deliver what I believe a strong financial results. It was a year during which we took a number of
actions designed to position our company for sustainable success in the future.Therefore, today, in addition to taking you through the operational highlights for 2019, I want to
spend some time summarizing a number of other key actions we took during the year
highlighting in some instances a clear progress we have made in a number of areas and in others
what we have left to do. And then Richard will take you through the financials in detail.
So before going through the presentation, I'd like to personally thank all of our employees for
their ongoing contributions during such an important year, your relentless hard work and
dedication is crucial to our continued success. So sincerely thank you, I'm proud to be part of the
team with you.
Now, to begin with, we're very pleased with our full-year performance as the Group delivered
strong operational results in line with our guidance with adjusted EBIT at EUR6.7 billion and a
margin of 6.2%. Now, these results were achieved despite the reduction in our consolidated
shipments by approximately 400,000 units year-over-year. And we took decisive actions to
address dealer stock levels, especially in North America and with Maserati resulting in global
dealer stock levels being reduced by over 100,000 units.
North America continues to be a standout for the Group achieving record results for the 5th
consecutive year with adjusted EBIT of EUR6.7 billion and a margin of 9.1%. Ram reached new US
sales record in 2019 and for the first time became the number 2 ranked brand for US sales in the
highly profitable large pickup truck segment reflecting the strength of the Ram brand and
consumer passion for our truck lineup.
Now if I turn to the Latin America region, we continue to outpace the industry. I think this is driven
by fresh product and industrial discipline from the team there. In Brazil, we regained overall
market leadership while retaining our leading position in key segments, such as SUVs, pickups
and LCVs and despite the continuing challenging market conditions in Argentina, we delivered an
adjusted EBIT of EUR500 million and a margin of 5.9%.
Now focusing on Q4 for a moment, the Group posted record 4th quarter results with adjusted
EBIT of EUR2.1 billion and margins of 7.1%. North America also posted a record adjusted EBIT with
the margin at 10% again reflecting a strong close to the year with a full-size truck business.
Now, as you know, during 2019, the group reinstated the payment of ordinary dividends after
nearly a decade. And based on our strong 2019 results and as previously announced, we plan to
pay a EUR1.1 billion ordinary dividend to our shareholders this spring, subject to customary
approval by our Board and shareholders.
So now let me give you some context to why I see 2019 such a pivotal year for FCA and how the
actions we have taken and intend to take will ensure our continued position as a leading global
OEM. Now clearly the most significant action taken was in December when we signed a binding
Combination Agreement with PSA for a 50-50 merger that will create the 3rd largest global OEM
by revenues.
Multiple workstreams related to both closing preparation and integration planning are in place
and are being led by senior leadership at both companies and we do not anticipate any
significant hurdles to closing the transaction either by the end of this year or early in 2021. Now
just to remind you we took annual synergies of at least EUR3.7 billion at steady state, with
cumulative implement the implementation costs of approximately EUR2.8 billion. And there are 3
major drivers for the synergies. The first driver which accounts for 40% relates to platform and
powertrain convergence optimizing our investments in R&D and improving manufacturing
processes and tooling efficiencies. The second driver also at 40% is about purchasing savingssuppliers, particularly for electric and high-tech components. Now, these actions reinforce our
drive towards clean and affordable mobility. Now clean and affordable mobility means that we
need to be cost-competitive in buying all the electrical powertrain components and batteries and
that means a volume scale effect coming from the size of the new co will be paramount to
ensure we deliver the cost competitiveness we need. And the 3rd driver which accounts for 20%
of the total will be related to multiple areas such as marketing IT systems logistics and
administration efficiencies. Now, these synergies will be net cash flow positive from year one and
we expect from our planning to deliver approximately 80% of the total synergies by year 4.
Now across the Group, other notable actions such as finalizing the sale of Magneti Marelli in May,
which by the way, not only significantly strengthened our balance sheet but also allowed us to pay
a EUR2 billion extraordinary dividend to our shareholders and in the US, we reached a new 4-year
agreement with the UAW that builds on our commitment to grow our US manufacturing
operations, including a $4.5 billion in investments to expand our production capacity in Michigan
and support the production of 2 new Jeep whitespace products including their electrified
versions.
In 2019, we took several other actions that aren't noted on the page that also strengthened our
business and were important in setting our future path, particularly as we prepare the Group for
the changes in mobility needs demanded by regulators and desired by customers. In Europe, we
launched a new industrial plan centered around electrification, which will optimize platform
utilization as well as powertrain applications. And we also finalized details for a revised product
portfolio plan for EMEA to improve overall profitability.
Now I want to highlight our new product plan for Alfa although different from the original intention
now delivered the brand more products in the fastest growing segments of the premium market.
On a related note, we also announced a breakthrough plan to create a new battery assembly
hub inside our historic Mirafiori complex, which will support our strategy for the Group to be fully
equipped to meet future demands for an increasingly electrified future and we strengthened our
network of partnerships to develop e-mobility solutions for electric vehicles by executing
agreements within energy group in Europe for both home-charging and public charging network
solutions.
Now, just as we are investing substantially in our future products and technologies, we also need
an engineering and product development organization that can deliver on those investments.
With a focus on improving our efficiency and speed to market, while also increasing architecture
Powertrain & Component standardization, we took action late last year to streamline our global
product development team by centralizing leadership and bringing together vehicle and
powertrain engineering under a common and global structure.
Finally, at the end of last year, we entered into an agreement to sell our cast iron components
business operated through Teksid, which is another important step in the implementation of our
supplier business plan and will allow the business to be further developed together with a leading
player in the cast iron industry. So as you can see 2019 was a historic and pivotal year on many
fronts and with many great accomplishments.
So let me turn to the commercial performance of the business. The overall market was down
year-over-year in each of our regions with the exception of EMEA where it was essentially flat. In
North America, our sales performance was in line with the industry as we maintained a market
share of 12% from 2019. And as I already mentioned the Ram brand achieved its best year ever
with sales up in the US 18% on a year-over-year basis to over 700,000 units. Our Jeep volume
was down in the year, particularly in the B and the D SUV segments and this was because wedecided to focus on margin rather than chase volume. A choice that helped underpin our strong
North American margins. There were still highlights with the Jeep brand and a testament to its
enduring popularity of the Jeep Grand Cherokee achieved record sales in the US of 243,000
units, up 8% from last year.
Now, we successfully launched the all-new Ram heavy duty at the beginning of 2019, which was
awarded MotorTrend's 2020 Truck of the Year on the back of the Ram 1500 winning the previous
year's award. It's also worth noting that combined with the Jeep Wrangler sales of the mild-hybrid
V6 Ram contributed to make FCA the US sales leader in mild hybrids during 2019. So the US sales
leader in mild hybrids and that was enabled by our new 48-volt powertrain technology. The
successful launch of the all-new Jeep Gladiator which was named 2020 North American Truck of
the Year marked the brand's return to the pickup truck market. And by the way, I hope you all had
a chance to see our Groundhog (inaudible) which start the Jeep Gladiator notably one the USA
Today that matters for the best overall out further at last weekend Super Bowl.
Now in Asia Pacific, as you know the market continues to be volatile, particularly in China and each
of the markets in which we compete were down year-over-year. You will know, because of our
quarterly calls that we have taken a number of actions in the regions to improve our performance
and I think when you look at these results you can see some of that work coming through and as
you will also see, we ended up with a substantial year-over-year improvement in performance
across a number of the key leaders in the business. Now that's due to the entire leadership team
and great cooperation I think with our partners that has moved swiftly to improve efficiency and
remove cost. And I think now with a creating is a phenomenal base the job now that we have to
do of course is rebuild our volume. And to that end, we also spend some time with our partner
agreeing a revised product plan, which is now under development.
Now, as you know rebuilding our volume will not be an instantaneous result but thanks to the work
completed last year, I think we have a solid efficient base to build on which we intend to do
through 2020. So I think given where we ended 2018 the team in Asia Pacific did a very good job
for us. Now in EMEA, our sales decreased predominantly as a result of two things, firstly, the
discontinuance of the Fiat Punto, Alfa Romeo Mito and certain models. And secondly and we've
spoken about this in the past, we stopped central zero registrations. We did that because we
believe this action will have long-term benefits on our margins and our residual values, which we
and our customers will benefit from. Now we've talked on occasion about EMEA, but I would like
to be specific about the combinations of actions taken and underway to return the region to
sustainable profitability. Now during the year, EMEA team took a number of actions to restructure
our business, streamlining headcount and removing significant costs from the region.
They also exited from and restricted volume to a number of very low margin channels and
obviously it's the volume drop that gets the headline, not the strategy. But this headcount cost
and channel restructure was necessary, but as you can see from the results there's still work to
do and it is frankly very much underway. Now one key area that we need to address is on the
product front. Now, obviously, as a group, we continue to prioritize our capital resources and as
such over the last few years we needed to complete key investments in other regions and
brands. As a result of that our EMEA region, not only has the oldest showroom in Europe but we
also effectively exited the important B segment where Fiat has traditionally had great success.
And clearly this is held back our team's ability to generate volume and margin, this is now being
addressed.
As you know, we announced significant investments in our Italian manufacturing footprint with key
new products. As these new models come on stream over the next few years, we will see a
progressive reduction in the average age of our showroom and a consequential improvement inperformance. This process starts this year with the launch of the all-new Fiat 500 and the plug-in
hybrid versions of Compass and Renegade and clearly the merger with PSA also has the
potential to accelerate this European transformation. So in EMEA, a lot of good work done by the
team, obviously much more to do, but I said it's similar to Asia-Pacific creating a very efficient
from low-cost base is fundamental to be able to build a sustainable business.
Now moving on to Latin America. Here we had another market leading performance with both
sales and market share up year-over-year primarily driven by strong sales of the Jeep Renegade
20%, 28% year-over-year, while Fiat Toro pickup trucks were up 12% and 7% respectively. Now as
previously mentioned, Richard will take you through the detail of the financials. So I'm just going
to quickly give you an overview of our annual results. We achieved strong operating results and
higher margin, thanks to positive net pricing and mix, cost discipline and industrial efficiencies.
Notwithstanding that our consolidated shipments were down approximately 400,000 units.
We also generated strong industrial free cash flows of EUR2.1 billion and includes CapEx spending
of EUR8.4 billion, which was up significantly from the unusually low level in 2018. Our liquidity
remains strong and increased by EUR2 billion to just over EUR23 billion at the end of the year. And
lastly, in Q4. Moody's improved it's outlook on FCA's credit rating from stable to positive and S&P
placed FCA's ratings on CreditWatch with positive implications.
And with I'm going to hand over to you Richard to take everyone through the detail.
`Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, Head of Business Development `
Thank you, Mike. Good afternoon and good morning to everybody. So I'm going to go to page 5.
In terms of revenues, we reached EUR108 billion for the year, down 2% or 5% at constant
exchange with positive mix and pricing offsetting for around 3%. Adjusted EBIT was substantially
flat year-over-year at EUR6.7 billion with margin up slightly to 6.2%. Adjusted diluted EPS was 274
share down 9% from 2018 due to an increase in the tax rate from 17% to 24% due to the non-
repeat of tax planning and pension contributions in 2018 and increased US EBT offsetting EMEA
losses were no DTAs were booked.
Financial charges were reduced by 50 million to 1 billion for the year. Adjusted EBIT margin for Q4
was at 7.1% up from 6.2% in 2018 and totaled EUR2.1 billion. Adjusted net profit for the year
excludes EUR1.6 million of adjustments relating mainly to the impairment charges taken in Q3 and
restructuring charges, up from the adjustments in 2018 of EUR1.4 billion, which included the
accrual for the US diesel matter. As Mike mentioned industrial free cash flow for the year reached
EUR2.1 billion taking available liquidity up EUR2 billion from last year to EUR23.1 billion this liquidity
increase was driven by the EUR5.8 billion proceeds from the Marelli sale let's say 0.4 billion of
debt of cash deconsolidated less the dividends of EUR3.1 billion and EUR2.7 billion of debt
repayments plus positive FX translation of EUR0.2 billion and then the cash flow for the year. In
Q4, liquidity was down 0.7 billion due to debt repayment of EUR1.9 billion, offset by the cash flow
of EUR1.5 billion.
Just quickly before I leave page 4, I wanted to (inaudible) to update you regarding the settlement
we reached with the Italian Revenue Agency regarding the Italian tax order issue that was
reported in the press during December. We closed the settlement with no cash obligation or
penalties due. Just to make it clear the Italian revenue agency had issued an order to report
which proposed to increase the taxable gain on the transfer of crisis, the US to FCA N.V for the
purposes of the merger in 2014 into FCA and B we settle that issue. Under the terms of the
settlement, we agreed to increase the taxable gain by EUR0.5 billion that taxable gain will be
entirely offset by 400 million of tax losses, which had previously been forfeited and EUR2.1 billionstatements. So as a result, we have no cash or P&L impact and no financial statement impact
apart from the reduction in unrecognized deferred tax assets. We still have substantial Italian loss
tax loss carry-forwards remaining after the settlement.
Moving to page 6. We illustrate the adjusted EBIT development by driver. Adjusted EBIT was
substantially flat at 6.7 billion and margin was up 6.2 as we mentioned, shipments were down
383,000 units at a consolidated level driven by both sales performance and significant dealer
stock reduction. This accounted for a margin loss of about EUR1.6 billion, partly offset by positive
mix mainly in North America, but with all regions contributing. Industrial costs overall was slightly
negative with North America strongly positive offsetting EMEA and Latin America. Cost discipline
was evident in SG&A with all regions showing significant efficiencies. The other bar relates
principally to positive FX translation offset by lower equity income from our JVs.
Moving on to page 7, we show the industrial free cash flow for the full year, which reached 2.1
billion, down from the prior year due to an increase in CapEx to 8.4 billion for the year. Q4 cash
flow was $1.5 billion, down 0.6 billion compared to Q4 2018 due to the higher CapEx offset by
seasonal Q4 positive working capital of EUR1.5 billion due to the reduction in inventory levels in all
regions. Trade payables were higher offsetting negative impacts of the payment of the UAW
bonus in the quarter.
For the year, industrial EBITDA was EUR11.8 billion, slightly down year-over-year. CapEx increased
back to a more normal level compared to 2018, the overall impact of working capital and changes
in provisions was negative for 0.2 billion, with a further reduction in new car inventories and
positive payables timing partly offset by increased tax receivables in Latin America and the
payment of the UAW bonus as mentioned as well as the impact of reduced dealer stock levels
mainly in North America, but also in Maserati and EMEA.
Financial charges and taxes totaled EUR1 billion down EUR0.6 million due to lower cash taxes of
EUR0.5 billion and reduced financial charges for EUR0.1 billion. Net industrial cash at the end of
December was positive EUR4.9 billion, up from 1.9 billion at December 2018 and driven by the
free cash flow of 2.1 billion. The Marelli sale proceeds lesser dividend payments and also
offsetting the impact of IFRS 6 -- sorry, IFRS 16 leasing adoption of EUR1.4 billion. While we're on
the balance sheet, I'll comment on our pension plans funded status. The aggregate pension
deficit increased from EUR4 billion to EUR4.3 billion at year-end with a decrease in discount rates
in the US of 110 basis points and Canada of 70 basis points, only partially offset by asset returns
of 19% in the US and 15% in Canada.
If we go to page 8, we see from a segment perspective. North America had a record year with
adjusted EBIT of 6.7 billion and margins at 9.1% despite the lower volumes due to continued
dealer stock discipline. Latin America confirmed its strong trend of year-over-year improvement
despite the ongoing economic crisis in Argentina where the industry dripped, dropped 43% year-
over-year. EMEA and APAC continue to have operating challenges though APAC improved
significantly year-over-year. Maserati results were impacted by continued efforts to reduce dealer
stock.
Moving on to the individual regions and starting with North America on page 9. Shipments for the
year were down 9% to 2.4 million units compared to sales down 2% to just under 2.5 million units
due to the reduction in dealer stock already mentioned. Revenues were up 1% due to positive
mix and price and positive FX translation more than offsetting the shipment reduction. Adjusted
EBIT margin increased from 8.6% last year to 9.1% this year due to positive mix from the new Ram
light duty and Jeep Gladiator offset partially by higher fleet shipments, even if the fleet growth
was skewed towards commercial fleet for the Ram light duty Classic in particular.For Q4 adjusted EBIT margin was up from 8.6% last year to 10.0% due to better price
performance and cost actions more than offsetting product cost increases. Net positive pricing,
pricing was driven by the new Ram heavy-duty and price actions across the lineup offsetting
negative FX mainly due to the Canadian dollar. Industrial cost was positive for the year due to
reduced logistics and launch costs plus net purchasing savings offsetting increased product cost
again due mainly to the new Ram heavy-duty.
SG&A reduction was mainly due to cost actions in G&A and efficiencies in advertising spend. The
other category relates mainly to FX translation benefits due to the strengthening of the US dollar
year-over-year. Page 10, we see the APAC results combined shipments were down 29% to
149,000 units, driven by joint venture shipments down 42%. In the joint venture, the Grand
Commander was flat year-over-year with Compass Cherokee and Renegade all down.
At a consolidated level, Wrangler volume was up offset income down in India. Net revenues for
the year were up slightly to EUR2.8 billion due to favorable vehicle mix from Wrangler offsetting
lower volumes and the non-repeat of incentive moves in 2018 regarding the China import duties
changes. Despite the commercial challenges, adjusted EBIT loss was significantly reduced
compared to 2018 from nearly 300 million to 36 million. This was achieved with improved mix as
mentioned better management of distribution to avoid one-off price actions necessary in 2018
and reductions in manufacturing costs as well as in local SG&A costs as duplications were
removed from the organization and efficiencies in marketing spends were found.
Other category relates mainly to the reduction in the result of the China JV by 50 million primarily
due to the lower volumes mentioned. On page 11, we have the EMEA results, combined
shipments for the year were down 8% or 108,000 units to 1.3 million. The main reductions were in
the Fiat brand for 75,000 and the Alfa brand for 30,000 units, 50% of the reduction was due to
discontinued Fiat Punto, Alfa Mito and versions of the Alfa Giulietta. Dealer stock levels were
down to 239,000 units from 259,000 at the end of the prior year. Full year net revenues at
EUR20.6 billion were down 10% primarily driven by the lower shipment volumes at consolidated
level and negative net price.
Adjusted EBIT was nearly breakeven for the year down 400 million from prior year. Volume was
down 119,000 units and accounted for 250 million negative offset by some positive mix for lower
kilometre zero channels. Net price was negative due to the increased discounts to maintain the
competitiveness of the portfolio. Industrial costs were negative due to compliance costs up 120
million and negative FX impacts not offset by efficiencies with some positive warranty provision
adjustment in Q4. SG&A reflects restructuring actions on labor and overheads as well as
efficiencies on advertising spend.
Moving to page 12, we review the LATAM results, shipments for the year were 577,000 units in
line with sales at 580,000 and down 1% with increased volumes in Brazil, up 49,000 units
offsetting a 46% reduction in Argentina. Revenues were 8.5 billion, up 4% year-over-year with
positive net pricing and mix partially offset by negative FX impact, impacts. Adjusted EBIT
increased $501 million with margins up from 4.4% to 5.9%. Net price was positive due mainly to
indirect tax credits and positive pricing actions in Brazil more than offsetting negative pricing in
Argentina.
Industrial costs were negative with industrial cost efficiencies offset by negative customs duties
between Argentina and Brazil and foreign exchange impacts on imported goods with a weaker
Real and the non-repeat of prior year adjustments. Q4 performance was good with margins of
5.9%`Michael M. Manley, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
So just before we move on to Maserati. I just want to add a few things, because I know you're
going to take us in line by line through Maserati, but just a few comments from me obviously 2019
was a tough year for the brand. And we've talked about this I think on previous calls, but I'd like to
say I'm very pleased with the work that the team is now completed and I feel incredibly positive
about the future. Let me just run through a couple of things that we did do in 2019 that I think give
me not just cause for optimism but certainty in terms of the way in the trajectory I think that
business is going to run. We now have a completely new leadership team with key talent
recruited both from internal and externally and overhaul in terms of leadership is now finished
everyone is on board and very, very focused on what we need to get done. I showed you on the
previous call that we've revised and launched new product plan that to me was very, very
important part of the work that we needed to get done because it gives the brand a strong
manageable cadence of new product and as well as allow Maserati to enter into key whitespace
and as you know, it also provides full electrification options for every model, a lot of the work that
we did resulted in dealer inventory being reduced by 50% very painful, but necessary and now
behind us and by the way, I think it's worth noting, you may, you may well we're going to do
Richard, but I will now do it for you. It is worth noting that without that dealer inventory destock
and the residual value adjustment that we took in 2019 Maserati would have substantially been
breakeven.
Now, as I think about 2020 in the second half of this year, we begin the relaunch of refreshed
several models in the range, as well as the all-new super sports car and because I think a lot of
that work that I talked about is now completed and the product plan is set. I think it's time to
share in detail our plans with all of you on the call and in May the Maserati team will host a
Maserati day. So you will be able to see, well, I'm very excited about the future of this brand. So
Richard with that, if you want to do the formal final thing that you do.
`Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, Head of Business Development `
Yes, I don't think I want to repeat the same messages. Obviously the fourth quarter was very
much in line with prior quarter performance, we continue to see the effects of destocking on the
top line. So as Mike mentioned, the 199 million loss for the year effectively reflects the destocking
actions and the residual value impact that we had in North America and talked about in Q2.
So moving on to page 15. We have our 2020 market outlook and guidance. The outlook for 2020
shows the US market down 3%, EU 28, down 3%, Brazil up 5% and China flat. These forecasts
assume there is no prolonged impact from the Coronavirus issue or other demand or the global
supply chain's ability to avoid any disruptions in supply. We are clearly monitoring the evolution of
the situation closely.
In terms of our financial guidance we confirm the guidance we indicated in November on our last
call, we had shown at that time what we saw was the headwinds and tailwinds for 2020 since
then we have two further headwinds which we want to acknowledge one has mentioned is the
potential Coronavirus impact which as of today is not quantifiable. The other is an unusual spike in
commodity prices, specifically for palladium of about 40% and rhodium of nearly 100%, which
occurred since December. This unforeseen impact takes our overall raw material inflation year-
over-year forecast for 2020 versus compared to 2019 to around EUR700 million at current
market prices, all of which is basically due to the PGM metals with some offsets in steel and
aluminum.We expect to be able to offset this with incremental actions on direct material purchases and
other industrial costs together with improved volume and mix from North America and Maserati.
This compares to the 700 million I mentioned of inflation compared to around $500 million of raw
material inflation in 2019. As regards to cash flow, we forecast positive compared to 2019 for
EBITDA and the non-repeat of diesel settlement payments and the UAW bonus, which will offset
an increase of around 1 billion in CapEx and around $0.4 billion in taxes. So, therefore, we were
able to confirm a EUR2 billion of industrial free cash flow for the year. Not included in industrial
free cash flow. We do plan to make a discretionary pension contribution in the US during 2020 in
the order of around $1 billion.
Finally, regarding Q1 performance. As mentioned, the key driver of our improved performance
forecasting 2020 relates to the non-repeat of North America deal destocking in 2019. This action
did not impact Q1 2019 and was concentrated in Q2 and Q3. Therefore we see Q1 performance
broadly in line with Q1 2019 at an adjusted EBIT level with improvements in the following quarters.
Q1 industrial free cash flow was expected to be worth in 2019 due to higher levels of CapEx,
recovered later in the year with the non-repeat of the diesel settlement payments and the UAW
bonus.
With that, I'll hand it back to Mike. Thank you.
`Michael M. Manley, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thanks, Richard. We go to the next page, I just wanted to make a few points on the subject that
obviously has received a lot of attention over the last several months. And now that will continue
to receive that level of attention going forward, and that is CO2 compliance in Europe. Now we
have an update in the markets on our plans in this area for some time. All right. We know the
regulatory hurdles get much tougher this year and as a result, this has caused a heightened
concern by some in the financial community about the ability of certain OEMs to meet their new
CO2 targets. One of the biggest uncertainties as regarding market demand for EVs and the
potential for margin erosion in the event that demand does not naturally materialize. Now
obviously only time will tell how the market actually evolves in 2020 with the EVs. However, I will
try to show you with this, with this walk that we believe that our multi-pronged approach will not
only allow us to achieve the CO2 targets this year without paying fines, but it will also allow us to
adapt to evolving market demands.
So as you can see all the pooling arrangements we entered in, entered into with Tesla last year
as part of the path to achieve compliance. It is only a complementary piece of our broader plan,
which includes the launch of full high voltage EV's this year included the new Fiat 500 Bev as well
as plug-in hybrid versions of Jeep Compass, Renegade and Wrangler. And in addition, we will
continue to roll improvements in so-called conventional technologies, for example we will further
expand the application of our new GSE engine family into the Compass and depot as well as
launch mild hybrid versions of the pond 500 MIPS along and when taken altogether, along with
the 5% compliance exemption allowed this year we fully expect to achieve an average CO2
result for our fleet that is below the expected to compliance target. Now I realize we're only one
month into the new year and a lot can change and probably will change, but based on the data
we have for January. We have started the year with the sales mix in line with our full year
compliance plan obviously we will see how the year progresses and clearly update you in
quarterly calls, but I think we're off to a reasonable stuff. And with that, Joe, I'm going to turn it
over to you for Q&A. Thank you.
`Joseph Veltri, Vice President of Investor Relations `Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, today's question-and-answer session will be conducted
electronically. (Operator Instructions) We will take our first question from `Giulio Pescatore, HSBC from
HSBC. Your line is now open.
Q - `Giulio Pescatore, HSBC `
Hello, thank you for taking my question. First one on this compliance slide. So the LED lighting and
the high-efficiency alternators figure in the first bucket they are part of the innovation credits, can
you maybe quantify how much of these innovation credits, you think you'll be able to use in 2020.
And just to stay on this slide, the Tesla pooling looks smaller than we initially thought based on
the breakdown that you had given us a couple of quarters ago. Can you maybe explain what is
changing and if that does the pooling isn't meant to increase again in 2021?
A - `Michael M. Manley, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Yeah, this is, this is Mike. Thanks for the question on the first one. Well, I'm well I take a long time
to answer your second question, I'll see if my colleagues can get you the answer to the first
question because I don't carry that information around in my head, but what I would tell you is
that when we talk about the Tesla, I wanted to specifically to show Europe because obviously it's
a big focus but we have relationships with Tesla. In a similar fashion, as you know, not just in
Europe, but also in the US. And the pooling agreement that we've talked about is multi-years it
takes us through 2020 and 2021 in Europe and obviously in 2021 we lose the 5% compliance
exemption that we enjoy in 2020 and takes us through from mid-2023 in the US. So this is the
part that we have allocated and understand there is a requirement, based upon all of the product
action that I mentioned that will need in in 2020. Thanks.
Operator
We will take our next question from the line of `Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley from Morgan Stanley. Please go
ahead, your line is now open.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley `
Thanks, everybody. First, the words Maserati Day are particularly cheerful I'm looking outside New
York here, Super foggy that sounds, that sounds like a lot of fun, hope we will we get a look. Mike
and Richard, a couple of questions. First, on hybrids, I'm going to say, hybrid sucks, right I mean
come on guys they're complicated, consumers don't seem to want them, Toyota can barely give
their patents away, Governments like the UK are starting to exclude them from credits. I think the
UK has outlined them by 2035, other cities are likely to fall. They don't make money. Mike FCA is
in my opinion, one of the keenest -- if not the keenest as the most experienced management
teams in the industry. Explain to me why it is throwing hard-earned money after these powertrains
that really have no future. I understand the short-term logic but I just. It's got to be only a couple
of years like you're getting away from that, right. I just, it seems like, it seems like a big waste.
A - `Michael M. Manley, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Well, it's nice told you, Adam. I mean, yes, you will get
Q - `Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley `Thank you
A - `Michael M. Manley, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
...personal invite. You will get personal invite...
Q - `Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley `
I hope I still do.
A - `Michael M. Manley, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
For sure you will and I have not and with regard to it -- with regard to your question, remember
when we start planning four years, five years out in terms of what we think is going to happen in
the marketplace, particularly when you go through such an industry transformation that's been
forecast between now and 2030 and beyond. I think one of the most important things you do is
try and protect your capital beds, but give yourself the flexibility to adjust. I'm looking at the
window of this office, the office that we do in this call and I can see down on the streets and there
are literally hundreds of vehicles parked front to tail on this street with not one charge imposed
inside, not one. And I can get thousands and thousands of cities and towns around Europe and
see exactly the same thing, so what we're talking about as a transitionary phase, there is no
doubt that there is a few and a growing percentage of the, of the vehicle buying public that the
luxury of garages, and other places that they can charge. But the vast majority of people are still
waiting for the infrastructure to be put in place. So developing the platform that enables us to as
cost-effectively and capital efficiently as possible to be able to flex our mix to meet compliance
going forward even if it is a 3, 4, 5-year window, I think is absolutely vital as we make this
transition. You and I completely align as we get beyond 2025 full battery-electric partly be driven
by London is banning everything from 2035, it will become the norm. But we have to get there
and I think our approach that I said is multifaceted is the right way.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley `
Mike that helps. And just a follow-up maybe for Richard and Mike. In addition to your management
roles, you're both on the Board of Directors. So, and I do appreciate the comments you made at
the end on CO2, Mike and I'm going to kind of build on that. Can you explain to the investors on
this call, how much, climate change and CO2 reduction has taken up the focus of your Board
discussions. Am I wrong in thinking that and auto companies CO2 strategy is of an existential
nature, i.e., that your progress on reducing CO2 will directly impact your cost of capital? Your
share price performance ultimately your company's survival. I mean Sergio once told an analyst, I
think very famously a few years ago, take a pill, lie down. Do I need to take a, like my -- am I
exaggerating this?
A - Unidentified Speaker
It depends on what pill you took before the call. On a serious note, let me, is what. So it's just
stepping back from this constant question about compliance. One of the things that we were
very, very hard and with our Board and with our team is this whole question about FCA
sustainability and our sustainability targets. We are just finishing the round of the last sustainability
targets for our company. Our company will not be driven by compliance targets, it will be driven
by what we believe are the right and appropriate corporate sustainability corporate governance
targets. And I think that's a very important statement to make. It is inevitable that we're going to
constantly refer to this as a compliance play, but ultimately the language is going to change pretty
dramatically and pretty quickly too, but this is in line with the corporate compliance, corporatesustainability targets, we would have anyway going out through 2030 through 2050. So, of
course, it's very, very important. We see the effect in the marketplace, we hear people's
comments in terms of it we are going to be part of the solution, but we'll do it not in a normal
way and that's the most cost-effective way we possibly can.
Q - `Adam Jonas, Morgan Stanley `
Thanks, Mike.
Operator
We will take our next question from `Jose Asumendi, JPMorgan from JP Morgan. Please go ahead, your line is
now open.
Q - `Jose Asumendi, JPMorgan `
Thanks very much. Jose, JP Morgan. Mike, a couple of questions please on China and Brazil. On
China, what like the key levers pleased to improve profitability and can you talk a bit about the
product cycle in the region. Also in Brazil, maybe can you comment a bit about the size of the
plan you have now in Pernambuco. How are you trying to expand the plant? Any additional policy
you can bring there on the Jeep side to improve the already very strong momentum in the
region. Richard for you please, CapEx 2020, what are your thoughts on CapEx, please. And
maybe by region can you give some color, where the incremental CapEx is going by region,
please. Thank you.
A - `Michael M. Manley, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Yeah, thanks, Jose. This is Mike, I'll answer the -- I'll answer the first question. I think sometimes
it's easy because obviously ended up at the year in a very slight loss. It's, you know, it's still a loss,
so we are not satisfied with it, but to pull back the amount of loss from the prior year to where
they are. I think I don't want to get washed away in terms of the call. In terms of the effort, the
people they put in there because fundamentally it was a dramatic change, both in our cost factor
SG&A as well as the cost factor, the cost factor of the vehicles in that well because that discipline,
I think is now that will put us in good stead. What we have got to do, as I mentioned before is to
rebuild our volumes. Some of that's going to come because we've done a lot of work on the
brand and marketing side, but it will also come from the work we've done with our joint venture
partner in terms of looking at our portfolio being more flexible with that portfolio and finding
ways to be able to build it more effectively.
So that's not going to be done in January, February, March, April this year, but that work is very
much underway. And I think the team has a good base to build from it. In terms of Brazil,
absolutely we have opportunity and we are bringing more Jeep products to Brazil. We haven't
made the announcement yet but our team in LATAM has been very active in terms of that
request for product, which has been supported by the Jeep brand in the near future. You will see
further Jeep product coming down to the plant there because clearly the brand is left in the
country and in the region and we obviously want to build on that and I'll give Richard the last
question.
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, Head of Business Development `
Hi, Jose, Jose. The CapEx is up about a 1 billion year-over-year. And it basically relates to North
America as we close out the in the spending on some key projects such as the new Grand
Cherokee and the large SUVs also spending is up slightly in EMEA as we spend on completing theEVs, the (inaudible) SUVs. And lastly, we're starting some more spending on Maserati as Mike
mentioned, we got some clarity around the future product plan and that is driving some increase
in spending there. So those are the main 3 areas where the CapEx is up year-over-year.
Q - `Jose Asumendi, JPMorgan `
Thank you. Thank you very much.
Operator
We will now take our next question from the line of `Stephen Reitman, Societe Generale from Societe Generale.
Please go ahead, your line is now open.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Societe Generale `
Yes, good afternoon. A question on North America obviously was a key part of your overall
business and fourth quarter margin 10% is very impressive, particularly when you compare it to
Detroit peers, General Motors adjusted 1.5% taking out the strike on 1.2% of income reported in
42.8%. To what extent the strike impact you in terms of any crossover in terms of it is going to
sales or was it still very much using loyalty of Ram customers sticking with Ram. And secondly,
looking at 2020. What, how do you see the competitive environment starting in the US obviously,
we've had figures, which obviously gets pretty much estimated, but. It looks, we look pretty
flattish in the market, if you could comment on that?
A - `Michael M. Manley, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Yeah, this is Mike. And if I don't fully answer obviously come back to me. I -- when I look at the
performance of our Ram brand, it would be very difficult for me to say that the strike had any
impact on it at all if you look at residual level of inventory that was in the market all the way
through that period to the end of the year, it still seems that there was a healthy level of
inventory in our competitors as well. I think when you got trucks that are winning back to back
awards that we have with our trucks multiple awards that they remain incredibly competitive. So
I'd like to believe is sort of the scale of our dealers in the quality of our products that got us into
that number 2 position and I firmly do believe that, because if I also look at what happened in
terms of our average transaction price and our incentives on the Ram side both of them moved
in like direction and create at the margin that you talked about. When I think about 2020 I always
imagine that is going to be increased competition. The truck business never stops it is one launch
after another launch, whether it's a full launch is an increase in capability that has been the way
that it has been for years that ever since up and involved in it, which is now well into 10 years and
it will not stop as we get into next year. One of the things that we've done with the brand though
is build what I think is an enviable conquest defection ratio and our loyalty ratios as well and that's
been done on product and hard work and will stand us in good stead for that competitive nature
in 2020. We've seen a lot more competition on the SUV side frankly. I mentioned, in part, my
opening that we dropped volume in particularly in the B segment and the D segment, we did
that, I know no one likes losing volume. But clearly what we've been looking at is a better balance
really between volume and margin and there is some of that business now being done, what I
would consider to be very low margin and I think the sales team did the right thing, but obviously
the headline was you know Jeep business has down some things wrong and here you see the
margin at the North American team were able to produce. So we'll see how it develops in 2020.
But I think competition is part of the environment we live in.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Societe Generale `Thank you.
Operator
We will take our next question from the line of `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America from Bank of America. Please go
ahead, your line is now open.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
All right. Good afternoon, guys. And maybe just to follow-up on the North American truck market.
Just curious if you could give us a split on fleet versus retail for Ram and also how much benefit
you think you got from the change in the Tax Act here, just on the accelerated depreciation or
essentially first year expensing of vehicles with the GBW 6000 pounds or higher on the fleet
side?
A - `Michael M. Manley, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Hey John, this is Mike, I can give you and will follow up with you. I can give you our overall split,
which was 21% fleet and the balance in retail business, I don't have that number to my fingertips.
So, Joe, could you follow up with John? And also John, as you know, when you look at the truck
business and the Ram business in particular that category of small business which when you look
into those numbers may help answer the question in terms of what benefit we got with some
taxes and in fact, Joe is just showing me how efficient he is -- Joe opened his computer on my
lap which says in fact truck followed our national patent at 22% fleet. So very much in line with --
very much in line with our Group fleet numbers, John.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
Yeah, I mean, Mike just [ph]pardon me -- on the dealers, I mean, I'm not sure if you're hearing
from the dealers, it sounded like it was a big benefit. It's not something that goes away right. So it
just anniversaried itself. So it's not like it's going to drop off equipment, I'm just curious if you've
heard from the dealers that that was a big driver of some of the surge on the Ram side.
A - `Michael M. Manley, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
To be honest, I don't think I haven't heard that from the dealers. I believe that is something I
would have to broaden pro forward to get that specific answer. I think when you look at -- that
wouldn't specifically surge Ram it would be an industry effect. I think the surge we saw on Ram
was purely to do with the quality of our products and our marketing approach.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
Great. And then just a second question on the pooling with Tesla specifically and I know it gets
into the PSA discussion which you are not talking about too much, but I'm just curious if you think
forward when you get executed, will you be able to get rid of this Tesla pulling in Europe and not
by credits in the US, I mean how fast do you think that will get washed away intrinsically between
the two companies you can handle this stuff on your own?
A - `Michael M. Manley, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
(inaudible) the planning that we had was put in place before the merger. So what I'm going to tell
you is the plan and what our product teams are working towards. Out of credits in Europe in 2021
relying on all of the investment that we've made in terms of electrification which is now coming
through strong and loud, you will see in Geneva, the Fiat 500, the Fiat BEV and you've alreadyseen the Compass and the Fiat BEV and Wrangler plug-in hybrids. But that has been followed
heavily in 2021. So from my perspective, I would say, end of 2021 in Europe. In the US. I think 2023
mid-to-end 2023 would be the time frame that I would give you for the US period again in line
with the product cadence that we have set now running against in terms of electrification
hybridization.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
Great, and then Richard one quick housekeeping. What was the size of the UAW bonus in the
fourth quarter?
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, Head of Business Development `
EUR400 million.
Q - `John Murphy, Analyst, Bank of America `
Great, thank you very much.
Operator
We will now take our next question from the line of `Martino De Ambroggi, EQUITA from EQUITA. Please
go ahead, your line is now open.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, EQUITA `
Thank you. Good morning, good afternoon everybody. The first question is on the 2020
guidance. If I remember correctly, you previously assumed flat market in North America, Europe
and Brazil, and now you are confirming all the guidance with North America and EMEA down 3%. I
would say only partially offset by Brazil up 5%. So apart from -- I don't know if the raw materials
that you mentioned, your assumption has changed compared to last October when you provided
the guidance or what is affecting the likely lower volumes due to the more difficult market
environment?
A - `Joseph Veltri, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Obviously, the raw materials that Richard mentioned were new since, since we gave our
guidance, but we've lived in that environment. I think that's why I was referencing the fact that we
had similar headwinds as we came into 2019. And I guess if we look at 2018, there'll be similar
headwinds, we got a team of people that are used to be in challenge and targeted to find
offsets, and headwinds that's what they've been challenged and targeted to find. I'm not
prepared because we get a minor movement on some industry to change our guidance at this
stage it's the life that we live in. Now obviously something changes that says we are unable to do
it.
We have the fortunate ability to talk to each other quarterly, we'll let you know. But it's in my mind,
I think they have got very solid idea of what they need to deliver. I think they got very solid plans is
everything offset at this moment in time, not all of the new news in terms of raw materials. But
we're still firm in our guidance for this year.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, EQUITA `
Okay, thank you. And the other one is on net working capital, because last year of very huge
contribution, presumably it's mainly driven by destocking, so just to have an idea what is theunderlying assumptions you have for net working capital for this year? And just a confirmation, if
the destocking is can we say is finalized almost everywhere? And if I may, also the ForEx
assumption for your guidance. Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
ForEx assumptions, the current rate, basically. The working capital going into next year between
working capital and provisions as you said, we had some big moves, but overall, it was basically
slightly negative for $200 million for the year last year because of the destocking offsetting the
working capital and I think going into 2020, we expect working capital and provisions to be
positive between $0.5 billion to $1 billion in large part because of the non-repeat of the diesel
settlement payments and the UAW bonus that we paid in Q4.
A - `Michael M. Manley, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
And I'll pick up the destocking question, it's largely complete, I do still want to see our North
American team just moderate some of their inventory in their region and I want to make sure that
EMEA as we go through this year and we learn month by month have a very, very tight handle. So
possible to say, yes, it's absolutely 100% complete, but the magnitude of last year I don't
envisage that all be repeated this year.
Q - `Martino Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita
Okay, thank you.
Operator
We will take our next question from the line of `Philippe Bourgois, Analyst, Jefferies from Jefferies. Please go ahead,
your line is now open.
Q - `Philippe Bourgois, Analyst, Jefferies
Good morning. Thank you very much. I've got a couple of questions, the first one, I also look
forward to the Maserati day and relaunch. My question is on the powertrain efficiency, we've seen
some new EVs coming out -- very repeatable competitors and they have been slightly
disappointing in terms of a range or energy efficiency or over the updates and I'm just trying to
understand, have you been working on the relaunch of Maserati on your own or have you relied
heavily on outside health and partnerships and if that's the case, could you comment a bit about
this?
Q - Unidentified Participant
So if you don't mind me -- it's also disappointing range for you.
Q - `Philippe Bourgois, Analyst, Jefferies
It seems like if I compare with Tesla, I can do today and what we've seen from (inaudible) it's in
the 20% to 25% efficiency shortfall compared to what Tesla has been able to achieve. And I
appreciate Maserati, we'll be able to build to drive faster for resisting (inaudible) time. And so
that will cut into range, but I'm just trying to get a sense for how you feel about your
competitiveness against what is still a benchmark Tesla and what we've seen coming out of some
of your German competitors.
A - `Michael M. Manley, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `What we've -- not just battery electric vehicles, but for all of our vehicles is were very clearly
particularly with a brand like Maserati where powertrain is in absolute, the embedded DNA for
that brand is to make sure that we have stretching targets in terms of the performance of the
vehicle and obviously when you got a battery electric that's going to be a combination of range
as well as the dynamic performance of the vehicle. We have significant internal experience in
terms of electrification you may have heard me focus on the fact that we are nu mber one mild-
hybrid certainly in the United States, we have the number for plug-in hybrid in the United States.
We launched a Fiat 500 BEV in the United States. I think from memory 3 years ago, it was a 3rd
higher seller. So we have a lot of internal resource, but we do work in partnership, we have to
work in partnership with your battery producers because it is a much, much more complicated
controls and integration system. But any OEM has to have a large degree of that core skills and
within their organization and I'm pleased that within our engineers we do as well.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, EQUITA `
Right. And on a different note another question. The UAW agreement that you signed those
translate into a significant closing of the gap that you enjoyed in terms of labor cost power
compared to Ford and GM. Any views on how you're going to compensate for that. I know you
still have some mix opportunities that you need to get into force as SUVs, et cetera, but it is still
significant wage inflation that you have to accommodate for the next 3 years compared to 4. Do
you have any thoughts on how you compensate for that?
A - Unidentified Speaker
We have compensated is I think for wage inflation in different forms across different regions
basically every single year sometimes more significant than others. What we always try and do is
to ask our teams to look at whether there are cost offset to that or whether there is pricing a
marginal mix offsets. And I think if you look at our year-over-year results, through a combination of
things. And we did wage inflation as well. And we did have overall labor inflation as we strengthen
some of our internal teams. I think we were able to offset and I just view it as part of. part of the
job as the leadership team will continue to do it.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, EQUITA `
Right. And if I squeeze the last one, I know you're not going to answer me but so you saw us on
the slide now these around that you will be compliant in 2020 around the 95 gram. I'm just trying
to understand in the case of FCA compared to CO2 targets were set a number of years ago the
average mass of the vehicles you've been selling in Europe has increased significantly. Has your
target been adjusted for that or you're still kind of living off the legacy of years ago selling on
average (inaudible) like to cars and what you're selling today?
A - Unidentified Speaker
Well, one of the, one of the interesting things in terms of the target is actually adjusted based
upon the final makeup of your fleet. So the mix management of your fleet in Europe becomes
incredibly important because it will affect where you see on the curve. We believe that the
numbers that we have written down because we now have significant amount of resource
directed at this as you can imagine, is where we're going to end up. And as I said from the mix
that we saw in January, we are in track -- on track with the forecast that we had coming into the
year. So every month we are going to be tracking in making sure that we stay on track. And if we
don't, for whatever reason will for sure make sure that we talk about it in the quarters to come.
But right now, that's a reflection of the position that we think we're in.Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, EQUITA `
And the target, so you readjusted based out your average develops that makes sense. Okay,
thank you.
Operator
We will take our next question from the line of George Galliers from Goldman Sachs. Please go
ahead, your line is now open.
A - `Michael M. Manley, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
George, you there?
Operator
Our final question comes from the line of `Stuart Pearson, Exane BNP Paribas from Exane BNP Paribas. Please go
ahead, your line is now open.
Q - `Stuart Pearson, Exane BNP Paribas `
Okay. Yes, thank you and good afternoon, guys. So I just 2 or 3 questions left. Just on Europeans
electrification, you mentioned that Q3 that you encouraged very early signs encouraged on the
pricing of the EVs and that was. So if any comments been echoed by some of your peers. Is that
still the case, I know it's still early days, but I was wondering what you're seeing on the pricing side
in the market now for those electrified cars in the market overall. And equally, are there any
[ph]bad you're seeing perhaps cars pre-registered in Q4. High CO2 obviously being dumped into
the market now, so we are seeing any unintended consequences as we come into this new
emissions era. And then how should we think about the range of outcomes for EMEA profitability
as a result of that in 2020 given you roughly breakeven last year.
I think quickly in NAFTA, maybe you could just reassure us quickly just on the health of the US
markets have been a few recently given I guess the downtime you've had in some of your plants
will be at some aging product, some auto loan delinquencies switching some pretty high rates, so
can you just reassure us on the outlook or are you hearing anything more pressure there from
your lending partner over in the US. Thank you.
A - Unidentified Speaker
Sure. I'm going to try and cover all of those things. In terms of pricing looked our teams, not me
personally looked at how we saw as best we could net transaction prices evolve in January, given
it was really the first month of mix, it seems to me from the data that I've seen that prices are still
reasonably positive. What's not clear obviously is as more and more penetration is required
whether there is a broad enough customer base for that, but I have to say, it is much better than I
thought it was going to be on a personal level.
There is now, every single time you change in emission standard whether you go Euro 6D, Euro
6E, when you move into a different way of measuring your fleet, you always get a turn a pre-
registered 0k vehicles in Europe always spikes is every manufacturer manages their inventory. We
see every single time, there is a hangover we've seen in January was largely down in many, many
markets in Europe. I suspect it was because of the 0k vehicles registered in December. They'll
wash themselves out of the system pretty quickly, I think so the length of impact will be relatively
small. In terms of the US, as we just said, we're confirming our guidance. I think that's the bestreinsurance that I can give you, for that market, I'm not hearing anything from our lenders that
would at this stage make me feel nervous or other reflected in the guidance.
Q - `Stuart Pearson, Exane BNP Paribas `
Thank you.
A - `Michael M. Manley, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thank you. So with that, I think we finished off all of our questions. If I may, just a few closing
comments. Again, thank you very much for joining us. As I said, and I think I tried to make this clear
in my opening comments, I think 2019 was a historic year for the company and we did achieve
strong operating results in the phase of several challenges. And at the same time, what I think
taking decisive measurements -- the measures and actions to set the company up for what I think
is a very bright and sustainable future. And I think the work that was done in EMEA, on our cost
base and efficiencies in our headcount and in APAC and you've seen the levers and how they've
improved those, the way Maserati has been set up. I think bodes well for the future and we and
the team is fully focused to trying to deliver more and more opportunities to give our
shareholders value. And that's, as I said, what we focus. In 2020 we're obviously going to
continue to move diligently forward in terms of completing our merger with PSA. And as we've
said, we'll keep you posted in terms of our progress during our calls. So again thank you for your
time. And then I want to end again by talking to our people, my people. Thank you for 2019. As I
mentioned at the beginning, I think we have a phenomenal team you guys and those come in
every day and deliver the results for us. And I'm proud to be part of the team with you. So with
that, thank you very much, and goodbye.
Operator
That will conclude today's conference call. Thank you for participation. Ladies and gentlemen, you
may now disconnect.