Q4 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Hello and welcome to the Full Year Results of Stellantis. I will now hand over to `Andrea Bandinelli, Investor Relations,
responsible for Investor Relations of Stellantis.
`Andrea Bandinelli, Investor Relations `
Thank you. Jessie and welcome to everyone joining us today. While we completed the merger of
FCA and PSA in January, today we will review FCAs fourth Quarter and full year 2020 results and
Group PSA results for full year 2020. Earlier today, the presentation material used during this call,
along with the related earnings press release was posted in the Investor section of Stellantis
Group website.
As we will be presenting results for both FCA and PSA, our call today is hosted by `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director
and Philippe de Rovira, concerning PSA and `Mike Manley, Chief Executive Officer of FCA and Richard Palmer, concerning FCA.
After their presentation, Mr. Tavares will also have a short presentation related to Stellantis. All of
these gentlemen will be then be available to answer questions.
Before we begin, I want to point out that any forward-looking statements, we might make during
today's call are subject to the risks and uncertainties mentioned in the Safe Harbor statement
included on page two of today's presentation and as customary, the call will be governed by that
language.
Now I would like to turn the call over to `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director, CEO of Stellantis.
`Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thank you, Andrea. Ladies and gentlemen good morning and good afternoon. I am delighted to
be here with you today and welcome you to this 2020 FCA, PSA financial results announcement
session and of course, dedicated part to Stellantis that will give me the opportunity to share a
few thoughts and answer your questions.It is for me a moving moment today and I'm sure for Mike, as we are presenting the last financial
results of FCA and the PSA. But we are happy and we are so glad to be both of us today with you
to kick start the Stellantis new chapter, which is going to be an exciting one with a very important
value creation factor. It is my great privilege today to welcome you. I know that you are all very
busy people and therefore we value your time and I would like to thank you warmly for your
interest in our cooperations and your interest in Stellantis. Hopefully we'll be able to answer all of
your questions. And without further due, I would like to hand over to `Mike Manley, Chief Executive Officer of FCA the CEO of FCA
and Richard Palmer, the CFO of FCA, they're going to present to you the 2020 results of FCA.
Mike, the floor is yours.
`Mike Manley, Chief Executive Officer of FCA `
Thank you, Carlos and I'd just add my welcome to everybody for the call and good morning and
good afternoon. So in a normal tradition, I'm going to take you briefly through our operational
highlights and then Richard will walk you through the financials in much more detail. Obviously
given the unusual nature of the year with COVID-19 having such a significant impact on FCAs
results, especially due to the disruption in demand and production shutdowns that we
experienced during the first half of 2020. Richard and I will both focus our comments today on
FCAs fourth quarter results, which we believe a better reflection of the Group's operating
performance in a more normalized environment. And therefore, I think more indicative of where
many people believe the future environment will be.
I'm not trying to minimize FCA full-year results, which was still strong given the impacts that the
Group faced and continues to face as a result of COVID-19. But I believe that by focusing on the
quarter is the best way to fully comprehend the capability, strength and solid foundation of FCA,
as they transitioned into Stellantis, which as you all know, happened in mid-January.
So let me begin obviously, we are extremely pleased with FCAs fourth quarter results and the
Group had a strong close to the year, delivering a record fourth quarter Group adjusted EBIT of
EUR2.3 billion and a record margin 8.2% and all regions and Maserati contributed to these results,
with all segments profitable in the fourth quarter. Now, this was the first time that this has
occurred since the first quarter of 2019.
So I think, it is a great accomplishment for the entire Group. As you will see North America
continue to be a stand-out, delivering a record fourth quarter adjusted EBIT of EUR2.2 billion,
which was up 8% and a record margin of 11.6% and in addition to the tremendous performance in
North America, FCAs Latin American operations improved for the second quarter in a row, while
still managing through a very difficult environment. And as you know the pandemic is still having a
measurable impact on the overall industry and the Brazilian real and Argentine peso continue to
weaken.
Another important accomplishment came from EMEA with the region returning to profitability in
the quarter. I think, that's a sign that the combination of actions taken in the past to improve
commercial performance, restructuring the business and remove significant cost is bearing fruit
obviously, there is still much for us to do, but I think the fourth quarter were recognized another
step forward. FCA also generated very strong industrial free cash flows of EUR3.9 billion, which
reflects the robust operating performance coupled with continued positive working capital
impacts and this led to FCA ending the year with positive industrial free cash flows of EUR600
million.
FCAs available liquidity remained very strong at EUR31.4 billion at year-end, an increase of overFCA fully repaid the EUR6.25 billion revolving credit facility that was drawn down in the second
quarter of 2020 and the strong liquidity is another element of the solid foundation FCA bought to
Stellantis.
Now in addition to FCA's strong operating results, the Group also performed very well during the
quarter from a commercial standpoint and its key markets, despite the industry being down in
each of those markets year-over-year. In Latin America, the FCA maintained its market leadership
gaining 340 basis points of market share year-over-year to 17.8%. FCA also maintained its
leadership position in Brazil, with share increasing by about 530 basis points to 24.3% driven by
the success of the all new Fiat Strada pickup, as well as the Jeep Compass and Renegade.
In fact FCA sales in the region were up 16%, which clearly outpaced the industry, which was down
6%. In Europe FCA was able to improve its market share, year-over-year for the second straight
quarter, with share [ph] growing by 40 basis points to 6.5% for the fourth quarter. And this was
achieved with sales remaining substantially flat year-over-year with the overall industry
experiencing a 7% deterioration. And finally, has established under the terms of the merger
agreement the EUR2.9 billion special cash distribution was paid at the end of January to former
FCA shareholders.
So let me turn to FCAs commercial performance during the quarter. With the exception of Asia
Pacific, the industry in each region declined year-over-year due to continued impact of COVID-19,
while FCA sales in North America were down year-over-year, this was substantially driven by fleet
sales with retail sales increasing by 2%, this production for dealer deliveries was prioritized to
fulfill the continued strong level of retail demand. Also US dealer inventories remain low, the
dealer stock at the end of December at approximately 420,000 units, down almost 170,000
from the end of December 2019.
In Europe as I previously noted, FCA's performance outpaced the industry once again, and for
the second quarter in a row, we gained market share thanks to higher sales of the Fiat Tipo
Family 500 and Panda. And finally in Latin America FCA remain the overall market leader on the
back of a significant share gain of over 340 basis points, while the industry was down 6%.
FCA, strengthen these market leadership in Brazil, gaining share and improvements in the
segments such as SUVs, pickup trucks and LCVs. Now as I mentioned in my opening, Richard will
take you through the financials in detail. So I'm just going to give you a quick overview of FCA's
results for the quarter, which I previously noted were a record for the Group.
The entire team did an phenomenal job with delivering on improved commercial performance,
implementing strict cost containment actions and fully resuming our industrial machine to pre-
pandemic levels, without experiencing any significant production disruptions due to COVID-19
and all of this while maintaining our first priority, which is to ensure the safety and well-being of
our employees and our communities.
Despite FCA's consolidated shipments being down slightly year-over-year, the Group achieved
record fourth quarter adjusted EBIT and margin are prioritizing dealer deliveries and continuing to
maintain strict inventory management discipline, all segments ended the year with appropriate
inventory levels, which were lower than at the end of December 2019.
As I noted earlier, North America delivered a record fourth quarter adjusted EBIT margin, despite
consolidated shipments being down 8% primarily due to the discontinuance of the Dodge Grand
Caravan and lower planned shipments of the Ram 1500 Classic in preparation for the much-
anticipated Grand Wagoneer launch.And as anticipated FCA experienced strong industrial free cash flows, which amounted to EUR3.9
billion for the quarter. This is not only reflected the record operating performance, but also the
continued rewind of working capital and change in provisions which totaled just over EUR3 billion.
And before I hand it over to Richard, I want to conclude by saying that 2020 tested the business,
and frankly tested all of us in ways, we have not experienced before. But I think it also brought
out the very best of who we are, the resilience dedication, creativity of our teams and I couldn't
be more proud of how our people have responded and delivered in every aspect of the
business.
As I said before FCA came into Stellantis with a very solid foundation. However, the strongest
asset FCA contributed to Stellantis with its people. And I just want to touch on something that
Carlos said at the beginning, in terms of his view about the start of Stellantis and his comment
that he is happy and glad to be here. I can echo that 100%, I think the work that was done to
deliver Stellantis in-line with the projections that both Carlos has given was tremendous and given
the year and we will know how tough [ph] it was -- I think it was a phenomenal achievement.
So I echo with his views, I'm happy and glad, we're now here to start of Stellantis and with that
Richard, if you wouldn't mind taking everyone through the details of the financials. Thank you.
`Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Mike, and good day to everybody. I will continue on page six, focusing on Q4
performance. As mentioned, consolidated shipments were down 1% with the Fiat Professional,
and Jeep brands up offsetting reductions in Dodge, due to discontinued products and Rams due
to reduced Warren truck volume, as launch preparations for the new Grand Wagoneer proceed.
Revenues were down 4%, but up 3% at constant FX, due to positive mix in North America and
positive pricing North America, LATAM and EMEA.
Record adjusted EBIT reached EUR2.3 billion, up 11% year-over-year with a record margin of 8.2%
and all segments profitable. Adjusted net profit increased 20% to EUR1.8 billion, our net profit
was flat at EUR1.6 billion due to increased unusual charges of EUR330 million for asset
impairments and advisory fees regarding the merger, finance charges were up EUR22 million to
EUR243 million due to higher borrowing costs and cost of carry offset by some positive FX
translation and lower discount rates on pension liabilities.
The adjusted effective tax rate was 12% for Q4 due to some positive adjustments for prior year
provision and favorable to deferred tax loss adjustments -- deferred tax liability adjustments
sorry. Strong industrial free cash flows of EUR3.9 billion, benefited from the rewind of working
capital and provisions of EUR3.1 billion. Liquidity was boosted further by the completion of the
drawdown of the Intesa facility for EUR1.1 billion, partially offset by EUR0.6 billion of negative FX
translation and overall liquidity increased by EUR4.3 billion to EUR31.4 billion. We're now moving to
page seven and review the adjusted EBIT by driver. As mentioned all segments are positive in
Q4, despite negative shipment impacts for North America of 55,000 units, all other segments
showed positive volume year-over-year, our net volume was down just 14,000 units.
North America drove positive mix and overall volume mix was positive for the Group. Net price
was also strong in North America, LATAM and demand showing a strong overall commercial
performance for over EUR900 million. Industrial costs were negative in North America due to
weak recall campaign, in EMEA due to product costs on newly launched electrified vehicles, and in
LATAM due to the inflation and negative FX impacts.
The Group continued to benefit from SG&A reduction actions across all segments for EUR300which increased from EUR1.5 billion last year to EUR3.9 billion and took the full year number to
positive EUR0.6 billion. Adjusted industrial EBITDA margin was up 90 basis points to 12.4%. CapEx
was EUR2.4 billion below prior year by EUR0.5 billion, but up sequentially by EUR0.2 billion, as we
continued investments in key product launches for 2021.
Full year CapEx reached EUR8.6 billion, up EUR0.2 billion compared to 2019. Working capital
contributed EUR2.1 billion, due to sequential increases in production, payables and seasonal
reduction in inventories in EMEA and North America. Finance charges were up EUR45 million to
EUR190 million due to higher gross debt levels and cash taxes were EUR130 million mainly for US
taxes due.
The net industrial cash position at year end was EUR4.6 billion, up from EUR1.3 billion at the end
of September, due to the Industrial free cash flow offset partially by negative FX translation.
Moving to page nine, we show the adjusted EBIT by segment, as mentioned, all segments were
positive for the first time since Q1 2018. North America had a record Q4 results and margin. We
also see sequential improvements in LATAM, with strong commercial performance despite the
continued market downturn a negative FX impact.
Now we move to the regions, starting on page 10, with North America's record Q4. As
mentioned, our sales were down 7%, driven by pre-sales down 40% as we allocated vehicles to
fulfill demand in the retail channel, where demand was up 3% and share was down slightly by 20
basis points. Our fleet sales were 15% of total US market sales as a result, down from 23% last
year.
North America shipments were 594,000 units, down 8% primarily due to the discontinued Dodge
Grand Caravan and lower Ram 1500 Classic, due to planned downtime of Warren truck. US dealer
inventories were up 34,000 units in Q4, but year-end levels were still 165,000 lower than prior
year. Revenues of EUR19.1 billion were down 7% or 2% of constant exchange with strong positive
mix and pricing. Adjusted EBIT increased 8% despite negative FX translation impacts of EUR140
million. The lower shipments of 55,000 units were more than offset by positive mix and retail up
8%, while fleet was down 6% and the car lines due to less Grand Caravans, 1500 Classics and
Pacifica's. Price was positive around 2 percentage points mainly on the Jeep and Ram brands.
Industrial costs were negative due to recall campaign costs, as well as the lower year-over-year
supplier recoveries under the warranty adjustments. SG&A benefited from reduced advertising
spend and reduced G&A costs. Next on page 11, we have Asia Pacific's results, consolidated
shipments were up to 23,000 units from 20,000 last year, due to higher SUV [ph] volumes to
China and Japan markets.
The China JV shipments were down 39% or 8,000 units to 13,000 units, as a result combined
shipments were down 10% to 36,000. Net revenues were up 19% to EUR0.9 billion, driven by the
15% increase in consolidated shipments and the improvement in revenues, together with cost
reduction in SG&A, put the region into a profit for the quarter of EUR34 million.
On page 12, we see the EMEA results, combined shipment grew up 13%, primarily due to a very
strong performance in the JV in Turkey, although consolidated volumes were also up 6%, driven
by the Fiat 500 BEV and the Jeep PHEV launched recently. Dealer inventory levels were
substantially flat against than in Q3 at a 162,000 units, down from 239,000 units last year.
Net revenues were up 8% to EUR5.7 billion, including price improvements due to the electrified
models. Adjusted EBIT was EUR66 million, with positive volume mix and price recovery of the
electrified vehicles offsetting their increased product costs. Year-over-year, raw materialsinflation, as well as the cost of compliance drove negative industrial costs, SG&A cost reductions,
continued to be a key focus for the region.
Page 13 shows the LATAM results, as mentioned, the commercial performance is very strong with
full year market share, up 340 basis points to 17.8%, driven by Brazil up 530 basis points. As a
result, sales were up 16% for Q4, driving shipments, up 11% with strong demand for the new Fiat
Strada pickup.
Dealer stock levels for the region were 28,000 units, down nearly 50% from prior year, revenues
were down 14% year-over-year, due to FX weakening of the Brazilian real of over 40%. At
constant FX, revenues were up 17%. Adjusted EBIT was also impacted heavily by FX impact for
imported components and purchasing inflation on local components, both driving the negative
industrial costs shown here.
The region acted to offset these impacts by continuing to improve pricing in Brazil especially up
around 10% year-over-year. On page 14, we finished the FCA results in Maserati sales were down
26% in the quarter with all main markets down except for China and Italy. Shipments were up
38%, as we launched the MTA versions of all the nameplates with model year '21. Dealer
inventories increased as a result from September levels still below prior year.
Net revenues increased in-line with shipments and this also drove the improvement in adjusted
EBIT to a EUR12 million profit from a EUR40 million loss last year. Now I will hand over to Carlos
and Philippe. Thank you very much.
`Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thank you -- thank you Richard. Thank you, Mike. Before I move on with the PSA results, I would
like just to express to all of you, my very sincere and warm thanks to Mike for his leadership, the
outstanding 2020 results and the stellar performance demonstrated in Q4, at the FCA family
level, as contributed immensely to the robust financial position at the birth of Stellantis. It is very
important that we start -- we kick off Stellantis in a sound position and it is the case -- it is a sound
position as a starting point for this new company. And it has been so because Mike and Richard
have led FCA to this outstanding and robust results in 2020 with a stellar performance in Q4.
I would like to recognize that to thank warmly Mike, to thank warmly Richard and to tell you that
since we have signed a binding agreement back in December 2019, I have been personally
impressed and inspired by the maturity, by the consistency, by the open mind that Mike has
demonstrated in helping us to converge towards the closing in January 16th, 2021.
We have filed more than 12,500 documents. We have discussed with the whole world. We have
solved many many issues, many of this negotiations, many discussions all of this was possible.
Within the time window that we have set for ourselves because of the maturity, because of the
quality of our relationship, because of the fact that we only had one goal which was to create this
great company called Stellantis in other to open a new chapter in the history of our companies. I
would like to recognize that. I know how important egos are in our industry. I would like to testify
in front of you. The maturity, the focus, the consistency, the open mind, the business sense that
Mike as always demonstrated, I'm absolutely delighted to have him with me to support the birth
of Stellantis and moving our business forward.
This is very important for me to testify this in front of you and this being said, please, enjoy the
nice brand new DS4, crossover that is going to be launched this year for the DS premium brand
that you have on this slide. So if you look at the results from the PSA Family, you can see that PSAwas able to achieve a very robust what we would call that All Weather result for this All Weather
co-operation.
Despite the COVID we were able to deliver 7.1% automotive adjusted operating margin and this
is the result that has been combined with the H2 record operating margin of 9.4%. So the 9.4%
H2 operating margin demonstrates that we were on our way to continue to grow our efficiency
and effectiveness when -the COVID appeared unfortunately for all of us. This is coming from a
very robust performance from the Peugeot-Citroen, DS brands at 7.3% and from and also a very
robust performance from Opel, Vauxhall at 4.1% that demonstrates that the turnaround of Opel,
Vauxhall was structural that even COVID could not bring us back in the red, in the Opel Vauxhall
operations I think it is important that we highlight that. And with this results we were able to
deliver a 7.1% automotive adjusted operating margin for 2020.
This is demonstrating number one, that our guidance was respected, number two that we are All
Weather Company and you have just seen that FCA is also an All Weather Company, which is that
we are demonstrating that our companies are resilient and our teams are able to demonstrate a
great deal of focus and agility, when we are facing these headwinds.
Some impressive numbers beyond the 9.4% of operating margin in H2. We could deliver EUR2.2
billion net result group share, EUR2.7 billion automotive free cash flow and the EUR13.2 billion
automotive net financial position, which is a very sound position, that as I was saying for FCA
contributes from the PSA side to sound net financial position of Stellantis at birth. I would like as
always to express to all the employees of PSA, my sincere and warm thanks for what has been
achieved, not only for 2020, which as you may imagine was a very painful year for everybody. But
for what we have been doing altogether, over the last seven years, since I took the helm of PSA.
It has been a rewarding experience, it was been thrilling to work with this teams, it has been
absolutely something that we will keep in our minds and we are happy now to turn the page and
open the chapter of Stellantis. If we look at another important aspect of our activities is our
contribution to tackling the climate change, we have selected only third-party accolades. So that
this judgment is not biased, only using third-party accolades, we see that all the targets that has
been validated by SBTi are aligned with the 2 degree maximum warming coming out of the Paris
agreement for the COP21 and everything we do is aligned with this 2% maximum roaming level
that has been set as a ceiling from this COP21 agreement.
It is important that we recognize that, from the Carbon Disclosure Project Group PSA was
recognized as the leader of low carbon transition and from a global CSR performance we have
received seven awards, of which three have been sector leader awards for PSA. As you can see
we have also been able to reduce significantly our real estate footprint to contributes to reducing
the CO2 emissions. And this is of course paramount, as it is the fact that we have created a way
of working and working processes that are completely consistent with the remote working, which
is also a very significant contribution to the quality of life of our people, as much as it is a
contribution to the environment by reducing the CO2 emissions of all the travels and the
Mobility's on this case.
From here I would like to therefore recognize the resilience of the PSA family, recognize that H2
operating margin was a new record for this seven year journey, recognizing that this could be
achieved, thanks to our people. And I would like to thank them all and each of them for their
contribution. I would like also to recognize the quality of our co-construction processes with our
unions, our union leaders, they are always very demanding, they are more and more diverse
across the world, as we become a global company. But I do recognize, that's the quality of these
dialogue is also supportive of the performance of the company and I want also to thank themwarmly for our interactions for their demanding Stellantis, but also the ability to contribute and
their ability to discuss in a constructive manner, with the management of the company.
It is also a big part of this results, I'd like also to recognize that we have been blessed by the
quality of the top leaders of PSA, the members of the executive committee team of PSA, it is not
easy to be permanently challenged with the results that you have seen. But you see that despite
the COVID, despite the improvement of those results across the first six years of this journey.
This top executive team is always ready to face the challenge always ready to push the limits,
always ready to recognize that we can do better.
In terms of mindset, in terms of mental strength, these says a lot about your management team.
These says a lot about their ability to be resilient, their ability to face headwinds, their ability to
find innovative solutions and I would like to thank them warmly for accepting me as their CEO,
that is continuously challenging them on their performance. It's not easy, but it is something that
we are doing together and I would like to thank them warmly and to send them all -- a very strong
digital hug.
Last but not least, I would like to thank the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board of PSA has
been stellar in the way, they have been supporting the merger, in the way they have been
supporting the management, in the way they have been respecting the dual governance of PSA,
with the Managing Board from one side and the supervisory board from the other side. I would
like to expressed to them also our sincere appreciation for the very proper, the very rigorous
governance that we could benefit from over the last seven years, it has also contributed to the
stability and to the ability that was given to the management to do the right things, right over this
year's and the results are demonstrating that it was the right attitude, it was the right
Governance, it is very important that we recognize that, also given the best history of this
company.
So from there I would like to hand over to our PSA, CFO, Philippe de Rovira, who is going to give
you the details of our results. Philippe please the floor is yours.
`Philippe de Rovira., Chief Financial Officer of PSA `
Thank you, Carlos. Good afternoon and good morning. It's a great pleasure to present to you
Group PSA financial results for 2020. Despite the headwinds created by COVID-19 pandemic, the
Group delivered EUR3.7 billion adjusted operating income in 2020, resulting in a 6.1% adjusted
operating margin.
This could results goes down to the bottom line, with a net income group share at EUR2.2 billion,
below the adjusted the income restructuring cost amounted to EUR696 million, a three digit
number as announced last year with a sharp decrease of EUR835 million versus 2019. Other
operating income and expenses amounted to a positive EUR65 million, resulting mainly from the
disposal of the CAPSA joint venture in China for EUR204 million, partially offset by the
impairments in China and Eurasia for [ph] amount of EUR154 [ph] million. Net financial expenses
amounted to EUR370 million stable versus last year. Income taxes stand at EUR628 million, down
EUR88 million versus 2019. The effective tax rate has been limited to 23% as we continue to use
our deferred tax assets.
Regarding total tax loss carry-forward, the roll forward, of EUR8.6 billion to French permanent
establishment of Stellantis NV, is temporarily agreed by the French tax authority. Final valuation will
take place in 2021 based on the full year 2020 tax declaration. The lion's share in net earnings of
companies at equity was a negative result of EUR87 million is down EUR63 million versus 2019.by the very solid performance of our FinCos, in partnership with Santander and with BNP Paribas,
which stand at EUR339 million.
Moving to page 20, we present the P&L statement for the Group excluding FAURECIA, which
corresponds to all activities that will continue, within Stellantis once FAURECIA shares are
distributed. In the following pages, I will comment the automotive division that constitutes the
essential of this activities transferred to Stellantis.
Restructuring costs amounted to EUR416 million which is a reduction of EUR921 million versus
2019. Net financial expenses are devalued by (inaudible) comparison to the Group perimeter, with
an amount of only EUR94 million and net profit stands at more than EUR2.3 billion in a pretty
difficult year. Moving to page 21, we present the automotive division revenue bridge. So of course
the decrease in auto revenue was driven by the volume drop in our main markets especially in
Europe and the volume effects impacted revenues negatively by 24%. Product mix continues to
be a strong positive, driven by the success of the last two launches of the Group in particular, the
new Peugeot 208 and 2008 -- the new Opel Vauxhall Corsa, and also the favorable impact of the
electrified (inaudible).
Other positive effects come from the Peugeot, also from the right hand side, which is linked to
the reduction of the weight of Peugeot sales compared to last year and as planned the Peugeot
sales to partner is close to zero. If we move to page 22, worldwide sales were down 28% at 2.5
million units sold with a strong hit of COVID-19 in Europe, Latin America and China.
In this Bleach [ph] market landscape, Middle East and Africa, which has posted a 20% increase
despite the crisis, confirms itself as a powerful growth driver for the Group now and for the
future. Peugeot, Citroen and Opel have increased their market share in the region and doing a
strong legitimacy. Toluca plant, which will gradually ramp up close to 150,000 vehicles in the
course of 2021, will also continue to be a strong level.
In Europe, in addition to the pandemic, the Group sales have been negatively impacted by the
five Model discontinued by Opel, Vauxhall mid-2019, but this will obviously change in 2021 with the
new Mokka commercialization. Let's move now to page 23. Automotive adjusted operating
income amounts to more than EUR2.6 billion in 2020 H2, posting a record automotive adjusted
operating margin at 9.4%, versus 8.3% in 2019 H2.
In a very contrasted year this H2 reflects the general level of performance did by Group PSA. And
now let's move to page 24 to go deeper into the analysis of Auto division, adjusted operating
income. So on page 24, this automotive adjusted income stands at EUR3.4 billion, the significant
performance delivered for plus 2 about EUR2.2 billion mostly driven by product mix and cost
saving has partially offset the adverse operating environment. The worsening operating
environment is massively driven by the full of market demand for EUR3 billion and to the lesser
extent by FX for EUR600 million including the significant hit of Turkish lira, on a more limited one
of the Argentinean peso.
On the right hand side, on the performance side, it continuously robust product mix at more than
EUR700 million, reflecting the success of our last launches, in particular the renewal of the B
segment and the B-SUV segment. And let me remind that the Group PSA has been enjoying an
on going strong positive product mix effect of over the last six years in a row. We also have a
positive pricing effect that's EUR137 million, showing a permanent focus on price and channel mix
discipline.
New gains of efficiencies, dividends by cost savings on production and procurement for EUR565made, R&D CapEx expenses remain in 2020 in the range of 8% to 9% that was maintain over the
five last years.
Last, the other Peugeot is mainly related to strong destocking of our network, as you will see in
more detail in the later page. Moving to page 25 adjusting operating income of Banque PSA
finance at 100% stands at EUR965 million, which is slightly below 2019 a record year. This shows a
strong resilience of our partnership business model through the crisis. The penetration rate is up
at 32.1% at a record level, thanks to the continuous progress made by Opel Vauxhall, on a strong
commercial dynamism on the Santander partnership with historical transition in France, Italy and
Germany.
There is clearly room for improvement, especially on a Opel brand. Logically the cost of risk has
increased as you can see on the right hand side of the chart, which remains at same level. Moving
to page 26, the automotive net cash position stands at the EUR13.2 billion at the end of 2020
compared to EUR10.6 billion at the end of '19. Group PSA excluding FAURECIA as 36.3 [ph] billion
of the free cash flow in H2 to reach an auto free cash flow of EUR2.7 billion in 2020 full-year. This
EUR2.7 billion free cash flow results from EUR4.7 billion cash flow from operations, on the
improvement of the working capital of EUR1.1 billion mainly due to lower inventories.
Banque PSA Finance has distributed a dividend to the group of EUR111 million and finally the sale
in Q4 2020 of shares representing approximately 7% of FAURECIA, share [ph] capital for EUR308
million will be proposed distribution by Stellantis NV, during the next AGM to be held on March 8
of 2021.
Moving to page 27. We can see that inventories have been drilling down by 19% at the end of
2020 versus end of 2019, both Group's inventory and dealers inventory have been reduced and
having less than 500k vehicle and stock gives us good opportunities for 2021.
Thank you to -- for your attention and then I now give back the floor to Carlos.
`Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Well, thank you. Thank you very much Philippe for this clear presentation as always. At this stage, I
would like to share with you that Philippe has been playing a critical role in all the great results that
we have achieved at PSA over the last seven years. Let's not forget that he was the CFO of
Opel, Vauxhall during the turnaround of Opel, Vauxhall supporting Michael Lohscheller. Over the
last few years, he has been supporting the efficiency gains at PSA. And I would like also to
highlight that Richard Palmer and Philippe, were at the core of the merger process. They were the
ones that solves the many of the traps that we had to overcome. They were the ones that
discuss the most sensitive and emotional topics. They did this with a high level of common
understanding, respect, a lot of understanding of the emotions that could exist from both sides.
And they to a certain extent protected Mike and myself from all of those discussions. I would like
here to express to both of them, everything they have done to make Stellantis a reality. I would
like to thank Philippe specifically for his role as a great CFO of PSA and supporting me in this
process. And I'm so happy to tell you that Philippe will now be heading, a big part of the Stellantis
business, which is related to a significant number of business units that in terms of overall profit,
account for more than EUR5 billion of operating income.
That means that we are safe on the fact that this significant amount of our Stellantis business is
now in good hands. And I would like to thank Philippe for supporting Stellantis on this matter, and
thank you for everything he has done so far to support us. Moving forward in terms of Push to
Pass highlights, I would like to start with the carmaker part of our business. Telling you that wesales. In terms of sales, the recommendation rate moved from 92% in 2019 to 93% in 2020, it
was 88% in 2018. And the after-sales we moved from 86% to 89%, it was 80% in 2018. So as you
see against the 2018, a very significant step of progress to make our customers happy and I
would like to thank warmly all the national sales company that made this possible. It's hard work
with the dealer network to make sure that we respect our quality standards. And as you can see
the results are now visible and we are getting closer and closer to the benchmark in terms of
customer satisfaction.
In terms of product quality, we have a strong reduction. In terms of three months in service failure
rate worldwide, as we were able to reduce by 33% the number of failures against 2015, which is
also a good improvement, even though. There is more work to be done, we still are not number
one, we need to continue to work strongly as this is one of our major objectives of Push to Pass,
as you know well.
We also need to recognize that the COVID-19 stop and goes in terms of manufacturing was not
helpful to give us what we needed to move closer to the benchmark in the direct run rate of our
plants. So we still have work to do, but we can recognize that by the end of 2020. The situation
was getting better and better. And I think we are now back in a continuous improvement process
on the direct run rate of our manufacturing operations, now that we can have reasonable
conditions to operate regularly.
From here, I would like also to share with you the fact that we have now eight car lines, which are
in the top three in overall satisfaction and that means that step-by-step, with a strong focus, a
strong persistent pressure on everything we do in terms of quality. We are getting closer and
closer to the top, and we will not stop until we reach the top on this matter. If we look at the e-
mobility and the clean-mobility, our vertical integration strategy is now on the move and you know
that we have made a certain number of strategic moves to make sure that we control,
engineering, manufacturing, and therefore cost, quality and performance for the major
components of an electric powertrain. So this is something that our company consider
strategically important to control in terms of engineering, manufacturing, and of course quality
performance and cost. We have this JV, with (inaudible) on the E-motors, where we are now on
the move and by the end of 2022 we will have the first electric motors coming out of the JV. We
are benefiting also from our motor racing experience, as the DS performance team has been
awarded twice World Champion on the Formula E Championship.
We also have the e-DCT dual-clutch transmission electrified products that we are developing in
engineering and in manufacturing with Punch Powertrain, we are also on the move and will be
ready by the end of 2023. Last but not least, we have of course the battery and battery cells with
a specific dedicated JV that we have created with the Total and Saft Group that will deliver also
by the end of 2023, the first battery sales. All of this demonstrates that we were able to make
the right decisions on the right timing, and this is going to be combined with two specific BV
dedicated platforms, which are the EVMP and the ECMP, all of this is going to give us a
competitive set of technology that we are going to be able to use across Stellantis worldwide.
And this is of course a big opportunity for Stellantis moving forward. And as you know, PSA has
been leading the pack in Europe in terms of CO2 emission reductions. PSA is the leader, we may
not be the guys who create the biggest headlines, but the fact is that we are leading the pack in
terms of reducing the CO2 emissions of our fleets. and this is the tribute to this work done by our
engineers, done by our manufacturing engineers, done by our the strategists in terms of making
those deals happen and I would like here to express to them all, my sincere appreciation, this is
extremely important for the future of Stellantis right now.If we keep moving in terms of cost of course, the year of 2020 was very painful because of the
shutdown for two months of our plants, that was a significant headwind of course. Despite that
we still have EUR119 of cost reductions, all in everything included, it's still EUR119 cost reductions
and this EUR119 cost reduction includes headwind of EUR400, related to the volume effect. How
do we not had this volume effect headwind, then you see that the performance would have been
stellar. But we have the reality and we face the reality, which means that we have now a significant
task in 2021 that we can achieve if we have some stabilized conditions in terms of markets and
that as you know world depends mostly on the reduction of the lock-downs and curfews to ease
the visibility of the consumers that will leads to more the decisions to purchase cars. This is what
we have now ahead of us.
So let's keep in mind that despite the EUR400 adverse headwind we could protect EUR119 of
cost reduction. The wages to revenue ratio were still affected by the revenue of course. Despite
that the resilience of the company is visible through the fact that we were able to achieve a quite
competitive 11.4% ratio and we will continue to target one-digit number for 2021.
We have also taking the opportunity to work rigorously on everything that relates to diversity,
complexity and commercial complexity that is creating, a certain number of inefficiencies,
inefficiencies in the (inaudible) where, what we offer to the customer is so complex that even our
own sales people may be facing difficulties to express the diversity of the offer. So it has an
impact on the quality of our sales, but also a big impact in terms of complexity in the plants, a big
impact in terms of reducing the volume per part [ph] that of course is going to somewhere
reduce our procurement efficiency at the end of the day.
So we have been working on this matter, and with that a reference in 2019 this year, we could
reduce by 50% the diversity complexity. And we aim by 2022 to reduce by 85% this diversity
complexity. And this is something that makes total sense. If we look at the diversity that we have
commercially speaking, we can easily say that with 20% of the specs, 20% of that diversity we are
delivering more than 80% of the volumes, which means that there is huge potential to move in
the right direction with this initiative that is driven through a specific cross-functional team led by
one of our top executives.
So moving to the brands. Peugeot has done a stellar job, with a very sound pricing power.
Peugeot is now the reference brand in European market in terms of pricing power. You can see
that it has been improving since the beginning -- since 2015 and that has contributed of course to
the improvement of the margins that we have seen it before, while we are improving the pricing
power of the brand, we were able to improve the market share in six in five regions, out of six
including Europe we had an improvement of our market share with the Peugeot brand. So from
my perspective, a great job done and I'm happy for Jean Pierre Ploue, who was the former Head
of the Peugeot Brand former, Peugeot brand CEO, is now -- as you know, the Alfa Romeo Brand
CEO, and I think he is enjoying the challenge to improve our performance over there, which is
great news.
If we move to Citroen, Citroen has been stellar in terms of maintaining their pricing power and
facing of course a lot of competition from other brands, which are discounting significantly, what
they can discount. (inaudible) of course but also Citroen have been able to protect very robust
margins despite the headwinds.
And of course now Citroen is enjoying a much larger electrified portfolio, with the Citroen Ami
which is a downtime [ph] urban mobility device. The e-variation of the new C4, the C5 Aircross
Hybrid, the e-Jumpy, the e-Spacetourer and the e-Jumper, this means that progressively Citroen
is now enjoying a full electrified portfolio, which of course is going to be paramount for the future.Last but not least, I'd like to highlight the fact that the Citroen Ami is bringing to our citizens
downtime urban mobility device, which is meeting exactly what we want, which is the safe
mobility device, a clean mobility device as it is fully electric and an affordable mobility device, as
any of you can rent this Citroen Ami for less than EUR20 per month, which is I think a very
competitive pricing and I can tell you we are still making money out of this project.
In terms of premium brand for PSA, DS is our electric (inaudible) brand you see that pricing power
as also be quite stellar coming from the minus near 8% in 2015 we are now plus 3% and we are
managing this brand by the year, per unit margins. We don't care so much about the volumes, we
just care about having a sound, high quality business model with a good products and only
service to give consideration to this premium customers. So pricing is great. The market share
has been growing by 9%. One-third of our sales are now made with electrified vehicles. And if
you compare all the premium brands, which are multi-energy then you will see that DS, is the best
in terms of CO2 emissions, across all of those competitors, who are multi-energy competitors.
Moving to Opel, in Opel what is also remarkable is the fact that the pricing power has been
improving as you see, we have been improving, better than our roadmap starting with minus 6%
against the benchmark. We are now at minus 0.9% and most probably in 2021, we will be meeting
the benchmark and being at the level of the benchmark, which is of course very important to
improve the margins of the Opel brand, which are indeed improving, which is of course the
tribute to the based turnaround plan that was led by Michael Lohscheller and by a CFO named
Philippe de Rovira, at that point in time. I would like to tell you that what is demonstrating the
quality of the job done is the H2 performance of Opel.
The H2 2020 performance of Opel was no less than 5.6% of adjusted operating margin, which
demonstrates that the turnaround of Opel is structural and that is a good news for the future as
we are now bringing a brand new pipeline of products that started with the Opel Corsa, and I
would like to tell you that the Opel Corsa is now the segment leader in Germany and the number
three in the segment in the European market. This is very important demonstrates that as a sister
car from another car of our brand portfolio. Opel Corsa is demonstrating a great deal of
competitiveness and appeal and we are now launching as we speak, the new Opel Mokka that
you can see on the left hand side of this slide.
And from the order book, we have, we believe it's going to be a big success and that's good
news because after this Opel Mokka, we have a very regular pipeline with the one new product
every year. And I can tell you the pipeline that was created for Opel by Mark Adams is stellar. And
I'm very, very happy with what they have seen and I would like to thank them warmly for their skills
and for the talent in bringing back Opel to the forefront of our markets.
In terms of regions, I would like to tell you that in Europe, we were able to continue to improve
our CO2 and our CAFE for these sales in Europe through a very rigorous process. We want to
continue to improve our market share in the LEV market, which we are currently improving and we
want to continue to improve the LEV mix of sales, which is now above 9% and this is exactly what
you see here. We see that the CAFE is improving as we are increasing the LEV mix of sales.
We are doing that in a profitable manner, we are doing that in an ethical manner where we try to
bring better and better products including on the IC [ph] sales, which means that our contribution
to fixing the global warming issue is sincere and concrete. And I think this is very important for all
of us. I believe it is very important for us to tell our kids and our grandkids that we are working a
car company that is bringing its fair contribution, its fair share contribution to fixing the global
warming issue, and as you saw from our introduction everything we do is consistent with the Paris
agreement on COP21, limiting the global warming to mean 2 degrees this is the fair share thatthe societies in which you operate are expecting from us and we are proud and happy to do this
as a contribution to this global warming fixed.
If you look at the other regions and overseas we have to highlight here the stellar performance of
Middle East and Africa. As we could grow the share by 2 points, from 5.1 to 7.2 and while we grew
the share by 2 points, we could deliver in 2020 the same amount of profit as 2019, despite the
COVID. This is an outstanding performance, I would like to thank warmly the regional team and
the leadership team for this success.
I think it says a lot about the potential of development of Stellantis in Africa and Middle East, and
of course we are supporting this with all the appropriate products and sourcing as much as we
need to. On all the other regions, you see that the situation was either flat or almost flat in terms
of share, we still have our Chinese problem that we are now fixing or preparing to fix with a very
dedicated strategic test team led by one of our top executives to bring back to the executive
committee and the Board, the different possible scenarios to fix this in a meaningful way.
I just want to state here that it is the intention to stay in China and fix it. That's a very clear
position from our management team on this matter. Let me move to the LCV. LCV was again a
success story, our leadership in PSA was reinforced to 25.3% as you can see here, and we could
grow market share not only in Europe, but also in Eurasia and Middle East and Africa. But we see
that Opel Vauxhall could improve the market share by 0.4 points in Europe, and that we have now
a full e-LCV range to be offered to the market and by the end of 2021, we will have a mid-size
van with a fuel cell powertrain, which will be an important milestone in the clean mobility and the
clean utility of our LCV products.
This is on the way, we have also launched this year our brand new Peugeot Landtrek pickup one-
time pickup that will be a powerful tool to continue our offensive in Africa, Middle East, but also in
Latin America. If I move now to the mobility part of our results, I would like to use one (inaudible)
slide to show that are Free2Move mobility services continue to grow. We could growth 23% in
2020, which is important, but what is even more important is that in H2, the Free2Move mobility
services were profitable and this is a very important milestone. The fact that our teams, under
Brigitte Courtehoux leadership, have understood what is the business model, that makes mobility
services profitable is of course paramount for the future of this kind of mobility services. This is
something that we could achieve in H2. It was not a walk in the park, we tried many times, we
failed many times, but now we understand.
And that's important of course for Free2Move as much as it is for Stellantis, Free2Move is a tech-
company from PSA and it becomes a tech-company of Stellantis as you know well. In terms of
used cars, we have a very strong online growth through our affiliated ARAMIS and our profitability
was also up, which is a good news. We know that the used car market was strong during this very
volatile period and we could capture those opportunities as you can see here. In terms of
aftermarket, the independent aftermarket was -- business was growing with the Europe power
brand, and the Europe power car service network. All of this is moving, and as you can see the
revenue growth was 11% on this specific value parts that we are now setting to many of our
customers.
Last but not least, PSA Bank demonstrated a very strong and resilient performance with 70% of
loyalty on loyalty products on European new car sales and 80% of B2C penetration on BEV in H2
2020. So we say that our PSA bank is really supporting the business in a very profitable way. This
is what I wanted to share with you in terms of PSA 2020 financial results. I think they speak for
themselves. What I believe is the most important is now that we understand through what has
been presented by `Mike Manley, Chief Executive Officer of FCA and the Richard Palmer and through what has been presentedby Philippe de Rovira and myself. How did this contribute to a strong kick-off of the Stellantis
Company and I would like to start and share with you a few comments on the third part of today's
session, which is about Stellantis.
Stellantis is a new company and a new mindset company on the move to make radical choices.
Stellantis represents an open window, a breadth of fresh air in a shrinking fast moving world. And I
can tell you that the Stellantis employees perfectly understand this from all the interactions I have
had with them over the last few weeks. And I have spent significant amount of my time with our
ex-FCA teammates to make sure that everybody understands where we are going and what is
the sense of this new company creation. I think, everybody gets it, everybody understands that is
a fantastic opportunity, a breath of fresh air in a shrinking world.
So we will focus on the quality of our business model. First of all, it's all about doing the right
things, right. In a proper way, which is the opposite of quick and dirty. So we have to do things
properly, we have to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of everything we do, but it is not
only about leveraging, a clear governance, leveraging the fantastic diversity of our company,
making sure that we create a framing where our talents can unleash their full potential.
It is also about making sure that we will be making disruptive decisions, as many as necessary, to
make sure that nobody is going to corner Stellantis as a legacy car company. It is important that
we state that it's important that you understand that, there is no way we are going to accept to
be a legacy company no way. So what we are going to do is not only about demonstrating to you
that we can be very efficient and effective in everything we do. But also that we are able to make
disruptive decisions when need to be on the forefront of the new mobility that the citizens of this
planet expect from us.
So if you look at the major numbers coming from the two companies. By combining the two
companies, you can see that in 2020 we were short of six million shipments overall, slightly above
EUR134 billion of revenues. And adjusted operating income of EUR7.1 billion and adjusted
operating income margin of 5.3% coming from the combination of 4.3% on FCA and 7.1% on PSA.
And adjusted free cash flow and automotive free cash flow of EUR3.3 billion and what is of
course the most important number of this slide is the EUR17.8 billion of net financial position, with
EUR57.4 billion of available liquidity.
What does this mean? This means that FCA, PSA did their home works by completely leveraging
the power of their H2 results to create a sound financial foundation for the birth of Stellantis. And
this is of course very important for all of us, we are starting with the right foot with a strong
financial situation, that was very much higher -- much higher than what I had said at the floor. And
this is good news, which means that the team perfectly understood the great news. So we are
starting Stellantis with a sound foundation, very sound as you can see through those numbers.
And this is of course a great way to look at the potential. The potential of this group, if you look at
the H2 results, revenues over EUR80 billion margin of nearly 9% and a very stronger auto free
cash flow.
We can just consider here looking at these numbers that therefore anticipating on some of the
questions that are continuously raised that this is not a crisis merger, this is much more than that.
This is a merger that is going to open new opportunities for a company that is sound, with the
talented people. People who want to compete and people who do not want to be cornered in a
legacy position or a dinosaur position. It's very important that we all understand this moving
forward.So from here, I would like just to highlight the fact that we are going to present here the financial
reporting to all of you, I'm sure that this is important for you on -- and your understanding of what
we are doing. We will present full financial results twice a year, H1 and full year and we will present
sales and revenues only in Q1 and Q3. So that we can focus on the operations and I think that will
lead to good transparency on everything that you need to know and I think that's what you have
seen from the PSA experience will support that -- would support that.
In terms of regional breakdown, we will show you the details on four regions, North America,
South America, Europe, Middle East and Africa, which represent the biggest profits of our
company. We will group, the two Asian regions as for the time being, our business is very small in
that area, and we will give you visibility on the unique luxury brand and the business units
dedicated to the luxury brand of Maserati. This is what we intend to do. And of course we hope
that this will meet your expectations in terms of details and frequency of reporting.
If we move forward, you have here the outlook that we have come up with for the 2021 year, you
see that we see growth in North America, South America and Europe, which is good news,
because that's where we have the biggest business and the most profitable business. We see
also growth in Middle East and Africa, where we have also a strong profitability and more limited
growth in Asia. If we move towards our 2021 priorities, I'm sure that many of you are wondering
what we are going to prioritize in 2021 and I would like to spend a few minutes explaining this
slide first, we want to establish very proper governance, I already presented to you the
governance, the business governance way with the nine committees that are going to be used to
make all the decisions of the company. This has started a few days after the closing, it is moving
very well with a very good understanding from our teams that we need a very sound way of
preparing the proposals and then using the valuable time of our top executives for the listening
mode, the discussion and the decision mode on those topics.
So we have already, I think organized half a dozen of those committees, they went very well so
far, with a very good level of synthesis, very good level of business sense, a very good level of
proposals, even though some of them were challenge and there were improvements coming out
of those challenges, which is great news.
So that's what we are now doing. We have 100 days from the closing to set up the new
governance. We are ahead of this and of course any meeting I would share is only related to this
new governance way. I think it's moving fast and strong and I would like here to express my
sincere personal appreciation to Mike. Mike is helping me a lot in moving in this direction fast and
in a very professional and rigorous way. We will keep our eyes on the bow -- by making sure that
we deliver our business plans for 2021, there was a business plan by PSA and another by FCA for
2021. We have kept those business plans, of course, we will try to improve each time we can, but
we want our people to stay focused on the business to keep their eyes on the bow and not be
distracted by anything else than just moving forward and getting things done in a proper way. So
that's one of the major priorities we want to have a good result in 2021.
We have also put a strong focus and a stronger monitoring on the synergy plan, this is our
commitment to you. We created this merger because it represents north of EUR25 billion of value
creation through the implementation of the synergies that were presented which represents on a
run rate EUR5 billion per year. So we have a very detailed plan that we follow up with the specific
dedicated team that we call the synergy implementation office.
So every decision we make is facing the synergy that is expected from that decision and we are
continuously trying to improve and make sure that we deliver on our commitments and we will.
That's the third priority. The fourth priority is to make sure that we come up with a winningstrategy for China. As I said we will stay in China, we recognize that we have not been successful
so far and we are spending significant amount of time with Mike and a few other executives,
trying to understand where the things we couldn't understand. And what are the things we need
to change to become successful in this market even though we recognize that we come late
after many other people.
But that's life -- that means that we have an upside there if we do it properly this time and this is
one of the priorities for 2021 is to come up with a winning strategy for China. Last but not least,
we are now working on the strategic plan for Stellantis. We have started to set the process by
which we are going to create this plan, it has to be a strong bottom up plan which will, contributes
to setting the foundation of this in large family which means that each strategic [ph] team will be
staffed with people, with the best people coming from both families. So that we can use the
building process of this plan as a strong contributor to, setting up a sound foundation for the
future of Stellantis.
We do not forget what happened in the past with the Chrysler, Daimler, we do not forget. So we
will keep our eyes very wide open to make sure that we create in terms of management, all the
appropriate conditions, all the appropriate behaviors to make sure that the building process of
this plan is contributing to making a sound foundation for this in large family. We will of course
expect significant bottom up contribution for our young managers and our young executives.
This is going to be very important listening mode from all of us. And then possibly after the
summer break, will start converging to what would be finally, the decisions of the Executive
Committee. And I expect that I will be able to present this plan to you, which will be a long-term
strategic plan up to 2030 by the end of this year or early next year.
Please understand that Stellantis is not born from a crisis. Stellantis is born from the
understanding that the two former companies will be stronger together, then on a standing alone
basis. And therefore it is important that we do the right things in the proper way to create this
strong foundation. It is also important that we all understand that this is not about creating a
defensive plan this is not only about the implementing synergies, it will be also an offensive plan.
It will be also a disruptive plan, in a certain number of dimensions and we want this plan to be
very strong and we do not accept, I repeat we do not accept to be cornered, as a legacy car
maker. And we will have to demonstrate to you that we have this capability to be innovative, to
be disruptive in a certain number of dimensions of this plan.
But while we do this, we will protect what is best in what some would call, a legacy carmaker,
which is our enormous expertise in terms of manufacturing engineering development sales many,
many things are extremely experts like in our companies and we will protect enhance that well,
we are going to develop a more aggressive, offensive part of the plan moving forward. This is
what we intend to do. From here, what are the actions the first actions that we are going to
implement to deliver on the synergies, I will just like to give you a few examples. Of course,
everything which is about sharing assets, engineering assets, platforms modules, powertrain will
need a certain lead time, even though some of those actions are already on their way.
But what is more short-term driven for 2021 is all about best supplier price alignment, when we
compare the prices of the two companies -- former companies and we select the best and we
align on the best. It's about the leveraging our scale for everything which is related to commodity
by. Making sure that we bundle all of our needs in terms of media, media-by [ph] make sure that
we make more integration in logistics, make sure that we align on commercial policies and
reduce the distribution cost overall, given the size of our company, given the way we are
selecting the most profitable projects the highest value creation projects we believe that we willbe able to stay below 80% of R&D, CapEx against the revenue rate which from what I have seen
is, what we need to enhance the efficiency and the effectiveness of Stellantis against what was
done in the former modern companies.
If I move forward, what will be then the guidance that we want to give you today for 2021 the
guidance is that we expect to be between 5.5% and 7.5% of adjusted operating income margin,
with of course a strong caveat, which is related to the COVID-19. We cannot anticipate what are
going to be the lock down if any. We cannot anticipate what would be the restrictions on business
if any. So of course that's a factor that we cannot control and that we put aside of this, of this
guidance everything else you can see it on this slide, we have some tailwinds which come mostly
from North America.
Great new products mostly on Jeep coming in, strong pricing and mix environment are positive in
North America. We expect that there will be a non-repeat of disruptions from COVID-19, if that
was to be the case. Because of the improvement in the vaccination process, if the vaccination
process moves ahead, as it is moving for instance in North America than we expect things to go
in the better direction. We started with a very low inventory level, at the beginning of this year
and that is going to support the business moving forward.
We are keeping a certain number of cost saving initiatives from the COVID period on in 2021 and
we will start benefiting from a certain number of synergies and we have already seen that on the
first decisions we have made. On the headwinds we have basically, as you know well three big
gorillas. The number one is the raw material cost inflation which is extremely powerful, extremely
impactful and we are fighting very hard on this matter I would like to express my sincere
appreciation to all the functions in the company that are fighting against this raw material cost
inflation, which of course is analyzing the margins of our products. We are also facing a significant
shortage of semiconductors as you know well from everything I've seen so far the number of
plant closures for Stellantis is quite competitive against what they have seen from other car
companies or so far, I would say, we have been able to push back and to fight on this matter.
Hopefully, this will continue, and we are now working hard and as fast as we can while respecting
all the quality standards on finding alternative for the semiconductors that are in short supply but
this is also a very big hit to our business plan, as we all know right now. And of course, we see
that the increase in the LEV sales mix is putting pressure on the margins, because as you know
the cost of electrification is very high.
From here, I would like, just to say that this band that we are guiding you on is something that we
believe, we can deliver. But of course there is something we do not control is to which extent
things will improve in terms of health conditions in terms of COVID-19 related business disruptors,
this is something we do not control and of course we are facing the other headwinds that we
have here. So that's the guidance I wanted to share with you. Then moving to electrification, this
is to represented all the pictures of the electrified products that we have now on sale the least
we could say at Stellantis is that we are not missing electrified products this is very
representative. And on this slide, you don't have the LCVs. So you have even more than what you
see here, we expect to be fully compliant in Europe as Stellantis and we continue to work
aggressively to improve our CAFE in the US, understanding that with the new administration
things will be most probably, more demanding in the near future and we are preparing for that,
as you may expect.
And of course we have all the technologies that we need for that from the presentations that
were made before. Last but not least, I would like to talk to you a little bit about software, when I
was telling you that we do not accept to be cornered we do not accept to be legacy carmaker,we do not accept to be a dinosaur, we are now preparing for a very strong initiative in terms of
software we understand that software is core. We have counted the number of lines of coding
that we have one of our premium PHEV -- C-segment products it's around EUR80 million lines of
code
So needless to say that this is a fantastic sophistication of our products, by the way it's roughly
three times more than mid size airplane which tells a lot about the complexity of the car industry.
It's of course, important that we address the key goals that you have on the right hand side of
this slide, which is of course attractive and the fluids customer experiences of our products it's
about making sure that our products are continuously up to date through the over the year
capability, which is already a reality for the Infotainment of our cars.
It's about making sure that we scale up in the way we use the data and the way we use artificial
intelligence, it's about mostly decoupling, completely the software developments from the lead
times of the hardware which are completely different and that need that we can control over the
software in the value chain. This is what we are preparing for and of course to do this, we want to
attract the best talent in terms of software, that means that this open window to the world called
Stellantis to have a breath of fresh air will be strong a attractive point for many people because
we are at a highly diverse company. We are open-minded, we wanted to change things, we want
to do it faster. And of course, people want to achieve something in their professional life, people
want to unleash their potential. They will be attracted by Stellantis which is an open company and
open-minded company.
This is what we are preparing for and within a few weeks, our limited number of months we will
be able to explain to you a strong initiative on this matter and this is the reason why we have
assigned a top executive that will report to the CEO directly call (inaudible) who is in charge-off
preparing this strategic innovative and disruptive initiative.
This is what I wanted to share with you and from here. I would like to hand over to you for the
Q&A. Thank you for your attention.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) And the first question comes from the line of `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, JP Morgan from JP
Morgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Thanks very much. It's Jose form JP Morgan. Hello, Carlos and hello to the management team.
Just really three topics. The first one, can you talk little bit about the synergies and the synergies
on two fronts. As I think about FCAs, R&D Bill and how much of that is exposed to Europe and
how much can you reduce that R&D expenditure that is supposed to Europe, as you leverage on
the Peugeot architecture, what is the 4Q [ph] to be pleased on how much of that R&D is exposed
to Europe.
Second topic on the synergies, the engine on the powertrain opportunity, how quickly can you
share powertrain across the Peugeot, the FCA architecture in Europe, and how quickly can you
merged those engine families and then Carlos these two topics, were one was software, as you
just mentioned and the second one on the electric vehicle platform or software. Can you talk a
little bit more around who're going to be your key software partners to develop the autonomousdriving tool kit on level two and level three in the short-term in the short-term -- maybe in the
next two years.
And then on the EV architecture. You have I think it's very successful, a very having solid toolkit
with the combination of (inaudible) Saft, Punch Powertrain, on the different components of the EV
toolkit, can you move this toolkit over into North America and replicate the same strategy in
Europe as in the US or do you need a different strategy for the US market.
Thank you.
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Well, thank you, Jose. That's a lot of questions that of course need a lot of development. So I'll try
to make it as a focus as I can. And thank you for raising so many very important and interesting
questions. I'm sure for you as much as for your peers. First of all, we see with our Italian teams
enormous potential to improve fast because of course everything that we are already doing to
deliver the 9.4% operating margin by H2 of 2020 is available to FCA teammates in Europe.
So there is many things that can be used in a very efficient way, very quickly, and we have a a lot
of references, a lot of internal benchmarks on everything that we have been doing between
Peugeot, Citroen, DS but also with Opel, Vauxhall. So all of this is on the table. I see from our
Italian team is a lot of interest I would say they are really eager to Jump and see what can be
done. I know that they are doing this and by the way, I would like to thank them for being so
open-minded in terms of grasping those opportunities.
So yes, it is true that FCA Europe has a big opportunity to be using many of the assets which are
available in Europe coming from the PSA world but not only there will be also some of the assets
coming from FCA that will be used also by PSA because this is exactly what a synergy means --
synergy means that you can do things that you would not be able to do in a standalone basis and
this is going to be both ways.
And this is something that I can tell you and I think, it's going to move reasonably fast of course,
you have the lead time of new projects, which generally speaking is between two years and three
years on the existing platforms and existing powertrains but that may represent a very significant
part of the synergies. What I can tell you is that all of those topics are coming to the Governance
bodies that I am sharing and I have already -- we have already decided on many of those over
the last couple of weeks. And we do not forget you and me that the closing was on January the
16th and we are on March the 3rd. So many of those decisions are already in execution mode,
which is good news and it is also the big demonstration that our teams are eager to use those
assets and use those opportunities. It's going to be the same thing in powertrain, of course, in
terms of ICE, we do not intend to invest more, we are going to use the existing assets from both
companies and trying to leverage everything we can and use the existing capacity as much as we
can with the existing ICEs.
We have very good proposals from both families, I would say, smaller engines more from PSA,
bigger engines more from FCA, and we see that those opportunities are going to allow us not to
invest more, despite the needs and despite the new norms et cetera, which is great news in
terms of synergies, and on the powertrain, I see a lot of cross-sharing between the two families. I
also see that in terms of electrification everything we have investors in Europe is a blessing for
Stellantis, the electric motors, the dual-clutch transmission electrified, the battery packs, the
battery cells, all of this is going to be available for FCA Europe, which is I think very good news to
improve very quickly the performance of our sales. And the only thing I can anticipate is that, bychain of the electric power trains, we will be very, very happy in 2025. And by the way, that's the
decision that we have made a couple -- most of those decisions were made in 2014-2015 and the
battery cell company was decided last year as you know well.
In terms of software in autonomous vehicles. Well, we have a great deal, a great deal that was
crafted and negotiated by Mike, with Waymo, it is a great partnership between -- it was a great
partnership between FCA and Waymo and now it's a great partnership between Stellantis and
Waymo. So now we are going to execute this strategic partnership and make those autonomous
vehicles with the Waymo software technology which is the best way of course to learn is to do
things, and of course, to come up with the appropriate projects that will be announced shortly.
But see, it's very simple, to a certain extent, PSA was coming with a lot of good things, good
assets in terms of CO2 emission reduction and the FCA was coming with great things in terms of
autonomous vehicles, and now all of this is part of the assets that the family can enjoy.
For the EV architecture, we are still working on the architectures. You have seen from other PSA
presentation that we have two platforms, which are very much B and C segments dedicated
platforms. The ECMP and the EVMP, the EVMP platform is going to give us a very strong
improvement in terms of range, in terms of, I'm sure satisfaction for the customers, given the
range that will be offered because the packaging of the battery pack is absolutely efficient in the
way it is sort out in the platform layout.
Are those assets usable in U.S. With the caveat that they need to be federalized in some of their
dimensions? The answer is yes. Will we do it? We'll see. So far it's too soon to say, we still have
lot of work to do. We are now preparing for the product strategy for the next 10 years for the 14
brands of Stellantis, so I think you can imagine 10 years' time window, 14 brands, product planning
strategy, technology strategy. All of this needs to be combined. We are working very hard on that
core model strategy, of course. It's moving very well and very fast, it's still a little bit premature
for me to give you the details, but of course, one of the major drivers of this global initiative is to
make sure that they are shared assets because those shared assets are the best levers we have
to be more competitive than our peers, and at the end of the day, through our efficiency continue
to invest in our future, this is where we are today.
So can we -- could we use those assets in the U.S.? The answer is yes. As long as we federalize
what we need to federalize based on the U.S. regulations. That's my answers to your questions,
Jose. Thank you.
Next question please.
Operator
(Operator Instructions). And the next question comes from the line of `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita from
Equita. Please go ahead.
Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Analyst, Equita `
Okay, thank you. Thank you. I would try to ask just two questions. The first is on the guidance for
2021, could you elaborate a bit more on your top line in the sense you presented some indication
coming from independent sources concerning market volumes, just to have a quick comment on
the ability to outperform mix and ForEx just to have an idea. So the end of the question is $150
billion roughly is a reasonable number on what to build your adjusted EBIT guidance?
And the second is more general, in your comments, you said we are prepared for disruptive
decisions, is there any example you could provide you could you share with us?A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Those are two great questions. Thank you. I will answer the second one and then give a few
minutes to Richard to answer the first one about the top line that is supportive of the guidance
that I presented. On the disruption, one example I can give you is the recent investment we have
made in the Archer Aviation company to develop vertical flying devices for urban mobility, which is
a very different kind of mobility that we are now here facing, this is one example. We believe that
this strategic investment in Archer Aviation is going to be highly convergent with the technology
that we need for the automobile world in terms of energy management systems, in terms of
lightweight batteries and in terms of fast-charging over those batteries.
So that's a very, a clear technology convergence between aerospace and automotive and this is
why we have done this investment in the Archer Aviation a few weeks ago, because we believe
there is a value creation potential in terms of technology roadmap for the electrified components
of our powertrains, that's an example.
I don't want to give you more examples right now with my apologies, because as long as we
have not decided them yet, it is I think respectful to you and to your peers that we'll not talk
about things we have not decided to do. But what we have decided to do that I can share with
you is the fact that we are not going to be let ourselves be cornered as a dinosaur that's clear.
You see, that's something that I can easily capture from our people, from our executives. They
understand that we can be much more efficient and effective in everything we do. And the
internal benchmarking is showing that, which means that we have great potential to improve our
results, but for the purpose of making sure that in this fast-changing world, in this volatile world, in
this chaotic world, we are not going to be cornered because we would not be bold enough,
because we would not be fast enough, because we would not be innovative enough. This is
something that is coming up strong from my top executive team and I was talking to them, 300
top executives, just before this session. I think that they completely understand.
And of course there is a big question mark in the room as you know well, which is the valuation of
Tesla, which is always there somewhere and we will make sure that we compete in a way or
another. I don't know what the valuation will be, but I can tell you that we are not going to be a
legacy carmaker cornered in legacy products. This is not the intention of our top leadership team,
this is not the intention of the CEO of the company, this is something that we need to create and
of course to present to you at the appropriate time. So that's where we are on that topic and
sorry for giving you only one example at this stage. Richard, would you like to answer the
question on the top line please.
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure, Carlos. Thank you. Hi, Martino. So I think, as you saw in the second half of last year, our
revenues combined were EUR80 billion, simple math would indicate that we should be a little bit
higher than your EUR150 billion, the big unknown clearly is the impact of the chips issue,
particularly on the first half of the year. So I think a range of EUR150 billion to EUR160 billion is
probably a reasonable assumption given the volatility that we are facing both in some of our
markets and particularly because of the value about your chips in the short term.
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thank you very much Richard. Let's move to the next question. Thank you.
OperatorThe next question comes from the line of `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux from Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Thank you very much. It's Thomas at Kepler Cheuvreux. I have two questions as well please. The
first is about capital allocation. Carlos, I think you mentioned EUR17.8 billion is an important figure,
it's effectively higher than what we had in mind on cash generation, could you give us an idea of
how much net cash you think that Stellantis needs in absolute term or the proportion of group
revenues and Stellantis eventually whether the EUR1 billion dividend that you had considered after
the change in terms of the merger in September is enough or maybe could be more given the
prospect of free cash flow generation? And mention what you'd like to say on dividend policy
from here -- and you've said 8% CapEx and R&D, so that leaves a lot of room for free cash flow?
So basically an overall question on with the strong net cash position, how much do you think
Stellantis could return from here?
The second question is to come back on the synergies please. We've seen in the press several
reports suggesting that there could be first EMP vehicles from the FCA family coming as early as
mid-2022 it would be -- it would seem extremely quick compared with what you managed to
achieve with Opel, but I'd like you to comment if possible on the timing of the first vehicles
coming from Jeep or Fiat that could be shifted into this EMP vehicles in Europe to have the first
idea of the sequence for synergies? And that's it. Thank you very much.
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Well. Thank you, Tom. As always great questions not easy ones. I would like to ask Richard to
comment on the net cash position of Stellantis. I would like to say a few words about the R&D and
CapEx and the dividend policy, the dividend policy will be presented to you later on. It's not the
right timing for us to do that, the right timing right now is to close the loop on the deal that was
concluded to create Stellantis that's the sense of the dividend, the distribution that was
announced. It's to close the deal related to the merger. That's why we are proposing to the
shareholders to make that decision in terms of distribution, close the deal of the merger.
In terms of R&D and CapEx, I have presented to you the fact that I believe that we can stay below
8%. Why? Because I can see the needs coming from the brands, including the brands that have
been a little bit starved over the last few years, but I also can see the efficiencies and I believe
that Stellantis can be one of the best players in the world for the efficiencies when we are doing
sister cars from leading cars, which means that we can be very efficient in the way we build the
business plans that fly because our intra tickets and the way we have to engineer those sister
cars is very competitive. So I believe that being below 8% will demonstrate that we can from one
side be very efficient from the other side. If we have to rank the projects, we will of course cancel
the ones which have the lowest value creation ratio, which then means that it is going to improve
the overall margin, income margin rate of the company as you of course understand.
So the 8% setting comes from the efficiencies that I see both from the PSA and FCA, and I will
give you two examples. I think that PSA is coming with a very clear understanding that we can do
assist a car for a very competitive and to take it. And I think that the FCA is coming with a very
clear development process that is faster than the PSA one. So from one side, they have one
family telling me that they can do the things at a faster pace, from the other side, I have another
part of the family that is telling me that they can do it in a more efficient intra ticket. So if I
combine both, I should go fast and I should be very efficient at the end of the day, that's the
reason why we created Stellantis by the way. So I think you can easily think that within two years toreasonable given the fact that we would make top cars on existing platforms, that's something
that you can understand.
And regarding the dividend policy, we'll talk to you later in the year most probably about this. At
this stage, it's too soon for us, we have too many things on our plate. We need to set the
direction, start creating the value, discuss with our Board and then we'll come back to you, I'm
sure later in the year. Richard would you like to take the comments on the net cash position of
Stellantis please.
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. Thanks, Carlos. So Thomas couple of premises, obviously one volatile markets and
continued risks in some of the marketplaces we're operating in. Secondly, we have about EUR13
billion of maturities in the debt ladder, which we need to address in the next three years, half of
which is in 2022. So, okay we're investment-grade, we have a very I think attractive set of
(Technical Difficulty) and refinancing of debt should not be an issue, but we will -- that's the first
priority I think to do that as we look at our liquidity position.
And then secondly, think about percentages of revenues I suppose in terms of what sort of
liquidity we should be holding, I think 25% to 30% of revenues is a number, which people
considered to be reasonable range for a car company, currently with the volatility we're facing
probably on the high end of that. So I think that's the sort of target we'll be looking at in the
shorter term as we refinance the maturities and then as markets stabilize, we'll will continue to
look at that number going forward.
One fact on the EUR57 billion, the EUR57 billion of liquidity we show clearly sort of you need to be
normalized for the EUR2.9 billion extraordinary dividend we paid in January, the 0.3 that will go
out with the variety distribution, the 1 billion of a special dividend that will go out, if approved by
the EGM, sorry, the AGM. And we also have a EUR3 billion fees that expires in April. So the
number is a little bit lower normalized for those factors, but it's clearly very strong and we will
keep it very strong I think maybe for some people too strong until we have refinanced some of
the maturities that come due.
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thank you, Richard. Thank you very much for this clarification, let's move to the next question.
Thank you, Tom.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America from Bank of America. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
Yes. Thank you and -- for taking also to my question, I'll try to keep it brief. Regarding the 2021
guidance on operating margin, Carlos as we know from Peugeot, you have been always very
cautious in setting guidances, so I want to understand now the guidance that we got today is it
now different from the guidances we got in the past from you. So in other words, is that now
really a realistic guidance or you would still call this guidance cautious and in that context also, I
want to understand what amount of synergies is already baked into this guidance and what is the
counter-effect from the semiconductor shortages and the raw material inflation?Apart from that, I want to understand a little bit structural on premium cost, for example, if you
want to continue to have CDS brand next to Alfa Romeo and Maserati, it appears from the
outside that you have got now many small premium brands, but not one large premium brands.
So maybe you can expand a little bit on that? And the last one is on financial services, you want to
have set in the future again fully owned by your Group or you will continue that in your JVs? Thank
you.
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Well, those are great questions. Thank you for making those points. Are we being too cautious in
the 2021 guidance based on the -- your knowledge of your CEO? I would not make that
assumption. First, because your CEO has to learn many things and he may change. And secondly,
because when you look at the headwinds, we need to be realistic on the power of those
headwinds. And third, because some of our peers have been guiding on the lower number. So I
would like just to tell you that please be cautious on that one. This guidance, I think is a good
guidance, I think it's representative of a balance between the risks and opportunities. As you
know, one thing did not change with your CEO is that he is a competitor, he will remain so and he
will continue to compete and do his best with this team to deliver as much value as we can.
But I would not consider -- certainly not to this guidance as being cautious. I would not say that,
because the power of the raw material cost inflation, what is to come in terms of semiconductors
is very much the unknown, we are told that things will go better in the second half, I'm not sure
that will happen, because the evidence that supports that it's not so obvious. So at the end of the
day, my answer to you with all the respect is don't consider that this is a cautious guidance,
consider that it is a centered guidance, I think that's the best way to look at it. And of course you
can count on your CEO and you can count on our CFO and the top management team to fight
against the headwinds as strongly as we can. But of course, there are some of the things we
cannot always control.
The second question was about the premium brands. Your point is valid, it's also about value
creation. You see, we have three premium brands, the DS brand, French sophistication, the Lancia
brand, the Italian elegance and the Alfa Romeo brand, which is an iconic brand that needs to find
a better fit with the potential target customers. On those three brands, there is a huge amount of
synergies that our brand CEOs are now working on and this is the reason why you have seen that
for each of those brand groups, there is one synergy reference, in this case is, the Alfa Romeo
brand CEO, Jean-Philippe Imparato who is in charge of creating and executing those synergies
within the brand Group. So you can expect that those synergies between Lancia, DS and Alfa
Romeo are going to happen.
And of course that is going, to a certain extent allow, a better market coverage, idiom of the day
against another scenario which is the one that you have mentioned, and it is fair to mention that,
why don't you have only one premium brand which could be eventually your strategic thinking. So
far, we are not there, so far we believe that if we are quite strong with DS in France and
neighboring countries, if we see that Lancia has a big potential in Italy and neighboring countries,
if we see that Alfa Romeo can do a better job everywhere in the world starting with Europe and
the U.S. is because we believe that we can leverage the already visible equity value of those
brands. But your question remains valid, but for the sake of being totally transparent and honest
with you, I must say that our first direction is to give to each of those brands a car model strategy
and a chance to build the future based on the great achievements of the past, and that's why we
have assigned one brand CEO for each of those brands, and as you know, we have Beatrice
Foucher taking care of this, Jean-Philippe Imparato taking care of Alfa Romeo and Luca
Napolitano taking care of Lancia.So we are working on that and I can assure you that against having one single brand, I would say
that if we have a strong amount of synergies between the three perhaps we can enjoy the
benefit of the synergies, and at the same time, have a better market coverage perhaps this is
where now we are working on the brand strategies that we are going to be reviewing between
now and the summer break, that's what we are doing right now.
On the financials, what we are seeing is that we are enjoying. We are enjoying significant
collaboration -- positive collaboration with our banking partners on PSA as much as on the FCA. I
think that we are going to leverage on those partnerships, I believe that we will simplify what we
have today to make it more efficient and effective in each market where you operate, but of
course this is still in the make, we are still discussing and appreciating the benefits of each
scenario, but we will continue to enjoy strong partnerships with some of our current partners,
that's clear. And we'll see how we can use the potential of our partners to be more aggressive
and more impactful in some of the business areas of our global business, starting with the leasing
activity, which is I think a very important one for the future of our business. So this is right now in
the making, we will be discussing these matters from the end of this month. And I think that by
the summer, we will have a clear direction on this matter. But so far what is coming up is that we
are happy with our partners and we continue to leverage that moving forward.
Thank you for your questions. Let's move to the next one please.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. Please go
ahead.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Yeah. Thank you very much for taking my questions. So the first question I had was just around
electrification, you've been very clear in your remarks that you don't want to be seen as the
legacy car maker, but one question which frequently comes up in discussions with investors is
your relative positioning on electrification and specifically on battery electric vehicles. And on Slide
51 you do lay out your plans for high voltage variance, but don't make any distinction between
BEVs, PHEVs and range extenders. So when you consider Stellantis globally, how do you believe
your position on battery electric vehicles specifically when compared to peers five years from
today and are there any segments or regions where you believe there is a competitive gap that
needs to be addressed and how quickly can you address that?
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
This is a very, very fundamental question. Thank you for asking that. We believe that the mix of
sales within the LEV world will move very fast to pure BEVs which means that we believe that the
societies and the markets in which we operate will have the tendency to ban ICEs. That's the
reason why we have created EVMP, that's the reason why we are now working on a strong
evolution of the current CMP to simply bring what the customers expect from us, which is range
and affordability this is where we are today and the EVMP is a very good technical answer to that.
We have already presented the range more than 600 kilometers to more than 100-kilowatt hours
of energy storage with all the other attributes that you expect from a very comfortable product C
and D segment.
So we are there and we expect to compete in terms of platform capability, that this is a strength
of our families. We do not expect to be anywhere in trouble on the platform architecture and the
platform capability being all the conventional dimensions or in energy storage and we areworking very hard, not only on the energy storage but also on the energy efficiency ratio, which is
all about the electric motors, this is all about the transmissions, which is all about the
aerodynamics of our products. So it's not only one factor that is going to give you the energy
efficiency in number of miles per kilo watt hour, it's a combination of aerodynamics, weight,
efficiency ratios in electric motors, efficiency ratios in electrified transmissions, capability to store,
capability to charge and capability to use the full energy that you have stored in the battery. All of
this combined is what we are now working on to make sure that in terms of range and
affordability we are going to be meeting the expectations of our customers.
So I'm not worried about that, I'm challenging hard my engineers on this matter, and I'm pushing
them hard because I know that this is where the battle will be within the three to four years on to
which extent did we remove the range anxiety factor from the BEV world, to which extent are we
able to make that affordable in attractive packaging inside of a car.
So in a nutshell, the message I would like to convey to you is that we are full throttle on the BEV,
that's where we are. We are not thinking that we still have the PHEV or MHEV no, no. We just
believe that is going to disappear because there will be a ban on ICEs. At which speed will that
disappear in all the regions? I don't know. But for the regions that are leading the way in terms of
zero emission mobility, we are focused on the pure BEVs, that's where we put the focus and
that's where we put the most significant challenge and demand to our engineers. And I hope that
we will be able to discuss that in a couple of years and check both of us that we have done a
good job in that area. But of course that's still in the making right now.
That's my answer to your question. Thank you very much. Next question.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Alan Tovey, Analyst, The Daily Telegraph from The Daily Telegraph. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Alan Tovey, Analyst, The Daily Telegraph
Good afternoon. Somewhere on January 19, you talked about -- it would be weeks before you
made a decision on a new model for Opel. We're now at March 2nd, at the time you also said the
decision would depend on the UK government being willing to protect some sort of auto industry
in the country. Do you think government's talking about being intense discussions with the
company. What are they offering and what will it take to get Stellantis to put a new model or
electrified models into the UK or is the plant's future decided already?
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thank you for making that question. I was expecting that question sooner in the session today,
but I'm happy that you could raise it. Let me go back to the different events in the sequence of
events that happened on this topic. We were preparing after a very hard work that was done with
our team's in-house report and with the support of our local unions, we were preparing for a new
investment in-house report and it was clear in our mind what we wanted to do, precisely at the
moment where the UK government announced that they would ban the ICE powered cars by
2030. Of course, with that brutal announcement that immediately suspended the decision on
that project, which was a multi-energy project. We are not going to invest in the UK market a
product that is going to be banned from 2030 onwards. So that decision was suspended. So
once we suspended the decision as a consequence of the UK government announcement of
banning the ICE cars from 2030, then we went back and try to find a solution. Why? Because we
believe in the UK market, we have a stronger British brand called Vauxhall, we respect ourpeople, we protect our people in-house report because we have been doing difficult things with
them and we respect our union partners, who have been supportive and collaborating with us in
finding solutions.
So we figure out what was the need for those electric shared product in the UK. It happens that
those products, they already exist somewhere else, they are already planned to exist
somewhere else. So why would we double the sourcing in Europe for the same kind of products.
In this situation where we are able to meet all the requirements of the Brexit deal. Well, if there is
an intention to protect in the UK, this automotive industry, the zero emission automotive industry,
which I could understand because it's consistent with the decision to ban ICEs then of course
from a pure governance perspective, I can only double the sourcing for those products and go to
the UK, if from a governance perspective, I am supported in the investment by the UK
government and I can therefore confirm that we have good discussions with the UK government,
they are collaborative, they are productive, they are open-minded, but of course this is a
business I have a very clear governance rules in my company, I can only make decisions based on
tax and based on commitments.
So at this stage we have those good discussions. We need to make sure that we get from the UK
government the commitments on the support that we have been discussing. If those
commitments happen then good things will happen, if not, then we'll have to assess the situation.
But please understand that this is a very specific sequence, where we have clear Brexit deal rules
in terms of local components that we can respect in any way with a single Continental Europe
sourcing. And if we want to duplicate that, then we need support from the UK government, if
there is intention from the UK government to protect a local automotive industry, because those
investments are of course significant, and there is clear governance in our company where we
should not spend R&D and CapEx, if it doesn't make economical sense, which of course, I'm sure
you understand.
So at this stage what I can confirm to you is that discussions are productive, decisions are
positive. They are ongoing, but to make a decision, we need a commitment, if there is no
commitment in terms of governance of our company, we cannot decide. So when is the UK
government going to commit and how is this going to happen? This is what we need to
understand from now, but the discussions are productive, and let's see what comes up. And we
have a deep respect not only for our people, but also for our union partners and of course we
want to support our Vauxhall brand in the UK. We believe this is also somewhere something that
is part of the equity of Stellantis.
This is my answer to your question. Next question please.
Q - `Alan Tovey, Analyst, The Daily Telegraph
One more.
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
One more. The last one. Thank you.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Charles Coldicott, Analyst, Redburn from Redburn. Please go ahead.
Q - `Charles Coldicott, Analyst, Redburn `Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my questions. I've got two. First on China, so one of the things
that you need to change in order to be successful in this market and maybe you could sort of
comment on what you think is a blue sky scenario for profitability in China, is the targets become
as profitable as you are globally or could even be a premium like it is the German carmakers?
And my second question was, I noticed this and the FCA European CO2 pull, it has lowest
formally confirmed last week for 2021, can you confirm what you paid for CO2 credits in 2020
and maybe comment on what we should expect for 2021?
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thank you. Thank you for the two questions. I will let Richard answer the second question, as I'm
not sure that we can unveil to you those numbers. So Richard will tell you because he knows this
deal much better than I do. But on the first question, what I can tell you, if you ask me what do we
need to change in China? Well many, many things need to change because we see obviously that
we have many problems related to the respect of our brands. We believe that brands represent
a strong equity of the company, they have to be respected and the way to respect our brands is
to make sure that we communicate properly on our brands that you -- that we respect the pricing
power of our brands and that we do not commoditized our brands. That's obviously one of the
things we need to change. We also need to make sure that the way any strategic collaboration
with work is fluid, is focused, is purely business oriented and make sure that when we do that we
are only looking at the market and not at something else. So we need to be focused on the
market, focus on what the Chinese customers are expecting from us. And of course we need to
have the right business framing in terms of regulatory framing, in terms of CO2 performance to
make sure that we can bring the right technology in the right way. See so far our performance is
met by some of our competitors using only CBUs not even localized, which clearly demonstrates
that there is a lot of things that need to change.
I would like to stop here on this matter because it is premature for me to comment on the
different scenarios that we are now preparing for, some of them are concepts, some of them are
already under negotiation. But of course we are not going to stay still, because we have nothing
to lose as we are not happy with the results, it's only about the upside. So if you want to capture
the upside, we need to change many things and that's why we have different scenarios and that's
why it's just still premature. But as I presented to you we can commit that this new strategy will be
released within the year of 2021. This is what we can say today, and Richard would you like to
comment on the Tesla deal please.
A - `Richard Keith Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, Carlos. So Charles, we had cost of credits in 2020 of around EUR300 million for Europe,
most of which were Tesla and we have a similar number in 2021, it goes down, but not
significantly.
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director `
Thank you. Well, thank you, Richard. Thank you to all of you. I think we are over now. I think we
have dedicated hopefully enough time to your great questions. I still would like to tell you that I
very much appreciate each of your questions. I think each of them is helping us to think in a better
way. And I would like to take this opportunity to express to you all my sincere appreciation for the
support that you have all given to FCA and to PSA up to now. And I would expect that we were
meeting your expectations within the Stellantis world moving forward. I expect to see you very
soon.