Q4 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Hello, and welcome to Stellantis' Full Year 2021 Results. I will now hand over to your host, Andrea
Bandinelli, Head of Investor Relations to begin today's conference. Thank you.
`Andrea Bandinelli, Investor Relations `
Thank you, Suzan, and welcome to everyone joining us today as we review Stellantis' full year
2021 results. Earlier today, the presentation material for this call as well as the related press
release was posted under the Investors Section of Stellantis' Group website. Today, our call is
hosted by `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer, the company's Chief Executive Officer; and `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, the
company's Chief Financial Officer. After both Mr. Tavares and Mr. Palmer present, they will be
available to answer your questions.
Before we begin, I want to point out that any forward-looking statements we are -- might make
during today's call are subject to the risks and uncertainties mentioned in the Safe Harbor
statement included in -- on page two of today's presentation, and as customary, the call will be
governed by that language. Now I would like to handover to `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer, CEO of Stellantis.
`Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Andrea, and good morning, good afternoon, and good evening to you all. Welcome
to this Stellantis 2021 financial results announcement session. `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer and myself, we are
delighted to host you today and it is our privilege to present to you some highlights and a few
comments about this year's results, 2021 results. Please be aware that we really appreciate your
time. We know that your time is very valuable. And I would like to thank you accordingly for your
interest in Stellantis.
So, indeed, 2021 was a very heavy year, a year where we had to do three different kinds of
things. First one, in January 2021, we created Stellantis. We had to set up a new business
governance way with nine dedicated committees. We set up the top leadership team of this
company and we created new organizations up to CEO level minus three, with more than 2,500
new assignments in the company. So we started a very busy year in setting a brand new company
called Stellantis. That's point number one. Point number two, we had to fight all the headwindsthat you know. Mainly three. The semiconductor supply shortage, the raw material cost inflation,
and more and more stringent CO2 regulations. Those were the headwinds that we had to face.
And point number three, we spent significant amount of time working with our cross-functional
teams on the long-term initiatives that I will be presenting to you on March the 1st, meaning next
week, to describe what our long-term strategic plan is and what are the initiatives that we are
going to take over the next few years. So those three layers of activities represented for our
teams and for our employees, a very significant workload, and I would like to take this opportunity
to thank them all very sincerely, very warmly. I very much appreciate what they have done. I thank
them enormously and I congratulate them for the results that you already know. As you know, the
results for 2021 were very encouraging, with nearly the double of operating income amount, the
triple of net income compared to last year, a record operating income margin of 11.8%, and also a
quite rewarding EUR6.1 billion of positive free cash flow. Those are the results, you know them,
you have seen them in the -- in the press release.
What I would like now to do with Richard is to comment some of those results, so that you can
understand how we could as an organization come up with those numbers. So beyond the record
11.8% adjusted margin, it is fair to -- to notice that on the second half of the year, we were even
slightly better with 12.2%, which says a lot about the initiatives that were taken in the company.
Needless to say, that we were able to finish this year with a breakeven point which is below 50%,
which as you know, is a very important guideline for the way we are managing the company.
It is also important to see that the EUR6.1 billion of industrial free cash flow were significantly
supported by a very significant level of cash synergies, no less than EUR3.2 billion, which is
aligned with what we have committed to the market. Which is the fact that the merger will
generate on a run rate, EUR5 billion per year, which represents a EUR25 billion value creation as
the result of this merger. And of course, this first result of EUR3.2 billion just means that we are
going to deliver on our commitments. I hope this is not going to surprise you, because this is the
pattern of our management.
We also could demonstrate that our Low Emission Vehicle sales are growing significantly by 160%
year-over-year to reach 388,000 units in '21, and we can say that we are now moving, and
moving faster and faster on the LEV sales. Which is, of course, good news when we anticipate
what may happen very soon in the markets where we operate. We were still, and I would say
even more the leaders of the LCV market in Europe and South America, with respectively 33.7%
and 30.9% market share. We are very solid leaders and we have a very strong product plan, as
you will see later on, with perfect coverage of the market, not only on vehicles themselves but
also on powertrains.
Last but not least, as you already know, we were pleased and privileged to present to you in July,
our Electrification Day, electrification journey during the Capital Day, and in December, we could
present to you the -- the software capital. They are software plans to give you two of the most
important pillars of what will be the framing of our long-term strategic plan. Last but not least, we
have made several deals in 2021 with some highly technological partners with whom we want to
accelerate our transformation from a legacy carmaker to an automotive tech company, which is
what we are doing right now. So those are some of the highlights and again, I would like to
express to our employees, to our management team, to our top leadership team, to you, the
investors, to the media, and to the Board members, all the support we received from them over
this quite critical year, the first year of Stellantis with record results. This is what I would like you to
keep in mind.You see on this slide also that we are going to bring Maserati back to racing. It is a significant
opportunity for our company. It is the unique luxury brand of Stellantis and we are going to make
this brand, of course, electrified and bringing back Maserati to the World E Formula -- Formula E
Championship, is also meaningful of the strategic direction that we are taking for this luxury
brand. Let's move to the next one and comment on the regions. Let's start, of course, with North
America. Why, because North America is right now the most profitable region of the company
with a record 16.3% AOI margin, which says a lot about the way our North American team is
mastering the business model of North America. It is important that they take the best out of the
market conditions and this is exactly what they have been doing.
We can see it that we have been able to deliver the highest U.S. retail average transaction price
among the Detroit Three OEMs with a significant improvement of 20% year-over-year to reach
no less than $47,000 per car. Significant result that also highlights the fact that our North
American teams are mastering the business model. We have entered in at least two separate
MOUs for battery joint ventures with the Korean partners to bring to the North American market,
the appropriate level of battery supply, no less than 63 GWh by 2025. This is, as you may
imagine, strategically important to secure the profitable growth of our electrified vehicles in the
near future.
We can also demonstrate that we have been launching very successful products, starting with two
whitespace products like the Jeep Grand Cherokee, the long version, and also the Wagoneer
and Grand Wagoneer. Those are whitespace products that are very profitable. We have launched
those products and we expect that to be a significant profit contributor for our North American
operations. Our all-new Jeep Wrangler 4xe is now the number one selling PHEV in U.S. retail,
which means that the brand, the Jeep brand has been able to make the appropriate and the
right decisions on the right timing to be demonstrating our competitiveness in the market right
now with the number one selling position on the PHEV for the U.S. retail. It is important to see that
the Jeep brand is absolutely on the right tempo to serve on the successful electrified technology
of our company.
We can also see that in terms of the highly profitable pickup truck market, we have been
delivering the best ever U.S. commercial fleet market share at 18.7%, which represents an
improvement of 340 basis points year-over-year. So as you can see, North America, it is record
profitability with some significant sales and marketing successes, good strategic agreements to
support electrification in the near future, and the best average transaction pricing against the
Detroit Three in the marketplace.
If we move now to the next region, which is in large Europe, we can say that Europe has
demonstrated a very strong profitability, with no less than 9.1% AOI margin for the full year, but
also in the second half, an improvement to 9.4%. So some of the initiatives that we are taking to
improve the efficiency of the business model are now visible. We see that we are now in Europe
totally compliant in terms of CO2 on a standalone basis, meaning that Stellantis is now able to
embrace the full scope of our iconic brand portfolio while being fully compliant. And we are
delivering a good result at 110.6 grams per kilometer, which is a little bit better than what we
expected. And that's what it means, that most probably, we are in the leading pack, if not the
leader, in terms of CO2 emission reduction in European market, which is some of our DNAs.
In Eurasia, we are growing. We grew to 1.6% market share, 50 basis points year-over-year, and
I'm sure that you have some questions about that later on, so I will skip here. On the European
market, our market share was stable at 22.1%. We see that some of our western competitors
have lost market share. Some of our Asian competitors were able to gain market share. As it
regards Stellantis, we were stable at 22.1% market share, which represents the number twoposition in the European market. We also see that we have been making very significant
improvements and progress on our LEV sales mix in Europe, and we moved in one year from 9%
sales mix to 18.1% sales mix. Which means that we are moving fast and strong in our ability to sell
pure LEVs, which is good because, of course, the market one day will turn totally to the LEV
technology, which means that we are now ramping up fast and strong in Europe from 9% to 18%
LEV sales mix over the year.
Last but not least, we completely re-engineered our distribution model. In fact, we are currently
discussing with our dealer network, dealer associations, in a highly constructive, and I say -- I
would say, encouraging way to adapt our distribution model to a higher level of quality in the way
we make the customer enjoy its journey with our company and with our brands. And at the same
time, reduce the costs of distribution as we need to fund the electrification of our portfolio. So
this is for Europe. If we move now to the other regions, starting with South America, South
America is a strong winner. It is number one in Latin America for Stellantis. It is number one in
Brazil for Stellantis, it is number one in Argentina for Stellantis with respectively 22.9%, 32.0%, and
29.1% of market share.
So we are the clear leader in Latin American markets. It is -- it is good, because at the same time,
where we are leading the market and increasing our market share against last year. We have also
significantly improved the profitability, as we have now multiplied by five the amount of profit that
we could extract from the Latin American markets, with an AOI margin of 8.3% which is much,
much better than what we could experience in the past. While this was happening, Fiat was the
number-one selling brand in South America and in Brazil, enjoying, namely, the success of Strada
as a top-selling vehicle. So South America, a leader, more share, more profitability, and number-
one selling brand with Fiat, a big success.
Let's move now to Middle East and Africa. Here, we have also a very rewarding double-digit AOI
margin of 10.5%, which nearly doubled against the previous year. We have the potential to grow
market share in some markets, major markets. We -- we had some headwinds in Egypt and
Turkey, but for the other markets we could increase the market share significantly. And we are
now introducing out of Morocco, the Opel Rocks-E, which is a downtown mobility device that has
been facing big success under the Citroen brand as the Citroen Ami and the Citroen Ami Cargo,
which is the LCV variation of the Citroen Ami. We see that the production is growing, we see that
this is profitable and that we have good potential to continue to grow profitably on this
downtown mobility devices.
Last but not least, China and India and Asia Pacifics or the Asian regions, we see that the AOI
margin is also quite rewarding with north of 11% AOI margin, which combines with the net revenue
-- net revenue that is up by 24%, which is good. We see that we are now clear on the agreement
we have with GAC to create Stellantis Jeep JV that we will control in China to add to the very
profitable Jeep CBO [ph] business. Some CKD complement from this JV, and despite some --
some bumps in terms of communication, the deal is inked and we expect now that the Chinese
authorities will approve the deal so that we can go live.
And last but not least, in India we have the all-new Citroen C3 which has been developed from
India to India and to other parts of the world. It is a very cost-competitive project with a very
modern and attractive design, as you can see on this photo. We expect to launch this program
from H1 2022, and that will give the company a significant capability to bring high value and
affordable products for the overseas markets and -- and not only, of course, but mainly for those
markets. Now we have this very important tool to grow profitably on some overseas markets
moving forward. So that was for the regions.Let me now move for the brands and, of course, start with Jeep, our global SUV brand. A lot of
great things in terms of achievements for this brand. First of all, let's keep in mind that Jeep
means freedom. It is all about a very sharp positioning on the marketplace all over the world. The
pricing power is -- is fine, either better than the benchmark or very close to the benchmark. We
see that in 21, we could launch the Compass, the Renegade, and the Wrangler 4xe variations in
four regions, which means that the electrification of the Jeep brand is now a reality. It is not a
plan, it is a reality and you can see it, because if I take the example of the European market, we
have a 25% LEV mix in Europe, whereas the total sales of LEVs in Europe represent, as I said, 18%
LEV mix. So Jeep is pulling the LEV mix of Stellantis in Europe up, which is a great thing.
We see that this is a trend that we will reinforce in the near future, as it is exactly what the
customers are expecting from us. We also can notice that the Grand Cherokee has delivered the
best U.S. sales since 2000. That we are, with the Jeep brand, the SUV market leader in South
America, with 14.1% segment share in 2021, and that we could also enjoy the highest ever
Wrangler -- Jeep Wrangler sales in Middle East in '21. So you see, a lot of great achievements in
terms of sales and marketing, in terms of electrification. Needless to say, that this is a very
profitable brand. Needless to say, that the positioning of Jeep is the same all over the world
including in China, and it has demonstrated a high potential for profitable growth in our company.
If we move to the next brands, which are the American brands, while we are preparing the
rebound of Chrysler with some exciting products that we have been discussing in design studios,
we -- we noticed that the brand CEO from Chrysler has announced that the brand will be 100%
BEV from 2028. The pricing power is fine and the Pacifica is achieving the best U.S. sales on
record for this brand with a PHEV variation, which means that with the PHEV electrified variation
we are doing fine in terms of sales. Ram is a success story, a significant success story with the
best full-size pickup share ever in the United States, with an impressive 26.2% share in 2021. So it
is a growing share. It is a growing profit. The products are extremely appealing and the
customers are very excited about all the variations that we have been bringing to the
marketplace. Pricing power is ahead of the benchmark and we have with the Ram 1500, the
highest U.S. average transaction price, with a $51,000 per unit number in 2021. Which means that
we are taking the best out of the market, given the appeal and the market conditions that we
have right now.
Last but not least, the Dodge brand, very high satisfaction, with the fact that the Challenger was
the number one selling muscle car in the U.S., which means beating Ford, with 54,000 units sold
in 2021. A very nice pricing power, 7 points ahead of the benchmark, and for Charger and
Challenger, the highest ever market share, with more than 50% market share in the full-size
sedan segment in 2021. Not only those numbers are extremely rewarding, but we are very, very
excited about the electrification of the Dodge brand, which is coming up very, very nicely. And I
can tell the fans of this brand that they will enjoy even more excitement and thrilling experiences
with electrification of Dodge that will bring the American E-muscle car to the market.
If we move now to the upper mainstream brands with two European brands, our German brand
Opel delivered a market share that was up in Europe and Germany, with respectively 4.3% and
6.2% market share. It is good that we have an improving market share in the home country of the
brand, which is Germany. That demonstrates that we are properly rooted in that market. The
Mokka-e model was awarded Golden Steering Wheel in 2021, Best Car Under $25,000, which is a
tribute to the very attractive design and the performance of this car which I believe is a great
success. Pricing power is at the benchmark level and we have also to mention that in their
respective segments, Corsa was number one sales in Germany and in the U.K., with 16.5% and
15.1% segment share. Which means that the Corsa, which is, as you know well, a derivative ofgreat performance to our customers. And you can see it, as it is the number one selling -- selling
car in Germany and U.K. in its own segment, beating, of course, the equivalents of other brands
including -- including the German brands.
If we look at the Peugeot, Peugeot is also a big -- a big success, with the 208 being the number
one selling vehicle in Europe, and the 2008 the number one selling B SUV in Europe. Which
means that they are demonstrating a very nice overall package, design appeal, performance
reliability, and quality. We also see that Peugeot has now become the number one brand in
France which didn't happen for many, many years. So Peugeot is now number one in France for
this important market, for this home market. Globally worldwide, the sales were up 5%, the
pricing power is above the benchmark. And we see that the Euro30 LEV order is increasing. This
means that Peugeot very soon will have a total market share of LEV in the LEV market, which will
be above the total market share of this brand in Europe, which is rewarding. We moved from 9%
order mix to 25% order mix on the LEV for this year of 2021. So moving fast and strong on the
electrification without, of course, forgetting the very nice start of the Peugeot 308, brand new
Peugeot that is attracting a lot of customers, thanks to a very attractive and aggressive design.
If we move to the next one, and let's talk about the core brands, namely Citroen and Fiat. Citroen
has been enjoying a great success with the C segment C4 hatchback, top-selling C hatch in
France and Spain for '21, but also a very nice performance on the BEV variations, which were
multiplied by 4 year-over-year, with the e-C4 at 8.7% of its segment in terms of BEV competition.
So the e-C4 is -- is receiving a very good support from the market and from the customers. The
share in South America is up and the pricing power is above benchmark. So more to come on the
Citroen brand, but already with the C4, a big success right now.
Fiat has demonstrated a strong leadership with the three remarkable results. Market leader in
Brazil as a brand, market leader in Italy as a brand, and market leader in Turkey as a brand.
Overall number one brand in South America with 13.9% share in 2021, so great achievement from
our teams in terms of leadership for those markets. The 500e is now the number one selling BEV
in 12 countries for the A segment, so perfectly in the leading seat for the electrification of -- of
Fiat. Pricing power ahead of the benchmark. And the commitment from the brand CEO that we
would be 100% BEV portfolio by 2027 in Europe, which means that we have now in the pipe, all
the pure EV products that we need to be having a strong position in the different markets in
which the Fiat brand is operating.
If we move to the next one, we can now address the Light Commercial Vehicle business. Highly
profitable, where we are perfectly leading Europe with a 33.7% market share, and South America
with a 30.9% market share. We have sold 1.9 million cars globally, which means this is a big, big
business for our company. We are also now preparing the all-new ProMaster BEV Ram van which
will be launched in 2023, with Amazon as our first commercial customer, which means that we
were able to convince Amazon that we had the best van with the best features. Perfectly suited
for the logistic expertise that exists in -- in our customers and we are meeting those needs with a
very fine-tuned and very sharp van in this -- in this process, starting of course with the EV
powertrain that we will bring to the -- to the United States in 2023.
We have also in Europe, the number one BEV sales position on vans, which just demonstrates
that by having the EV variation on the three vans, compact, midsize, and full size, we are now
leading the market not only on total share but also on the BEV sales for electrified vans in Europe.
We could also deliver the best ever performance in terms of sales for the pickup sales, with one
more than 1 million vehicles sold in 2021. Which demonstrates that not only our vans are
extremely successful mostly in Europe, our pickup trucks are now demonstrating on compact,
again, midsize and full-size pickups, that we are extremely competitive. And by adding the vansto the pickups, we will be soon competing for the number one position in the world. It is also clear
that one of the good things that was brought by the merger is the fact that we are now
launching, and as you can see very fast, the all-new Fiat Scudo and Fiat Ulysse as a derivative of
the other vans of our company. It has been launched. It will bring even more competitiveness and
surely more profit to Stellantis.
Last but not least, in December 2021, we delivered to our first customers our mid-size van with
the Hydrogen Fuel Cell technology. It was delivered in December. We are now moving up, both in
the orders and the manufacturing capacity, and next week I will tell you more about this. But I just
want, here, to put a stake in the ground by saying that in December 2021, we started selling mid-
size vans, hydrogen powered, in the Stellantis brand portfolio. Here we have the picture for the
Opel but it also exists for other -- other brands in Europe. It is a significant technological
leadership that we are focusing on the LCVs, and I am so glad that our teams could deliver those
first vans in December 2021.
If we move ahead, we can now talk about the premium brands, saying that the Alfa Romeo brand
CEO has committed that he will be 100% BEV portfolio from 2027. And that he is now not only
fixing the business model, as he was able to bring the Alfa Romeo brand to profitability in 2021,
moving from red ink to black ink with the pricing at the benchmark level. And it is clear that the
turnaround is on track and we are now gaining a new momentum with the launch of the Alfa
Romeo Tonale. That will happen in -- in 2022, with its first electrified vehicle, which means that the
electrification journey of Alfa Romeo is just starting. Which means that we have a significant
potential to grow profitably with this brand now that the business model has been fixed.
For the Lancia brand that we are now preparing for the rebound, we can say that we will be 100%
electrified in 2024, and that from 2026, all the launches will be purely BEV. The pricing power is
minus 20% against the benchmark, which is a way to say that there is significant potential to
improve moving forward, which is great news. And this is exactly what we are going to do, and
that means that the Lancia brand will represent a significant profit driver for the company moving
forward. While we are preparing for this rebound, I think we need to congratulate the Lancia
teams for the fact that the Lancia Ypsilon is still the number one selling car in Italy in the B
segment, which is a very significant sales and marketing performance with a 6.3% share in 2021.
Last but not least, the DS brand, DS automobile, the unique French premium brand. We will make
100% percent BEV launches from 2024, is better than the benchmark in pricing power and has
the second best LEV sales mix of the premium industry with no less than the 37% mix for 2021. So
here is one of the brand that is bringing the LEV sales mix of Stellantis up with a quite impressive
37% sales mix. To finalize this part, I think we are going to comment now on the Maserati brand,
the unique luxury brand of Stellantis. The first great news is that we were able to bring the brand
back to the black with a 5% AOI margin in '21. Needless to say that our goal is to bring the
profitability of Maserati in the mid-term above 15% of AOI margin, so a significant potential to
improve. It is clear that the Maserati team has been doing a great, great job because they were
able to grow the sales by 41% to grow the market share globally in North America and in China.
And at the same time, improve the profitability, which is the perfect demonstration that they are
creating value for the company.
While we are doing this, we are putting the level of demand on quality at a very high level. We are
demonstrating that we are absolutely stiff in quality, making sure that any new model that we are
going to launch in any brand of Stellantis and specifically on Maserati, we will be meeting all the
very demanding standards, quality standards that we have in the company. This is the reason why
we decided to delay a few months the all-new Grecale, we want the car to be perfect. We have
tested the car many times, and now the car is ready and it will be unveiled in March 22, and thedeliveries will begin by mid 2022. So the all-new Grecale is of course a turning point, a
cornerstone for the Maserati brand. As I already mentioned on the opening, we will bring
Maserati to the World Formula E Championship in 2023 as a testimony of our electrification and
the fact that we love to compete on this brand, which has positioned us the Gran Turismo brand
of Stellantis.
In 2023, we will also bring the all-new GranTurismo which is right now on track. The car is
gorgeous and you will see that you will be surprised when it will come up to the market at the
moment where we will consider that the quality is top-notch, meeting all the standards and
therefore, at the right level to be enjoyed by our customers. So Maserati is the starting point of a
great story. More sales, more market share, more profit, more quality, and more competition.
This is what we are now doing and I am quite convinced that this is going to be a success story
for the future.
So those were the brands for the cars and the products. Let us now talk about the services. The
mobility business is now expanding. The good news is that the growth is there and the numbers
are black. It is important in the way we think that we grow our performance while we keep things
in the black, which is quite rare among our competitors in this kind of services. As you can see,
Free2Move is now growing by 38% while we keep the business in the black, thanks to the fact
that we are introducing more and more cities, namely in the United States, that can enjoy this
mobility service. We see that the long-term rental originations are growing, up 15%. It is also the
case on the Leasys side with an even more impressive number of 45% driven by B2C growth.
We see that the growth is there both in Free2Move and Leasys. In both cases, we are in the black
and we will keep it in the black. There is some acceleration to come in terms of electric mobility,
as you can see the mix of LEV is growing by the day, not only on Leasys -- lease sales, but also in
short and mid-term rental. It is also the case on the Leasys side, but on top of that, on the Leasys
side, we have made some acquisitions as we can see here. Easirent in the U.K. and Sadorent in
Portugal to expand our mobility ecosystem. The reason why we are aggressive on this area is
because we believe with some humility that we have found the way to keep the business
profitable, and at the same time, grow our presence, which is, from my perspective, the right way
to go. And I am very pleased with this direction and let us continue to do more of the same so
that we can enjoy a better business from this mobility services activities.
If we move now to the affiliates, three major businesses. One is the Financial Services. We were
blessed to create the Stellantis U.S. Financial Services from the acquisition of an existing entity,
and this captive is now formed. And we are moving ahead, and I think that we will start seeing the
first benefits of this strategic move from next year. So Stellantis has now a financial service in the
U.S. to support sales, which is going to be a great tool for our sales and marketing people. We
are also creating a fully dedicated multi-brand leasing company in Europe which will go live in the
beginning of 2023. There is enormous potential here compared to our peers, and this is
something that we are very excited about, trying to move as fast as we can, and we will do this in
partnership with Credit Agricole.
We have achieved while we were completely re-engineering our strategy in terms of sales
finance. We are achieving record profitability with no less than EUR662 million in '21, which is a
tribute to the expertise and the focus of our financial teams, and congratulations to them. If we
look at the pre-owned vehicle business, of course, the business model has been improving given
the market conditions. It is good that we do it. We didn't do it only on the topline, we did it also
on the costs because we could reduce the logistic cost by 40% by executing assorted number of
synergies coming out of the merger. We had a very successful IPO of the Aramis Group, with the
valuation of the company at EUR1.9 billion, knowing that our initial investment was a two-digitnumber. So a limited investment that triggers a lot of value creation over the years. So a
successful IPO of Aramis, and we will continue to expand our pre-owned car brand called
SPOTiCAR across the different countries. And here, we are now starting the operations in Turkey,
which is a significant market for us.
In the parts and service business, we could enjoy double-digit sales growth which is not very
common. Significantly fueled by the independent aftermarket business, which was up by 25%,
and by the circular economy business, which was up 40%. We could create through the merger of
three entities that we have acquired in the past, the fourth largest IAM distributor in China, with a
sales growth of 30%, and the global business is in the black. Even though it is not a big number, it
is still in the black. And we are growing as a distributor in China, which is a success of Stellantis in
China right now. And we selected Mopar as the brand to sell the OEM parts when needed to
some of our partners. So this is a significant profit provider for Stellantis, and as you can see
through the different columns here, everything was growing profitably, which is of course
contributing to the excellent results that you could see this morning.
Let us move to the next one, which is about electrification. I know that this is a topic that is very
important for you and I wanted to give you more transparency and more details about what is
going to happen in the next couple of years. First, let us just recognize that as we speak, we are
selling 34 LEVs in the markets where we operate, which include 19 BEVs. So as we speak, we are
selling 19 BEVs all over the world. 19 BEVs included in 34 LEVs. As you know, for us LEVs means
BEVs plus PHEVs. So 19 BEVs are actually and right now on sale for the different Stellantis brands.
If we look at what is going to happen this year and next year, within '22 and '23, we are going to
add to those 19 BEVs 13 additional BEVs, which means that by the end of '23, we will have 32
BEVs on sales, which means roughly one-third of the total model portfolio of Stellantis. Which is I
believe a significant achievement from our engineering, purchasing, and manufacturing teams,
and I would like to thank them and congratulate them for that.
So please keep in mind right now 19 BEVs on sales -- on sale, and for the next couple of years,
'22 and '23, we will add 13 more. And we will therefore have by the end of '23, 32 BEVs on sale.
This is what we have in our pipe. You can see through the slide the power of Stellantis with our 14
iconic house of brands. We have a very powerful capability to launch new technologies and cover
the profit pool of our markets. So please keep in mind the 32 BEVs that will be soon on sale, and
right now 19, no less than 19. This is to clarify one of the questions I got from you after the EV
Capital Day. We got the feedback that you wanted more visibility and more transparency on the
pure BEV launches. This is the answer. Hopefully, it is clear enough for all of you.
Let us move on. Let us now move to the numbers, and for the numbers, that needs a lot of rigor
and focus and I will be happily handing over to our CFO, `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer. Richard, please.
`Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you very much, Carlos. So just quickly to remind everybody, given the merger, the numbers
we will be focused on today are the pro forma numbers for 2021 and for 2020, which effectively
means that they are prepared as if the merger had occurred on January 1, 2020. So including
FCA's numbers in the 2020 comparatives, and including the first 16 days of 2021 for FCA in the
2021 numbers, all adjusted for PPA, purchase price accounting exercise. So we can move to the
next page. So here we show the main financial metrics. As we mentioned, consolidated data
shipments increased 4% to 5.9 million units, with the impact of unfilled semiconductor orders
largely offsetting the reduced impacts of COVID-19 compared to 2020. North America and
extended Europe regions were down 2% and 3% respectively, with strong growth in South
America, China, and India and Asia Pacific for Maserati, and the Middle East and Africa.All brands were up except for Dodge due to discontinued Ground Caravan and Journey, Alfa due
to brand repositioning, and discontinued -- discontinued Giulietta and Opel Vauxhall. Revenues
were up 14%, EUR152 billion, due to strong commercial performance on pricing and the product
mix. This strong commercial performance drove AOI to nearly double year-over-year to EUR18
billion, with margins at a record level compared to prior PSA or FCA performance at 11.8%.
Industrial free cash flows reached EUR6.1 billion, up 85% year-over-year due to the strong AOI
margins and to the synergies. And industrial net financial position, therefore, improved to EUR19.1
billion of net cash. Industrial liquidity at year end reached nearly EUR63 billion, of which EUR12.7
billion related to the undrawn RCF and committed credit lines. On page 20 we show the rest of
the P&L. H1 2021 included unusual charges of EUR1.1 billion due to the inventory fair value
adjustments for PPA of EUR0.5 billion, restructuring of EUR0.7 billion, and gains for resolution of
tax and asset matters in South America of EUR0.2 billion. In the full year, the unusual charges
totaled EUR2.7 billion with an additional EUR1.6 billion in H2 due to further restructuring of EUR0.3
billion, a change in accounting estimates for certain types of warranties of EUR0.7 billion, and
asset impairments of EUR0.3 billion.
Financial charges for the year were EUR746 million, up 11% versus 2020, mainly due to lower
levels of interest capitalization on investments in progress and lower yields on cash balances. Full-
year tax expense was EUR1.9 billion, with an effective tax rate of 13%, and included deferred tax
assets recognized for tax loss carry-forwards of around EUR1.4 billion. Excluding this one-off DTA
amount and some other smaller tax adjustments, the ETR normalized would have been around
23%. As a result, the net profit for the year, as Carlos mentioned, nearly tripled to EUR13.4 billion.
Turning to page 21, we show the drivers of revenue growth for the year, which drove a 14%
increase or 16% ex-negative FX impacts, mainly due to the U.S. dollar versus the euro, the real
versus the euro, and the Turkish lira. Full year volumes were up 207,000 units, driven by South
America, plus 270,000 units with China and India, Asia Pacific, EMEA and Maserati all positive,
offsetting North America down 32,000, and extended Europe down 80,000. Net pricing was
strong throughout the year with all segments positive, and North America, South America, and
the EMEA with a standout performance. Vehicle line mix was also strong and -- and driven at 65%
by North America and 30% by extended Europe.
Moving to page 22, we focus on the AOI development. As we have said, volumes were up
around 200,000 units or 4%, with significant production losses throughout the year due to chip --
chip shortages. In this context, we focused on margin maximization. The commercial teams did a
great job with the net price up of around 6.5% for the Group, and all regions positive. Vehicle line
mix was also very strong, particularly in North America, where we had key new products with the
Grand Cherokee and Grand Wagoneer and also focused production through the year on the
higher margin vehicles, in particular Ram. These top-line actions offset raw material inflation for
the year of around EUR2.25 billion euros and industrial inefficiencies due to the stop-go nature of
2021 due to chip shortages, inflationary pressure, and FX impacts, particularly in South America.
SG&A was flat, also due to synergies from indirect purchasing and media buying. R&D increased
mainly due to the launch of new products in North America, increasing the depreciation,
amortization, and increased spend for new products compared to prior year. The resulting AOI
margin at 11.8% was up 70% year-over-year. Now we move to the regional performance starting
on page 23 with North America, which had a record performance for the year, with margins at
16.3%, and H2 at 16.4%. Industry volumes reached 18 million vehicles, up 4%, and our sales were
down 3% at 2 million units, mainly due to U.S. fleet down 13% and Canadian fleet down 40%,
impacted by supply constraints and -- and the discontinuation of the Dodge Journey and Grand
Caravan.Our North America share was down from 11.8% to 11.1%, and shipments reached 1.8 million units,
down 2% year-over-year, with Dodge down 30%, Jeep down 5%, and Ram up 16%. Revenues
increased 15% to nearly EUR70 billion, with a strong increase in ATPs as mentioned earlier, driven
by net price and strong product mix from Ram volume and increased Grand Cherokee and new
Grand Wagoneer volumes. Industrial costs were negative due to raw material inflation, and
logistics and other industrial efficiencies due to the stop-go of chip shortages, increased D&A for
new product launches, and increased labor costs for variable pay due to the strong results. R&D
increase relates to amortization of program cost for the new model launches.
On page 24, we show our South America performance, where in an industry, up 14%, our sales
reached 812,000 vehicles with share up 3.8% points to 22.9%. In Brazil, our share reached 32%, in
Argentina 29%. With our overall sales up 37%, Fiat -- the Fiat brand was up 34%, Jeep 35%,
Peugeot up 56%, and Citroen up 40%. So all brands performing very positively. Shipments
increased 48% to 830,000 units, with our South America business less impacted than North
America and Europe by ship shortages -- the chip shortages. Revenues increased 71% to over
EUR10 billion, with very strong net price performance offsetting negative inflation in industrial
costs and G&A. This strong performance resulted in an AOI increasing by five-fold to EUR892
million with margins at 8.3% for the year. Enlarged Europe results are shown on page 25.
In a flat 2021 industry, Stellantis EU29 share remained at 22.1%, number two in the industry. H2
share was down compared to H1 due to continued focus on improving price mix and reduction in
total stock levels through the year of around 40%. In fact, AOI was up 76% to EUR5.4 billion, and
margins were 9.7% from 2.4% the prior year. Shipments for the year were down 3%, with
semiconductor availability impacting the four highest volume brands at similar levels, and newly
launched Opel Mokka -- Mokka, Citroen C4 and Fiat 500e performing well. Despite shipments
being down, revenues were up 5% with positive price and mix, driven in particular by increased
LEV volumes which more than doubled in the year, and by the Peugeot brand portfolio and new
model launches, as mentioned, for Citroen, Opel and Fiat.
Costs were well-managed, with raw material inflation offset by purchasing savings, and
inefficiencies due to stop-go of chip supply, offset by manufacturing actions and by reduced
compliance costs. FX was marginally positive due -- due to sterling strengthening, and other
impacts included the improvements to parts and service and used car profitability. Turning to
page 26, we review Middle East and Africa, where the region achieved double-digit margins and
AOI increased over 80% to EUR545 million for the year. The industry was up 19%, with all major
markets up strongly, with the exception of Turkey down 5%. Our regional market share was down
to 11.9% from 13.6% in the prior year, as a vehicle shortages and strong pricing actions in Turkey
impacted sales performance, which was still up 4% to 412,000 units. Consolidated shipments
were up 6% and positive pricing offset significant negative FX impacts due to the Turkish lira,
resulting in revenues up 9%.
On page 27, we move to China and India and Asia-Pacific where consolidated shipments
increased by 26%, with China up 17%, and India and Asia Pacific up 28%. Jeep brand increased
30% and represents around 50% of the 120,000 shipments. Peugeot was up also 30% to
30,000 units. Revenues increased in line with shipments to nearly EUR4 billion for the year, and
actions on mix improvement and pricing offset negative FX to improve margins to 11.1%, and
nearly double AOI to EUR442 million. Moving to Maserati on the right, Maserati sales increased
41%, as mentioned, to 24,000 units, with sales up 20% in Europe and over 40% in China and the
U.S. Improved pricing and residual values due to the refresh versions in market, as well as the
improvement in volumes at our Maserati, to close with AOI at EUR103 million and 5.1% margins.On page 28, we show the industrial free cash flow, which reached EUR6.1 billion for the year
despite the slow start in H1 due to net working capital and provisions, which closed the year at
negative EUR2.9 billion, an improvement of EUR2.8 billion compared to H1. This resulted in H2 in --
in industrial free cash flow of EUR7.2 billion. Looking at the elements of the cash flow, AOI before
D&A reached 15.7% margins, a further improvement from a strong H1 at 15.3%. CapEx and R&D
Capitalized totaled EUR10.2 billion of the EUR10.9 billion in investments, which also includes the
acquisition of the U.S. FinCo and other equity injections into joint ventures. Total CapEx and R&D
spend was EUR13 billion or 8.6% of revenues. The negative working capital is driven by lower
year-over-year payables, with November-December production of 1.04 million cars, down over
100,000 units year-over-year, partly offset by improved inventory levels.
Changes in provisions were driven down by the reduction in daily -- in dealer inventories through
the year of 390,000 units. And on page 29, you can see that reduction in inventory. We continued
to operate at historic low levels of inventory, with total inventory down 37% in the year and dealer
inventory in line with that reduction. This has allowed us to sustain sales performance by
increasing turn rates and offsetting some of the chip shortage impacts. The reduction is at similar
percentages in North America and extended Europe, and does show some increase since the
low point in September, which was due both to summer shutdown seasonality, and particularly,
bad chip shortages in the June through September period.
The last page of the financial section shows our outlook for the industry, where we see moderate
growth in our key regions, also heavily dependent on supply volatility. As regards AOI margins, we
expect to continue to operate with double-digit margins and to offset headwinds in -- in 2022,
which include continued semiconductor scarcity, supply chain constraints due to labor costs and
absenteeism, particularly in North America, and raw material inflation of around EUR4 billion year-
over-year, up from the EUR2.25 billion in 2021. Industrial free cash flow will be positive and allow
us to continue to invest 8% to 9% of revenues in CapEx and R&D to execute on the numerous
LEV and BEV launches that we mentioned earlier.
Thank you now -- thank you for listening and I will turn the call now back to Carlos.
`Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, thank you. Thank you, Richard, for this very focused explanations. To wrap up on this first
part before we go to your Q -- questions, I just would like to highlight a couple of things. First, in
2021, we were blessed by the fact that our company is enjoying a very thrilling diversity. Our
company is very diverse. As you know, historically, our company is built out of many other car
companies with different brands, different home countries, and therefore, diversity for Stellantis
is a differentiator. But more than that, diversity at Stellantis is a way to enjoy a very exciting
journey for all of us.
We see it through the immense number of resumes that we receive. We receive enormous
amount of resumes of people who want to join this -- this journey. Very surprisingly, many of those
resumes are people currently working in tech companies, and they see a breathing space. They
see opportunity to change, they see opportunity to build, and they see the opportunity to enjoy
an exciting journey as a team. This diversity has been really a very important factor of our good
results in 2021. We also see that, of course, the challenges that we have ahead, which are most
of them external challenges, can be overcome in a more efficient way if we understand the world
in which we operate in a more focused way and a more sharp way. And of course, diversity is also
very helpful to understand the world in which we are operating. That is point number one.
Point number two, we are blessed by the fact that we have a strong bottom-up support from ourtotal sense from a scale perspective, from a diversity perspective. And you can see that the very
high level of synergies that we could deliver in 2021, no less than EUR3.2 billion, is the result of a
significant bottom-up trend. Our people understand why we do this and our people are
rewarding us with many, many synergies, even though those that we could not think of during the
discussion that was done prior to the deal of the merger.
So this accelerated pace of synergies is demonstrating that we have a significant bottom-up
support, which of course is also a very important driver for the profitability, the record profitability
that could deliver in 2021. And last but not least, as we are steering the company fast and strong
towards an automotive tech company, we need to recognize that some of the key strategic
partnerships with the tech companies are going to be boosting the transformation of this
company not only on electrification but also on software. And I will be pleased to explain to you all
the details of this shift during our long-term strategic plan presentation next week. So it will come
very soon on March the 1st.
Thank you for your attention. Greatly appreciate it. And let us now go for the Q&A please.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions). The first question comes from the line of `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, J.P. Morgan from
J.P. Morgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Jose Asumendi, Analyst, J.P. Morgan `
Thank you very much, Carlos and Richard, for the presentation. Jose from J.P. Morgan. A couple
of questions please. I am trying to -- I am trying to understand the opportunity to maintain the
margins in North America at the current elevated levels. So -- so Carlos, can you comment a little
bit around the opportunity to maybe sell another 50,000 vans in North America and continue to
take market share there?
And -- and Richard, can you split please the -- the industrial costs in North America between raw
material depreciation on stop and go? Roughly how much was that across the three buckets? And
then the second question, Carlos, I would love to get some insight, please, as you think about the
business in Europe, clearly, there is -- there are two big opportunities. One, reduce the R&D
expenditure of -- of the -- of Fiat, the old Fiat brand, and second, to capitalize on the launch of
the -- of the Doblo on -- in Europe as you launch it on a Peugeot platform. Can you comment
please on those two opportunities and how can that basically help your earnings development in
2022? Thank you.
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, thank you, Jose. Thank you for your thoughtful questions as always. Let me answer first on
the U.S. situation. What we have seen in 2021 is that we are operating in the U.S. under what we
would call a pull model instead of a push model as a consequence of the semiconductor supply
shortage, as you for -- surely understand. So we could leverage this situation in a very efficient
way in terms of pricing power. While we were fighting against the costs and the inflation on the
costs, namely the raw materials, this is what we have been doing. Which means somewhere, the
operating point of the U.S. is moving upwards, better transaction pricing. And I gave you some
numbers compared to the other two Detroit competitors. And with of course a big fight on the
cost side to try to compensate for the raw material cost increase.So we are operating at the point which is quite profitable because we prioritize the most
profitable sales and the most profitable channels. And while we are doing this, we are operating
at a higher transaction price, with some kind of cost reduction that could compensate some of
the inflations that we are victims of. When we combine the two -- the two factors, at the end of
the day, we could deliver a record profitability because we were quite fast at enjoying a better
pricing while pushing back on some of the costs, and compensating with additional cost
reductions. So it's a very specific situation which we are in right now, as you can understand from
your deep experience of this market. We are enjoying a pull market rather than a push market.
The core reason of this are two. First one is that there is unbalance between the offer and the
demand, and the second one is very simply the expertise and the skills and the agility of our
North American team, which has been doing a fantastic job in terms of taking the best out of the
market. That's what I can right now tell you.
On your final question on the LCVs before I give the floor to Richard, I would say that not only we
intend to keep our leadership in LCVs in Europe, and grow our performance in the U.S., and the
deal with Amazon is very representative of how focused we are to make some of our major
customers happy with the features that we can imagine and engineer, but of course we have also
a global ambition because we are growing at a good pace. And we believe that we can do much
more on connectivity, much more on some of the features that make the logistic companies
improve their own efficiency. We can bring the zero emission mobility to those fleets, and a good
example next year is the ProMaster EV which, by the way, is leveraging the electrification that
already exists on the same van in Europe. And therefore, we can go reasonably fast.
So we will continue to work hard for our LCV business to grow not only on the vans sector in
Europe, but adding the vans and the pickups all over the world. And for that purpose, we intend
to give to our LCV business, more breathing space so that they can go faster. And I don't want to
forget a very important point, which is the fact that we are now cutting-edge -- cutting-edge
efficiency on the hydrogen version of our vans. We are, I believe, the only one that on the same
van can offer to the market diesel versions, EV versions, and fuel cell versions. Which says a lot
about the way we are implementing the technology on those vans.
All of this is going to be available for all the brands of Stellantis, regardless of the family where
they are coming from. And, of course, the efficiency that you can find in one specific brand, you
can expect that that efficiency will be expanded and made available for all the brands of our
iconic house of brands, including the model that you commented. Richard?
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Carlos. So on the industrial cost bucket, Jose, I would say that the three biggest effects --
obviously there are others that sort of offset, but the three biggest are the inflation effect which
is about EUR1.1 billion of the EUR1.7 billion. The inefficiencies on the stop-go was about EUR0.4
billion, and then extra D&A was about EUR0.2 billion for the EUR1.7 billion of impact. So, I think
clearly there is some opportunity to continue to work on the industrial cost base in North America.
As you can see, we effectively offset similar issues in Europe to zero. And I think that the team is
very focused on trying to improve that net performance in -- in North America as we go forward.
And the other point on the -- the profitability is we launched the Grand Cherokee, the new one in
H2 basically. So in 2022, we have a full year. And we launched the Grand Wagoneer and the
Wagoneer basically in Q4, so we have a full year in '22. So there is I think still some important
product news related to those launches and also the second version of the Grand Cherokee
coming in -- in 2022 as well with the 2.0. So we have I think some good product news to continueA - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Richard. Thank you, Jose. Let us go to the next question please.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Michael Foundoukidis, Analyst, ODDO from ODDO. Please go ahead.
Q - `Michael Foundoukidis, Analyst, ODDO `
Yes, hello. `Michael Foundoukidis, Analyst, ODDO from ODDO. Two questions on my side. First one on synergies.
Could you give us maybe more color on what you achieved in 2021 and what were your main
buckets? And it was excellent comps but in this context, any idea what we should expect for this
year before you let that comps kick in? The first one.
And second question mainly regarding your profitability. It was strong, of course much stronger
than what we expected, which was partly thanks to mix and price but also efficiency gains. Could
you maybe help us understand how we should look at this efficiency gains maybe between Opel,
which is probably still bringing some new synergies, FCA portfolio cleanup, and maybe the cost
measures you took at FCA level, and maybe also the old (inaudible) if possible? Thank you.
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
Two great questions. Thank you. First of all, on the synergies, I would like as always that we keep
it very transparent, with ourselves and with our investors. It is fair to say that EUR3.2 billion is a
very nice number for the first year. At the same time, I think it is important that we highlight the
fact that those were the low-hanging fruits, and therefore, by definition, the low-hanging fruits
can be captured fast and strong. I expect the pace of progress to slow down for a very simple
reason, is that the execution of the synergies is the cement of Stellantis. We want the synergies
to be a bottom-up dynamic that translates the fact that our teams understand the sense of what
we are doing with this merger. And for me, the most important thing is to make sure that the
foundation of Stellantis is sound, and is built bottom up.
And that is the reason why not only I can congratulate our teams for the excellent number for
2021, but I want to them to continue to run the show and I want them to continue to demonstrate
that there is a bottom-up dynamic that demonstrates their complete support of this merger. So I
can expect that it is going to be good. I think it is fair for all of us to consider that the pace may
slow down so that we keep it bottom up and we make sure that we have a very strong
foundation for our company. I think it is in your best interest, in my best interest, it is in our best
interest that the foundation of Stellantis is as sound as possible. And for this foundation to be
sound, it has to be driven bottom up as much as possible. Not only, of course, but needs to be
significantly bottom-up driven.
So do we have more potential? Yes. I will tell you more next week on this matter. I just want to be
very clear on the fact that in this year, we were blessed by the low-hanging fruits that we did
capture in a very strong and dynamic way. It is also somewhere the consequence of the excellent
collaboration that happened prior to the merger and prior to the closing, within the teams. The
human relationships could be built again, as I said during the presentation, enjoying the diversity
as a way to have an even more exciting and rewarding and enriching activity in the company by
working with very different people. That is what we are seeing and I think that is -- that is great for
the company and that is great for you. So I expect it to continue even though the pace may
slowdown a little bit, so that we continue to build on the strong foundation for the company.On the second topic, it is clear that in Europe, there is more potential. There is more potential in
Europe in terms of overall efficiency and effectiveness. Most probably in the area of the G&A. We
see that on the pricing power. Most of the brands have done their homework. You can see that
most of the brands are at, if not above, the benchmark in pricing power, which means that they
are the new benchmark of the market. But inside of the organization, as we have been historically
piling up many different layers of -- of different companies, different brands, it is quite clear when
you look at the numbers and when you discuss with the top executives, that there is more
potential for simplification, for diversity complexity reduction, for increasing the speed at which
we go to market. Focus more energy on quality and marketing and a little bit less in bureaucratic -
- bureaucratic work.
So there is potential in terms of G&A for Europe, there is potential to reduce diversity complexity,
and there is potential to increase speed. So all of this has been identified. We are going to
execute our plans over the next couple of years. Hopefully, we will see the results. For me, it is
premature to tell you what are the magnitudes we are shooting for. But certainly, this is the
direction in which we are currently working on this matter. Hopefully, this gives you some light on
this two -- on this two matters. Thank you. Let us move to the next question.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs from Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Yes, thanks for taking my questions. The first question was really just on -- on 2021, obviously was
an extraordinary performance and I think people would have struggled to imagine five years ago,
a scenario where you reached 16% margins in North America and 9% in Europe. Particularly when
we consider some of the assets in that base in addition to PSA. However, some investors do feel
that 2021 from an industry perspective was as good as it gets due to the price mix evolution from
the shortage of vehicles, despite the very low industry volumes.
Out of interest, would you classify 2021 as a year which was as good as it gets from an end-
market development perspective? And then the second question I had was just on your end
market prognosis for 2022, obviously, you are seeing most of your main markets growing at a
rate of around 3%. That seems a little conservative. Perhaps you could give some insight into why
only 3% and what you think presents stronger growth? And as a company, do you expect to do a
little better than 3% on your wholesales from an internal planning perspective? Thank you.
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, those are great questions. Let me try to answer. On the first one on North America, I just
would like to tell you that we are not shy of things we would like to improve, being cost, being
marketing, being quality. We have identified with the North American management team, a lot of
things we can improve, and it is a -- it is a rewarding experience, a refreshing experience to see
that there are things that we could do better. And why, because we have such a very large open
book for internal benchmarking in Stellantis that there is always somebody in the company that is
doing a better result than you are in any given part of your P&L.
So that is giving us a huge internal benchmarking lever that our top executives are aggressively
embracing to improve things in their own region or in their own brand. This has been working very
well because fortunately, we have been able to keep an open-minded attitude inside of the top
leadership team, which is only focused at improving the company and not being defensive on anykind of topic where we could find in the company a better performance. So we are not shy on the
list of things we can do better in North America.
At the same time, I think it is fair and I think you hinted that, to consider that the current conditions
in North America are very positive for the margins because we have this significant end balance
between the offer and the demand, which then creates, what we call, a pull market instead of a
push market, and we both know that those are very good conditions to improve the profitability
margins in a given market. This is a situation in which we are now, but we are not the only ones.
Our competitors are in the same -- enjoying the same position. And then you can compare, you
the investor, who is doing the better job just looking at the margins. From the metrics that they
have access to, the winner is obviously Stellantis in North America by far.
That is good for them and it is a warm congratulations to our North American team. And of
course, our strength is to be able, at the same time where we congratulate them, to be putting
our energy, our time and our focus on the things that we can do better thanks to the internal
benchmarking. So that is what I would tell to you on -- on the North American current situation.
What was the other question? I forgot.
Q - `George Galliers, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
A growth of 3%.
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
The 3%. Yes, the forecast. Well, I think we have to be very humble on the -- on the outlooks. We
are not very good at making outlooks. Historically, we see that we are often wrong. Anyway, as
you know well, right now, the size of the markets will be mostly managed by the supply of
semiconductors. So the size of the market is going to be somewhere the consequence of that
supply. So that expresses the fact that we believe that the situation is going to move in the right
direction. But we also believe that it is going to be very (Technical Difficulty), for us is, yes,
hopefully things will get a little bit better, but we believe it is going to be very slow. It will take
time and that 2022 is not going to be, from that perspective, the year where we can say we are
back to normal. We don't think that that will happen.
On top of the pure semiconductor problem, we have of course the -- the raw material cost
inflation which is going to create additional hurdles to be overcome. And of course, it is normal
that we mention geopolitics of the world, which have not been very helpful in the -- in the last
years and they don't seem to be coming better this year. So we are not at all pessimistic because
we have enough on our plate to improve the efficiency of the company, the way we have been
working intensively on the long-term strategic plan. It is very helpful to see where are the areas
and the pockets of things that we could and should be doing better. So we have tons of things
that we can improve. At the same time, we are facing the headwinds that you know. And if you
seem to consider that we are quite cautious on the outlook from our side, we would answer that
most probably it is because we see an improvement on the semiconductor supply front, but still a
very small and very low pace improvement. I think that is the best answer that we can give you on
this matter. Next question please.
Operator
The next question comes from `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux from Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go ahead.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux `Thank you very much. It is `Thomas Besson, Analyst, Kepler Cheuvreux from Kepler Cheuvreux. I have two questions please.
The first one is about cash returns. I mean, you have generated a much stronger amount of cash
than initially anticipated in 2021. You are proposing to return EUR3.3 billion via dividend, a bit less
than 25% of your -- of your earnings. Is it reasonable to think that a buyback may actually
complement dividend in the coming months if your stock price remains depressed in terms of
valuation, or is something you prefer to discuss next week?
Second, you achieved extraordinary results for 2021, but still you decided to change your
distribution agreements in Europe and tried to get, as well, new agreements with suppliers at
least in North America. Can you update us on these and -- and explain us why you are still pushing
so much for margin improvement while you are way above the competition? I know the sense of
performance is always there for you, but maybe you could explain us already what allowed
Stellantis to improve in all regions in H2, while most of your direct competitors in North America,
obviously Chinese exposure in particular, had a deterioration of their operating performance?
Thank you. What do you see maybe coming that the others may not see as well as you do?
Thanks.
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, thank you, Thomas. Great questions indeed. A couple of comments. I will give the free cash
flow question to -- to Richard, he will give you more details as it relates to dividend policy. We will
talk to you about this next week in -- in more details. It is a sensitive matter that needs some
explanations. I just want to tell you that we consider that the cash of the company is owned by the
shareholders. So either we have very strong projects to propose, and we have, as you will see
next week, and if there is availability and a strong liquidity position, which is our case, there is no
reason why we would not give the cash back to our shareholders, which I think is fair. They are the
owners of the company.
So that is how we think about things. And certainly, next week, we are going to be talking about
that, but for the free cash flow question, I will hand over to Richard. On your second question
which is about why do we keep pushing as much as we are. I think the fair answer is that I have
learned from my 40 years of automotive life that as soon as you stop pushing, you go backwards.
Because as you know well, Thomas, this is a competitive game. It is all about being better than
the other guys at the end of the day. And if you stop pushing, then you go backwards, because
the other guys are pushing. They may not be pushing as much as you are, you would never know,
but they are pushing anyway. So if you stop pushing, then you go backwards.
For us, the big gorilla in the room is the cost of electrification. That is the big, big gorilla in the
room. We can expect electrification to represent an additional total production cost of around
40% to 50% against the conventional vehicle. There is no way we can transfer 40% to 50%
additional transfer -- total production cost to the customer because if we do so, we will lose the
middle classes and our customer bases will shrink. So we cannot do that. At the same time, we
cannot keep the same pricing with that cost, because if -- of course, we will go in the red and we
will have to restructure the company.
So the only way to move forward is to absorb those 50% of additional cost. If we -- if we say that
we do it from now upto 2026, because we told you at the Capital Day that from 2026, we would
be ready to commit on a double-digit AOI margin. If we have to do it over the next few years,
then that means around 10% productivity per year for the next five years in an industry that is
used to deliver, as you know Thomas, between 2% to 3%. So how do you go from 2% to 3% per
year to 10% per year? There are not many, many different ways to go there. One of the ways is
to reduce your distribution cost, improve the quality to the final customer, improve the fact thatyou can connect with the final customer. And at the same time, while you are improving the
quality of the customer journey, you reduce the cost of distribution. It is a strong contributor for
the absorption of the electrification cost.
It is not the only lever, we have others that we can comment next -- next week, but this is to say
that one of the reasons why we didn't stop discussing with our partners about how can we
improve the quality of the customer journey, while reducing the cost of distribution, we didn't
stop and we are now progressing very well in Europe. And I believe that we will reach an
agreement that will be supportive of achieving a double-digit AOI margin in a fully electrified
world, while making sure that we do not lose the middle classes which represent a significant part
of our customer base. So that is what we are trying to do and that is why we don't stop pushing.
But you -- you know our DNA. We are competitors and we are here for the race. Thank you,
Thomas. Richard, on the free cash flow please.
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Carlos. Well, I think you have basically answered the question, I think on capital
allocation, where we are talking about it on March 1, I think on the payout of the dividend, I think
we are very satisfied with being able to propose to the Board and the Board agreed. So
therefore, obviously subject to the shareholder approval. We are pleased with the EUR3.3 billion
payout. We will look at the rounding to see if it is a precise 25.0%, Thomas, but I think it is
basically not far off. So I think we are at 25% as a first payout for Stellantis, which I think is very
respectable. And hopefully, will be seen so by shareholders and investors, and then -- then we
will move forward. But we will give you more visibility on overall thoughts on capital allocation on
March 1.
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Richard. Next question please.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies from Jefferies. Please go ahead.
Q - `Philippe Houchois, Analyst, Jefferies `
Yes. Thank you very much and good afternoon. I have got two questions please. One maybe for
Richard is, I am looking at the size of your adjustments. Now, it was EUR1.7 billion last year over
2020, EUR2.7 billion in 2021. What is the direction there? Because some of those adjustments, it is
hard to know how much there are really non-recurring, how much there are things like the price
and warranties. So I think it would be interesting to -- to get your views on where we are going in
terms of the size of adjustments and future visibility on this?
And -- and the second one -- now, thank you very much, Carlos, where you have -- I know you
have been vocal about affordability and -- but I am still looking at the cost of electrification,
definitely one, but then this year and next possibly, raw materials are going up. So logically,
nominal prices of cars are going -- have to go up if you want to maintain your margins. Interest
rates going up, real values aren't going to improve much, so they may be stable but they may
also come down. So that makes affordability with lots of multiple headwinds. So I am just
wondering what your -- and you talk about distribution but that is going to be -- it is going to take
several years. And I am curious about what you are doing with some of your suppliers where you
seem to be very, very strict about requiring that they give back to you any productivity gains. Arethere any levers or are you taking the risk that you are going to be sour with your suppliers?
Thank you.
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
I think your -- your understanding is absolutely -- is absolutely perfect on the second topic, I will
answer the second question, then leave the first one to -- to Richard. On the second one, we
have to come back to some basics that, of course, you know as good as I do. Which is the fact
that on the total production cost of an automobile today, just before you put the car on the trailer
to ship it to the dealer, 85% of the total production cars [ph] of an automobile is made out of
bought-out parts. This is the situation that has been created over the last 30 years in the
automotive industry. And of course, our suppliers could enjoy this activity for the last 30 years. It
happens that in such a cost structure, if you have 85% of the total production cost which is made
out of bought-out parts, there is no surprise.
That when you have to absorb 50% of additional costs coming out of electrification, your
suppliers need to be a significant contributor for this additional productivity, because they have
been enjoying a significant business over the last 30 years with this kind of cost structure. So, yes,
they have to contribute, and some of them are doing, some of them are contributing in a very
efficient and partnership-oriented way. What does it mean? It means that in this transformation of
the industry, it is not only about the OEMs, it is also about the supplier base. And as you know,
there is significant competition in the supplier base. And that is going to be also a very nice
Darwinian transition period for our suppliers as much as it is for the OEMs.
It means that we are in the same boat, we are in the same transformation. The speed is imposed
on us by the regulations, and of course, it means that we are going to keep what I believe is a
strong differentiator of Stellantis, and it has been formally for the two families that created
Stellantis. Which is, keeping a very low breakeven point, because if at any point in time, we cannot
generate enough productivity to absorb the additional cost of electrification and we cannot pass
everything to the consumer, but we can pass something to the consumer, perhaps that the total
markets will go slightly down. And the guys who are going to be able to manage this are the guys
who have the lowest breakeven point. And we are those guys. We will keep a very low breakeven
point because we have 30% more efficiency than our peers when we spend R&D and CapEx.
So we are more efficient, we are sharper on costs, sharper on fixed cost. We try to enjoy a strong
pricing power at benchmark level. So we keep the breakeven point very low, because in this
process of absorbing 50% of additional cost, we can contribute and we will contribute
significantly, as the OEM, we need to our suppliers to contribute. And at the end of the day, what
is left is some part of it will be transferred to the customer. It may have an impact on the size of
the market and the guys who are going to be able to digest that are the guys who have the
lowest breakeven point. And from that perspective, 2021 is very good concrete example of,
because we -- we did 6 million cars. Our potential, as you know well, is above 8 million, and we
delivered 11.8% AOI margin. North of EUR6 billion of positive free cash flow with 6 million cars in a
car company that could do more than 8 million, which demonstrates to which extent our low
breakeven point is protecting the company and protecting our investors.
And that is why some of your teammates were talking about all-weather company. Yes, to a
certain extent, Stellantis is a all-weather company, and one of the things that is I think a
differentiator is that of course we need to push, it is not always spontaneous, but to a certain
extent, this company likes change. This company likes to put itself in a dynamic of change
because we don't get bored when things are changing, and it gives us more opportunities to
grasp different business and be even more competitive vis-a-vis our peers.So your point -- your point is valid. This is going to be mostly a cost reduction race over the next
five years, to protect affordability in terms of protecting the size of the market so that we can
keep the middle classes on board on new car sales. I think it is very important not only for the car
companies but also for the social stability of the Western societies in which we operate. I think
that is very important that we protect freedom of mobility for the middle classes. This is what I
can comment to your fair question and I will give the floor to Richard for the other one.
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Carlos. Hi, Philippe. So -- well, so I think we are looking at two relatively unusual years, let
us hope. So 2020, obviously, the charges we had on unusuals were largely related to
impairments due to COVID, and issues related to some of the product that we looked at going
forward in -- largely in FCA quite frankly, in 2020. In 2021, obviously, if I look at the EUR2.7 billion,
about EUR1.5 billion are non-cash items related to PPA for EUR0.5 billion of inventory, warranty
policy alignment for EUR0.7 billion, which again is a non-cash item. We have two companies that
had different practices and from an accounting estimate point of view, we need to move forward
in a -- in a consistent manner. And then EUR0.3 billion of some impairments on some old vehicle
lines, frankly mainly from the ex-Opel side of the house as that product line-up basically comes
towards an end.
So EUR1.5 billion is non-cash charges largely related to the merger, and then we have remainder
of about EUR800 million, EUR900 million, which is restructuring in a -- in a more traditional sense
of the word, and also related to these transactions that have occurred in -- in the past for both
Ex-PSA and Ex-FCA. So I would imagine that going forward, we are likely to continue to have
some level of restructuring, going through the restructuring line of EUR0.5 billion to EUR1 billion
depending on the year in the short-term. Coming down over time, but I would not expect to have
the same level of non-cash charges that we had in 2020 for -- for some of the events there in
2021 related to the merger.
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Richard. Let us take one more question, as the time is flying. Please.
Operator
The next question comes from `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America from Bank of America. Please go ahead.
Q - `Horst Schneider, Analyst, Bank of America `
Yes, good afternoon and thanks for sneaking in also my question here. The -- the most important
one that I have, that relates to your market cap. I checked it again this morning. So in 2021, you
probably generated an adjusted EBIT similar to the one of the Volkswagen Group. Your market
cap is just 40% of the Volkswagen Group. So we see at the moment that Volkswagen Group has
embarked on -- was likely to embark on financial engineering and it is going to -- to dispose
assets. I just want to understand how you think about valuation of Stellantis and would you also
consider financial engineering measures maybe to increase the valuation of the company?
And -- and the last question that I have or second question that I have, that relates more again to
the one from (inaudible) on volumes. What would you do if transaction prices get worse in the
U.S.? If incentive is going to increase in the US, would you rather then cut back on volumes or
would you say, no, it is still a great margin, volumes are more important, we need to keep market
share? What is good for your preference? Thank you.A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, thank you. Those are really great questions. I would be pleased to answer them much more
next week than this week, of course. But I would just comment that you are possibly right, that
right now, Stellantis is cheap, it has got opportunity for the investors. Because I am absolutely
convinced that what we have at head office is very exciting and you will see it through our plan
next week. So yes, Stellantis is quite cheap. Why is that? Possibly because we have not been
good enough and I have not been good enough at communicating to you the exciting plans that
we have for the company. We have tried to correct that with the electrification Capital Day, with
the software Capital Day. We will present to you the plan in an extensive manner next week.
Hopefully, you will be convinced but surely, Stellantis deserves a much better market cap, that is
for clear.
It is a very obvious opportunity for investors. We have demonstrated that we are, in our DNA, an
all-weather company, we have demonstrated that we like change, and therefore, we are not
afraid of steering the company towards a tech mobility company in any way. We have
demonstrated that we are not afraid of new technologies, we have demonstrated that we are
able to make partnerships with tech companies at a high pace. So all of this has been done for
you, for you the investors to enjoy opportunities. Now, the decision is in your hands, not in mine.
My job is to ensure that we are creating value and that we are ensuring the sustainability of our
company through the different challenges that we have ahead, and I am absolutely convinced
that we have everything we need. I am absolutely convinced that we have a fantastic team and I
am absolutely convinced that with a very clear and rigorous governance that we have in our
company, we can ensure the proper stability for the management to execute the plans. You were
asking if we had some specific financial operations that we could do. I don't expect that to
happen in the first years of the plan, but it is still a possibility that we cannot disregard and that
we should not disregard based on the great things that we are now building.
And those great things in a few years may represent big opportunities to unleash additional value
for our shareholders, and we should not and I do not exclude that. But so far, it is not the core of
our plan. The core of our plan is to explain to you how we are steering the company towards a
tech automotive company, how we are positioning ourselves to grasp more profitable
opportunities. And I think we have, as you will see next week, tons of things that we can do, and
hopefully you will be convinced not only by the numbers, but also by the clarity of what we want
to do.
So with this, I would like to thank you all for the very thoughtful questions that you are raising
always. I would like to tell you that as the CEO of this company, I am very confident. I don't
generally speak without being grounded on realities that I can see inside of the company. So I
think that Stellantis was a great move, it is a winning move. Stellantis has a great potential and I
think it is fair to our people to say that we cannot do everything in one single year. And it is fair to
tell them that what they have already achieved on the first year through the accumulation of the
few layers that I have described, is already quite immense. So I would like to thank you, the
investors, for your trust, for your thoughtful questions. And I would like to convey to my people
my warm thanks and sincere congratulations for what they have achieved on the first year of
Stellantis. Thank you very much and see you hopefully next week. Bye-bye.
Operator
Thank you for joining today's call. You may now disconnect.