Q4 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Hello and welcome to the Stellantis Full Year 2022 Results.
I will now hand over to our host `Ed Ditmire, Head of Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations, to begin today's
conference. Thank you.
`Ed Ditmire, Head of Investor Relations `
Hello, everyone joining us today as we review Stellantis' full-year 2022 results. Earlier today, the
presentation material for this call as well as the related press release were posted under the
Investors Relation section of the Stellantis Group website. Today, our call is hosted by Carlos
Tavares, the company's Chief Executive Officer; and `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, the company's Chief
Financial Officer. After both, Mr.Tavares and Mr.Palmer present, they will be available to answer
questions. Before we begin, I want to point out that any forward-looking statements that we
might make during today's call are subject to the risks and uncertainties mentioned in the safe
harbor statement included on Page 2 of today's presentation. As customary, the call will be
governed by that language.
Now, I would like to hand the call over to `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer, CEO of Stellantis.
`Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Ed, and welcome to all of you. We really value your time and I would like to thank you
for your interest in Stellantis. Let's get started. It's an understatement to say that 2022 has been a
challenging year. It has been a year where we saw rising geopolitical tensions, regulatory chaos,
supply chain disruptions, strong inflation, and despite all of those headwinds, our company has
demonstrated once again that we are resilient, that we are an all-weather company and that we
deliver results. This is a very high level summary of 2022. I would like to express to each and
every of this Stellantis employees, my sincere and very warm consideration, my deep thanks for
what they have done for the company. They have demonstrated that they are a great team. Theyare resilient. They are focused. They have a great business sense. And here we are to celebrate
today the results they have achieved.
I would like also to express my sincere appreciation to our union partners. They have been highly
mature, having a perfect understanding of what's going on in the world, understanding that the
challenges that are in front of the company right now are external challenges, and because those
challenges are external, it's best to align internally to get things done and to execute our
strategic plan. So I would like also to express to our union partners by sincere appreciation. Last
but not least, the Stellantis Board has demonstrated a very strong support to the management
and to the employees, always with demanding questions, yet helping the company to move
forward. We are in the second year of Stellantis, so it's important that the Board is fully supporting
what we are doing, it is perfectly the case. And I would like to thank the Board for their trust and
for the autonomy and support that they have given us.
So from here, I think we can summarize many of the things we are going to explain to you with
`Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer today, by telling you that our net revenues were up 18%, our adjusted operating
income was up 29%, our AOI margin was at a record high with 13%, our net profit up 26%, our
industrial free cash flow up 78%, and our BEV sales growth rate up at 41%. It's important that we
state those simple numbers, so that we understand that we are talking about transformation at
Stellantis. We are doing it. We are now in the course of executing the transformation of the
company and the results we are achieving today for the second year of Stellantis are an
encouragement to accelerate and to go even deeper and faster in the transformation of the
company. And again, I would like to express to every and each of our employees my sincere
appreciation, they have been doing a stellar job in this second year of our start-up company.
If you look at some of the other numbers, we see that we had a very strong free cash flow with
more than EUR10 billion, EUR10.8 billion, so a very strong cash generation. We are on track to
deliver by 2030 the EUR20 billion that we have committed in the plan -- in the strategic plan. Very
nice number about cash synergies, net cash synergies at EUR7.1 billion, more than the
commitment of EUR5 billion that we were expected to deliver by 2024, which means that we are
ahead of the plan. And it's not because the CEO or the CFO has been pushing on this, it's
because it's a bottom-up contribution from our employees that perfectly understand the sense
and the need for this merger. So this merger is being a big success not because of us, but
because of our employees.
Our employees get it. They understand that we are better together than on a standalone
position. They understand that we have moved from a second league car companies to first
league mobility tech companies. They get it and they are supporting the move, which is, of
course, very reassuring for the future. We continue to execute our Dare Forward 2030. Just
taking an example of electrification, we have currently 23 electric vehicles on sale. By the end of
this year, we'll have 32, nine more. And by the end of next year, '24, we will double what we have
today as we'll be at 47 pure BEVs by the end of this year. It's also important that you realize that
the 41 sales BEV growth rate has been achieved only with European sales, which means that we
didn't even start the BEV offensive in the U.S. market, but we are going to start this year, from this
year in 2023, we introduced the Ram ProMaster EV in the U.S. market. So from this year, we start
the EV offensive in the U.S. market, and we achieved 41% sales growth in '22, mostly on the basis
of the European sales.
It is also important to recognize that we are by far the leaders of the LCV market in Europe. And
that in Europe, in the LCV BEV market, we have 42.7% of market share in the LCV BEV market. So
you see what this demonstrates is that the technology of Stellantis in terms of electrification is
very much appreciated by the consumers. We were blessed with the fact that the first productthat has been launched in the Stellantis era, the Jeep Avenger, the first-ever pure Jeep EV has
been awarded Car of the Year, which is a very strong recognition of our capability, and therefore,
it gives the team another encouragement to move fast and strong in this transformation.
If you go now to North America and have a look at the regions, you can say that North America
achieved a record margin on the full year at 16.4% AOI margin. A very impressive result in
conditions, which were not always easy, namely in terms of supply, but the team was able to
manage the business model in a very skilled way. We lost a few tenths of market share as a
consequence of supply disruptions. That is something that we recognize we can do better in
terms of supply. We are keeping a very high average transaction price, the highest among the big
three in the U.S. market, which means that the pricing power of our models is matching the
appeal of what we create, and our creative teams both from design and engineering are doing a
stellar job to make sure that the customers are willing to pay for the value that we create. And
this is measured on the average transaction price, which is the best in the market.
We are the number one U.S. PHEV sales company. We are number one in the PHEV with the
Wrangler 4xe in U.S. and Canada. And of course, we are benefiting with the RRE from a
framework that is going to support our U.S. sales. So a record profitability in North America,
growing BEV sales -- sorry, growing PHEV sales, and just introducing the BEV right now in 2023. So
more to come and more potential for profitable sales in this market. If we move to Europe.
Europe was also able to deliver a record AOI margin at 9.9%, a significant improvement against
last year, 80 basis points. We are the number two in BEV sales in the European market. Number
two, being number one in France with the Peugeot e-208, and number one in Italy with Fiat New
500. So again, our pure EV cars are appreciated and the technology is demonstrating a great
deal of maturity.
Our market share in LEV is at 15.7%, in pure BEV, our market share is at 16.2%. And we were to a
certain extent hurt by an outbound logistic problem that has been somewhere reducing our
market share in Europe. And this is one of the operational issues that we are now fixing. It's an
opportunity to do better in 2023. I believe that in the next couple of months, this will be behind
us. It has been painful. We have understood where the outbound logistic issues were. We are
addressing them, they are multiple, it's not one single reason, but we are addressing each of
them with a specific action plan. And we are still around 20% market share, even though we lost
240 basis points in 2022 on the back of this outbound logistic problem. We are now on track to
execute our new retailer distribution model. We have been having a very fruitful dialogue with our
dealer network associations.
They have understood what is at stake in terms of improving the customer centricity of our
distribution, in terms of making sure that we can keep both of our business models profitable for
the future as we are aligning the distributors and ourselves on one single thing, which is to make
the customer happy. We have also delivered on what we committed to you by being now live on
the electric motor production in our Tremery plant in France. And we are going to be live in the H1
2023 on the electric transmissions. And I would add to this that on the second half of 2023, we
will be producing battery cells in our first European gigafactory. So in 2023, our first gigafactory in
Europe in Douvrin will be operating on the de samples to validate the production and then go full
production by the beginning of next year.
So Enlarged Europe is on track to deliver its electrification plan. Enlarged Europe is highly
profitable, doing a great job in terms of BEV sales. There is potential to do better, there is
potential to go faster once we solve our outbound logistic issues and we will. And our
manufacturing footprint is now ready, not only to manufacture the electric components like the
motors and e-transmissions, but very soon to manufacture the battery cells. It's also importantthat you realize that our BEV sales growth in Europe is among the best, if not the best of the
industry, including against people that you generally consider as being the leaders on this matter.
If I now move to the rest of the world and comment three other areas of our business. We can
see that Middle East and Africa is now the most profitable region of our business at 16.7%. We
nearly doubled our profit against '21, which demonstrates that there is a significant profitable
growth potential in Middle East and Africa, and we have been making many, many decisions to
improve the sourcing in Africa for Africa and Middle East.
And the goal is very clear, we will move from 30% local sourcing to 70% local sourcing within the
course of this plan. And you have been looking at some of our decisions. If you pile up all of those
sourcing decisions and more to come, you'll see that we are going to put ourselves in a trend
where, by the end of this plan, we'll be sourcing in the region, for the region more than 70% of
the needs, which means that we are going to serve on the high-growth potential of this region
given the very good birth rate and the young population that we have over there. The market
share in Middle East and Africa improved by 20 basis points to 12%, more to come. South
America has been a success story for our company. We are by far the automotive leader in the
region, and Fiat is the leading brand. So we are keeping that leadership strong and we will
continue to reinforce that leadership, as you see the profit increased by 132% to now more than
EUR2 billion. It's significant because if I sum up those three regions here, we can tell you that we
call this the third engine, as you know very well, ex-PSA was very much dependent on Europe, ex-
FCA very much dependent on the U.S.
Stellantis has two engines, North America and Europe. And we are adding a third engine to make
sure that our business footprint is highly diverse. And what we are saying is that we are already
contributing at EUR3.8 billion, which is already a significant number. But within the next three
years, what we call the third engine, which is the combination of these three regions will be at the
same level as Europe, which means, within three years, our company will have three engines,
North America, Europe and overseas as we call the combination of these three regions. So in all
of these cases, you see that we are growing in profit. It's also the case for China and India, Asia
Pacific, profit has been improving from 11% AOI margin to 14.5%. And the amount of profit,
interesting to see that it has increased by 48%, which means, the amount of adjusted operating
income increase rates in Asia has been higher than what we have for the whole company. The
whole company is at 29%, and China and Asia Pacific are at 48% of AOI increase.
We are now successfully introducing our national sales company for CBU sales and the Jeep
direct online sales in the Chinese market, it's working very well. It's contributing to the increase of
the profitability in China. And even more important, we are now, as we speak, manufacturing the
first new Citroen C3 EV version based on the smart car platform, which is going to give us a
fantastic tool to be competitive against new entrants in the mature markets, i.e., the Chinese
entrants in the mature markets. So we have the tool with a smart car platform-based family, and
with the EV technology that we have on that platform, we have now the tool to be able to fight
on the middle of the market, if not the low end of the market in terms of profitability and cost
competitiveness, vis-a-vis the new entrants.
If we move from here to the brands, let's start with Jeep, our global SUV brand. Jeep doing a
fantastic job. The first-ever pure EV, the Jeep Avenger, as I said was awarded European Car of
the Year 2023, which demonstrates that the teams did not waste any time to bring the EV
technology to Jeep in the European market. We are now starting the sales of this product very
soon. We will bring also in '24, the all-electric Recon from Jeep, and the Wagoneer "S", a compact
Wagoneer, pure EVs that will reinforce our position, namely in the U.S. market. We have
successfully launched the Grand Cherokee 4xe and its now ramping up on the segment shareexpanding the sales of Wagoneer and Grand Wagoneer around the world, very profitable
product, very high-end product for this brand, and of course, Middle East and Africa represent a
big opportunity that we are going to grasp in 2023.
Jeep has also been the number one SUV brand in South America six years in a row, which means
that the roots of Jeep in Latin America are getting deeper and deeper, and we have to recognize
the great job that has been done by this brand. The uniqueness of Jeep is the very sharp and
very clear positioning of the brand all over the world, which captures the emotions of many of our
customers who are looking for freedom and outdoor living. And the position of Jeep is so sharp,
so unique around the world that it captures the mind and the emotions of many of our customers.
Our pricing is just fine.
If we move now to the other American brands, it's good to say that the Pacifica is still the number
one selling minivan in North America and sells are up by 11%, pricing power is fine. And
progressively, as we did at the last CES in Las Vegas, we are showing the way of what the
Chrysler rebound will be in the near future. And I think that the potential to relaunch the Chrysler
brand is getting bigger and bigger by the day. When you look at Ram, we have the all-time
highest U.S. average transaction price, that's great. It means that our customers are recognizing
the value that we create with the Ram pickup trucks. Pricing power is fine. As I said, the ProMaster
BEV is going to be launched this year in H1, and we'll start delivering those BEV vans in H2. But
more importantly, you have seen at the CES in January, the brand new 1500 BEV pickup truck
from Ram. You have seen the appeal. You have seen the fantastic creativity that our teams have
demonstrated through the different functionalities.
And you can also trust that our performance index against our competitors in terms of combining
towing, payload, speed of charging and range using those four performance KPIs, I can assure
you that we are going to have the most competitive BEV pickup truck in the U.S. market. So more
to come, stay tuned, this is going to be big news very soon. I can also tell you that when we
opened the pre-orders for the next BEV 1500 Ram pickup truck, we were sold out in three days
for the first model year. So three days to sell the whole production of the first model year of the
BEV pickup truck. If we go to Dodge, Dodge has been doing a fantastic job with the Challenger.
We are the number one selling muscle car in the U.S. for the second year in a row. Pricing power is
stellar. And we are now introducing the all-new Hornet that will start deliveries in H1 2023. So we
will reinforce the business of Dodge in this year. And I can tell you that the way we are preparing
for the e-muscle car in the future is just outstanding from every different dimension I have seen,
sound, acceleration, performance, design, connectivity, features, you name it. The e Dodge is
going to be a fantastic success in this market.
So those were the American brands. If you now go to the upper mainstream, mostly Opel,
Vauxhall and Peugeot. It's interesting to see that Opel, within the Stellantis brand portfolio, is the
fastest-growing brand in BEV sales. So the Opel global BEV sales rate increase is 52%. As you
remember, for our whole Stellantis it was 41%. Opel is on the leading edge of BEV sales, which is
fantastic. This is what we like them to do and they have been increasing this sales of BEVs year-
over-year in a significant manner. It's the only brand where the total market share in the BEV
market is higher than the total market share in the total market. So Opel is on the edge of
electrification. The Corsa continues to be a big success, number one selling car in Germany and
U.K. on B-segment Hatch. Pricing power is fine. And among the different LCV brands we have,
Opel is the number one in terms of BEV sales, number one in sales growth, number one in LCV
sales, which is demonstrating that within the Stellantis galaxy, Opel is the leading brand in terms
of electrification.At the same time, Peugeot has demonstrated a great success. The number one selling car in
EU30 for the Peugeot 208, the number one selling car on the e-208, starting with France of
course. And the pricing power is the reference of the market, growing outside of Europe. And
this BEV sales momentum will continue with five new C-segment BEVs in the next two years. So
now Peugeot is pushing very hard on the BEV sales, already number one with the e-208, but we
will continue to reinforce its leading position. If we move now to the core brands with Citroen and
Fiat, as I said, the big news is the launch of the new Citroen C3 based on the smart car platform,
sales are growing steadily in India and in Brazil. The launch has been successful. Very tight control
of quality, which is fine, and we are ramping up nicely with those products that have the capability
to fight against the newcomers.
As I said in the introduction, we are now manufacturing the EV version of the Citroen C3 right now
in India for India, but that is going to be an opportunity for other markets as need be. Pricing
power is fine. The only concept that was launched in Europe as shown the vision for the brand,
and this vision is going to translate in great new products very soon. So I can tell you that this
concept car has been extremely inspiring to show us the way to be modern, clean, affordable
and light in the way we bring zero-emission mobility to our customers. At the same time, Fiat has
been doing a great job. Fiat brand is a market leader in Brazil, in Turkey and Italy, strong market
shares as you can see. The Fiat 500e is the third most sold BEV in Europe. Number one in Italy,
number two in Spain, number three in Germany, could have been better had we had more supply.
So we were limited by the supply, but the potential of this product is much higher than number
three. Pricing power is fine.
And the brand new Fiat BEVs are now coming, they will start this year in '23. And you see now the
power of Stellantis at work. All the new BEVs from Fiat as much as we have seen the Jeep
Avenger are coming, and I can tell you that given the capability of this team to sell, I can tell you
there is a very bright future ahead given the pipeline of products that we have for this brand. So
very excited about what we are going to see. Let's conclude here with the commercial vehicles.
We continue to be the unrivaled market leader in Europe and in South America. We are growing in
Middle East and Africa with a market share of 15%. There is much more potential than that, but
we are ramping up. We are, as I said, by far the BEV market leader with 42.7% market share for
BEV sales in Europe, by far number one. Number two is very far away. We have achieved a record
Ram brand sales outside of North America, which is extremely profitable.
We have taken a stake in Symbio, waiting now for the closing, which is a company that is a leader
in hydrogen mobility, as you know. We are now producing the first mid-sized van fuel cell
powered cars and we will bring this to a high-volume plant by the beginning of next year. So we
are on our way to protect our leadership in fuel cell powertrains. And of course, we are going to
focus on the LCVs, but it's moving and it's moving fast. If we now go to the premium brands. Very,
very impressive performance from the premium brands. Their profit is up, their market share is
either up or stable, and customer satisfaction and quality are up. Our premium cluster has been
delivering very strong value. As I said, a fantastic turnaround in Alfa Romeo. We have now a very
profitable brand just by mastering the way we go to market. Highly profitable. We are now
bringing the electrified products as it should be and we will be selling only BEVs from 2027.
And Tonale has proven to be a very strong success with a very tight control of quality, which has
improved significantly. Lancia is preparing for the launch of the new models, starting in 2024, fully
electrified and full BEV from '26. Pricing power improving. Ypsilon still the number one selling car
in Italy in the B segment, which is demonstrating the very strong skills of the Lancia team in terms
of sales and marketing. As we know, this car is 12 years old, still the number one in this segment
after so many years. DS Automobile has been improving both the profitability, the share and thesignificant. Pricing power is fine. And we have just launched the new DS 3 EV with more than 400
kilometers of WLTP range using the brand new electric motor so-called M3 that we manufacture
in the French plant of Tremery.
If we move now to our unique and iconic luxury brand Maserati. The least we could say is that
Maserati is back. We have improved significantly the profitability, up 360 basis point, now
reaching 8.7% AOI margin, and more to come, of course, because we believe that Maserati
needs to be pulling the company up and not lagging behind the average profitability of the
company. So there is more on our plans. We see that we have been doing great in Europe. On
the other regions, there are some challenges that we are right now addressing. Pricing power is
fine. We are bringing back an absolute fantastic product, which is the new GT, the GranTurismo.
Not only it's an iconic car, but I can tell you as I have been driving this car for a while, the
performances are stellar, the combination of NVH, ride, handling, gear shifting, brakes,
infotainment, it's absolutely fantastic product, and we are very proud of GT as much as we are
now deploying the new Grecale all over the world and that is going to happen this year on a very
profitable product. And that will open the road for the Folgore pure BEV Grecale that will be
revealed on the second half of this year.
While we are doing this, the new MC20 Cielo has been receiving third-party accolades,
demonstrating that it's a fantastic sports car, very competitive and absolutely on the edge of the
technology of this specific segment. So ladies and gentlemen, Maserati is back. Maserati is back,
doing the right things in the right way, strong focus on quality, strong focus on pricing discipline,
making sure that we bring modernized iconic products that our customers love. And we love
when they're happy. Let's move now to our affiliates business, also a lot of great things going on.
In terms of financial services, we are ramping up in our U.S. financial services. We have now
enrolled around 90% of our U.S. dealers, and we target to cover 80% of lease volumes by the
end of Q1 2023. So our sales financial arm in the U.S. is now growing by the day. And this is going
to be very supportive of our sales, and of course, a strong profit contributor.
The pre-owned car vehicle is a success story in '22, of course, with some good market conditions.
And we are now expanding dealer online sales through Spoticar to North America this year. And
Aramis Group continues to reinforce its leadership now in Austria and Italy by some more M&A.
And we have seen that now that cash is not free anymore, some good opportunities have
appeared and we are grasping those opportunities. In terms of Circular Economy, sales are
growing by 22%. The plan is now being executed with many different business models depending
on the components that are used in this Circular Economy business. And we have been
partnering with Qinomic in the business of retrofitting LCVs to electric drivetrains.
Last but not least, parts and services, which is the biggest part of this affiliate business, has been
growing in sales on a double-digit level and we continue to optimize the costs in terms of
distribution by taking care of the warehouses and reducing the number of warehouses, while at
the same time, protecting the service rate to our dealers. So a lot of good things in the affiliate
business, strong contributor to our profitability. In terms of software strategy, the least we could
say is that everything we have told you in July 2022, in our electrification journey is now live. We
are developing the three software platforms STLA Brain, STLA SmartCockpit, STLA AutoDrive. We
are doing the job. We have now 1,500 software engineers on track to have 4,500 by 2024.
We have educated and trained 700 graduates from our Software and Data Academy, which
means we brought some conventional engineers to the software world with a very specific
training, which content is controlled by an independent advisory board to make sure that we bring
the best people to select the right topics on which we should be training our people. So this
Software and Data Academy training has demonstrated a very strong potential. And we are ontrack to deliver the size of the software engineering capability that we need given the tech
dimension of our company. We see that by the end of next year, we'll have the first physical
evidence of everything we are doing here. And at the same time, we have been expanding our
capabilities by grasping some opportunities like the acquisition of aiMotive, which will be a strong
accelerator of our ADAS developments. This has been concluded, and now aiMotive is in support
of all our software platform developments, specifically in this case on ADAS.
We have also created a business unit to take care of our data business with Mobilisights. And we
already have 13 million cars connected in operation that was by the end of '22 and we are on
track to deliver the 34 million cars connected by the end of 2030. And as you know, this is a
strong foundation for additional service-related business in the future. Needless to say that we
have been signing some very strong partnerships with the companies you see on this slide,
Amazon, Foxconn and Qualcomm. We are delighted to work with these very expert partners. I
think we are doing a good job in creating value together. We see that STLA Brain is going to be a
breakthrough in terms of performance and cost competitiveness by using the number of ECUs
per vehicle by more than 50%. We see that the net revenues of the software business is growing
by 25% in '22 against '21, on track for the EUR20 billion that we have committed to you by 2030.
So all of this is moving. So far you don't see yet the physical evidence, but it will come very soon. I
just want to be transparent with you and show you that we are doing what we told you we were
going to deliver.
If we look at the full electrification ecosystem, it's a rewarding slide, a little bit busy, but quite
rewarding. Not only we are growing our BEV sales by 41%, which I think in the automotive industry
is a very nice number, if not the best. We are currently selling 23 pure BEV models. By the end of
this year, '23, we will be at 32. By the end of next year will be doubling against '22 at 47 models
BEVs. What does it mean? It means that the execution capability of Stellantis in delivering the
ramp up of the BEV models that we bring to the market, and we told you 75-plus models by
2030, just means that we are perfectly on track. As you imagine, 47 in 2024 is absolutely the right
number to be at 75 by 2030. So the execution capability of the company is a reality. It's not a
surprise for me, but perhaps for some of you, and I just would like you to recognize this reality.
In the meanwhile, our gigafactories are on. We have selected the five sites, Douvrin,
Kaiserslautern, Termoli, Windsor and Kokomo in France, Germany, Italy, Canada and the U.S. We
have some very expert partners in addition to ACC, like LG and Samsung. You see the gigawatt
hours capacity of those plants. We are on track to be at 400 gigawatt hours by 2030. And one of
the big things that was highlighted a few months ago, which was how do we secure the raw
materials has been progressing significantly. You see here a list of five companies with which we
have signed some strategic deals. It's about securing the supply of lithium hydroxide, the supply
of manganese, sulfate, nickel and cobalt. And we have been securing the supply of those raw
materials because we don't want to run out of battery supply the day the market starts really to
achieve what we expect, it will achieve. At the same time, we continue to develop our ecosystem
of electric components. Emotors, our JV with Nidec is now live, producing the M3 electric motor
that I was mentioning, already equipping our B-segment BEVs.
E-transmission, bringing the electrified DCTs to the market this year. Factorial working on solid
state batteries for 2026, and Symbio, in which we took a stake to have access to the best fuel
cell technology on the stack. So all of this is now being set up. As you imagine, a few years ago,
nothing of this existed. So I just would like to recognize the very strong contribution from our
planning team, our purchasing team, our manufacturing team. I can tell you in the backyard, they
have been working 24/7 to get this done and it's also a demonstration that we are not talking
about transformation yet, we are doing it. Please realize we are not talking about it, we are justLet's now go to one of our most exciting products, the new all-electric Ram 1500 the REV. You
have seen it at the CES. It will come by the end of next year. A great deal of functionalities,
fantastic design, a fantastic performance in terms of combining payload, towing, speed of charge
and range. And I can tell you to a certain extent the fact that we are coming to the market after a
few of our respected competitors is something that we are fully leveraging to bring the most
competitive BEV pickup truck to the market. This is, of course, a big challenge for our North
American teams, and their talent and their focus will make the difference. And this is what we
tried to convey to you at the CES in January this year.
From here, I have concluded some of the most impactful highlights. I would like to hand over to
our CFO, `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer, that is going to give you all the necessary explanations on the numbers.
Richard, please?
`Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Carlos. So moving to Page 20. The main metrics for the financials. Our consolidated
shipments were down 2%, as mentioned, to 5.8 million units, with lower shipments in Europe,
down 8% year-over-year, partially offset by improvements in our other segments. In fact, industry
volumes in North America and Europe were down 7% and 12%, respectively or if you look at the
EU30, down 6%, which was in line with our outlook. Middle East and Africa regions were slightly
down, while the other regions saw moderate industry growth. Our combined sales were down
11% with most brands showing lower sales year-over-year. Despite consolidated shipments being
down 2%, our net revenues were up 18% at EUR180 billion. Thanks to strong discipline on pricing,
vehicle mix and positive FX translation.
Adjusted operating income was EUR23.3 billion, up 29%, with a margin of 13%. Our industrial free
cash flow, as mentioned, reached EUR10.8 billion, up 78% including the momentum of the EUR7.1
billion of net cash synergies, which exceeded our merger target two years in advance. This
further strengthened our balance sheet with our industrial net financial position increasing to
EUR25.7 billion. Liquidity was EUR61.3 billion, with a modest reduction versus prior year of EUR1.4
billion, driven by the early repayment of the EUR6.3 billion credit facility within Intesa Sanpaolo in
January of '22, the EUR3.3 billion dividend distribution in April, and EUR1.1 billion paid in the
repurchase transaction from General Motors regarding their warrants, and that was all largely
offset by the strong positive free cash flow for the year.
In terms of capital returns to shareholders, we intend to pay a EUR4.2 billion dividend, which is
EUR1.34 per share in -- following the shareholder approval and consistent with our dividend policy
objective that maintains a payout ratio of 25% of net profit. And secondly, we announced today
that we will begin a share buyback program of up to EUR1.5 billion to be executed during 2023 in
the open market. Moving to Page 21, we show the rest of the P&L. So from AOI to operating
income, we reached EUR20 billion. We incurred unusual charges of EUR3.3 billion in 2020 with
approximately EUR1.3 billion in the second half. For the full year, the accruals for restructuring
accounted for about 1/3 of that number and were primarily related to European operations.
Approximately EUR1 billion is recognized for an extension of the Takata airbags recall campaign,
primarily in Europe and North America. And another EUR0.7 billion was related to the increase in
provision for U.S. CAFE penalties that we booked in the first half related to the issuance of the
final rule by NHTSA in March.
Financial charges for the year were EUR768 million, slightly up, reflecting higher FX and hedging
costs in Argentina, and negative impacts from hyperinflation in Turkey, partially offset by
increased cash returns on our financial investments as interest rates increased. Our equity
method income was EUR0.5 billion lower this year due to the EUR300 million noncash impairmentrecognized in H1 related to the GAC-Stellantis JV exit and an estimated loss of EUR130 million as
we go through the sale of our FCA bank portfolio to Credit Agricole, which transaction will be
completed in the first half of 2023. Tax expense was up EUR790 million at EUR2.7 billion, resulting
in a 14% effective tax rate more or less aligned with the prior year. As a result, net income was like
EUR16.8 billion.
Moving to Page 22. We look at the revenue development. As was mentioned, we're up 18%. If we
take out FX translation, we're up 11%. We had a EUR2.8 billion negative impact on volumes, driven
by a 234,000 unit decrease in Europe, partially offset by cumulative 90,000 unit increase across
the other regions. Net pricing actions delivered an 8% performance gain year-over-year, or EUR12
billion, with all segments contributing positively and split relatively evenly across our three
engines, North America, extended Europe and South America, plus MEA, plus China and India and
Asia Pacific. Vehicle line mix was also positive, adding another EUR4.9 billion, coming from Europe
and North America, and in Europe in particular, partly due to a higher electrified vehicle
penetration. EUR10 billion was added due to FX translation of the stronger dollar and Brazilian
real, more than offsetting the devaluation of Turkish lira.
Completing the work, we had a positive EUR2.9 billion in the other category, primarily due to
lower volumes of sales with buyback commitments in our European business and parts and
service revenue growth. Moving to Page 23. Looking at the AOI development and we get from
our 11.8% margin last year to our 13.0% margin this year. Lower industry volumes in North America
and Europe had a negative impact of about EUR2.8 billion compared to the prior year. Net pricing
actions as mentioned in all segments led us to a EUR12.4 billion positive item. Vehicle line mix was
positive due to EUR0.8 billion in Europe, and EUR0.3 billion in South America. Those
improvements allowed us to offset the negative impact from market share losses in North
America, due to continued supply chain constraints, particularly in the second half and logistics
challenges primarily in Europe. Industrial costs were negative EUR9.1 billion, primarily driven by
increased raw material costs of EUR6.5 billion with a sequentially higher impact in H2, but roughly
in line with our full-year estimate.
We're also negatively impacted by energy cost inflation in Europe and other supply economics in
the second half. SG&A was down in Enlarged Europe by EUR0.6 billion and in North America by
EUR0.2 billion, driven by continued cost containment and simplification of the organization
structure. R&D costs were up about EUR300 million, and in the last bucket, we have an impact of
EUR3.4 billion due to the change in dealer stock levels year-over-year, which is -- which had a
significant reduction in inventories in '21 and an increase in '22, as we replenished our dealer
inventory levels, which we will look at in the further slides. Good progress on further diversifying
our profit drivers, as Carlos mentioned, with 83% of group AOI from North America and Enlarged
Europe down from 89% in 2021 as we saw higher than average growth in South America, Middle
East and Africa, China and India Pacific and Maserati.
Lastly, H2 margins were 12%, down 210 basis points versus H1. This reduction was driven by a
reduction in North America margins, as well as European margins and South America. In both
North America and Enlarged Europe, sequential pricing was still positive, but was offset by the
negative volumes and higher sequential industrial costs, which caught up with the price increases
we had taken earlier in the cycle. Moving to Page 24. We start with the regions, North America.
North America had a very strong year reaching 16.4% margins with both increases in the top line
and in marginality. The industry was down more than 7% with our sales down 11% as commented
earlier, with Jeep down 11% and Ram down 13%. Consolidated shipments nonetheless were up
2% year-over-year to 1.9 million units as dealer inventory levels recovered from the especially low
levels of 2021.We had a substantial improvement in our net revenues, up 23% due to the impacts of a strong
net pricing, positive vehicle mix due to increased Grand Wagoneer and Wagoneer volumes and
the transition to the new Grand Cherokee from the prior version as well as approximately EUR9
billion of favorable FX translation. In terms of profitability, increased raw materials, components
and logistics costs were more than offset through net pricing and mix improvements, leading to a
record EUR14 billion AOI and 16.4% margin. It's important to note that the second half was more
impacted by supply constraints with shipments down sequentially 57,000 units and industrial
impacts more negative than H1 due to raw materials, manufacturing performance and other
inflation effects from direct materials and logistics. However, with continued strong net pricing, we
posted a strong 14.7% H2 margin.
Moving to the next page, we look at Enlarged Europe. We were impacted in the region by
continued unfilled semiconductor orders as well as outbound logistics challenges in the second
half of the year, leading to market share losses in EU30, down 3 points sequentially to 18.2% for
the second half. Our teams are continuously working to resolve these challenges. With respect to
logistics, we have secured additional capacities and continue to strengthen our mid and long-
term partnerships with third-party transportation customers, while at the same time, improving
our fulfillment processes. Despite lower shipments, down 234,000 units or 8%, we were able to
increase our net revenues by 7% to EUR63.3 billion through net pricing actions, up 7% and
favorable vehicle mix supported by our renewed and electrified line-up. We also benefited from
the successful launch of the Alfa Romeo Tonale, which represented more than half of the
volumes for Alfa Romeo in H2.
Thanks to this performance on the top line and positive effects from cost containment actions
and used car profitability, we were able to more than offset the negative impact of industrial
costs, of which EUR2.9 billion came from raw materials and EUR0.9 billion from energy inflation,
with the remaining primarily related to component and logistic cost increases. AOI margin closed
just below the double-digit mark at 9.9% for the full year, an outstanding result achieved just two
years after the merger and boding well for the future profitability in the region. Sequential
margins were down from the 10.4% in H1, due to higher -- due to volumes down 98,000 units
and industrial costs increasing due to raw materials and other inflation on components, logistics
and energy.
Moving to Middle East and Africa on Page 26. The region doubled its adjusted operating income
to EUR1.1 billion, continuing the trend from 2021, which was up over 80%. Despite industry sales
declining 1%, our market share improved 20 basis points, thanks to growth in sales for Opel, Fiat
and Ram. Consolidated shipments were up 4% to 283,000 units, mainly due to higher shipments
for Opel models such as Mokka, Corsa and Crossland X. Net revenues were up 24% at EUR6.5
billion with net pricing actions and market mix more than offsetting the negative impact from the
Turkish lira devaluation. Standout profitability of 17.8% AOI margin was achieved in H2,
representing a 230 basis point sequential improvement and leading to a full-year margin of
16.7%, further underpinning our view of the bright prospects for this region.
Moving to Page 27. We look at South America where the team also achieved significant growth in
AOI, up 130% in 2022, following a five-fold improvement in 2021. We reinforced our leading
position in the region and its key markets with market shares in Brazil, Argentina and Chile
standing at around 33%, 31% and 11%, respectively. In addition to the Fiat and Jeep brands
leadership, we also benefited from the success of Peugeot and Ram brands, which improved
their shares in the region by 60 basis points and 20 basis points, respectively. Consolidated
shipments were up 3%, 859,000 units, primarily due to strong demand for three of all our all-new
locally produced vehicles, the Fiat Pulse, the Jeep Commander and the Citroen C3, as well asNet revenues increased by 46% to EUR15.6 billion, supported by strong net pricing and vehicle
mix as well as FX translation. Our strong commercial performance in the region allowed us to
offset EUR1 billion of additional industrial costs, including EUR0.8 billion for raw materials, leading
to more than EUR2 billion AOI, more than doubling from last year. Margins were strong at 13.1%,
up from 8.3% last year. Moving to Page 28. We look at China and India and Asia Pacific and
Maserati. Strong net pricing in China and India, Asia Pacific was the main driver for the 48%
increase in adjusted operating income, along with favorable vehicle mix, mostly due to higher
volumes for Jeep Grand Cherokee L, Meridian and Ram 1500. Our net pricing efforts throughout
the year helped us to reach a 15.5% AOI margin in the second half of the year, up 210 basis points
versus H1 and bringing the full-year margin to 14.5%.
Also great steps forward for Maserati, achieving double-digit AOI H2 at 10.1%. For the year, AOI
almost doubled to EUR200 million, thanks to favorable net pricing and vehicle mix due to the
success of the MC20 and the all-new Grecale. Moving to our cash flow on Page 29. Cash flow was
up 78% to EUR10.8 billion, as we mentioned, with a strong contribution from EUR7.1 billion of net
cash synergies. Our EBITDA margin was at 16.7% for the year, 1 point better than last year and
both an additional EUR6.1 billion of profitability year-over-year. CapEx and capitalized R&D were
EUR1.7 billion lower, primarily due to timing and synergy realizations, which were around EUR4
billion in the year. Adding expensed R&D, total CapEx and R&D spending represented about
6.6% of 2022 net revenues, down from last year at 8.6%. We expect the percentage to be back
at around 8% of revenues in 2023.
We also had a EUR4.8 billion negative impact from the change in net working capital due to a
134,000 increase in company vehicle inventories and increased trade receivables mainly due to a
reduction in the level of factoring, partially offset by higher trade payables. Negative working
capital balance was reduced from EUR13.8 billion to EUR9.4 billion due to the reduced factoring
and increased vehicle inventory. Moving to the vehicle inventory on Page 30. As we've talked
about, we continue to face outbound logistics challenges primarily in Europe, which impacted
vehicle deliveries to our dealers and customers, particularly in the second half. Since the end of
Q3, we reduced our company-owned inventory from 275,000 to 230,000 units, with dealer
inventories increasing from 651,000 to 844,000 units. We expect the situation in Europe to
continue to improve through the first half of this year with a substantial improvement in Q1.
Moving to our industry outlook and guidance on Page 31. We see moderate growth in all regions,
even if the backdrop continues to be volatile. With regards to our guidance, we expect to
continue to operate with double-digit AOI margins in 2023, leveraging our strong momentum
and operating efficiencies gained over the past two years to offset headwinds, which include
improving, but still disruptive semiconductor availability, supply chain and logistics constraints,
especially in H1 as well as higher energy and labor costs. As mentioned earlier, in 2022, we
incurred total industrial cost inflation items of around EUR9.5 billion, of which EUR6.5 billion were
raw materials, which we more than offset with strong positive pricing. In 2023, we expect a much
lower raw material impact, in particular due to more favorable steel price.
Carryover pricing will be a tailwind, but we do not envisage further price increases at the level
seen in the last two years. We will continue to maintain strict pricing discipline. Opportunities for
industrial efficiencies need to be addressed as the supply situation continues to slowly improve
and the outbound logistics issues are resolved. Industrial free cash flows will be positive with
increased investments in CapEx and R&D, plus higher levels of investment in battery JVs and
associated supply chain, offset by improving working capital compared to 2022.
Thank you for your attention. I now hand back to Carlos.`Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, thank you. Thank you, Richard, for this detailed explanations. Let's now step back and wrap
up this first part of our presentation and have a look at the way we are executing our Dare
Forward 2030 strategic plan. Looking at the three major pillars, care, tech and value, it is fair to
say that on the care pillar, we are on our way to achieve our carbon net-zero result by 2038. We
reduced our carbon footprint by 11% in one year, only in '22. We improved our quality, our product
quality sharply by reducing by 30% the number of incidents in the first three months of usage. We
have now 27% of our leadership positions, which are held by women, and we target 30% by '25.
And 100% of our HR processes have been aligned with diversity and inclusion commitments. So
on the care pillar, we are on track.
On the tech pillar, as you have seen, our BEV sales are up 41% and we will double the number of
BEVs on sale by '24 against '22. And the ramp-up of our BEV models is absolutely on track with
the plan. We are now taking strong positions as a frontrunner on the hydrogen fuel cell
powertrains. We consider that we are progressing well on our three world-class software
platforms as much as on our AI partnerships with the aiMotive acquisition. And we have invested
in no less than 10 start-ups using our Stellantis venture arm and three of those projects will be
launched this year. In terms of value creation, we are moving forward and fast forward with our
U.S. financial service operations. This is exactly what we wanted to deliver, and I must say that we
are pleased with the progress. We have seven accretive businesses, which have been prioritized
to complement the core business, and those businesses are growing year-over-year.
We see that all regions are now growing and delivering record profitability. And we see also that
our overseas club outside of Europe and North America is now getting ready to become the third
engine of our company with a 34% net revenue growth year-over-year. So last, what should we
take away from this presentation? I would like to share with you three numbers. We are one
company, one Stellantis. We are all moving in the same direction at the same pace. The direction
is given by the strategic plan. People get it and we are blessed with a EUR7.1 billion of net cash
merger synergies, which means that this merger is a bottom-up driven merger. And I would like
again to thank our employees for their maturity, for their understanding of what this represents
for the future of our company.
Point number two, we are fast progressing on Dare Forward 2030, and of course, the 41% BEV
sales growth rate is demonstrating that. But the fact that between now and next year, we are
going to double the number of BEV models is also very representative of the fact that we are not
talking about transformation. We are doing it. And last but not least, our company is more than
ever an all-weather company. A company that is highly resilient, highly focused, hardworking, we
all move in the same direction at the same pace because we are one company. And the best way
to express that is to remind you that most probably, we are the benchmark of the automotive
industry with a 40% breakeven point in our business, 40% against revenues, of course. That
means that the company is really strong. It's robust. It's transforming itself. It has the right
technology, the right people, the right leadership. That means that we represent a significant
potential for the future. We very much thank you for your attention, for your focus.
We are now ready for your questions. Thank you.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We'll now take our first question from `Thomas Besson, Kepler Cheuvreux at
Kepler Cheuvreux. Your line is open. Please go ahead.
Q - `Thomas Besson, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Thank you very much. It's `Thomas Besson, Kepler Cheuvreux at Kepler Cheuvreux. I have three questions, please.
Firstly, I'd like to start on cash returns. Could you explain what drove finally your decision to go for
a specific '23 buyback of EUR1.5 billion and give us your view on the possibility to eventually spin
(inaudible) 1 point in 2024, 2025, should the market continue to value luxury OEMs so differently
to master takers. Second question, I'd like to have a bit more comments about 2023 inflationary
headwinds and offsets for Stellantis as well as comments on what we should expect in terms of
Stellantis market share development by region, notably in Europe, as you saw your logistic issues
and you get the normalization of your production?
And finally, a small question about contributions to be expected and cash requirements needed
for some of your side businesses, notably the U.S. Finco and Symbio. I think you've mentioned
you took a stake in the company. I think it's still being discussed. So if you can say a bit more
about that, that would be interesting as also, cash returns, a bit more on the guidance and the
U.S. Finco and Symbio. Thank you.
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, thank you, Thomas. Thank you for your three very important questions. I would like to start
with the second one about the inflation in '23 and the market share in Europe, and then I will
handle back to Richard for the share buyback decision, that by the way was discussed at the
Board level and decided with the full support of the Board. And I will take it back for the Symbio
case later on. So what can we expect from 2023. First, the growing interest rates are now
triggering some kind of slowdown of the economy. We can see it. We can see that some of the
raw materials are cooling down in terms of inflation and some of them are even going down,
which means that this is going to be a good contribution to the reduction of the total production
cost, which is exactly what we have in the plan, which is to reduce our total production cost at a
faster pace than the erosion of pricing power.
That's what we are trying to see and to execute. And I think this is already showing some results.
We see that our total production cost tends to stabilize over the last few months, which is the
expected consequence of the rise of the interest rates. And we believe that, that will continue in
that direction. Of course, as you pointed out, there is now a rebalancing between the supply and
the demand. We have now a significant amount of cars in our dealer network yards. I think we are
close to 1 million cars in the dealer network, which means that supply is back, which means now
the supply in the dealer yards, I'm not talking about the pipe or in transit, I'm talking about what
you can find in the leaderships. The supply is there, which means that we have already the sales
and marketing tools to start fixing the market share in Europe.
While we continue to execute more robust fix on the outbound logistics, which is not over. We are
working on the IS platform, the outbound logistics platform that we call internally the OPT
platform. We still have a few bucks that we are now taking care of and there is a specific task
force taking care of those bugs for that software platform to be fully operational and rigorously
operational. We are asking more and working more with our partners to have a better capacity on
their side. We are also reinforcing our own capability. As you know, we have an outbound logistic
company that we call I-Fast. This company has a significant potential to grow, and we are
reinforcing our investments in that company to make sure that we put ourselves out of trouble
very soon.My guesstimation is that those operational issues will be fixed within the first quarter of this year,
so very soon. And we'll make sure that we fix them in the robust way so that they don't backfire
on us later on. But while I'm saying this, I also need to recognize that the number of cars we have
in the dealer yards is already quite significant. So there is room to improve our market share
immediately. That's what I can answer to your question. I would like to go back to the share
buyback topic and hand it over to Richard, please.
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Carlos. I think, Tom, when we talked about our plan Dare Forward 2030, we talked
about buying back around 5% of our share capital through the period of the plan through '25. We
bought back 69 million shares as we bought back the shares for the exercise of the GM warrants.
So basically, the EUR1.5 billion would be the complement to get us to 5%. I think that's really the
very basic logic of the EUR1.5 billion. I think where we are today with our balance sheet, very
strong, very good cash flow performance in 2022, and strong momentum in the business. We
believe that it was a reasonable signal to shareholders in the market of the confidence of the
company. So no other particular magic behind the EUR1.5 billion other than it's the complement of
the 5%.
For '24-'25, I think we'll see as we continue to operate, right? It's all about performance and cash
flow. Our cash flow was very strong in '22, notwithstanding we had, as you saw on the walk across
EUR4.8 billion of negative impact from working capital. We will have higher investments, as I
mentioned, in 2023, both for our CapEx and R&D and for the capitalization of some of the
electrification related joint ventures on batteries, in particular, and of the U.S. Finco, which you
asked about, and I'll tell you the number this year should be about EUR0.7 billion of injection of
equity into the Finco in the U.S. this year. So I think we're very confident about the cash flow
generation for this year, but we're not going to commit to a prolonged share buyback at this
stage. We're quite happy to be able to do this buyback this year. And obviously, our intention is to
continue to reward shareholders for their loyalty and try and show our confidence in the business
and the market may recognize the lack of valuation on our stock price.
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Richard. That was an understatement. What is clear is that we are proving you, Tom,
that when there is a good cash generation, we have no mental lock on share buybacks. It's just
for your reference, it can happen, it can happen as soon as the results of the company are
creating a situation where we are confident, we see that we can go on a difficult period if need
be. Again, thanks to our very low breakeven point. And if the opportunity comes, then we reward
our shareholders with the appropriate share buyback. On the Symbio case, it has been a
reasonable amount of money that will be possibly known in the future. We are coming to a similar
shareholding position as the two other shareholders. So it's very balanced as it should be. And we
believe that, that is going to give that company a good visibility for the future as we are going to
be and keep our leading position on fuel cell-powered vans in the world and I'm talking not only
about Europe, but also in the U.S.
So I think it's a good win-win for -- win-win-win for the three shareholders, and we are going to
align our forces to go even faster in using the good scientific education that we have, not only in
France, but around the world on this matter. So it's just a complement to what we have already
started doing. And as you know, I would like to remind you that we are going on a high-volume
production from the beginning of next year in our Hordain plant. That's what we can answer to
your three important questions. Thank you, Thomas. Let's move on.Q - `Thomas Besson, Kepler Cheuvreux `
Thank you.
Operator
Thank you. We'll now take our next question from `George Galliers, Goldman Sachs at Goldman Sachs. Your line is
open. Please go ahead.
Q - `George Galliers, Goldman Sachs `
Thank you and thank you for taking my question. I had two questions really surrounding Slide 16
on electrification. Obviously, you've seen a very big improvement in your battery electric vehicle
volumes and you're market leader in commercial vehicles in Europe and second overall. But when
we look at the profitability in Europe, you're still very close to a 10% margin. So the first question I
had was, could you just give us some insight into how the gross margin on your battery electric
vehicles faring compared to your ICE vehicles today and how you think that will evolve as you put
all the different pieces of this ecosystem into place over the next two to three years? The second
question I had was in reference to the CapEx. Richard, you did mention the capitalization of the
various JVs around the batteries. Could you just confirm, is that included within the 8% CapEx
ratio that you're targeting? Thank you.
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
Two very important questions and thank you for raising that. I'll take the first one and Richard will
take the second one. On the BEV, what we need to understand is that, that will perhaps surprise
you, but we don't take margins as a consequence of everything else. We drive the business to
achieve the margins that we need to get from our investments. So we are driving the margins of
the PHEVs and we are driving the margins of the BEVs, which means that at one point in time
what we may discover the two of us is that there is the need to ensure a higher price
competitiveness because, for instance, of new entrants. And not only we are optimizing all of the
costs of our electric powertrains as we are fully vertically integrated, but on top of that, we also
consider that we need to work on more breakthrough ideas like the one I mentioned to you
about the EV smart car platform-based vehicles that will represent another breakthrough in terms
of cost for BEVs at the core of the market. So we are addressing from both ends.
One end is to say, we don't take margin as a result of everything else. We drive margins and then
we allocate what needs to be allocated so that the margins are to a certain extent protected.
What is clear is that we need not only to take care of the amount of margin, but also the rate of
profitability because on average the net revenue per unit of EVs is higher than the ICEs. So we
are working on that. But so far, margins are not the big problem. The big problem will come later,
which is the affordability of BEVs for the middle classes. That is coming. That is coming within a
few years, as we see the new entrants may set a certain level of pressure on the market. That's
why we are preparing with the EV Citroen C3 smart car platform based as an example. But of
course, that can be used for other brands as need be. So we take it from there. And so far, the
sales of BEVs, as you have seen, have not impacted us on our earnings because our earnings are
just record as you have seen.
That's how we see it, not easy, certainly. Not one single direction, it's not only about selling the
value of what we create through high pricing. It's also understanding that new entrants are
coming, and against those new entrants with specific breakthrough plans that fortunately we
could anticipate because if we are manufacturing the new Citroen C3 EV right now in India isanticipation of what could happen with new entrants. That's my answer to your question. Let me
hand over to Richard for the CapEx question.
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Carlos. So the CapEx and R&D of 8% does not include capital injected into the joint
ventures, George. So that will include, obviously, the electrification joint ventures for batteries and
other components and the U.S. Finco. So I would expect that number to be for this year around
2%, maybe a little less of revenue. So we're talking about a total envelope of up to 10% between
the CapEx and R&D done in-house and the equity injections into the joint ventures.
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
That's a very precise answer. Thank you, Richard. Appreciate it. Let's move to the next one. Thank
you.
Operator
Thank you. We will now take our next question from `Vince Bond, Automotive News at Automotive News. Your line is
open. Please go ahead.
Q - `Vince Bond, Automotive News
Thank you. So your Belvidere Assembly Plant is going to be idle next week. What is your message
to the workers who are going to be laid off?
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
Sorry, which plant were you talking about?
Q - `Vince Bond, Automotive News
Belvidere Assembly Plant.
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
So your information is --
Q - `Vince Bond, Automotive News
The Jeep Cherokee plant.
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
You're right. Your information must be wrong because I was not in Belvidere recently. So I don't
know where you got that information from, but I was not.
Q - `Vince Bond, Automotive News
No, no, no. I didn't say that. I said, so the plant is being idled next week, what is your message to
the workers who are being laid off?
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, my message is very simple. By the way, not only to the workers, but to you also, is very
simple. We as citizens have decided to go in electrification path, which is very, very expensive.This has been decided by the governments on the basis of what the parliaments have decided.
So I just would like to tell you that the decision to go on a full electrification path is not a decision
that's been made by the carmakers, it's a decision that has been made by the states, by the
governments. Through the democratic process of listening to the parliament decisions and
proposals, the states have decided to go electric. As you know, this is true for Europe, it is true
for North America. From there, we have the responsibility to bring safe, clean and affordable
solutions to protect freedom of mobility in our societies, and that's our mission. Our mission is to
bring clean, safe and affordable solutions to ensure freedom of mobility to our citizens. This is
exactly what we are doing.
When we do this and we execute on physical evidence, what it means to bring a safe, clean and
affordable vehicle, we see that there is a very significant challenge on cost. It is not our decision. It
is the cost of the technology, specifically the cost of the technology when you start, you start
developing a brand-new technology. This additional cost needs to be absorbed in a way or
another. If you don't absorb the cost, then either the market is going to shrink dramatically
because the middle classes will not be able to buy EVs. If the market shrinks, then the industry
needs to shrink or you don't pass the cost to the consumer, you put yourself in the red, and you
need to restructure your company because you have put your company in trouble. So you see in
both directions from a social perspective, it's not very good.
So what we need to do is to absorb in a few years because the time window is imposed on us.
We need to optimize the way we go to market. We need to optimize the way we manufacture
our BEVs, we need to optimize the way we source the components of our BEVs to make sure
that we absorb the additional cost of this technology to protect the affordability. So anything we
will be doing not specifically with Belvidere, but everywhere in the world, we'll be aiming at
absorbing the additional cost of a technology that was decided by the states -- by all the states,
in a democratic process. And our job is to make it affordable, to make it safe and to make it
absolutely clean. That's our job. So do we take responsibility for transforming the company to
adapt to this new world? Yes, we do. We take responsibility for transforming the company to
adapt to a new world. This new world has been decided by the citizens. That's not been decided
by our companies.
Our companies are in support of something that has been decided by the citizen. So every time
we do something, we try to do it in a very humanistic way. And I think we have demonstrated that
over the last years. We have demonstrated that we drive change in humanistic way and respect
our people because they are the highest core value of our company. At the same time, it would
be demagogic not to tell them the truth. The truth is the societies have decided a new way of
enjoying mobility, our job is to make that new way clean, safe and affordable. Right now, it's not
affordable at all. Right now, the big problem of electrification is to make it affordable, which
means absorbing the additional cost, which means transforming the company to be able to bring
that affordability to our citizens and our customers. That's what we are doing. And I have no
problem to tell you this in a very respectful and friendly manner as much as I have no problem to
say the same thing to all of my employees. Thank you. Let's move to the next question.
Operator
Thank you. We'll now take our next question from `Stephen Reitman, Societe Generale of Societe Generale. Your line
is open. Please go ahead.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Societe Generale `
Yes, good afternoon. My two questions. First of all, on the change in dealer stocks. Obviously, thatsecond half of this year. I'm wondering if you could give us some indication of how you expect this
item to move in 2023? And secondly, if you could comment on production and the reception of
the Grand Wagoneer, the Wagoneer. I understand those vehicles have faced quite severe
component shortages, which has restricted particularly production of the Grand Wagoneer.
What's the outlook for 2023? Thank you very much.
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
Those are two great questions. With all the respect, my opinion on the first one is slightly
different. I think that our company is enjoying a very strong order book right now. So what I would
like to do for the first half is to bring back to my order book, a FIFO inventory supply, which means
making sure that all the cars I could not make in the past because I didn't have all the parts are
not lagging behind because those customers have been gracious and very kind to wait, and I
would like to express to them my appreciation and express also my deep sorry for that. I would
like to thank them for being patient, for being loyal to our brands, and we are trying to fix that, so
that we bring a reasonable lead time to most of our orders. And we have a significant order
book. So I think the first half will be mostly about using the order book we have and putting the
right sequence, the right FIFO sequence in delivering the order book.
And then in Q2, depending on how the world economy is moving, we'll see what is the order
intake rate of Q2, which will be decisive to what will happen in H2. So what I would like to answer
to your fair point is that, I think on the first half, we are going to be protected by our order book.
We are going to use this period to put more order and more better FIFO sequence in our
inventories, recognizing that we have a lot of cars waiting in the dealer yards right now, so there
is no lack of supply. But in some cases, we may not have the right supply, or in some cases,
mostly in Europe because there is a significant build to order rate, we would be asking a few
customers to wait too long and we want to fix that very quickly. So that's the first half.
Second half will be dependent on the order intake rate of the second quarter, which means
spring. And that will depend on what? It will depend on the consumer sentiment. It will depend on
how the world economy will be growing or not. Are we slowing down too much or not going
down too much. It's very much dependent on the decisions that are going to be made on interest
rates, as you know very well. So I think it's too soon to decide what the second half will be. I think
we'll have to wait for the Q2 other intake trend. But we can say that for H1, we have a significant
order book that we are going to enjoy fortunately. Thank you. For the Wagoneer, your second
question. Wagoneer is now back. Yes, we had some supply disruptions. I think we have fixed them
and Wagoneer is back. That's what we can say.
Q - `Stephen Reitman, Societe Generale `
Thank you.
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
Next question.
Operator
Thank you. We will now take our next question from Philippe at Jefferies. Your line is open. Please
go ahead.
Q - `Philippe Houchois, Jefferies `Yes. Thank you and good afternoon. It's `Philippe Houchois, Jefferies, Jefferies. Just wanted to -- a couple of
questions. One, I think you answered Thomas earlier about market share recovery in Europe. I'm
just wondering how you look at market share in North America given that you don't have EVs yet
in meaningful volume to maintain share in that segment. So what are you intending to maintain
your share in North America? And the other question I have was on your -- it's interesting when I
listen to carmakers, everybody claims to be leader in commercial vehicles, and I think you are
leaders, but everybody makes similar claims. As the profitability in industry has improved in
general, can you kind of comment about how you're also driving profitability in commercial
vehicles as the world moves to electrification. And also I'm curious if commercial vehicles are still
accretive to group margins at this stage, given that the general level of profitability has gone up.
Thank you very much.
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, those are great questions, and I am pleased to answer to them. First of all, the fact that we
are the leaders in the LCVs at least in Europe and Latin America is a no-brainer, but I will let you
check and double check, if needed. But in Europe and in Latin America, it's a no-brainer that we
are the LCV leaders. The numbers are stunning. Then on the market share in North America, what
I can tell you is that we were perhaps a little bit slow to move from a distribution of scarcity to a
full supply of the market. We are now back to a good supply in the market. And that means that,
of course, we need to go back from managing scarcity to going back to the sales and marketing
pure tactics that we knew a few years ago.
I think on that corner, we could have driven a little bit faster, at the same time, we have been
keeping very strong pricing power, which has also been one of the things that we have been
protecting and we need to recognize that and take eventually some pressure on the share
because of that. So I think market share in NA is just a consequence of the way we have been
going around the corner, going from a lack of supply to a full supply of the market, going from a
distribution of scarcity to a fully supplied market in terms of bringing the products to the
consumers. And hopefully, that will be improving very soon. You also asked me about the
profitability of LCVs. It's very good profit. It's on the average of what we have in the company. So
it's just a big, big business. And by the way, we have just given our LCV business unit more
autonomy in terms of decision making to make sure that they have their capability to adapt at a
faster pace to the market conditions.
And we have also a new leadership in place to be even more aggressive on the sales and
marketing side. But of course, we will continue to protect, if not enhance, our leadership in
Europe and also in Latin America and somewhere else in the world. We have specifically big plans
to develop our Ram pickup truck penetration and market share in many parts of the world, of
course, starting with the U.S., but more than the US. And some more surprises will come for our
competitors in terms of deploying the Ram brand across the world. We are preparing for that. We
are almost ready and you'll see this is going to be a big profit contributor for Stellantis. Thank you.
Next question.
Operator
Thank you. We'll now take our next question from Jose at JPMorgan. Your line is open. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Jose Asumendi, JPMorgan `
Thank you. It's Jose, JPMorgan. Hi, Carlos, Richard. A couple of questions, please. The first one,do you think about the possibility of maintaining margins in North America in '23 at the level of
2022. And then second question on the Ram 1500 electric, obviously, a very competitive product.
Can you comment on maybe the possibility, the target to match or even outperform the
performance metrics we are seeing from peers, including the Tesla Cybertruck? Thank you.
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
Great questions, Jose. Let me take it in the same order. Margins in NA. The good thing about NA
is that we have found that there is a significant room of improvement in our own plans in terms of
what we call internally the transformation cost. So there is an internal component and an external
component. One internal component is the fact that our manufacturing system, when we look at
the best practices we have around the world for Stellantis, we see that we have great
opportunities in North America. Our local leadership team has recognized that. They have seen
what those opportunities were. They have visited the other plants of Stellantis, and they have
seen that some good things could be done to be much more efficient than what we are today. So
that's a pot of opportunity that we have in our hands is to improve the transformation cost of our
own manufacturing system in North America, that's one.
The second one is that we are now being very, very specific in the way we are using our
marketing dollars to make sure that we bring the support where need be, but not in a way that is,
I would say, vague. We are trying to be precise in terms of marketing tactics to use the money
where we need to use it where the market demands. But in some other cases, it's just a waste of
money. We are trying to be quite picky on that one. And of course, we have strong total
production cost what we call war rooms, which are places where all the cross-functional teams
gather to share ideas to reduce the total production cost of the products so that we protect our
margins by reducing the total production cost, including the transformation cost in our plants,
which is part of that faster than the erosion of the pricing power. So too soon to say, Jose, are we
going to be good enough in total production cost reduction to protect the margins or not? That's
the plan.
The plan is to go faster on the TPC than in the erosion of pricing power. But we will see when we
balance the H1, if we were able to do that or not. What is clear also is that the interest rate rise is
quite helpful to cool down a certain number of inflation factors. And we see some of those
inflation factors to be now disappearing, which could be good news for NA. On the pickup truck,
what we have been doing is on a voluntary basis, we are being quite vague in the performance
KPIs of our pickup truck, our BEV pickup truck. Why? Because we don't want to give the
information to our competitors. But what I can tell you is that we have spent many, many hours,
including me, looking at the performance of our competitors and making sure that when we look
at a composite index of charging speed, range, payload, towing, we bring the best offer of the
market.
And I'm very excited by the quality of our engineering, some of it was demonstrated through the
concept car you have seen in Las Vegas in January. I think they are doing a great job. Now we
need to let them work, keep their focus, let them be focused on what they do. And hopefully,
things will appear by the end of '24. I'm very positive about the competitiveness of what we are
doing. But of course, as always, planning is 10%, execution is 90%. So right now, we are focused
on the execution. Thank you, Jose. Next question, please.
Operator
We'll take our next question from `Martino De Ambroggi, Equita at Equita. Your line is open. Please go
ahead.Q - `Martino De Ambroggi, Equita `
Thank you. Good afternoon. Good morning, everybody. The first question is on prices. So how
Stellantis is behaving on prices considering the competitive environment. You mentioned
Stellantis will remain disciplined. But could you elaborate a bit more on what is going on today,
and what should we expect -- what do you expect for the rest of the year? The second question
is on the -- your main worries. I remember in the last call, logistic issues in Europe and component
shortage was -- were the two main issues. But both seem to go in the right direction. So what are
your main worries today? And last on guidance, I'm sorry to go straight on quantitative issues, but
trying to get a quantitative indication, are you comfortable with consensus estimate, which are in
the region of EUR18 billion adjusted EBITDA and EUR6 billion, EUR7 billion free cash flow for the
current year? Thank you.
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, the third question is a $1 billion question. I will leave that one for Richard, the third one. And
of course, I will let him comment the prices and the discipline. Let me talk about the worries
because that's something I can talk about. Fundamentally, in our industry, we are not worried
anymore. You may think this is crazy, but it's not about being worried or even concerned. It's
about understanding what is going to happen and anticipating on that to bring the appropriate
countermeasures before actually the problems appear. So what are the worries that we could
have on the global automotive industry scale. The first worry that we could have is that this
industry has been so much brutalized. Just think about the sequence of crisis. Look at the
pandemic, then semiconductor, then inflation, regulations, interest rates, et cetera. This industry
has been heavily brutalized.
So one of the things we should mindful is that car companies are made of people, people. It's
important. That's why it's important for me to tell my people today that I'm proud of them. This
industry has been facing crisis after crisis, year after year for the last few years. And then we just
threw out the industry all the new regulations with a very short lead time, regardless of what the
state-of-the-art would mean. We need to recognize that this is a situation that may create
problems at one point in time. So I think it's time to say, hey, why don't you try to create a little bit
more stable environment so that people can work in a proper way. What do you think? So if you
talk about worries, I would say, I'm worried for the automotive industry worldwide because it
seems that the respect to this industry has been decreasing as we throw out this industry more
and more challenges and everybody just considers that this industry has no limit in its ability to
digest challenges and crisis.
I think that's not fair for the people that work in the automotive industry. I think we should respect
them and just recognize that there is a limit to human beings. And if there was one thing I would
say not for my company because my company is really, I think, one of the survivors of this
sequence, but I think for the overall industry, we need to start perhaps respecting the people that
are working in this industry. They are doing their best to bring clean energy, clean mobility,
sustainable business models. They are doing their very best, but we cannot continue to throw out
their face all the challenges that somebody else cannot solve. And that is important. It's not
specific to Stellantis because I'm so high on the resilience of my people, but it's something that
strikes me looking at my 42 years of automotive industry. I would like to conclude here on the
worries and give it back to Richard for the $1 trillion question.
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
So the question is, am I comfortable or am I worried?A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
That may be it. We don't know. We don't know.
A - `Richard Palmer, Chief Financial Officer `
In the car industry, so I should be relatively uncomfortable, I think, based on what you just said. I
think the guidance we gave is clear, Martino. Our goal is not to shrink this company, obviously. So
the numbers you said -- you gave us were, I think you said EUR18 billion of AOI, we did EUR23
billion last year. So that's clearly not our target. We're focusing on maintaining a very profitable
business, a lot of price discipline. And we see, obviously, opportunities to do a very good result in
2023. So I think we'll focus on that. You'll see how we progress in the first half of the year. In
terms of -- obviously, the key point is probably, as you mentioned, is price trends on the one side
and cost and raw materials on the other. I think -- and we've mentioned that we expect raw
material inflation to be a lot lower in '23 compared to '22. We also expect some positive
carryover pricing on the top line. I don't think we expect to see the same level of further
increases in prices that we have seen in '21 and '22, but we're going to work very hard to maintain
our pricing levels.
I think in Europe, we have a very good portfolio. So there are grounds to believe that, that in the
first quarter and into the second quarter should give us some stability in pricing. And then as
Carlos said, we'll see how second quarter orders go, and that will give us an indication going
forward. In North America, our pricing is taking our products back to where they should be for the
quality and the brands that we have. So it's a competitive game. The inventory numbers have
been going up for everybody. We don't feel uncomfortable with the level of inventory today. I
think we do have some mix challenges in our inventory on Grand Cherokee as we fill out the line-
up, as we've launched the new Grand Cherokee, and also filling out the line-up of the new
version of the Ram as we finished the older version the beginning of the year.
So I think as our mix normalizes, and we get more lower mixed product, I think that will help us to
manage some of the pressure on that we saw in share in the second half of the year. And then
we'll obviously manage the price function in a very disciplined way. So I think we're quietly
confident compared to the consensus you gave us, but it's all about performance, obviously, so
we'll see.
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Richard. Let's take one more question.
Operator
Yes. We will take our last question from Michael at ODDO BHF. Your line is open. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Michael Foundoukidis, ODDO BHF `
Yes. Hi, Michael from ODDO BHF. So maybe a quick follow-up versus your previous answer,
Richard. On the 2023 outlook, H2 is maybe a long way and some uncertainty as you highlighted
during the presentation. But at least in H1 and given what you said, how should we consider
profitability compared to your H2 2022 performance, which has been hit by the many challenges
you mentioned? So that's the first question, specific on H1. And maybe a second one more long
term for Carlos. You highlighted the better-than-expected synergies to-date. But the new
models, which are based on the STLA platforms and the tech pillar that you mentioned are onlycoming in 2023 and early 2024. So could you maybe guide us a bit more regarding the
magnitude of the financial benefits we could expect from this, notably in terms of cost per vehicle
versus the existing platforms? Thank you very much.
A - `Carlos Tavares, Chief Executive Officer `
Well, thank you. Those are two great questions. Let me take that. When we say that at Stellantis
there is not OldCo, NewCo, there is OneCo is because we consider that OneCo is what comes
out of the benefit of this merger to use scale as a way to improve our cost competitiveness. And
you can look at scale from two angles. One angle is how good are you at generating competitive
variable costs. The other angle is how good are you at diluting your R&D and CapEx expense. In
both cases, scale is important, in both cases. So we just want to be consistent with what we have
been doing, which was to create by automotive revenues the third automotive car company in
the world, and use that scale, which is the outcome of this merger to the best benefit of our
stakeholders. That's what we are doing. So we say it's not OldCo, NewCo, it's OneCo, then we
leverage our scale. And that scale is going to benefit the cost competitiveness of the STLA
platforms.
By the way, there is something that you know well, which is called bundling. You don't always
need to wait until you have the same hardware to benefit from the scale. But that's exactly where
we are going and you want to be consistent with what we have done in creating Stellantis is
leverage the scale, either to dilute the enormous amount of investments you make on R&D and
CapEx on the new technologies through a bigger volume or to use it when you are looking for a
better cost competitiveness with your partners. So we are comfortable with this consistency. We
think it's consistent. And I think it's the right way to go. At least when you look at our strategic
plan, perhaps we should remind everybody here that our commitment, while keeping a double-
digit AOI margin is to double the net revenue. And this year, we were 18% up, so we are on track.
And as Rich had mentioned, we are not here to shrink the company. From time to time, we may
have bumps on the road, but we are not here to shrink the company. We are here to double the
net revenue and keep a high level of profitability that comes from our very demanding
management of the business model. So we will keep that consistency. It's all about being
persistent. At one point in time, you are going to see something that is going to pop up. As for
instance, you see today that with a 41% of BEV sales growth, we are among the best in the BEV
sales growth. As perhaps you discover that we are going to move from 23 models to 47 by the
end of next year, which means the execution machine of Stellantis is now moving fast forward.
And we try to be consistent with that. So far, it has been working, and hopefully, it will continue
that way.
On specifically 2023, as I told you, you have different contradictory factors, and it's all about
appreciating at which speed those factors are going to move from one side, the rebalancing of
the supply and the demand is creating more pressure on pricing. But we are the most disciplined
carmaker in the world. And from the other side, the interest rate rise is creating a cool down in
the economy that is helpful to reduce the total production costs, starting with the raw materials,
which is also something that we start seeing. So in fact, all of this is going to be a matter of
sequence of the two factors. What is going to move faster? Is it the total production cost, variable
cost reduction that is going to be ahead of the pricing power erosion or the opposite? And of
course, on our side, we are trying to keep it this way. TPC first erosion of pricing power after.
That's, I would say, for H1.
Then for H2, it's all about what is going to happen in spring in terms of order intake trend. That's
where we are going to see what may happen in the second half. Right now it's too soon. And asyou see -- as you know well, things are much too volatile. So I don't want to have a nice story to
you. I just want to tell you what I think and what is our perspective on this matter. So we are here
as a 40% breakeven point company, quite agile, quite demanding in the way we run the business.
We look for value, we don't always look for volume. And we are absolutely committed to deliver
the Dare Forward 2030 plan, which is doubling our revenues and keeping a double-digit market
profit by 2030. So that's what we can share with you today, and I would like to thank you very
much all of you for your very thoughtful questions. They always make us think better.
I also hope that you understand that we have tried through the dividends and the share buybacks
to send a strong message of confidence to our investors. We are here to make this work and it is
going to work. Stellantis will be one of the big winners of this big transformation. And I think we
have now all the components that we need to make it executable. And I just would like to thank
you for your support. It has been great to run 2022 with you, and hopefully, we'll make a better
2023. Thank you and see you very soon. Bye-bye.
Operator
Thank you for your participation. Stay safe. You may now disconnect.