Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. 62 Table of Contents Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Whenever the Company uses non-GAAP financial measures, we provide a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure. Investors and other readers are encouraged to review the related U.S. GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to their most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure and should consider non-GAAP measures only as a supplement to, not as a substitute for or as a superior measure to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Additionally, since these are not measures determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, non-GAAP financial measures have no standardized meaning across companies, or as prescribed by U.S. GAAP and, therefore, may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures or measures with the same title used by other companies. Management uses these measures internally for forecasting, budgeting, measuring its operating performance, and incentive-based awards. Primarily due to acquisitions, divestitures and other significant events which may impact comparability of our periodic operating results, we believe that an evaluation of our ongoing operations (and comparisons of our current operations with historical and future operations) would be difficult if the disclosure of our financial results was limited to financial measures prepared only in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We believe that non-GAAP financial measures are useful supplemental information for our investors and when considered together with our U.S. GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure, provide a more complete understanding of the factors and trends affecting our operations. The financial performance of the Company is measured by senior management, in part, using adjusted metrics as described below, along with other performance metrics. The Company’s use of such non-GAAP measures is governed by an adjusted reporting policy maintained by the Company and such non-GAAP measures are reviewed in detail with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Adjusted Cost of Sales and Adjusted Gross Margin We use the non-GAAP financial measure “adjusted cost of sales” and the corresponding non-GAAP financial measure “adjusted gross margin.” The principal items excluded from adjusted cost of sales include restructuring, acquisition and divestiture-related costs, and other special items, purchase accounting amortization and other related items, and share-based compensation expense, which are described in greater detail below. Adjusted Net Earnings Adjusted net earnings is a non-GAAP financial measure and provides an alternative view of performance used by management. Management believes that, primarily due to acquisitions, divestitures and other significant events, an evaluation of the Company’s ongoing operations (and comparisons of its current operations with historical and future operations) would be difficult if the disclosure of its financial results were limited to financial measures prepared only in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Management believes that adjusted net earnings is an important internal financial metric related to the ongoing operating performance of the Company, and is therefore useful to investors and that their understanding of our performance is enhanced by this measure. Actual internal and forecasted operating results and annual budgets used by management include adjusted net earnings. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP financial measures that the Company believes are appropriate to provide additional information to investors to demonstrate the Company’s ability to comply with financial debt covenants and assess the Company’s ability to incur additional indebtedness. The Company also believes that adjusted EBITDA better focuses management on the Company’s underlying operational results and true business performance and, is used, in part, for management’s incentive compensation. We calculate EBITDA as U.S. GAAP net earnings (loss) adjusted for net contribution attributable to equity method investments, income tax provision (benefit), interest expense and depreciation and amortization. EBITDA is further adjusted for share-based compensation expense, litigation settlements and other contingencies, net, and restructuring, impairment of long-lived assets, acquisition and divestiture related and other special items to determine adjusted EBITDA. These adjustments are generally permitted under our credit agreement in calculating adjusted EBITDA for determining compliance with our debt covenants. The significant items excluded from adjusted cost of sales, adjusted net earnings, and adjusted EBITDA include: 63 Table of Contents Purchase Accounting Amortization and Other Related Items The ongoing impact of certain amounts recorded in connection with acquisitions of both businesses and assets is excluded from adjusted cost of sales, adjusted net earnings, and adjusted EBITDA. These amounts include the amortization of intangible assets, inventory step-up, property, plant and equipment step-up, intangible asset impairment charges, including for IPR&D, and impairment of goodwill. For the acquisition of businesses accounted for under the provisions of ASC 805, Business Combinations , these purchase accounting impacts are excluded regardless of the financing method used for the acquisitions, including the use of cash, long-term debt, the issuance of common stock, contingent consideration or any combination thereof. Fair Value Adjustments, Including Contingent Consideration The impact of changes to the fair value of assets and liabilities, including contingent and deferred consideration and non-marketable equity investments, and the related accretion income or expense are excluded from adjusted net earnings and adjusted EBITDA because they are not indicative of the Company’s ongoing operations due to the variability of the amounts and the lack of predictability as to the occurrence and/or timing and management believes their exclusion is helpful to understanding the underlying, ongoing operational performance of the business. Share-based Compensation Expense Share-based compensation expense is excluded from adjusted cost of sales, adjusted net earnings and adjusted EBITDA. Our share-based compensation programs have become increasingly weighted toward performance-based compensation, which leads to variability and to a lack of predictability as to the occurrence and/or timing of amounts incurred. As such, management believes the exclusion of such amounts on an ongoing basis is helpful to understanding the underlying operational performance of the business. Restructuring, Acquisition and Divestiture-Related Costs, and Other Special Items Costs related to restructuring, acquisition and divestiture-related activities and other actions are excluded from adjusted cost of sales, adjusted net earnings and adjusted EBITDA, as applicable. These amounts include items such as: • Costs related to formal restructuring programs and actions, including costs associated with facilities to be closed or divested, employee separation costs, impairment charges, accelerated depreciation, incremental manufacturing variances, equipment relocation costs, decommissioning and other restructuring related costs; • Certain acquisition and divestiture costs, including costs relating to integration and planning, advisory and legal fees, certain financing related costs, certain reimbursements related to the Company’s obligation to reimburse Pfizer for certain financing and transaction related costs under the Business Combination Agreement and Separation and Distribution Agreement, certain other TSA related set-up and exit costs, and other business transformation and/or optimization initiatives, which are not part of a formal restructuring program, including employee separation and post-employment costs; • The pre-tax loss of the Company’s clean energy investments, whose activities qualify for income tax credits under the Code; only included in adjusted net earnings is the net tax effect of the entity’s activities; • Other costs, incurred from time to time, related to certain special events or activities that lead to gains or losses, including, but not limited to, incremental manufacturing variances, asset write-downs, including other-than-temporary impairments of investments in equity or debt instruments, or liability adjustments; • Certain costs to further develop and optimize our global enterprise resource planning systems, operations and supply chain; • Gains or losses from divestitures, including impairments of held for sale assets; and • The impact of changes related to uncertain tax positions are excluded from adjusted cost of sales and adjusted net earnings. In addition, tax adjustments to adjusted earnings are recorded to present items on an after-tax basis consistent with the presentation of adjusted net earnings. The Company has undertaken restructurings and other optimization initiatives of differing types, scope and amount during the covered periods and, therefore, these charges should not be considered non-recurring; however, management excludes these amounts from adjusted cost of sales, adjusted net earnings and adjusted EBITDA because it believes it is helpful to understanding the underlying, ongoing operational performance of the business. 64 Table of Contents Litigation Settlements, Net Charges and gains related to legal matters, such as those discussed in Note 19 Litigation included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K are generally excluded from adjusted net earnings and adjusted EBITDA. Normal, ongoing defense costs of the Company made in the normal course of our business are not excluded. Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP Net Earnings (Loss) to Adjusted Net Earnings A reconciliation between net earnings (loss) as reported under U.S. GAAP, and adjusted net earnings for the periods shown follows: Year Ended December 31, (In millions) 2023 2022 2021 U.S. GAAP net earnings (loss) $ 54.7 $ 2,078.6 $ (1,269.1) Purchase accounting related amortization (primarily included in cost of sales) (a) 2,421.5 2,721.3 4,039.7 Impairment of goodwill related to assets held for sale (included in SG&A) (b) 580.1 117.0 — Litigation settlements and other contingencies, net 111.6 4.4 329.2 Interest expense (primarily amortization of premiums and discounts on long term debt) (42.4) (48.7) (53.8) Clean energy investments pre-tax loss — — 61.9 Acquisition and divestiture-related costs (primarily included in SG&A) (c) 377.9 475.7 234.6 Loss (gain) on divestitures of businesses (included in other income, net) (d) 239.9 (1,754.1) — Restructuring-related costs (e) 125.2 86.9 899.4 Share-based compensation expense 180.7 116.5 111.2 Other special items included in: Cost of sales (f) 119.2 255.2 333.0 Research and development expense 2.8 1.0 13.1 Selling, general and administrative expense (g) (83.5) 68.8 49.5 Other income, net (h) (24.4) (3.8) (8.0) Tax effect of the above items and other income tax related items (i) (525.6) (41.7) (330.7) Adjusted net earnings $ 3,537.7 $ 4,077.1 $ 4,410.0 Significant items for the year ended December 31, 2023 include the following: (a) Includes an intangible asset charge related to the divestitures of the commercialization rights in the Upjohn Distributor Markets of approximately $32.0 million to write down the disposal group to fair value, less cost to sell. Also includes amortization of the step-up in the fair value of inventory related to the Oyster Point acquisition of approximately $29.3 million. (b) A goodwill impairment charge of approximately $580.1 million related to the planned divestiture of the OTC Business. (c) Acquisition and divestiture-related costs consist primarily of transaction costs including legal and consulting fees and integration activities. (d) Includes a charge related to the planned divestiture of the OTC Business of approximately $154.7 million to write down the disposal group to fair value, less cost to sell, and a charge of approximately $85.2 million related to the divestitures of the commercialization rights in the Upjohn Distributor Markets. (e) Includes approximately $101.8 million in cost of sales, approximately $0.3 million in R&D, and approximately $23.1 million in SG&A. Refer to Note 17 Restructuring included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information. (f) Includes incremental manufacturing variances at plants in the 2020 restructuring program of approximately $45.9 million and charges related to the divestitures of the commercialization rights in the Upjohn Distributor Markets of approximately $19.2 million. (g) Includes a gain of approximately $156.2 million on the transaction to divest the Company’s rights to two women’s healthcare products in certain countries (other than in the U.K., which remains subject to regulatory approval), which closed in December 2023. 65 Table of Contents (h) Includes net gains of approximately $43.4 million as a result of remeasuring our non-marketable equity investments to fair value, including our equity interests in Mapi and Famy Life Sciences and the CCPS in Biocon Biologics. (i) Adjusted for changes for uncertain tax positions. Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP Net Earnings (Loss) to EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Below is a reconciliation of U.S. GAAP net earnings (loss) to EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the prior year periods: Year Ended December 31, (In millions) 2023 2022 2021 U.S. GAAP net earnings (loss) $ 54.7 $ 2,078.6 $ (1,269.1) Add adjustments: Net contribution attributable to equity method investments — — 61.9 Income tax provision 148.2 734.6 604.7 Interest expense (a) 573.1 592.4 636.2 Depreciation and amortization (b) 2,740.5 3,027.6 4,506.5 EBITDA $ 3,516.5 $ 6,433.2 $ 4,540.2 Add / (deduct) adjustments: Share-based compensation expense 180.7 116.4 111.2 Litigation settlements and other contingencies, net 111.6 4.4 329.2 Loss (gain) on divestitures of businesses 239.9 (1,754.1) — Impairment of goodwill related to assets held for sale 580.1 117.0 — Restructuring, acquisition and divestiture-related and other special items (c) 495.3 859.9 1,375.4 Adjusted EBITDA $ 5,124.1 $ 5,776.8 $ 6,356.0 ____________ (a) Includes amortization of premiums and discounts on long-term debt. (b) Includes purchase accounting related amortization. (c) See items detailed in the Reconciliation of U.S. GAAP Net Earnings (Loss) to Adjusted Net Earnings. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary source of liquidity is net cash provided by operating activities, which was $2.80 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023. We believe that net cash provided by operating activities and available liquidity will continue to allow us to meet our needs for working capital, capital expenditures, interest and principal payments on debt obligations, dividend payments, and share repurchases. Nevertheless, our ability to satisfy our working capital requirements and debt service obligations, and fund planned capital expenditures, share repurchases, or dividend payments, will substantially depend upon our future operating performance (which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions), and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $153.0 million to $2.80 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $2.95 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022. Net cash provided by operating activities is derived from net earnings (loss) adjusted for non-cash operating items, gains and losses attributed to investing and financing activities and changes in operating assets and liabilities resulting from timing differences between the receipts and payments of cash, including changes in cash primarily reflecting the timing of cash collections from customers, payments to vendors and employees and tax payments in the ordinary course of business. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was principally due to lower operating earnings, including as a result of the disposition of the biosimilars business in November 2022 and other divestitures during 2023, and the timing of cash payments and collections. This was partially offset by higher deal-related costs in 2022, primarily taxes and transaction costs, associated with the closing of the Biocon Biologics Transaction. 66 Table of Contents Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $764.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to net cash from investing activities of $1.52 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, a decrease of $2.28 billion. In 2023, significant items in investing activities included the following: • cash paid for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, of $667.7 million; • payments for product rights and other, net totaling approximately $97.5 million, related to various product-related payments; • capital expenditures, primarily for equipment and facilities, totaling approximately $377.0 million. While there can be no assurance that current expectations will be realized, capital expenditures for the 2024 calendar year are expected to be approximately $350 million to $450 million; and • proceeds from the sale of assets and businesses of $364.1 million, primarily related to divestitures of the Company’s rights to two women’s healthcare products in certain countries (other than in the U.K., which remains subject to regulatory approval) and commercialization rights in certain Upjohn Distributor Markets. In 2022, significant items in investing activities included the following: • proceeds from the sale of assets of $1.95 billion related to the Biocon Biologics Transaction; and • capital expenditures, primarily for equipment and facilities, totaling approximately $406.0 million. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $2.30 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to net cash used in financing activities of $3.88 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, a decrease of $1.58 billion. In 2023, significant items in financing activities included the following: • repayments of Senior Notes at maturity of approximately $1.25 billion, consisting of the 3.125% Senior Notes and the 4.200% Senior Notes; • share repurchases of $250.0 million; • cash dividends paid of $575.6 million; and • payment of $220.0 million to Biocon Biologics related to the closing working capital target, partially offset by net cash of $47.6 million, primarily collected on behalf of other partners, which are included in Other items, net. In 2022, significant items in financing activities included the following: • repayments of Senior Notes at maturity of approximately $1.79 billion, consisting of the 0.816% Euro Senior Notes and the 1.125% Senior Notes; • borrowings and repayments under the Revolving Facility of $1.88 billion; • net repayments of short-term borrowings of $1.49 billion; • cash dividends paid of $581.6 million; and • proceeds of $19.3 million related to cash collected on behalf of Biocon Biologics. Refer to the consolidated statements of cash flows in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional details on other significant sources and uses of cash during the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. Capital Resources Our cash and cash equivalents totaled $991.9 million at December 31, 2023. The majority of our cash is invested in U.S. government money market funds. In order to support our global operations, we maintain significant cash and cash equivalents within the banking system with the majority of this at Global Systemically Important Banks. We monitor the third-party depository institutions that hold our cash and cash equivalents on a regular basis. Our primary emphasis is on the safety of the principal. Where possible, we diversify our cash and cash equivalents among counterparties to minimize exposure to any 67 Table of Contents one counterparty. The Company anticipates having sufficient liquidity, including existing borrowing capacity under the Revolving Facility, Commercial Paper Program, Receivables Facility, and Note Securitization Facility combined with cash to be generated from operations, to fund foreseeable cash needs without requiring the repatriation of non-U.S. cash. The Company has access to $4.0 billion under the Revolving Facility which matures in July 2026. Effective April 28, 2023, we executed an amendment to the Revolving Facility to convert the benchmark interest rate from LIBOR to an adjusted SOFR, with no change in the applicable interest rate margins. Up to $1.65 billion of the Revolving Facility may be used to support borrowings under our Commercial Paper Program. As of December 31, 2023, the Company did not have any borrowings outstanding under the Commercial Paper Program and the Revolving Facility. The Company has a $400 million Receivables Facility which expires in April 2025 and a $200 million Note Securitization Facility which expires in August 2024. As of December 31, 2023, the Company did not have any borrowings outstanding under the Receivables Facility or the Note Securitization Facility. Under the terms of each of the Receivables Facility and Note Securitization Facility, certain of our accounts receivable secure the amounts borrowed and cannot be used to pay our other debts or liabilities. The amount that we may borrow at a given point in time is determined based on the amount of qualifying accounts receivable that are present at such point in time. Borrowings outstanding under the Receivables Facility bear interest at the applicable base rate plus 0.775%, and under the Note Securitization Facility at the relevant base rate plus 1.00% and are included as a component of short-term borrowings, while the accounts receivable securing these obligations remain as a component of accounts receivable, net, in our consolidated balance sheets. In addition, the agreements governing the Receivables Facility and Note Securitization Facility contain various customary affirmative and negative covenants, and customary default and termination provisions. We have entered into accounts receivable factoring agreements with financial institutions to sell certain of our non-U.S. accounts receivable. These transactions are accounted for as sales and result in a reduction in accounts receivable because the agreements transfer effective control over and risk related to the receivables to the buyers. Our factoring agreements do not allow for recourse in the event of uncollectibility, and we do not retain any interest in the underlying accounts receivable once sold. We derecognized $30.8 million and $34.7 million of accounts receivable as of December 31, 2023 and 2022 under these factoring arrangements, respectively. Additionally, in 2023, we entered into a similar arrangement for certain European countries. As of December 31, 2023, we have assigned and derecognized approximately $415.7 million of Trade Receivables, Net , which are now included in Other Receivables . The Company has certain voluntary supply chain finance programs with financial intermediaries which provide participating suppliers the option to be paid by the intermediary earlier than the original invoice due date. The Company’s responsibility is limited to making payments on the terms originally negotiated with the suppliers, regardless of whether the intermediary pays the supplier in advance of the original due date. The range of payment terms the Company negotiates with suppliers are consistent, regardless of whether a supplier participates in a supply chain finance program. The total amounts due to financial intermediaries to settle supplier invoices under supply chain finance programs as of December 31, 2023 and 2022 were $65.1 million and $33.4 million, respectively. These amounts are included within Accounts payable in the consolidated balance sheets. We are continuously evaluating the potential acquisition of products, as well as companies, as a strategic part of our future growth. Consequently, we may utilize current cash reserves or incur additional indebtedness to finance any such acquisitions, which could impact future liquidity. Also, on an ongoing basis, we review our operations, including the evaluation of potential divestitures of products and businesses, as part of our future strategy. Any divestitures could impact future liquidity. In addition, we plan to continue to explore various other ways to create, enhance or otherwise unlock the value of the Company’s unique global platform in order to create shareholder value. As previously discussed, on October 1, 2023, the Company announced certain divestiture related transactions. Refer to Note 5 Divestitures in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for more information. For information regarding our dividends paid and declared and share repurchase program, refer to Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Long-term Debt Maturity For information regarding our debt agreements and mandatory minimum repayments remaining on the outstanding notional amount of long-term debt at December 31, 2023, refer to Note 10 Debt in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 68 Table of Contents The YEN Term Loan Facility and the Revolving Facility contain customary affirmative covenants for facilities of this type, including among others, covenants pertaining to the delivery of financial statements, notices of default and certain material events, maintenance of corporate existence and rights, property, and insurance and compliance with laws, as well as customary negative covenants for facilities of this type, including a financial covenant, which set the Maximum Leverage Ratio as of the end of any quarter at 3.75 to 1.00 for the quarter ended March 31, 2023 and each quarter ending thereafter, except in circumstances as defined in the related credit agreement, and other limitations on the incurrence of subsidiary indebtedness, liens, mergers and certain other fundamental changes, investments and loans, acquisitions, transactions with affiliates, payments of dividends and other restricted payments and changes in our lines of business. The Company is in compliance with its covenants at December 31, 2023 and expects to remain in compliance for the next twelve months. We and our subsidiaries and affiliates may from time to time, in our sole discretion, purchase, repay, redeem or retire any of our outstanding debt securities (including any publicly-issued debt securities) in privately negotiated or open market transactions, by tender offer or otherwise, or extend or refinance any of our outstanding indebtedness. Supplemental Guarantor Financial Information Viatris Inc. is the issuer of the Registered Upjohn Notes, which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by Mylan Inc., Mylan II B.V. and Utah Acquisition Sub Inc. Following the Combination, Utah Acquisition Sub Inc. is the issuer of the Utah U.S. Dollar Notes, which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by Mylan Inc., Viatris Inc. and Mylan II B.V. Mylan Inc. is the issuer of the Mylan Inc. U.S. Dollar Notes, which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by Mylan II B.V., Viatris Inc. and Utah Acquisition Sub Inc. The respective obligations of Viatris Inc., Mylan Inc., Utah Acquisition Sub Inc., and Mylan II B.V. as guarantors of the applicable series of Senior U.S. Dollar Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the applicable guarantor and rank pari passu in right of payment with all of such guarantor’s existing and future senior unsecured obligations that are not expressly subordinated to such guarantor’s guarantee of the applicable series of Senior U.S. Dollar Notes, rank senior in right of payment to any future obligations of such guarantor that are expressly subordinated to such guarantor’s guarantee of the applicable series of Senior U.S. Dollar Notes, and are effectively subordinated to such guarantor’s existing and future secured obligations to the extent of the value of the collateral securing such obligations. Such obligations are structurally subordinated to all of the existing and future liabilities, including trade payables, of the existing and future subsidiaries of such guarantor that do not guarantee the applicable series of Senior U.S. Dollar Notes. The guarantees by Mylan Inc., Mylan II B.V. and Utah Acquisition Sub Inc. under the applicable series of Senior U.S. Dollar Notes will terminate under certain customary circumstances, each as described in the applicable indenture, including: (1) a sale or disposition of the applicable guarantor in a transaction that complies with the applicable indenture such that such guarantor ceases to be a subsidiary of the issuer of the applicable series of Senior U.S. Dollar Notes; (2) legal defeasance or covenant defeasance or if the issuer’s obligations under the applicable indenture are discharged; (3) with respect to the Utah U.S. Dollar Notes, the earlier to occur of (i) with respect to the guarantee provided by Mylan Inc., (x) the release of Utah Acquisition Sub Inc.’s guarantee under all applicable Mylan Inc. Debt (as defined in the applicable indenture) and (y) Mylan Inc. no longer having any obligations in respect of any Mylan Inc. Debt and (ii) with respect to the guarantee provided by Mylan II B.V., (x) the release of Mylan II B.V.’s guarantee under all applicable Triggering Indebtedness (as defined in the applicable indenture) and (y) the issuer and/or borrower of the applicable Triggering Indebtedness no longer having any obligations with respect to such Triggering Indebtedness; (4) with respect to the guarantees provided by Utah Acquisition Sub Inc. and Mylan II B.V. of the Mylan Inc. U.S. Dollar Notes, subject to certain exceptions set forth in the applicable indenture, such guarantor ceasing to be a guarantor or obligor in respect of any Triggering Indebtedness; and (5) with respect to the Registered Upjohn Notes, (a) upon the applicable guarantor no longer being an issuer or guarantor in respect of (i) Mylan Notes (as defined in the indenture governing the Registered Upjohn Notes) that have an aggregate principal amount in excess of $500.0 million or (ii) any Triggering Indebtedness; in each case, other than in respect of indebtedness or guarantees, as applicable, that are being concurrently released; or (b) upon receipt of the consent of holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding notes of such series in accordance with the indenture governing the Registered Upjohn Notes. 69 Table of Contents The guarantee obligations of Viatris Inc., Mylan Inc., Utah Acquisition Sub Inc., and Mylan II B.V. under the Senior U.S. Dollar Notes are subject to certain limitations and terms similar to those applicable to other guarantees of similar instruments, including that (i) the guarantees are subject to fraudulent transfer and conveyance laws and (ii) each guarantee is limited in amount to an amount not to exceed the maximum amount that can be guaranteed by the applicable guarantor without rendering the guarantee, as it relates to such guarantor, voidable under applicable fraudulent transfer and conveyance laws or similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally. The following table presents unaudited summarized financial information of Viatris Inc., Mylan Inc., Utah Acquisition Sub Inc., and Mylan II B.V. on a combined basis as of and for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. All intercompany balances have been eliminated in consolidation. This unaudited combined summarized financial information is presented utilizing the equity method of accounting. Combined Summarized Balance Sheet Information of Viatris Inc., Mylan Inc., Utah Acquisition Sub Inc. and Mylan II B.V. (In millions) December 31, 2023 December 31, 2022 ASSETS Current assets $ 1,013.1 $ 996.3 Non-current assets 63,212.6 61,972.6 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Current liabilities 29,824.8 26,631.5 Non-current liabilities 13,933.6 15,265.2 Combined Summarized Income Statement Information of Viatris Inc., Mylan Inc., Utah Acquisition Sub Inc. and Mylan II B.V. (In millions) Year Ended December 31, 2023 Year Ended December 31, 2022 Revenues $ — $ — Gross profit — — Loss from operations (1,243.8) (1,132.4) Net earnings 54.7 2,078.6 Other Commitments The Company is involved in various disputes, governmental and/or regulatory inquiries, investigations and proceedings, tax proceedings and litigation matters, both in the U.S. and abroad, that arise from time to time, some of which could result in losses, including damages, fines and/or civil penalties, and/or criminal charges against the Company. These matters are often complex and have outcomes that are difficult to predict. We have approximately $173 million accrued for legal contingencies at December 31, 2023. While the Company believes that it has meritorious defenses with respect to the claims asserted against it and the assumed legal matters referenced above, and intends to vigorously defend its position, the process of resolving these matters is inherently uncertain and may develop over a long period of time, and so it is not possible to predict the ultimate resolution of any such matter. It is possible that an unfavorable resolution of any of the ongoing matters could have a material effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay dividends and/or stock price. In conjunction with the Combination, Viatris entered into a TSA with Pfizer pursuant to which each party provided certain limited transition services to the other party. In addition to the monthly service fees under the TSA, Viatris has agreed to reimburse Pfizer for fifty percent of the costs, up to the first $380 million incurred, to establish and wind down the TSA services. Viatris will be required to fully reimburse Pfizer for total costs in excess of $380 million. During the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, the Company incurred $5.5 million, $54.5 million, and $30.4 million, respectively, related to this provision of the TSA, and approximately $143.5 million during the period beginning on the closing date of the Combination and ended December 31, 2023. As of December 31, 2022, the Company had exited substantially all transition services with Pfizer. 70 Table of Contents At the time of closing of the Biocon Biologics Transaction, Viatris and Biocon Biologics also entered an agreement pursuant to which Viatris was providing commercialization and certain other transition services on behalf of Biocon Biologics, including billings, collections and the remittance of rebates, to ensure business continuity for patients, customers and colleagues. Biocon Biologics had substantially exited all transition services with Viatris as of December 31, 2023. In connection with the Announced Divestitures, Viatris has agreed, at the closing of the respective transactions, to enter into transition services and manufacturing and supply agreements pursuant to which the Company will provide services to the respective purchasers, substantially the same as we currently provide to the related businesses, generally for a period of up to 12 months, subject to potential extensions in certain circumstances. In addition, in connection with the OTC Transaction and the divestiture of our women’s healthcare business, we have agreed, at the closing of the respective transactions, to enter into distribution agreements for certain markets for a limited period of time. In connection with our API business divestiture, we have agreed to enter into a manufacturing and supply agreement pursuant to which we will purchase a significant amount of API from the purchaser in that transaction. At December 31, 2023, our material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations primarily relate to repayment of outstanding borrowings and interest, open purchase orders, post-employment benefit plans, unrecognized tax benefits, capital expenditures, dividends and leases. For additional information, refer to Notes 2, 7, 10, 12, 14, and 16 in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. We anticipate our cash requirements related to ordinary course purchases of goods and services will be consistent with our past levels. In the normal course of business, Viatris periodically enters into employment, legal settlement and other agreements which incorporate indemnification provisions. While the maximum amount to which Viatris may be exposed under such agreements cannot be reasonably estimated, the Company maintains insurance coverage, which management believes will effectively mitigate the Company’s obligations under these indemnification provisions. No amounts have been recorded in the consolidated financial statements with respect to the Company’s obligations under such agreements. We have entered into employment and other agreements with certain executives and other employees that provide for compensation and certain other benefits. These agreements provide for severance payments under certain circumstances. Licensing and Other Partner Agreements Under our licensing and other partner agreements, our potential maximum development milestones not accrued for at December 31, 2023 totaled approximately $415.0 million. We estimate that the amounts that may be paid during the next twelve months to be approximately $89 million. Additionally, these agreements may also include potential sales-based milestones and call for us to pay a percentage of amounts earned from the sale of the product as a royalty or a profit share. Refer to Note 18 Licensing and Other Partner Agreements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information. Application of Critical Accounting Policies Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K and are in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Included within these policies are certain policies which contain critical accounting estimates and, therefore, have been deemed to be “critical accounting policies.” Critical accounting estimates are those which require management to make assumptions about matters that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made and for which the use of different estimates, which reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period could have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We have identified the following to be our critical accounting policies: the determination of net revenue provisions, acquisitions, intangible assets, goodwill and contingent consideration, income taxes and the impact of existing legal matters. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenues in accordance with ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers . Under ASC 606, the Company recognizes net revenue for product sales when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. Revenues are recorded net of provisions for variable consideration, including discounts, rebates, governmental rebate programs, price adjustments, returns, chargebacks, promotional programs and other sales allowances. Accruals for these provisions are presented in the consolidated financial statements as reductions in determining net sales and as a contra asset in accounts 71 Table of Contents receivable, net (if settled via credit) and other current liabilities (if paid in cash). Amounts recorded for revenue deductions can result from a complex series of judgements about future events and uncertainties and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. As such, they have been identified as critical accounting estimates. The following section briefly describes the nature of our provisions for variable consideration and how such provisions are estimated: • Chargebacks : the Company has agreements with certain indirect customers, such as independent pharmacies, retail pharmacy chains, managed care organizations, hospitals, nursing homes, governmental agencies and pharmacy benefit managers, which establish contract prices for certain products. The indirect customers then independently select a wholesaler from which to purchase the products at these contracted prices. Alternatively, certain wholesalers may enter into agreements with indirect customers that establish contract pricing for certain products, which the wholesalers provide. Under either arrangement, Viatris will provide credit to the wholesaler for any difference between the contracted price with the indirect party and the wholesaler’s invoice price. Such credits are called chargebacks. The provision for chargebacks is based on expected sell-through levels by our wholesaler customers to indirect customers, as well as estimated wholesaler inventory levels. We continually monitor our provision for chargebacks and evaluate our reserve and estimates as additional information becomes available. A change of 5% would have an effect on our reserve balance of approximately $26.5 million. • Rebates, promotional programs and other sales allowances : this category includes rebate and other programs to assist in product sales. These programs generally provide that the customer receives credit directly related to the amount of purchases or credits upon the attainment of pre-established volumes. Also included in this category are prompt pay discounts, administrative fees and price adjustments to reflect decreases in the selling prices of products. A change of 5% would have an effect on our reserve balance of approximately $55.2 million. • Returns : consistent with industry practice, Viatris maintains a return policy that allows customers to return a product, which varies country by country in accordance with local practices, generally within a specified period prior (six months) and subsequent (twelve months) to the expiration date. The Company’s estimate of the provision for returns is generally based upon historical experience with actual returns. Generally, returned products are destroyed and customers are refunded the sales price in the form of a credit. A change of 5% would have an effect on our reserve balance of approximately $21.3 million. • Governmental rebate programs : government reimbursement programs in the U.S. include Medicare, Medicaid, and State Pharmacy Assistance Programs established according to statute, regulations and policy. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products that are covered by the Medicaid program are required to pay rebates to each state based on a statutory formula set forth in the Social Security Act. Medicare beneficiaries are eligible to obtain discounted prescription drug coverage from private sector providers. In addition, certain states have also implemented supplemental rebate programs that obligate manufacturers to pay rebates in excess of those required under federal law. Our estimate of these rebates is based on the historical trends of rebates paid as well as on changes in wholesaler inventory levels and increases or decreases in the level of sales. We estimate discounts on branded prescription drug sales to Medicare Part D participants in the Medicare “coverage gap” based on historical experience of prescriptions and utilization expected to result in the discount of the “coverage gap”. Outside the U.S., the majority of our pharmaceutical sales are contractually or legislatively governed. In certain European countries, certain rebates are calculated on the governments total pharmaceutical spending or on specific product sale thresholds. We utilize historical data and obtain third party information to determine the adequacy of these accruals. Also, this provision includes price reductions that are mandated by law outside of the U.S. A change of 5% would have an effect on our reserve balance of approximately $21.1 million. 72 Table of Contents The following is a rollforward of the categories of variable consideration during 2023: (In millions) Balance at December 31, 2022 Current Provision Related to Sales Made in the Current Period Acquisitions, Divestitures, and Other Checks/ Credits Issued to Third Parties Effects of Foreign Exchange Balance at December 31, 2023 Chargebacks $ 523.4 $ 5,457.9 $ (8.1) $ (5,443.6) $ 0.7 $ 530.3 Rebates, promotional programs and other sales allowances 1,284.2 3,857.6 20.6 (4,071.3) 11.8 1,102.9 Returns 513.4 223.2 (26.2) (286.8) 1.8 425.4 Governmental rebate programs 366.5 766.0 8.7 (726.3) 6.4 421.3 Total $ 2,687.5 $ 10,304.7 $ (5.0) $ (10,528.0) $ 20.7 $ 2,479.9 Accruals for these provisions are presented in the consolidated financial statements as reductions in determining net revenues and as a contra asset in accounts receivable, net (if settled via credit) and other current liabilities (if paid in cash). Accounts receivable are presented net of allowances relating to these provisions, which were comprised of the following at December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively: (In millions) December 31, 2023 December 31, 2022 Accounts receivable, net $ 1,483.6 $ 1,798.7 Other current liabilities 996.3 888.8 Total $ 2,479.9 $ 2,687.5 We have not made and do not anticipate making any significant changes to the methodologies that we use to measure provisions for variable consideration; however, the balances within these reserves can fluctuate significantly through the consistent application of our methodologies. Historically, we have not recorded in any current period any material amounts related to adjustments made to prior period reserves. Acquisitions, Intangible Assets, Goodwill and Contingent Consideration The Company accounts for acquired businesses using the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with the provisions of ASC 805 , Business Combinations , which requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective estimated fair values. The cost to acquire businesses is allocated to the underlying net assets of the acquired business based on estimates of their respective fair values. Amounts allocated to acquired IPR&D are capitalized at the date of acquisition and, at that time, such IPR&D assets have indefinite lives. As products in development are approved for sale, amounts are allocated to product rights and licenses and will be amortized over their estimated useful lives. Finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over the expected life of the asset. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Refer to Note 4 Acquisitions and Other Transactions and Note 8 Goodwill and Intangible Assets included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information. Purchases of developed products and licenses that are accounted for as asset acquisitions are capitalized as intangible assets and amortized over an estimated useful life. IPR&D assets acquired as part of an asset acquisition are expensed immediately if they have no alternative future uses. The judgments made in determining the estimated fair value assigned to each class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can materially impact our results of operations. Fair values and useful lives are determined based on, among other factors, the expected future period of benefit of the asset, the various characteristics of the asset and projected cash flows. Because this process involves management making estimates with respect to future sales volumes, pricing, new product launches, government reform actions, anticipated cost environment and overall market conditions, and because these estimates form the basis for the determination of whether or not an impairment charge should be recorded, these estimates are considered to be critical accounting estimates. 73 Table of Contents The Company records contingent consideration liabilities resulting from business acquisitions or divestitures at its estimated fair value on the acquisition or divestiture date. Each reporting period thereafter, the Company revalues these obligations and records increases or decreases in their fair value as adjustments to litigation settlements and other contingencies, net within the consolidated statements of operations. Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration obligations can result from adjustments to the discount rates, payment periods and adjustments in the probability of achieving future development steps, regulatory approvals, market launches, operating results, sales targets and profitability. These fair value measurements represent Level 3 measurements as they are based on significant inputs not observable in the market. Significant judgment is employed in determining the assumptions utilized as of the acquisition or divestiture date and for each subsequent measurement period. Accordingly, changes in the assumptions described above could have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. The Company reviews goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable based on management’s assessment of the fair value of the Company’s reporting units as compared to their related carrying value. Under the authoritative guidance issued by the FASB, we have the option to first assess the qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test. If we choose to use qualitative factors and determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then the goodwill impairment test would be required. The goodwill impairment test requires the Company to estimate the fair value of the reporting unit and to compare the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount is less than its fair value, then no impairment is recognized. If the carrying amount recorded exceeds the fair value calculated, an impairment charge is recorded for the difference. The judgments made in determining the projected cash flows used to estimate the fair value can materially impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company performed its annual goodwill impairment test on a quantitative basis for its five reporting units, North America, Europe, Emerging Markets, JANZ, and Greater China. In estimating each reporting unit’s fair value, the Company performed an extensive valuation analysis, utilizing a discounted cash flow approach. The determination of the fair value of the reporting units requires the Company to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reporting unit’s expected future cash flows. These estimates and assumptions, utilizing Level 3 inputs, primarily include, but are not limited to, the discount rate, terminal growth rates, operating income before depreciation and amortization, capital expenditures forecasts and control premiums. When compared to the prior year’s annual goodwill impairment test completed on April 1, 2022, the Company has experienced significant fluctuations in foreign exchange rates in certain international markets, combined with a significant increase in market interest rates. These market factors have caused the discount rate utilized in all our reporting units to increase between 1.0% to 4.5%, resulting in a significant reduction in the calculated fair values at April 1, 2023 for all our reporting units. Also, in conjunction with the Company’s annual strategic planning process which included determining long-term growth rate targets for our business, operational results during the forecast period were reduced and long-term growth rates were increased. As a result of these changes, the calculated fair values of the North America, Greater China and Europe reporting units declined in excess of 10% and the JANZ and Emerging Markets reporting units declined in excess of 15% when compared to the prior year fair values. As of April 1, 2023, the allocation of the Company’s total goodwill was as follows: North America $3.15 billion, Europe $4.47 billion, Emerging Markets $1.34 billion, JANZ $0.68 billion and Greater China $0.94 billion. As of April 1, 2023, the Company determined that the fair value of the North America and Greater China reporting units was substantially in excess of the respective unit’s carrying value. For the Europe reporting unit, the estimated fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately $535 million or 3.9% for the annual goodwill impairment test. As it relates to the discounted cash flow approach for the Europe reporting unit at April 1, 2023, the Company forecasted cash flows for the next 10 years. During the forecast period, the revenue compound annual growth rate was approximately 2.4%. A terminal year value was calculated with a 2.0% revenue growth rate applied. The discount rate utilized was 11.0% and the estimated tax rate was 14.9%. If all other assumptions are held constant, a reduction in the terminal value growth rate by 1.0% or an increase in discount rate by 0.5% would result in an impairment charge for the Europe reporting unit. 74 Table of Contents For the JANZ reporting unit, the estimated fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately $145 million or 5.5% for the annual goodwill impairment test. As it relates to the discounted cash flow approach for the JANZ reporting unit at  April 1, 2023, the Company forecasted cash flows for the next 10 years. During the forecast period, the revenue compound annual growth rate was approximately negative 2.0%. A terminal year value was calculated with a 1.5% revenue growth rate applied. The discount rate utilized was 7.0% and the estimated tax rate was 30.6%. If all other assumptions are held constant, a reduction in the terminal value growth rate by 0.5% or an increase in discount rate by 0.5% would result in an impairment charge for the JANZ reporting unit. For the Emerging Markets reporting unit, the estimated fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately $513 million or 7.7% for the annual goodwill impairment test. As it relates to the discounted cash flow approach for the Emerging Markets reporting unit at April 1, 2023, the Company forecasted cash flows for the next 10 years. During the forecast period, the revenue compound annual growth rate was approximately 1.8%. A terminal year value was calculated with a 2.0% revenue growth rate applied. The discount rate utilized was 11.5% and the estimated tax rate was 17.4%. If all other assumptions are held constant, a reduction in the terminal value growth rate by 2.5% or an increase in discount rate by 1.0% would result in an impairment charge for the Emerging Markets reporting unit. In the fourth quarter of 2022, the commercialization rights in the Upjohn Distributor Markets met the criteria to be classified as held for sale.  The Company allocated goodwill to its commercialization rights in the Upjohn Distributor Markets using a relative fair value approach and recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $117.0 million in that quarter within the Emerging Markets reporting unit, which was recorded within SG&A in the consolidated statement of operations. The goodwill impairment charge was the result of the estimated proceeds less selling costs from the disposal of the commercialization rights in the Upjohn Distributor Markets being below the carrying value of the net assets of the disposal group. In the fourth quarter of 2023, the OTC Business met the criteria to be classified as held for sale. The Company allocated goodwill to its OTC Business using a relative fair value approach and recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $580.1 million in that quarter within the Europe (majority of the charge), JANZ and Emerging Markets reporting units, which was recorded within SG&A in the consolidated statement of operations. The goodwill impairment charge was the result of the estimated proceeds less selling costs from the planned divestiture of the OTC Business being below the carrying value of the net assets of the disposal group. Refer to Note 5 Divestitures included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information on these divestitures. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, actual results could differ from those estimates. In addition, changes in underlying assumptions, especially as they relate to the key assumptions detailed, could have a significant impact on the fair value of the reporting units. The carrying values of long-lived assets, which include property, plant and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives, are evaluated periodically in relation to the expected future undiscounted cash flows of the underlying assets and monitored for other potential triggering events. We assess the recoverability of certain long-lived assets, principally finite-lived intangible assets, contained within the reporting units whenever certain impairment indicators are present. Any impairment of these assets must be considered prior to our impairment review of goodwill. The assessment for impairment is based on our ability to recover the carrying value of the long-lived assets or asset grouping by analyzing the expected future undiscounted pre-tax cash flows specific to the asset or asset grouping. If the carrying amount is greater than the undiscounted cash flows, the Company recognizes an impairment loss for the excess of the carrying amount over the estimated fair value based on discounted cash flows. Significant management judgment is involved in estimating the recoverability of these assets and is dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions used in making these estimates, as well as how the estimates compare to the eventual future operating performance of the specific asset or asset grouping. The fair value of finite-lived intangible assets was calculated as the present value of the estimated future net cash flows using a market rate of return. For the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company recorded $83.4 million (related to the divestiture of a group of OTC products in the U.S.) of impairment charges for finite-lived intangible assets, which were recorded as a component of amortization expense. At December 31, 2023 and 2022, the Company’s finite-lived intangible assets totaled $18.86 billion and $22.57 billion, respectively. Changes to any of the Company’s assumptions related to the estimated fair value based on the discounted cash flows, including discount rates or the competitive environment related to the assets, could lead to future material impairment charges. Any future long-lived assets impairment charges could have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. 75 Table of Contents If the divestitures of the commercialization rights in the remaining Upjohn Distributor Markets are not completed, the distribution arrangements will expire and the Company will wind down operations in these markets, which may result in additional asset write-offs and other costs being incurred. The Company’s indefinite-lived intangible assets, principally IPR&D acquired as part of business combinations, are tested at least annually for impairment or upon the occurrence of a triggering event. The impairment test for IPR&D consists of a comparison of the asset’s fair value with its carrying value. Impairment is determined to exist when the fair value of IPR&D assets, which is based upon updated forecasts and commercial development plans, is less than the carrying value of the assets being tested. For the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, the Company recorded $0.6 million, and $19.4 million, respectively, of impairment charges, which were recorded as a component of amortization expense. At December 31, 2023 and 2022, the Company’s IPR&D assets totaled $319.4 million and $40.2 million, respectively. The fair value of both IPR&D and finite-lived intangible assets was determined based upon detailed valuations employing the income approach which utilized Level 3 inputs, as defined in Note 9 Financial Instruments and Risk Management included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Changes to any of the Company’s assumptions including changes to or abandonment of development programs, regulatory timelines, discount rates or the competitive environment related to the assets could lead to future material impairment charges. Income Taxes We compute our income taxes based on the statutory tax rates and tax reliefs available to Viatris in the various jurisdictions in which we generate income. Significant judgment is required in determining our income taxes and in evaluating our tax positions. We establish reserves in accordance with Viatris’ policy regarding accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. Our policy provides that the tax effects from an uncertain tax position be recognized in Viatris’ financial statements, only if the position is more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, based on the technical merits of the position. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the settlement of a tax audit. Our provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves. Favorable resolution would be recognized as a reduction to our provision for income taxes in the period of resolution or expiration of the underlying statutes of limitation. Based on this evaluation, as of December 31, 2023, our reserve for unrecognized tax benefits totaled $272.8 million, of which $204.3 million was recorded in connection with the Combination and is subject to Pfizer’s indemnification obligations to Viatris under the Tax Matters Agreement. Management assesses the available positive and negative evidence to estimate if sufficient future taxable income will be generated to utilize the existing deferred tax assets. A significant piece of objective negative evidence evaluated was the cumulative loss incurred in certain taxing jurisdictions over the three-year period ended December 31, 2023. Such objective evidence limits the ability to consider other subjective evidence such as our projections for future growth. Based on this evaluation and other factors, as of December 31, 2023, a valuation allowance of $421.4 million has been recorded in order to measure only the portion of the deferred tax asset that more likely than not will be realized. The amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable, however, could be adjusted if estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward period are reduced or if objective negative evidence in the form of cumulative losses is no longer present and additional weight may be given to subjective evidence such as projections for growth. When assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers all available evidence, including historical information, long-term forecasts of future taxable income and possible tax planning strategies. Amounts recorded for valuation allowances can result from a complex series of estimates, assumptions and judgments about future events. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, assumptions and judgments, actual results could differ materially. Any future increases to the Company’s valuation allowances could materially impact the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2023 and 2022, the Company’s net deferred tax assets totaled $692.9 million and $925.9 million, respectively. A variance of 5% between estimated reserves and valuation allowances and actual resolution and realization of these tax items would have an effect on our reserve balance and valuation allowance of approximately $34.7 million. Legal Matters Viatris is involved in various legal proceedings, some of which involve claims for substantial amounts. An estimate is made to accrue for a loss contingency relating to any of these legal proceedings if it is probable that a liability was incurred as of the date of the financial statements and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Because of the subjective nature inherent in assessing the outcome of litigation and because of the potential that an adverse outcome in a legal proceeding could 76 Table of Contents have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price, such estimates are considered to be critical accounting estimates. A variance of 5% between estimated and recorded litigation reserves and actual resolution of certain legal matters would have an effect on our litigation reserve balance of approximately $8.6 million. Refer to Note 19 Litigation included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further discussion of litigation matters. Impact of Currency Fluctuations and Inflation Because our results are reported in U.S. Dollars, changes in the rate of exchange between the U.S. Dollar and the local currencies in the markets in which we operate, mainly the Euro, Indian Rupee, Chinese Renminbi, Japanese Yen, Australian Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Pound Sterling and South Korean Won affect our results as previously noted. During 2022 and 2023, the global economy has been impacted by high levels of inflation and rising energy costs, which has resulted in significant economic volatility. As a result, central banks have and may continue to tighten their monetary policies and increase interest rates. These macroeconomic pressures combined with the volatility in foreign exchange rates, including the strengthening of the U.S. dollar versus certain of the other currencies in which we operate, negatively impact our results of operations. We proactively look to manage such macroeconomic pressures by implementing strategies to mitigate and partially offset the impact of these factors. While inflationary and other macroeconomic pressures have somewhat eased more recently, we do not expect to see a corresponding reduction in these higher costs. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted.