Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 18A. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information—Segment Information. Our 2016 reported revenue for each segment, by species, is as follows: 2 | Table of Contents Products Over the course of our history, we have focused on developing a diverse portfolio of animal health products, including medicines and vaccines, complemented by biodevices, diagnostics, and genetics. We refer to a single product in all brands, or its dosage forms for all species, as a product line. We have approximately 300 comprehensive product lines, including products for both livestock and companion animals across each of our major product categories. Our livestock products primarily help prevent or treat diseases and conditions to enable the cost-effective production of safe, high-quality animal protein. Human population growth and increasing standards of living are important long-term growth drivers for our livestock products in three major ways. First, population growth and increasing standards of living drive increased demand for improved nutrition, particularly animal protein. Second, population growth leads to increased natural resource constraints driving a need for enhanced productivity. Finally, as standards of living improve, there is increased focus on food quality and safety. Livestock products represented approximately 59% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Our companion animal products help extend and improve the quality of life for pets; increase convenience and compliance for pet owners; and help veterinarians improve the quality of their care and the efficiency of their businesses. Growth in the companion animal medicines and vaccines sector is driven by economic development, related increases in disposable income and increases in pet ownership and spending on pet care. Companion animals are also living longer, receiving increased medical treatment and benefiting from advances in animal health medicines and vaccines. Companion animal products represented approximately 40% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2016 . In addition, our CSS organization provides contract manufacturing services to third parties and represented 1% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Our major product categories are: • anti-infectives : products that prevent, kill or slow the growth of bacteria, fungi or protozoa; • vaccines : biological preparations that help prevent diseases of the respiratory, gastrointestinal and reproductive tracts or induce a specific immune response; • parasiticides : products that prevent or eliminate external and internal parasites such as fleas, ticks and worms; • medicated feed additives : products added to animal feed that provide medicines to livestock; and • other pharmaceutical products : pain and sedation, oncology, antiemetic, allergy and dermatology, and reproductive products. Our remaining revenue is derived from other product categories, such as nutritionals and agribusiness, as well as products and services in complementary areas, including biodevices, diagnostics, genetics. As part of our growth strategy, through our research and development (R&D) group, we focus on the discovery and development of new chemical and biological entities, as well as product lifecycle innovation. Historically, a substantial portion of our products and revenue has been the result of product lifecycle innovation where we actively work to broaden the value of existing products by developing claims in additional species, more convenient formulations and combinations, and by expanding usage into more countries. For example, the first product in our ceftiofur line was an anti-infective approved for treating bovine respiratory disease (BRD) in cattle that was administered via intramuscular injection. Through follow-on studies and reformulations, we have expanded the product line into additional cattle claims and administration routes, as well as other species and regions. The ceftiofur product line currently includes the brands Excede ® , Excenel ® RTU, Excenel ® RTU EZ, Excenel ® , Naxcel ® and Spectramast ® . Examples of our first-in-class and/or best-in-class products that we have launched in recent years and products that we believe may represent platforms for future product lifecycle innovation include (listed alphabetically): • Apoquel ® , the first Janus kinase inhibitor for use in veterinary medicine, was approved for the control of pruritus associated with allergic dermatitis and the control of atopic dermatitis in dogs at least 12 months of age. Since January 2014, we launched Apoquel in all key markets including the United States, Europe, Japan, Brazil, and Australia and expect ongoing market launches throughout 2017; • Cerenia ® , the first and only product on the market to prevent vomiting due to motion sickness in dogs, was first launched in Europe in 2006, followed by the United States in 2007; it was approved to prevent vomiting in cats in 2012 in the United States and European countries. In January 2016, it was approved in the United States for intravenous administration in dogs and cats four months of age and older and for the prevention of vomiting caused by emetogenic or chemotherapeutic agents in dogs four months of age or older; • Cytopoint TM , the first canine monoclonal antibody to help reduce the clinical signs such as itching of atopic dermatitis in dogs of any age, licensed in the United States in 2016. An injection given once every four to eight weeks, Cytopoint neutralizes interleukin - 31, a protein that has been demonstrated to trigger itching in dogs. This therapy is conditionally licensed in Canada and an application for approval in the European Union is under review; • Fostera ® PCV MH was introduced in November 2013 in the United States and approved in the European Union in 2015. It was developed to help protect pigs from PCVAD and enzootic pneumonia caused by M. hyopneumoniae . The one-bottle formulation of Fostera PCV MH allows the convenience of a one-dose program or the flexibility of a two-dose program; • Improvac ® /Improvest ® /Vivax ® , a protein product that works like an immunization, is currently the only product that provides a safe and effective alternative to physical castration to manage unpleasant aromas that can occur when cooking pork; launched in Australia and New Zealand in 2004, in Brazil in 2007, in certain European countries beginning in 2008, and in the United States in 2011; • Inforce ® 3, the first vaccine for cattle that prevents respiratory disease caused by bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) while also aiding in the prevention of infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR) and parainfluenza 3 (PI 3 ), launched in 2010; • Palladia ® , the first drug to be approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for treating cancer in dogs, launched in 2009; 3 | Table of Contents • Simparica ® (sarolaner) Chewables, a monthly chewable tablet for dogs to control fleas and ticks, was approved in the European Union and New Zealand in 2015, and in the United States, Canada, Australia, and Brazil (Simparic) in 2016; and • Vanguard ® and Versican Plus ® are market leading vaccine lines for dogs intended to help prevent a range of diseases including those that are zoonotic. The Versican Plus line was launched in the European Union in 2014. Zoetis added new and innovative vaccines to its Vanguard line of canine vaccines with Vanguard crLyme, Vanguard Rapid Resp Intranasal, Vanguard B Oral, and Vanguard CIV H3N2. We pursue the development of new vaccines for emerging infectious diseases, with an operating philosophy of “first to know and fast to market.” Examples of the successful execution of this strategy include the first equine vaccine for West Nile virus in the United States and European Union; the first swine vaccine for pandemic H1N1 influenza virus in the United States; the first fully licensed vaccine to help reduce disease caused by the Georgia 08 variant of infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) in poultry; a conditionally licensed vaccine to help fight porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDv) in the United States, and the first conditionally licensed vaccine to help prevent the H3N2 type of canine influenza that emerged in the United States. Examples also include the first and only vaccine to aid in the prevention of clinical symptoms of the disease caused by Hendra virus in horses, a serious zoonotic disease identified in Australia that can be fatal to horses and people; a conditionally licensed vaccine in the United States for use in poultry as an aid in the prevention of avian influenza virus H5N1; the first centrally-authorized vaccine in the European Union to reduce viremia associated with Schmallenberg virus infection in cattle and sheep; and the first live recombinant marker vaccine in the European Union and United States to prevent mortality and reduce infection caused by Classical Swine Fever in pigs. Additionally, the Pharmaq business of Zoetis is the global leader in vaccines and innovation for health products in aquaculture. In 2016, Pharmaq added to its leading Alpha Ject ® vaccine line with Alpha Ject ® LiVac ® SRS vaccine, the first and only vaccine containing a live, attenuated version of P.salmonis to provide immunity against Salmonid Rickettsial Septicaemia (SRS), the leading cause of mortality in farmed fish in Chile. Our diverse portfolio also includes diagnostics products such as the Witness ® line of immunodiagnostic kits and, in August 2016, we expanded our diagnostic offerings into microfluidic “lab on a chip” diagnostic analyzers and tests with the acquisition of Scandinavian Micro BioDevices. In 2016 , our top selling product line, the ceftiofur line, contributed approximately 7% of our revenue. The ceftiofur line and our next three top selling products, Revolution ® , Draxxin ® and Apoquel ® , contributed approximately 25% of our revenue. Our top ten product lines contributed 40% of our revenue. 4 | Table of Contents Our product lines and products that represented approximately 1% or more of our revenue in 2016 , which comprise 58% of our total revenue, are as follows (listed alphabetically): Livestock products Product line / product Description Primary species Anti-infectives Ceftiofur injectable line Broad-spectrum cephalosporin antibiotic active against gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria, including ß-lactamase-producing strains, with some formulations producing a single course of therapy in one injection Cattle, sheep, swine Draxxin ® Single-dose low-volume antibiotic for the treatment and prevention of bovine and swine respiratory disease, infectious bovine keratoconjunctivitis and bovine foot rot Cattle, swine, sheep Spectramast ® Treatment of subclinical or clinical mastitis in dry or lactating dairy cattle, delivered via intramammary infusion; same active ingredient as the ceftiofur line Cattle Terramycin ® line Antibiotic for the treatment of susceptible infections Cattle, poultry, sheep, swine Vaccines Bovi-Shield ® line Aids in preventing diseases, including infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR), bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) Types 1 and 2, parainfluenza 3 (PI 3 ), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), and leptospirosis caused by Leptospira borgpetersenii , L.canicola, L grippotyphosa, L. hardjo, L. icterohaemorrhagiae, and L. pamona , depending on formulation Cattle Rispoval ® line Aids in preventing three key viruses involved in cattle pneumonia-BRSV, PI 3 virus and BVD-viruses as well as other respiratory diseases, depending on formulation Cattle Suvaxyn ® / Fostera ® Aids in preventing or controlling disease associated with major pathogens in swine such as porcine circovirus type 2 (PCV2), porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSv) and Mycoplasma hyopneumoniae, depending on formulation Swine Parasiticides Cydectin ® Injectable or pour-on endectocide to treat and control internal and external cattle parasites, including gastrointestinal roundworms, lungworms, cattle grubs, mites and lice Cattle, sheep Dectomax ® Injectable or pour-on endectocide, characterized by extended duration of activity, for the treatment and control of internal and external parasite infections Cattle, swine Medicated Feed Additives Aureomycin ® Provides livestock producers control, treatment and convenience against a wide range of respiratory, enteric and reproductive diseases Cattle, poultry, sheep, swine BMD ® Aids in preventing and controlling enteritis; and increases rate of weight gain and improves feed efficiency in poultry and swine Poultry, swine Lasalocid line Controls coccidiosis in poultry (Avatec ® ) and cattle (Bovatec ® ) and for increased rate of weight gain and improved feed efficiency in cattle Poultry, cattle Lincomycin line Controls necrotic enteritis; treatment of dysentery (bloody scours), control of ileitis and treatment/reduction in severity of mycoplasmal pneumonia Swine, poultry Other Eazi-Breed TM CIDR ® A vaginal insert that contains progesterone, used in reproductive management programs to synchronize estrus within a herd and help cows, heifers and ewes become pregnant Cattle, sheep Embrex ® devices Devices for enhancing hatchery operations' efficiency through in ovo detection and vaccination Poultry Lutalyse ® For estrus control or in the induction of parturition or abortion Cattle, swine 5 | Table of Contents Companion animal products Product line / product Description Primary species Anti-infectives Clavamox ® / Synulox ® A broad-spectrum antibiotic and the first and only potentiated penicillin approved for use in dogs and cats Cats, dogs Convenia ® Anti-infective for the treatment of common bacterial skin infections that provides a course of treatment in a single injection Cats, dogs Vaccines Vanguard ® L4 (4-way Lepto) Compatible with the Vanguard line and helps protect against leptospirosis caused by Leptospira canicola , L. grippotyphosa , L. icterohaemorrhagiae and L. pomona Dogs Vanguard ® line Aids in preventing canine distemper caused by canine distemper virus; infectious canine hepatitis caused by canine adenovirus type 1; respiratory disease caused by canine adenovirus type 2; canine parainfluenza caused by canine parainfluenza virus; canine parvoviral enteritis caused by canine parvovirus; Lyme disease and subclinical arthritis associated with Borrelia burgdorferi , the causative agent of Lyme disease; and Rapid Resp - a group of three vaccines combating infections in dogs caused by Bordetella bronchiseptica , canine parainfluenza and canine adenovirus; canine influenza vaccines; and an oral vaccine for Bordatella bronchiseptica Dogs Parasiticides ProHeart ® Prevents heartworm infestation; also for treatment of existing larval and adult hookworm infections Dogs Revolution ® / Stronghold ® An antiparasitic for protection against fleas, heartworm disease and ear mites in cats and dogs; sarcoptic mites and American dog tick in dogs and roundworms and hookworms for cats Cats, dogs Other Apoquel ® A selective inhibitor of the Janus Kinase 1 enzyme that controls pruritus associated with allergic dermatitis and control of atopic dermatitis in dogs at least 12 months of age Dogs Cerenia ® A medication that prevents and treats acute vomiting in dogs, treats acute vomiting in cats and prevents vomiting due to motion sickness in dogs Cats, dogs Rimadyl ® For the relief of pain and inflammation associated with osteoarthritis and for the control of postoperative pain associated with soft tissue and orthopedic surgeries Dogs International Operations We directly market our products in approximately 45 countries across North America, Europe, Africa, Asia, Australia and South America, and our products are sold in more than 100 countries. Operations outside the United States accounted for 49% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Through our efforts to establish an early and direct presence in many emerging markets, such as Brazil, China and Mexico, emerging markets contributed 22% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Our international businesses are subject, in varying degrees, to a number of risks inherent in carrying on business in other countries. These include, among other things, currency fluctuations, capital and exchange control regulations, expropriation and other restrictive government actions. See