Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Notes to Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements— Note 18A. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information—Segment Information. Our 2014 reported revenue for each segment, by species and top countries, is as follows: 2 | Table of Contents 2014 EuAfME Segment Revenue *Includes Russia and Commonwealth of Independent States, Africa, Turkey and Egypt, the Middle East, Iran and Caucasus, and Israel. **Includes key markets such as Netherlands, Poland and Ireland. 2014 CLAR Segment Revenue *Includes key markets such as Chile, Colombia and Peru. 2014 APAC Segment Revenue *Includes markets such as Korea, New Zealand and Taiwan. 3 | Table of Contents Products Over the course of our history, we have focused on developing a diverse portfolio of animal health products, including medicines and vaccines, complemented by diagnostics and genetics. We refer to a single product in all brands, or its dosage forms for all species, as a product line. We have more than 300 comprehensive product lines for both livestock and companion animals across each of our major product categories. Our livestock products primarily help prevent or treat diseases and conditions to enable the cost-effective production of safe, high-quality animal protein. Human population growth and increasing standards of living are important long-term growth drivers for our livestock products in three major ways. First, population growth and increasing standards of living drive increased demand for improved nutrition, particularly animal protein. Second, population growth leads to increased natural resource constraints driving a need for enhanced productivity. Finally, as standards of living improve, there is increased focus on food quality and safety. Livestock products represented approximately 65% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014 . Our companion animal products help extend and improve the quality of life for pets; increase convenience and compliance for pet owners; and help veterinarians improve the quality of their care and the efficiency of their businesses. Growth in the companion animal medicines and vaccines sector is driven by economic development, related increases in disposable income and increases in pet ownership and spending on pet care. Companion animals are also living longer, receiving increased medical treatment and benefiting from advances in animal health medicines and vaccines. Companion animal products represented approximately 34% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014 . In addition, our Client Supply Services (CSS) organization provides contract manufacturing services to third parties and represented 1% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014 . Our major product categories are: • anti-infectives : products that prevent, kill or slow the growth of bacteria, fungi or protozoa; • vaccines : biological preparations that help prevent diseases of the respiratory, gastrointestinal and reproductive tracts or induce a specific immune response; • parasiticides : products that prevent or eliminate external and internal parasites such as fleas, ticks and worms; • medicated feed additives : products added to animal feed that provide medicines to livestock; and • other pharmaceutical products : pain and sedation, oncology, antiemetic, allergy and dermatology; and reproductive products. Our remaining revenue is derived from other product categories, such as nutritionals and agribusiness, as well as products and services in complementary areas, including diagnostics, genetics, biodevices and services. As part of our growth strategy, through our research and development (R&D) group, we focus on the discovery and development of new chemical and biological entities, as well as product lifecycle development. Historically, a substantial portion of our products and revenue has been the result of product lifecycle development where we actively work to broaden the value of existing products by developing claims in additional species, more convenient formulations and combinations, and by expanding usage into more countries. For example, the first product in our ceftiofur line was an anti-infective approved for treating bovine respiratory disease (BRD) in cattle that was administered via intramuscular injection. Through follow-on studies and reformulations, we have expanded the product line into additional cattle claims and administration routes, as well as other species and regions. The ceftiofur product line currently includes the brands Excede, Excenel RTU, Excenel RTU EZ, Excenel, Naxcel and Spectramast. Examples of our first-in-class and/or best-in-class products that we have launched in the past ten years and products that we believe may represent platforms for future product lifecycle development include: • Improvac/Improvest/Vivax, a protein product that works like an immunization, is currently the only product that provides a safe and effective alternative to physical castration to manage unpleasant aromas that can occur when cooking pork; launched in Australia and New Zealand in 2004, in Brazil in 2007, in certain European countries beginning in 2008, and in the United States in 2011; • Convenia, the first single-injection anti-infective for common bacterial skin infections in cats and dogs, launched in 2006; • Cerenia®, the first and only product on the market to prevent vomiting due to motion sickness in dogs, was first launched in Europe in 2006, followed by the United States in 2007; • Palladia, the first drug to be approved by the FDA for treating cancer in dogs, launched in 2009; • Inforce TM 3, the first and only respiratory vaccine for cattle that prevents respiratory disease caused by bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) while also aiding in the prevention of infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR) and parainfluenza 3 (PI 3 ), launched in 2010; • Fostera® PCV MH was introduced in November 2013 and developed to help protect pigs from PCVAD and enzootic pneumonia caused by M. hyo. Unlike other combination vaccines that require field mixing, the one-bottle formulation of Fostera PCV MH allows the convenience of a one-dose program or the flexibility of a two-dose program; and • Apoquel, the first Janus kinase inhibitor for use in veterinary medicine, was approved for the control of pruritus associated with allergic dermatitis and the control of atopic dermatitis in dogs at least 12 months of age. We launched Apoquel in the United States, United Kingdom, Austria and Germany in January 2014 and expect other market launches to follow. We pursue the development of new vaccines for emerging infectious diseases, with an operating philosophy of “first to know and fast to market.” Examples of the successful execution of this strategy include the first equine vaccine for West Nile virus in the United States and European Union; the first swine vaccine for pandemic H1N1 influenza virus in the United States; the first fully licensed vaccine to help reduce disease caused by the 4 | Table of Contents Georgia 08 variant of infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) in poultry; and a conditionally licensed vaccine to help fight porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDv) in the United States. In 2014 , our top selling product line, the ceftiofur line, contributed approximately 8% of our revenue. The ceftiofur line and our next two top selling products, Revolution and Draxxin, contributed approximately 21% of our revenue. Our top ten product lines contributed 39% of our revenue. Our product lines and products that represented approximately 1% or more of our revenue in 2014 , which comprise 59% of our total revenue, are as follows: Livestock products Product line / product Description Primary species Anti-infectives Ceftiofur injectable line Broad-spectrum cephalosporin antibiotic active against gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria, including ß-lactamase-producing strains, with some formulations producing a single course of therapy in one injection Cattle, sheep, swine Draxxin Single-dose low-volume antibiotic for the treatment and prevention of bovine and swine respiratory disease, infectious bovine keratoconjunctivitis and bovine foot rot Cattle, swine Spectramast Treatment of subclinical or clinical mastitis in dry or lactating dairy cattle, delivered via intramammary infusion; same active ingredient as the ceftiofur line Cattle Terramycin line Antibiotic for the treatment of susceptible infections Cattle, poultry, sheep, swine Vaccines Bovi-shield ® line Aids in preventing diseases, including infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR), bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) Types 1 and 2, parainfluenza 3 (PI 3 ), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), and leptospirosis caused by Leptospira borgpetersenii , L.canicola, L grippotyphosa, L. hardjo,L. icterohaemorrhagiae, and L. pamona ,  depending on formulation Cattle Improvac / Improvest / Vivax Reduces boar taint, as an alternative to surgical castration Swine Rispoval ® line Aids in preventing three key viruses involved in cattle pneumonia-BRSV, PI 3 and BVD-as well as other respiratory diseases, depending on formulation Cattle Suvaxyn ® PCV / Fostera™ PCV Aids in preventing viremia and helps control lymphoid depletion caused by porcine circovirus Swine Parasiticides Cydectin Injectable or pour-on endectocide to treat and control internal and external cattle parasites, including gastrointestinal roundworms, lungworms, cattle grubs, mites and lice Cattle, sheep Dectomax Injectable or pour-on endectocide, characterized by extended duration of activity, for the treatment and control of internal and external parasite infections Cattle, swine Medicated Feed Additives Aureomycin Provides livestock producers control, treatment and convenience against a wide range of respiratory, enteric and reproductive diseases Cattle, poultry, sheep, swine BMD Aids in preventing and controlling enteritis; and increases rate of weight gain and improves feed efficiency in poultry and swine Poultry, swine Lasalocid line Controls coccidiosis in poultry (Avatec) and cattle (Bovatec) and for increased rate of weight gain and improved feed efficiency in cattle Poultry, cattle Lincomycin line Controls necrotic enteritis; treatment of dysentery (bloody scours), control of ileitis, treatment/reduction in severity of mycoplasmal pneumonia, increases weight gain in swine Swine, poultry Other Embrex ® devices Devices for enhancing hatchery operations' efficiency through in ovo detection and vaccination Poultry Lutalyse For estrus control or in the induction of parturition or abortion Cattle, swine Orbeseal / Teatseal Non-antibiotic intramammary infusion that prevents new intramammary infections in dairy cattle Cattle 5 | Table of Contents Companion animal products Product line / product Description Primary species Anti-infectives Clavamox / Synulox A broad-spectrum antibiotic and the first and only potentiated penicillin approved for use in dogs and cats Cats, dogs Convenia Anti-infective for the treatment of common bacterial skin infections that provides a course of treatment in a single injection Cats, dogs Vaccines Vanguard ® L4 (4-way Lepto) Compatible with the Vanguard line and helps protect against leptospirosis caused by Leptospira canicola , L. grippotyphosa , L. icterohaemorrhagiae and L. pomona Dogs Vanguard line Aids in preventing canine distemper caused by canine distemper virus, infectious canine hepatitis caused by canine adenovirus type 1, respiratory disease caused by canine adenovirus type 2, canine parainfluenza caused by canine parainfluenza virus and canine parvoviral enteritis caused by canine parvovirus Dogs Parasiticides Revolution / Stronghold An antiparasitic for protection against fleas, heartworm disease and ear mites in cats and dogs; canine sarcoptic mites and American dog tick and roundworms and hookworms for cats Cats, dogs ProHeart Prevents heartworm infestation; also for treatment of existing larval and adult hookworm infections Dogs Other Cerenia A medication that prevents and treats acute vomiting in dogs, treats acute vomiting in cats and prevents vomiting due to motion sickness in dogs Cats, dogs Rimadyl For the relief of pain and inflammation associated with osteoarthritis and for the control of postoperative pain associated with soft tissue and orthopedic surgeries Dogs International Operations We directly market our products in approximately 70 countries across North America, Europe, Africa, Asia, Australia and South America, and our products are sold in more than 120 countries. Operations outside the United States accounted for 57% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014 . Through our efforts to establish an early and direct presence in many emerging markets, such as Brazil, China and India, emerging markets contributed 24% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014 . Our international businesses are subject, in varying degrees, to a number of risks inherent in carrying on business in other countries. These include, among other things, currency fluctuations, capital and exchange control regulations, expropriation and other restrictive government actions. See