Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations— Recent Developments . In addition, 11 Pfizer sites located in 11 countries manufacture certain of our products for us. Included in these Pfizer sites is our facility in Guarulhos, Brazil, where Pfizer will continue its manufacturing operations for a short period of time. These Pfizer sites consist of sites operated by Pfizer that, immediately prior to the Separation, predominantly manufactured human health products. We also employ a network of approximately 200 CMOs. Many of our products involve complex manufacturing processes and are sole-sourced from certain manufacturing sites. Minor deviations in our manufacturing or logistical processes, such as temperature excursions or improper package sealing, could result in delays, inventory shortages, unanticipated costs, product recalls, product liability and/or regulatory action. In addition, a number of factors could cause production interruptions, including: • the failure of us or any of our vendors or suppliers, including logistical service providers, to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines; • construction delays; • equipment malfunctions; • shortages of materials; • labor problems; • natural disasters; • power outages; • criminal and terrorist activities; • changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, shipping distributions or physical limitations; and • the outbreak of any highly contagious diseases near our production sites. These interruptions could result in launch delays, inventory shortages, recalls, unanticipated costs or issues with our agreements under which we supply third parties, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. For example, our manufacturing site in Medolla, Italy was damaged in an earthquake in May 2012, which resulted in production interruptions at that site. In addition, we have experienced challenges in manufacturing Apoquel that have impacted our ability to meet customer demand. As a result, we have had to place limits on the amounts of this product veterinarians can purchase and have delayed the launch of the product in certain markets. Our manufacturing network may be unable to meet the demand for our products or we may have excess capacity if demand for our products changes. The unpredictability of a product's regulatory or commercial success or failure, the lead time necessary to construct highly technical and complex manufacturing sites, and shifting customer demand (including as a result of market conditions or entry of branded or generic competition) increase the potential for capacity imbalances. In addition, construction of sites is expensive, and our ability to recover costs will depend on the market acceptance and success of the products produced at the new sites, which is uncertain. As part of our operational efficiency program, our manufacturing network is undergoing significant changes.  We may be unable to achieve the planned cost-savings from these changes. In addition, we may experience delays and disruptions in our supply network as a result of these activities. We rely on third parties to provide us with materials and services and are subject to increased labor and material costs. The materials used to manufacture our products may be subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by changes in demand, weather conditions, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other factors. In addition, labor costs may be subject to volatility caused by the supply of labor, governmental regulations, economic climate and other factors. Increases in the demand for, availability or the price of, materials used to manufacture our products and increases in labor costs could increase the costs to manufacture our products. We may not be able to pass all or a material portion of any higher material or labor costs on to our customers, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, certain third-party suppliers are the sole source of certain materials necessary for production of our products. We may be unable to meet demand for certain of our products if any of our third-party suppliers cease or interrupt operations, fail to renew contracts with us or otherwise fail to meet their obligations to us. Risks related to legal matters and regulation We may incur substantial costs and receive adverse outcomes in litigation and other legal matters. Our operating results, financial condition and liquidity could be materially adversely affected by unfavorable results in pending or future litigation matters. These matters include, among other things, allegations of violation of United States and foreign competition laws, labor laws, consumer protection laws, and environmental laws and regulations, as well as claims or litigations relating to product liability, intellectual property, securities, 17 | Table of Contents breach of contract and tort. In addition, changes in the interpretations of laws and regulations to which we are subject, or in legal standards in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate, could increase our exposure to liability. For example, in the United States, attempts have been made to allow damages for emotional distress and pain and suffering in connection with the loss of, or injury to, a companion animal. If such attempts were successful, our exposure with respect to product liability claims could increase materially. Litigation matters, regardless of their merits or their ultimate outcomes, are costly, divert management's attention and may materially adversely affect our reputation and demand for our products. We cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of pending or future litigation matters. An adverse outcome of litigation or legal matters could result in our being responsible for significant damages. Any of these negative effects resulting from litigation matters could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The misuse or off-label use of our products may harm our reputation or result in financial or other damages. Our products have been approved for use under specific circumstances for the treatment of certain diseases and conditions in specific species. There may be increased risk of product liability if veterinarians, livestock producers, pet owners or others attempt to use our products off-label, including the use of our products in species (including humans) for which they have not been approved. For example, Ketamine, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in our Ketaset product (a nonnarcotic agent for anesthetic use in cats), is abused by humans as a hallucinogen. Furthermore, the use of our products for indications other than those indications for which our products have been approved may not be effective, which could harm our reputation and lead to an increased risk of litigation. If we are deemed by a governmental or regulatory agency to have engaged in the promotion of any of our products for off-label use, such agency could request that we modify our training or promotional materials and practices and we could be subject to significant fines and penalties, and the imposition of these sanctions could also affect our reputation and position within the industry. Any of these events could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit or illegally compounded versions of our products or of stolen, diverted or relabeled products could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. Third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit or illegally compounded versions of our products that do not meet the exacting standards of our development, manufacturing and distribution processes. Counterfeit or illegally compounded medicines pose a significant risk to animal health and safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured and the lack of regulation of their contents. Counterfeit or illegally compounded products are frequently unsafe or ineffective and can be potentially life-threatening to animals. Our reputation and business could suffer harm as a result of counterfeit or illegally compounded products which are alleged to be equivalent and/or which are sold under our brand name. In addition, products stolen or unlawfully diverted from inventory, warehouses, plants or while in transit, which are not properly stored or which have an expired shelf life and which have been repackaged or relabeled and which are sold through unauthorized channels, could adversely impact animal health and safety, our reputation and our business. Public loss of confidence in the integrity of vaccines and/or pharmaceutical products as a result of counterfeiting, illegally compounding or theft could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. Animal health products are subject to unanticipated safety, quality, or efficacy concerns, which may harm our reputation. Unanticipated safety, quality, or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to animal health products, whether or not scientifically or clinically supported, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or suspended or declining sales, as well as product liability and other claims. For example, as a result of safety concerns related to our product, PregSure ® BVD, in 2010, we voluntarily suspended sales of the product and withdrew the marketing authorization in the EU and, in 2011, we suspended sales and withdrew the marketing authorization for the product in New Zealand. Also, in May 2013, we were advised that the European Commission started a procedure regarding the EU marketing authorization for Suvaxyn ® PCV, a vaccine against porcine circovirus type 2 in swine. The initiation of the procedure followed a recall of two batches of Suvaxyn ® PCV as a result of higher than expected adverse reactions, reported mainly in Spain. In June 2013, we completed a root cause investigation of the higher than expected adverse reactions in these two batches, and subsequently submitted to the EMA a proposed variation to describe specific adjustments to the manufacturing process to help minimize the risk of future reactive batches. In October 2013, the EMA’s Committee on Medicinal Products for Veterinary Use adopted a positive opinion as to the proposed variation and concurrently adopted an opinion concluding that no action was required at that time with regard to the EU marketing authorization for Suvaxyn ® PCV. Both opinions were transmitted to the European Commission according to the applicable procedure and the Commission officially advised us in January 2014 that it had adopted those positive opinions and concluded the procedure begun in May 2013 by maintaining the marketing authorization for Suvaxyn ® PCV in effect. Regulatory actions based on these types of safety, quality or efficacy concerns could impact all or a significant portion of a product’s sales and could, depending on the circumstances, materially adversely affect our operating results. In addition, since we depend on positive perceptions of the safety, quality and efficacy of our products, and animal health products generally, by our customers, veterinarians and end-users, any concerns as to the safety, qualify or efficacy of our products, whether actual or perceived, may harm our reputation. These concerns and the related harm to our reputation could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, regardless of whether such reports are accurate. Our business is subject to substantial regulation. As a global company, we are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations, including regulations relating to the development, quality assurance, manufacturing, importation, distribution, marketing and sale of our products. In addition, our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspections by regulatory agencies. An inspection may report conditions or practices that indicate possible violations of regulatory requirements. Our failure to comply with these regulatory requirements, allegations of such non-compliance or the discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer could result in, among other things, inspection observation notices, warning letters or similar regulatory correspondence, fines, a partial or total shutdown of production in one or more of our facilities while an alleged violation is remediated, withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market, and civil or criminal prosecution, as well as decreased sales as a result of negative publicity and product liability claims. Any one of these consequences could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 18 | Table of Contents In addition, we will not be able to market new products unless and until we have obtained all required regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where we propose to market those products. Even after a product reaches market, it may be subject to re-review and may lose its approvals. In connection with the Separation, we will likely change the location of the manufacture of certain of our products and, because of these changes, may be required to obtain new regulatory approvals. Our failure to obtain approvals, delays in the approval process, or our failure to maintain approvals in any jurisdiction, may prevent us from selling products in that jurisdiction until approval or reapproval is obtained, if ever. Furthermore, we cannot predict the nature of future laws, regulations, or changes in tax laws, challenges brought against our incentive tax rulings, and tariffs, nor can we determine the effect that additional laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations could have on our business when and if promulgated, or the impact of changes in the interpretation of these laws and regulations, or of disparate federal, state, local and foreign regulatory schemes. Changes to such laws or regulations may include, among other things, changes to taxation requirements, such as tax-rate changes and changes affecting the taxation by the United States of income earned outside the United States. Changes in applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. For example, regulatory agencies have recently increased their focus on the potential for vaccines to induce immunity anomalies. Absent a clear understanding of these anomalies, regulatory scrutiny of vaccines may become stricter. Additional scrutiny or regulation of our vaccine products could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We are subject to complex environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern matters such as the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; the generation, use, storage, handling, treatment, packaging, transportation, exposure to, and disposal of hazardous and biological materials, including recordkeeping, reporting and registration requirements; and the health and safety of our employees. Due to our operations, these laws and regulations also require us to obtain, and comply with, permits, registrations or other authorizations issued by governmental authorities. These authorities can modify or revoke our permits, registrations or other authorizations and can enforce compliance through fines and injunctions. Given the nature of our business, we have incurred, are currently incurring and may in the future incur, liabilities under CERCLA or under other federal, state, local and foreign environmental cleanup laws, with respect to our current or former sites, adjacent or nearby third-party sites, or offsite disposal locations. See