Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Notes to Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements— Note 18A. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information—Segment Information. Products Since the inception of our business, we have focused on developing a broad portfolio of animal health products. We refer to a single product in all brands or its dosage forms for all species as a product line. We have comprehensive product lines for both livestock and companion animals across each of our major product categories. Our livestock products primarily help prevent or treat diseases and conditions to enable the cost-effective production of safe, high-quality animal protein. Human population growth and increasing standards of living are important long-term growth drivers for our livestock products in three major ways. First, population growth and increasing standards of living drive increased demand for improved nutrition, particularly animal protein. Second, population growth leads to increased natural resource constraints driving a need for enhanced productivity. Finally, as standards of living improve, there is increased focus on food safety. Livestock products represented approximately 64% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013. Our companion animal products improve the quality of and extend the life of pets, increase convenience and compliance for pet owners and help veterinarians improve the quality of care they provide. Growth in the companion animal medicines and vaccines sector is driven by economic development and related increases in disposable income, increasing pet ownership, companion animals living longer, increasing medical treatment of companion animals and advances in animal health medicines and vaccines. Companion animal products represented approximately 36% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013. Our major product categories are: • anti-infectives : products that prevent, kill or slow the growth of bacteria, fungi or protozoa; • vaccines : biological preparations that help prevent diseases of the respiratory, gastrointestinal and reproductive tracts or induce a specific immune response; • parasiticides : products that prevent or eliminate external and internal parasites such as fleas, ticks and worms; • medicated feed additives : products added to animal feed that provide medicines to livestock; and • other pharmaceutical products : pain and sedation, oncology, antiemetic, allergy and dermatology; and reproductive products. 2 | Table of Contents Our remaining revenue is derived from other product categories, such as nutritionals and agribusiness, as well as products and services in complementary areas, including diagnostics, genetics, devices, dairy data management, e-learning and professional consulting. As part of our growth strategy, through our R&D group, we focus on both product lifecycle development and new chemical and biological entities. Historically, a substantial portion of our products and revenue has been the result of product lifecycle development. For example, the first product in our ceftiofur line was an anti-infective approved for treating bovine respiratory disease (BRD) in cattle that was administered via intramuscular injection. Through follow-on studies and reformulations, we have expanded the product line into additional cattle claims and administration routes, as well as other species and regions. The ceftiofur product line currently includes the brands Excede, Excenel RTU, Excenel RTU EZ, Excenel, Naxcel and Spectramast. Examples of our first-in-class and/or best-in-class products that we have launched in the past ten years and products that we believe may represent platforms for future product lifecycle development include: • Improvac/Improvest/Vivax, a protein product that works like an immunization, is currently the only product that provides a safe and effective alternative to physical castration to manage unpleasant aromas that can occur when cooking pork; launched in Australia and New Zealand in 2004, in Brazil in 2007, in certain European countries beginning in 2008, and in the United States in 2011; • Convenia, the first single-injection anti-infective for common bacterial skin infections in cats and dogs, launched in 2006; • Palladia, the first drug to be approved by the FDA for treating cancer in dogs, launched in 2009; • Inforce TM 3, the first and only respiratory vaccine for cattle that prevents respiratory disease caused by bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) while also aiding in the prevention of infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR) and parainfluenza 3 (PI 3 ), launched in 2010; and • Apoquel, the first Janus kinase inhibitor for use in veterinary medicine, approved for the control of pruritus associated with allergic dermatitis and the control of atopic dermatitis in dogs at least 12 months of age, successfully completed its early experience program in the United States late in 2013, and fully launched in the United States, United Kingdom, Austria and Germany in January 2014; other market launches will follow. We pursue the development of new vaccines for emerging infectious diseases, with an operating philosophy of “first to know and fast to market.” Examples of the successful execution of this strategy include the first equine vaccine for West Nile virus in the United States and European Union, the first swine vaccine for pandemic H1N1 influenza virus in the United States and the first conditionally licensed vaccine to help reduce disease caused by the Georgia 08 variant of infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) in poultry. In 2013, our top selling product line, the ceftiofur line, contributed approximately 7% of our revenue. The ceftiofur line and our next two top selling products, Revolution and Draxxin, contributed approximately 20% of our revenue. Our top ten product lines contributed 39% of our revenue. Our product lines and products that represented approximately 1% or more of our revenue in 2013 are as follows: 3 | Table of Contents Livestock products Product line/ product Description Primary species Anti-infectives Ceftiofur injectable line Broad-spectrum cephalosporin antibiotic active against gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria, including ß-lactamase-producing strains, with some formulations producing a single course of therapy in one injection Cattle, sheep, swine Draxxin Single-dose low-volume antibiotic for the treatment and prevention of bovine and swine respiratory disease, infectious bovine keratoconjunctivitis and bovine foot rot Cattle, swine Spectramast Aids in preventing and treating mastitis, delivered via intramammary administration; same active ingredient as the ceftiofur line Cattle Terramycin Antibiotic for the treatment of susceptible infections Cattle, poultry, sheep, swine Vaccines Bovishield ® line Aids in preventing diseases, including infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR), bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) Types 1 and 2, parainfluenza 3 (PI 3 ), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), Leptospira borgpetersenii , L. pomona , L. grippotyphosa , L. canicola and L. icterohaemorrhagiae , depending on formulation Cattle Improvac / Improvest / Vivax Reduces boar taint, as an alternative to surgical castration Swine RespiSure ® line Aids in preventing chronic pneumonia caused by Mycoplasma hyopneumoniae Swine Rispoval ® line Aids in preventing three key viruses involved in cattle pneumonia-BRSV, PI 3 and BVD-as well as other respiratory diseases, depending on formulation Cattle Suvaxyn ® PCV / Fostera™ PCV Aids in preventing porcine circovirus Swine Parasiticides Cydectin Injectable or pour-on endectocide to treat and control internal and external cattle parasites, including gastrointestinal roundworms, lungworms, cattle grubs, mites and lice Cattle, sheep Dectomax Injectable or pour-on endectocide, characterized by extended duration of activity, for the treatment and control of internal and external parasite infections Cattle, swine Medicated Feed Additives Aureomycin Provides livestock producers control, treatment and convenience against a wide range of respiratory, enteric and reproductive diseases Cattle, poultry, sheep, swine BMD Aids in preventing and controlling enteritis; and increases rate of weight gain and improves feed efficiency in poultry and swine Poultry, swine Lasalocid line Controls coccidiosis in poultry (Avatec) and cattle (Bovatec) and for increased rate of weight gain and improved feed efficiency in cattle Poultry, cattle Lincomycin line Controls necrotic enteritis, increases rate of weight gain and improves feed efficiency in broiler chickens; treatment of dysentery (bloody scours), control of ileitis, treatment/reduction in severity of mycoplasmal pneumonia, increases weight gain in swine Swine, poultry Other Embrex ® devices Devices for enhancing hatchery operations efficiency through in ovo detection and vaccination Poultry Lutalyse For estrus control or in the induction of parturition or abortion Cattle, swine Orbeseal / Teatseal Non-antibiotic intramammary infusion that prevents new intramammary infections in dairy cattle Cattle 4 | Table of Contents Companion animal products Product line/ product Description Primary species Anti-infectives Clavamox / Synulox A broad-spectrum antibiotic and the first and only potentiated penicillin approved for use in dogs and cats Cats, dogs Convenia Anti-infective for the treatment of common bacterial skin infections that provides a course of treatment in a single injection Cats, dogs Vaccines Vanguard ® L4 (4-way Lepto) Compatible with the Vanguard line and helps protect against leptospirosis caused by Leptospira canicola , L. grippotyphosa , L. icterohaemorrhagiae and L. pomona Dogs Vanguard line Aids in preventing canine distemper caused by canine distemper virus, infectious canine hepatitis caused by canine adenovirus type 1, respiratory disease caused by canine adenovirus type 2, canine parainfluenza caused by canine parainfluenza virus and canine parvoviral enteritis caused by canine parvovirus Dogs Parasiticides Revolution / Stronghold An antiparasitic for protection against fleas, heartworm and ear mites in cats and dogs; canine sarcoptic mites and American ticks for dogs and roundworms and hookworms for cats Cats, dogs ProHeart Aids in preventing heartworm infestation Dogs Other Cerenia An oral or injectable medication that prevents vomiting due to motion sickness in dogs Dogs Rimadyl For the relief of pain and inflammation associated with osteoarthritis and for the control of postoperative pain associated with soft tissue and orthopedic surgeries Dogs International Operations We directly market our products in approximately 70 countries across North America, Europe, Africa, Asia, Australia and South America, and our products are sold in more than 120 countries. Operations outside of the United States accounted for 58% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013. Through our efforts to establish an early and direct presence in many emerging markets, such as Brazil, China and India, emerging markets contributed 26% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013. Our international businesses are subject, in varying degrees, to a number of risks inherent in carrying on business in other countries. These include, among other things, currency fluctuations, capital and exchange control regulations, expropriation and other restrictive government actions. See