Q4 2014 Earnings Call

Operator
Good afternoon. Welcome to the Waters Corporation Fourth Quarter 2014 Financial Results
Conference Call. All participants will be able to listen-only until the question-and-answer session
of the conference. This conference is being recorded. If anyone has any objections, please
disconnect at this time.
I would like to introduce your host for today's call, Mr. Douglas Berthiaume, Chairman, President
and Chief Executive Officer of Waters Corporation. Sir, you may begin.
Douglas A. Berthiaume `
Well, thank you. Good afternoon, and welcome to the Waters Corporation Fourth Quarter and Full
Year 2014 Conference Call. We appreciate you being able to change your schedules in order to
be with us late this afternoon.
It was a result of the weather emergency and the mandatory travel restrictions that were
announced this afternoon by the Governor of Massachusetts that we decided our best way to
deal with it was to release earnings at the close of business today rather than wait for tomorrow
morning when we weren't sure what the conditions would allow us to do. So thank you for
bearing with us.
With me on today's call is Gene Cassis, the Waters CFO; Art Caputo, the President of the Waters
Division; and John Lynch, the Vice President of Investor Relations. Today, I'm going to start with an
overview of the business and Gene will follow with details of our financial results and the outlook
for our business in 2015. But before we start, I'd like Gene to cover the cautionary language.
Eugene Gene Cassis `Well, thank you, Doug. During the course of this conference call, we will make various forward-
looking statements regarding future events or future financial performance of the company. In
particular, we will provide guidance regarding possible future income statement results of the
company, this time for the first quarter of 2015 and for full-year 2015.
We caution you that all such statements are only predictions and that actual events or results may
differ materially. For a detailed discussion of some of the risks and contingencies that could cause
our actual performance to differ significantly from our present expectations, see our Form 10-K
annual report for fiscal year ending December 31, 2013, in Part 1 under the caption Risk Factors,
and the cautionary language included in this morning's press release and 8-K.
We further caution you that the company does not obligate or commit itself by providing this
guidance to update predictions. We do not plan to update predictions regarding future income
statement results, except during our regularly scheduled quarterly earnings release conference
calls and webcasts. The next earning release call and webcast is currently planned for April, 2015.
During this call, we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of
non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is attached to the
company's earnings release issued this afternoon. In our discussion of results of operations, we
may refer to pro forma results, which exclude the impact of items such as those outlined in our
schedule entitled Quarterly Reconciliation of GAAP to Adjusted non-GAAP financials. And that's
included in this afternoon's press release.
Doug?
Douglas A. Berthiaume `
Thank you, Gene. Well, I'm pleased to tell you that our 8% constant currency revenue increase in
the fourth quarter was a strong finish to 2014 and resulted in full-year sales growth of 6%, a rate
that's actually in line with our original full-year outlook. And I think that's notable because you'll
recall that our first quarter was significantly weaker than originally planned. So we saw a significant
strengthening in the business as the year progressed.
Looking at the full-year, the big story was stronger demand from our pharmaceutical sector. This
strength was geographically broad based with improved demand from both research and quality
control segments. It was this increase in global pharmaceutical business that offset the softer
demand that we and others saw in China throughout most of 2014. Consistent with our history
and carefully managed, we carefully managed our expenses through the year, while launching
new instrument systems and integrating a handful of small acquired businesses.
So for the full-year, our adjusted earnings per share were up 9%. After foreign currency
headwinds, reduced earnings per share by about $0.22 or 4%. Looking at the fourth quarter,
constant currency sales for the Corporation were up 8% with instrument systems growing 6% and
our recurring revenues, the combination of service and chemistry consumables, up a strong 10%.
If you look at our operating divisions, Waters Division sales grew by 10%, again at constant
currency. The strength that we saw in the quarter for the Waters Division was very encouraging,
as the division saw a similar growth in the fourth quarter of 2013. So that made for a tough base
of comparison. Our TA Instrument Division sales declined at 5% in the fourth quarter and I'll
describe the contributing dynamics shortly.
Currency translation reduced our sales growth by 5% in the quarter, as a result of the U.S. dollar
strengthening against all major currencies. Geographically and for the Waters Division, sales in theU.S. were up 12%. In the quarter, we saw continued strength in pharmaceutical spending and
healthy government and academic growth. Industrial chemical growth declined against a very
strong result in the prior-year. For the full-year, sales in the U.S. were up 8%.
Sales growth in Europe for the Waters Division and at constant currency was up 10%. Similarly to
the U.S., we saw a strong pharmaceutical, government and academic spending. For the full-year,
Waters Division European sales were up 6% and benefited from stronger pharmaceutical sales
growth throughout most of the year.
We came into the year with some concern that general economic conditions would limit our
growth in Europe. However, the large proportion of our sales to pharmaceutical end markets in
combination with very positive uptake of our advanced mass spectrometry instruments by
academic and government labs, allowed us to deliver a very solid full-year performance.
In Asia, China is our largest market and I'm pleased to report that shipment volume increased
nicely in the fourth quarter and revenues grew 13% for the Waters Division. Consistent with
Europe and the U.S., sales to pharma and government-supported research labs drove the overall
sales growth in China.
Though, I feel, it's premature on the basis of one quarter to believe that business conditions in
China will allow us to grow at a much accelerated rate in future quarters, we are encouraged by
the fourth quarter's improvement. Waters Division constant currency sales in Japan were up
moderately in the quarter with stronger pharmaceutical and chemical industry demand offsetting
a decline in public sector spending.
In the quarter, Waters Division sales in India were up over 20%. The 2014 growth in India was
primarily associated with higher instrument, software and service sales from the generic drug
industry. Top line growth strengthened across the year and we believe that last year's business
momentum will sustain into 2015 as drug firms continue to expand their manufacturing capacity
and make needed investments to ensure regulatory compliance. Our sales in Asian markets
outside of Japan, China and India grew moderately in the quarter.
Our TA Instruments Division saw a mid-single-digit decline in sales in the quarter, admittedly
against a strong result delivered in the prior-year's quarter. Geographically, TA's shipments in
China were weaker than expected as the conversion of orders to sales proceeded at a slower
pace. Globally sales growth for the division was affected by a generally slower industrial chemical
climate.
Now, I'd like to discuss some product line dynamics that we saw for the Waters Division in the
quarter. The division's recurring revenues, the combination of service and chromatography
consumables, grew at an 11% rate in the quarter. Chromatography consumables sales were
strong in the quarter and grew by 8%. Consumables growth was strongest in Asia and in the
Americas. Overall the business continued to see strong uptake of UPLC column offerings,
including our more recently introduced line of CORTECS columns.
The Waters Division service business also performed very well in the quarter and grew at a 13%
rate with balanced strength across all major regions in the world. For the full-year and at constant
currency, Waters Division service revenues grew 10%.
Waters Division instrument system sales grew 9% in the fourth quarter. LC, LC/MS, and
informatics sales all contributed to the strong and balanced performance and in the quarter, we
began to see a positive impact from the new UPLC MS systems launched mid-year at ASMS.Instrument systems continued to benefit from the rapid uptake of ACQUITY QDa, an advanced
mass spectrometry-based LC detector that we introduced in the fourth quarter of 2013.
On our October earnings call, I described for you the REIMS technology that we acquired as part
of our recent MediMass acquisition. You may recall that REIMS is an atmospheric ionization
technique with potentially a broad range of applications, including a longer-term potential usage
as a medical device to optimize surgical outcomes, notably for certain oncology procedures.
REIMS technology is complementary to other atmospheric pressure ionization techniques that we
offer, and are very excited about its benefits to our recently announced health science initiative.
This initiative, which we formally organized in 2014, recognizes an important transition in medical
research that demands a suite of advanced technologies, including research-grade mass
spectrometry, to obtain a more comprehensive understanding of disease. This molecular-based
understanding will result in more effective predictive diagnostic and therapeutic tools to cost-
effectively manage human health.
I'm pleased to tell you that in the fourth quarter, we began to fund a new internal research
program to allow us to investigate and further develop REIMS technology for potential future
advanced medical procedures. This represents a different type of investment for Waters, as we
have historically concentrated our research efforts on product development plans that will more
closely align with the needs of our existing customer base. However, we view the value of this
new embodiment of mass spectrometry technology and its potential medical applications as
sufficiently compelling to cause us to slightly alter our strategy and incrementally invest in this
effort. In addition, during the fourth quarter we also acquired access to advanced mass spec
technology to more broadly support long-term applications for our health science initiative.
So in summarizing our fourth quarter results, I'm very pleased with the level of top and bottom
line growth that we delivered in a challenging currency environment. The strength in
pharmaceutical spending in the second and the third quarters continued nicely in the fourth. Our
recurring revenues also grew impressively, indicating increased instrument utilization and
demonstrating the strategic value in offering a full portfolio of technical services and superior
column offerings. For our TA Instruments Division, the slower annual sales growth was primarily a
function of weaker chemical industry spending. We feel that TA has a strong pipeline of new
products that will drive growth in its core business in 2015 and beyond.
Before looking to the future, I want to note that we generated record free cash flow in 2014,
including $115 million in the fourth quarter. Looking ahead to 2015, we believe that market
conditions will be as good as, or potentially better than those in 2014, supported by continued
strong global pharmaceutical demand for our products. We are hopeful that business conditions
in China will normalize and that our TA Division will also grow at a rate that is more in line with its
historical performance. Gene will provide you with a more detailed 2015 outlook shortly.
On the products side and for the Waters Division, we will continue to benefit from the rapid
uptake of recently introduced strategic instrument platforms. In addition, at upcoming technical
conferences, we look forward to introducing new products and programs to benefit 2015 sales
growth.
So before turning it over to Gene, I'd like to say a few words about our non-operational plans. In
2015, we expect another year of strong free cash flow and anticipate continued capital
deployment toward our share repurchase program. On the M&A front, it is highly unlikely that
you'll see us in pursuit of a major acquisition and more likely that we'll continue to target smaller,
bolt-on businesses and technical acquisitions. On a more personal note, the search for myreplacement continues. And I feel we've made significant progress in terms of candidate
identification and development to complete this process in roughly the same timeframe as I've
originally put forward.
So, in closing, I want to reiterate my confidence in our focused business strategy, the discipline
that we have demonstrated now over a couple of decades of primarily growing our business
organically has enabled us to have industry-leading ROIC and consistently higher operating
margins and cash flow. Our results in 2014 confirm the advantages of this strategy.
Our employees have been, and will continue to be, a significant competitive advantage for
Waters. They embody and reflect our business strategy and their focused commitment to be the
best at what they do in order to ensure our customer's success. I personally appreciate their
efforts and feel privileged to oversee this great organization.
Now here's Gene for a review of our fourth quarter financials.
Eugene Gene Cassis `
Well, thank you very much, Doug, and good afternoon, all. As Doug mentioned, our fourth quarter
sales grew by 8% before currency translation. Currency translation reduced sales by 5%, resulting
in 3% overall sales growth.
On a non-GAAP basis, earnings per fully diluted share were up 17% to $1.99 this quarter, and that's
up from $1.70 last year. On a GAAP basis, our earnings were $1.80 for the quarter versus $1.65 last
year. Attached to this morning's press release, you can find a reconciliation of our GAAP to non-
GAAP earnings.
Looking at our top line geographically before foreign currency exchange effects, sales within the
United States and Europe were each up 10%. Our growth in Asia outside of Japan was up 8% and
in Japan, again before currency translation, sales were flat with last year.
On the product front and in constant currency, Waters Division instrument system sales increased
by 9% and recurring revenues grew by 11%. Within our TA Instruments Division, total sales
decreased by 5% in comparison to strong quarter last year.
Now, I'd like to comment on our fourth quarter non-GAAP financial performance. Gross margins
came in at 60.1%, up from 59.5% in the prior-year as the benefits of higher sales volume and
positive mix dynamics offset the negative foreign currency headwind.
Moving down the P&L, SG&A expenses were up 3% on a constant currency basis. The impact of
currency translation reduced this growth slightly. R&D expenses, including ongoing spending
associated with the medical initiative that Doug had mentioned, increased by 7%, again before
foreign currency translation.
On the tax front, our full-year operating tax rate came in at 13%. This rate was lower than what we
had expected due to the positive effects of higher sales volume in lower tax locations and a $2
million benefit realized as the United States R&D tax credit was reestablished in the fourth
quarter. Applying this full-year rate to our cumulative earnings moved our effective fourth quarter
operating tax rate to 10%.
In the quarter, net interest expense was $7.6 million and our average share count came in at
around 84 million shares, about 2 million shares lower than in the 2013 quarter. This is a result of
our continued share repurchase programs. On the balance sheet, cash and investment totaled
close to $2.1 billion and debt totaled close to $1.5 billion, bringing us to a net cash position ofabout $590 million. As for the quarter's share repurchases, we bought 655,000 shares of our
common stock for $74 million. This leaves $769 million remaining on our authorized share
repurchase programs.
We define free cash as cash from operations, less capital expenditures, plus any non-cash benefit
from stock-based compensation accounting and excluding unusual non-recurring items. Our
fourth quarter generated healthy free cash flow at about $150 million after funding $21 million for
capital expenditures, a level which does not include $2 million of spending associated with major
facility construction.
Accounts receivable days outstanding stood at 68 days this quarter, down one day from fourth
quarter last year and sequentially down five days from the third quarter. In the quarter, inventories
declined by $23 million in comparison to the third quarter. So for the full year, 2014 sales grew
about 6% before currency effects while currency translation reduced sales growth by nearly two
percentage points.
Non-GAAP earnings per fully diluted shares were up around 9% to $5.47 per share versus $5.04
last year. Notably, currency translation reduced earnings by about $0.22 versus the prior year,
somewhat masking the more impressive organic operating leverage of our business.
Looking ahead to 2015, our outlook assumes a continuation of the market conditions that we saw
in 2014. Specifically, we are envisioning stable increases in our recurring revenue sales, in
combination with continued growth in our sales to our broadly defined pharmaceutical sector. We
feel these factors and a return to growth for our TA Instruments Division will combine to help
support a mid-single digit organic sales increase in 2015. Currency at today's rates is expected to
reduce 2015 sales growth by about 4%.
Moving down the P&L, gross margins for the year are expected to be about equal to those in
2014 as volume-related manufacturing efficiency gains will likely be offset by the negative impact
of foreign currency. We expect to manage our constant currency operating sales expenses to
grow at a rate that is less than our constant currency sales growth rate.
Moving below the operating income line, net interest expense is expected to be approximately
$31 million. We currently expect our operating tax rate to be between 13% and 13.5% next year.
This rate assumes that the U.S. R&D tax credit that benefited 2014 by about a half a point will not
be available in 2015. We plan to continue our share repurchase program through this year, and we
want to do that at a rate that will result in an average share count of about 83 million shares.
Rolling all of this together, and again on a non-GAAP basis, full year 2015 earnings per fully-diluted
share are projected to be within a range of $5.55 to $5.80. Looking at the first quarter of 2015,
we are estimating that sales will grow at a high single-digit rate to a relatively favorable basic
comparison and four additional business days in the quarter. Currency translation at today's rates
is expected to reduce first quarter sales growth by about 5%. Rolling all of these factors together,
we expect first quarter earnings per diluted share to be in the range of between $0.95 and $1.05.
Doug?
Douglas A. Berthiaume `
Thank you, Gene. At this point, operator, I think we can open it up for Q&A.
Q&A
OperatorThank you. Our first question will come from Dan Leonard with Leerink. Your line is now open.
Q - `Dan L. Leonard, Leerink Partners LLC `
Thank you. Can you comment on the book-to-bill in China? Will booking, is it greater than revenue
growth?
A - Eugene Gene Cassis `
Oh, sure. I mean I think that we ended up seeing a significant backlog, a reduction as we closed
the year out. We did see throughout the year a little bit of build in terms of the order rate. So it
seems that the order rate was improving, but one of the big dynamics that worked in our favor in
the fourth quarter was that funds were available to allow us to complete some shipments against
the order backlog that we had come into the quarter with.
A - Douglas A. Berthiaume `
And you'll recall that we faced two separate issues in China, and I think most people have seen
this, is that delays in actually getting the process of orders to the point where they can be viewed
as a legitimate purchase order – and then even once the purchase order is received, the banking
system slowdowns of getting money authorized to support a shipment was slow. We clearly saw
some progress on that flow of money. So we think we're beginning on those scores to see some
breakthrough, but we're reluctant to believe that it's fully something that we can forecast that
improving in the short-term. So that's the state of the state.
Q - `Dan L. Leonard, Leerink Partners LLC `
Got it. And then my follow-up question, Gene, can you quantify the EPS, negative EPS impact from
foreign currency in your 2015 guidance?
A - Eugene Gene Cassis `
Well, yeah. I think as we had mentioned earlier that in 2014 the effect of foreign currency reduced
the growth in EPS by about four percentage points. And looking at where rates are right now, we
expect that that impact will be a little bit greater, maybe a couple of points greater in 2015. Now
you know we've seen some pretty dramatic swings in currency lately. So it's unclear whether the
rates that we're seeing now are really going to be the rates that we deal with throughout the
year. But if we do use the current rates and look at our projected mix of sales that's where we
think, what we think the impact will be.
Q - `Dan L. Leonard, Leerink Partners LLC `
Understood. Thank you.
A - Eugene Gene Cassis `
You're welcome.
Operator
Our next question will come from Tycho Peterson with JPMorgan. Your line is now open.
Q - `Tycho W. Peterson, JPMorgan Securities LLC `Hey. Thanks. Either Doug or Gene, can you talk about the incremental spending around REIMS?
You kind of alluded to maybe stepping up some of the efforts there. Understanding, obviously,
you want to grow expenses less than revenues. But how should we think about the incremental
investment?
A - Douglas A. Berthiaume `
Do you want to...?
A - Eugene Gene Cassis `
Yeah. I can start off. I mean it's, we actually did start to fund a program during the fourth quarter.
And we're looking – within the fourth quarter there were about a couple of million dollars' worth
of R&D spend that we can attribute to that program. So you can look at that as sort of maybe a
base rate going forward that we'll likely build off of. So hopefully that gives you a little feel for
what the level of investment is as we move into this year.
Q - `Tycho W. Peterson, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Okay. And then...
A - Douglas A. Berthiaume `
And we've looked at the opportunity to accelerate that program, Tycho. You know you're talking
about a program that could look at accelerated spending in the $5 million to $10 million annual
level. We think we have some ways to look at programs that can contribute to not making that
totally felt in the P&L. But to the extent we're willing to bet on that, that's all reflected in the
guidance that Gene provided.
Q - `Tycho W. Peterson, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Okay. And then separately there was pharma growth you've seen has been notable and seems
broad based. Can you maybe just talk about how much this is a function of replacement cycle
really hitting its stride? How much of it is from QDa uptake or alternatively share gains, other
factors you may want to call out?
A - Douglas A. Berthiaume `
Well, I think it's probably all of those. Certainly, the QDa has been very successful but it certainly
didn't add up to the 8 point to 10 points of organic growth. It may have contributed one point of
that. We have, I've been talking about pent up replacement demand for a while and some
people believed us, others didn't. I think we're seeing some of that as some anecdotal evidence
that the industry went through so much pulling back that it was inevitable that at some point we'd
see some contribution as a result of pent up replacement demand.
We've seen some evidence to that. We're seeing a big return to growth in India that we had a
couple of years of repressed growth. I think most of that's kind of macroeconomic and
regulatorily inspired. We're seeing very good response in the biotech segment of the
marketplace. That's a particularly vibrant area. And we're not seeing any reduction coming out of
the top 20, 30 pharmaceutical customers. They've certainly stopped being a drag in our growth.
So and also again, there's a piece here, a piece there. Another piece is the strength that we're
seeing in our informatics platform. To some extent that represents Big Pharma continuing to
upgrade their information networks. But it also reflects the investments that we've made in thenew UNIFI platform and the response to that has been good both at the instrument level and at
the larger network information level. So they're all contributing.
Q - `Tycho W. Peterson, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Can you quantify what's embedded in guidance for pharma for this year?
A - Eugene Gene Cassis `
Yeah. I mean as we look at pharma as the broadly defined pharmaceutical market as being more
than half of our business, we're assuming in our guidance that the pharmaceutical growth rate is
at the corporate mid-single-digit growth.
A - Douglas A. Berthiaume `
It's slower than we saw in the fourth quarter, so if we're lucky and the world stays the way it's
going now, there's some opportunity there.
Q - `Tycho W. Peterson, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Okay. Thanks. And I'll hop back in the queue.
Operator
Our next question will come from Doug Schenkel with Cowen & Co. Your line is open.
Q - `Doug A. Schenkel, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Hey. Good afternoon, guys.
A - Douglas A. Berthiaume `
Hi, Doug.
Q - `Doug A. Schenkel, Cowen & Co. LLC `
So, within the Waters Division it was very solid, a pretty balanced beat in the fourth quarter. One
of the biggest drivers looks to have been services, though, which continue to trend for the year,
and, you know, I'm making an educated guess because we don't have precise numbers yet but it
looks like Waters Division services may have grown about 9% year-over-year constant currency
and this follows a pretty strong 2013 which, again, was better than the division average. I'm just
wondering if you'd talk us through what's driving such robust services growth to a rate that
exceeds Waters Instrument and Waters Chemistry? And how would you describe sustainability?
And I guess, well, I'm on this topic, could you just talk us through the current margin profile of
Waters Division services?
A - Douglas A. Berthiaume `
Well, maybe Art can handle this strategic question and Gene can jump in on the profitability.
A - Arthur G. Caputo `
Yeah, Doug, we've been doing very well on the Waters services. You'll see – you would find that
the bulk of our high growth comes from planned development. As we sell instruments,
particularly these sophisticated systems that encompass not only LC but mass spectrometry andinformatics, chemistry solutions, as we've shifted to pushing instrument systems we find that the
growth in plans, extended plans has been very high. The beauty of the strategy is that they stay
somewhat immune to outside forces such as third party. Customers invest very heavily in our
services and support to keep that going. Embedded within those plans are a lot of compliance
services as well, informatics services. So that has been exceptionally healthy and it makes up a
very large portion of the growth.
On top of that, our services also consist of a fairly large parts business, and as you build your
base and you keep on getting an installed base moving, the amount of instruments going into
the base versus instruments being retired just exceeds that retirement and we see this
increasing momentum. So for us the services business is very strong. We feed it with new
products, new services. We feed the organization in terms of manpower to keep it supported. So
for us, it's a perpetuating strength and we feel that our strategy keeps it fairly well contained
within the confines of the Waters infrastructure. It doesn't allow too much outside force to come
in and disrupt it on us.
A - Douglas A. Berthiaume `
As you pointed out, Doug, this performance has been pretty consistent, not only over the last
couple years, but over many, many years. I mean this was a particularly good year, but it hasn't
varied downward by more than a couple of points. So it's one of the reasons this strong,
consistent kind of definable growth. Gene, you want to talk about the profitability in that
business?
A - Eugene Gene Cassis `
Oh sure. If we take a look at – our service business is a very attractive business for us.
Interestingly at the gross margin line it's probably slightly dilutive. A lot of the costs that we have
are labor costs, or the people that we have in the field. But if you look at it at the operating
margin line, it is accretive to the corporation's operating margin in the same way the chemistry
business is. So it's certainly something that as it becomes a bigger part of our mix, it does have a
positive effect on our operating income.
Q - `Doug A. Schenkel, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Okay. Thanks for all that. Very interesting and helpful. And I think somewhat related to that, I
guess as my follow-up. If we look down below the revenue line into the expense line, you talked a
little bit about R&D and that picked up a little bit in this quarter. If you actually factor in FX it
probably increased a decent amount. And I think for good reason most of us would agree that
the incremental investment in REIMS and the clinical side. At the SG&A line, you increased, I think,
it was 1% year-over-year on a reported basis on reported revenue growth of north of 3%, organic
growth of, I think, close to 8%.
On the surface this actually seems a little bit light. I'm just wondering is there anything to point to
in terms of product or geographic mix, I mean, that you just described, Gene, could relate to the
higher services mix? Is there a timing issue? I guess really what I'm getting at is, is this the type of
leverage that we can expect as we think about 2015, moving forward over the next few quarters?
Thank you.
A - Eugene Gene Cassis `
It's interesting, Doug, that if we look over the past five quarters, four of them have been pretty
impressive in terms of the organic growth rate. And if I think about the guidance that we had fornext year of mid-single digit top line growth, there really is not a lot of SG&A leverage that's
assumed within that growth rate. And that's one of the factors that was considered when we
gave you the guidance on the EPS line.
Now, the one thing is that we typically have a base growth of our expenses at the 3% or 4% level.
And so if you look at some of the results that we've delivered in recent quarters, we've been
very good at controlling expenses. But again, the business has grown nicely and we have to make
investments, specifically in our field service operation to make sure that we continue to support
our customer base. So I would just say that I think we've been conservative in our guidance in the
amount of leverage that we forecasted for 2015.
Q - `Doug A. Schenkel, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Okay. Thanks again. Stay safe and stay warm.
A - Eugene Gene Cassis `
Thank you, Doug.
Operator
Our next question will come from `Isaac Ro, Goldman Sachs & Co. with Goldman Sachs. Your line is now open.
Q - `Isaac Ro, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Good afternoon, guys. Thanks. I just wanted to ask a question about the impact of falling oil
prices. It seems sort of like a very topical thing and while I understand it's not the biggest end
market you have, just maybe what your expectations are just given that energy CapEx in a lot of
areas is going to be down most likely 25% or 30% this year? Just trying to get a sense of how
you think that'll impact your business on a net basis, given all the puts and takes?
A - Douglas A. Berthiaume `
I think not very much. Directly to the petroleum industry our sales are minuscule. It probably
matters more to the industrial chemical segment as their feedstocks go down in cost maybe it
stimulates some of their spending. So that's probably a longer-term dynamic if the cost of those
petroleum-derived feedstocks go down. But I don't think you'll notice the decline in the cost of
energy from a revenue point of view nearly at all. Conceivable because we sell to other divisions
within the big oil companies, it might have some small derivative effect. But I would not anticipate
that. And as a consumer of energy, it's likely that our costs, particularly freight costs, could be
meaningfully reduced. It remains to be seen but I would anticipate that.
Q - `Isaac Ro, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Got it. Thank you. And then just to follow up on the tax rate for this year, it sounded like even
without the R&D tax credit, tax rate this year should be down a little bit. And if I wind back the
clock maybe a few (40:44) months ago, there was some concern that there would be a little bit
of tax creep to the upside. So just maybe the reasons why tax rate looks like it'll be at least in line
if not better this year?
A - Eugene Gene Cassis `
Well, I think some of the reasons why we've seen some favorable moves in tax rate, of course
some of the products that we manufacture in Singapore and Ireland did very well on the revenueside. And also we have a more significant component of the TA mix that's U.S. manufactured. So
as the shift moved a little bit more towards the Waters Division that was beneficial to our tax rate.
I think that we're looking at product mix and geographical mix for this year, 2015, to be similar to
2014.
And we're not discounting the chance that we get another R&D tax credit from the United States
government, but we haven't taken that to the bank. So we're, I think, realistic in the 13% outlook
for this year. And I think there could be some upside. But when you have tax rates that vary from,
the very favorable rate that we have in Singapore to the mid to high 30s% that we have in the
United States, it doesn't take much of a shift in terms of geographic and product mix to move tax
rates around for us.
Q - `Isaac Ro, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Got it. Okay. Thanks, guys. Go Patriots.
A - Eugene Gene Cassis `
Thank you. Thank you, Isaac.
Operator
Our next question will come from `Miroslava Minkova, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. with Stifel. Your line is now open.
Q - `Miroslava Minkova, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Hi. Good afternoon. Let me just start with Europe. It has been very strong, impressively strong for
you in the fourth quarter and over the course of 2014. How do you think about 2015 in Europe in
particular as far as given the mixed economic headlines that keep flowing from the continent?
A - Douglas A. Berthiaume `
You know the headlines are probably no more fearsome than they were through most of this
year, Miroslava. We're certainly watchful. As we began the year, our organization was a little bit
more optimistic, I'd say, than we were. And then they performed better than, even that optimistic
level. I think underlying, it still comes down to the strength in the pharmaceutical sector that when
you cut through all the noise, the pharmaceutical sector marches to a drummer that's different
than the Greek crisis or the Spanish crisis or something like that.
So probably the surprising thing that held up was the academic and government sector, not only
in Europe, but specifically there where we saw good results through most of the year. So if
there's one area that we continue to monitor, it's that. But of course the pharmaceutical segment
is by far the most important dynamic.
Q - `Miroslava Minkova, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Right.
A - Douglas A. Berthiaume `
And as Art points out to me, the new products did well all over but did particularly well in Europe.
Both the new mass spec products and the QDa received a very strong push from our European
results.Q - `Miroslava Minkova, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Okay. Great. That's great commentary. And on the TA Division, I appreciate it was a weak comp,
I'm sorry a tough comp this quarter. Are you assuming that it will rebound as we go over the
course of 2015? Or was there, could there be a period of when your chemical customers might
be seeing some leftover pressures? Help us understand the cadence of the TA revenues.
A - Douglas A. Berthiaume `
I would say we're quite confident that the results will be better than we saw in the fourth quarter.
The confluence of events that saw a mid-single-digit decline in organic revenue. We've examined
that very closely and think that the events there are quite definable and as we looked at the, a
number of underlying dynamics coming at us in 2015, we're confident that, that's not likely to be
repeated.
Early indications, albeit early, in the first month of the new year are indicative that, that
momentum has definitely improved. So we're not being overly confident but the mid-single-digit
kind of level that Gene has talked about we think is doable in this coming year.
Q - `Miroslava Minkova, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc. `
Okay. Great. Thank you so much. Stay away from the storm.
A - Douglas A. Berthiaume `
I don't think we're going to be able to do that.
Operator
Our next question here will come from Amanda Murphy with William Blair. Your line is now open.
Q - `Amanda L. Murphy, William Blair & Co. LLC `
Hi, guys. Good afternoon. So just a, I guess I had a follow up on Tycho's question earlier on the
replacement cycle. So and this may be a hard one to answer, but I'm just curious if you take the
broad sort of LC installed base and then the LC/MS installed base, is there a way to think about
the aging there more generally? So I'm just trying to get a magnitude of what a replacement
cycle might look like on both sides. Is it 10% or of the installed base is ripe for an upgrade? Or
20%? Any sense of how that might look?
A - Douglas A. Berthiaume `
Art, you want to jump in on that?
A - Arthur G. Caputo `
Sure. Sure. Interestingly on the LC side of the business, what we've been experiencing over the
last few years has been somewhat the opposite. The cycles used to run seven years pretty
consistently. They seem to be, accounts seem to be stretching the cycles out on the LC side to in
some cases 8 years, 9 years, 10 years on the core basic traditional equipment. What we have had
that has been offsetting that is a strategy that basically adds to that equipment. So when you look
at products like the QDa and other add-on types of capabilities that we supply, or upgrades, we
look to offset those increased replacement cycles with additional capabilities, which has worked
out quite well for us on the HPLC side. Totally separate from that cycle we do continue to seeUPLC transition and replace some of the HPLC business. So it's not necessarily a replacement
cycle as much as it is an upgrade cycle. So the dynamics aren't as straightforward as a continuous
wear out-replace. There're some other things going on. And we try to manage that.
The cycles on mass spectrometry are very different from the LC side. It's not yet fully matured
out. There's still a lot of increases in performance going on across the various types of mass
spectrometers. On top of that, as I mentioned, we've added some capabilities with the QDa
where we're trying to add HPLC detection. So the mass spectrometry cycles tends to be much
shorter where new capabilities will induce people to replace or expand at a much faster rate. So
we enjoy a much more vibrant activity on the mass spectrometry side, which plays well for us.
And I'd add one more thing. And that is that with Waters the biggest leverage we have in the
marketplace is we have a very strong lead position in the separations business. We have a strong
lead position in mass spectrometry. And we compound this leverage by continually looking at new
applications and new capabilities, trying to create new markets and segments. The health
sciences area is a classic where we're constantly bumping into new problems that need to be
solved as people move from the discovery phase into this translational medicine phase. So you
know we can't really talk about a one size fits all in the broad scheme of how we manage the
business. We have it segmented into multiple components across the company. When we put it
all together, over the last few years, we're really seeing it start to work and that's essentially
what's driving the growth on a global basis for us.
Q - `Amanda L. Murphy, William Blair & Co. LLC `
On the HPLC side are you seeing that 8 years to 9 years come down a bit then? Or is it still
running at about that 8 years to 9 years?
A - Douglas A. Berthiaume `
Well one or two quarters is a little bit too hard to call. I think intuitively we're beginning to see a
little bit of what I'd call pent up replacement demand largely from the pharmaceutical industry
who has pushed off this replacement cycle and dealt with reducing head count. So I think that has
to account for some of our growth that's disproportionate with the industry's growth, that we're
so strong in the pharmaceutical market.
Q - `Amanda L. Murphy, William Blair & Co. LLC `
Got it. And then just one quick one on the column side of the business. So I think you'd say that
the attach rate for UPLC was pretty high, sort of 80% to 90%. So are you still seeing that? I know
you've had some new products there. And so curious if you're still seeing that and also is there a
risk to that going forward?
A - Arthur G. Caputo `
The UPLC attach rate continues to grow. It's growing at a rate faster than the rest of our HPLC
lines. And we continue to extend that capability by adding new chemical moieties to the substrate
and new products. So the UPLC column business is quite a success story for and it continues to
expand. And we see very little competition attacking that specific performance range in the
chemistry line that we have.
A - Eugene Gene Cassis `
And you know, Amanda, I think the attach rate continues to be very robust in the ball park that youto see more migration of UPLC technology into quality control applications. We think we have a
wonderful reputation for quality of these column chemistries with the people who develop
methods. And if the past is any indication what the future would bring, that's a great place to be
once the new methodology goes into quality control.
A - Douglas A. Berthiaume `
And that's when these new drugs that we developed using UPLC come into quality control. But
there are still not into the main stream of that process yet.
Q - `Amanda L. Murphy, William Blair & Co. LLC `
Got it. Thanks, guys.
A - Eugene Gene Cassis `
Thank you.
Operator
Question will come from Brandon Couillard with Jefferies. Your line is now open.
Q - `S. Brandon Couillard, Jefferies LLC
Thanks. Gene, quickly on the currency for next year, can you walk us through how you get to the
negative 4% headwind on the revenue line, exactly what the spot rates are that you're assuming?
From our end I'm getting closer to...
A - Eugene Gene Cassis `
In general if I think about the currency story for 2014 it was largely a yen-based story. But as we
look at 2015 there's going to be a significant contribution to the top line from the diminished
value of the euro. And you'll continue to see some drag for the yen. If I look at sort of the rates
that we're looking at for the first quarter, we're looking at a euro that's at about the $1.13 level; a
yen at the ¥117, ¥118 level, and on the cost side for us a pound – and this works a little bit in our
favor at $1.50.
Q - `S. Brandon Couillard, Jefferies LLC
Great. And for the full year you're assuming basically today's rates to get the down 4%?
A - Eugene Gene Cassis `
Yeah. I mean that's – who knows what the, what it's going to be? And all we can tell you is that,
listen, if rates are approximately what they are today this is what the impact is going to be. And
we're not forecasting how rates are going to move through the year.
Q - `S. Brandon Couillard, Jefferies LLC
Okay. And one more on the outlook. Could you give us a feel for the CapEx and operating cash
flow?
A - Eugene Gene Cassis `Yeah. I think on the CapEx side you know the big investment opportunity that we've made in
recent years is of course our new mass spectrometry facility in Wilmslow. You know in the later
part of this year we fully occupied that site. And I really don't see anything on the near-term
horizon that's going to be a large consumer of capital expenditure. So we're going to go back
more towards a maintenance type of a cap level. I think if you saw with the capital expenditure
was in the fourth quarter, it was in the mid-20s. I mean maybe projecting that out and thinking of
capital expenditures that for a full year might be in the $70 million or $75 million might be a good
estimate of what CapEx will look like this year.
A - Douglas A. Berthiaume `
I think with the free cash flow next year should be around the $500 million level.
A - Eugene Gene Cassis `
Yeah.
Q - `S. Brandon Couillard, Jefferies LLC
Super, thank you.
Operator
Question will come from Steve Beuchaw with Morgan Stanley. Your line is now open.
Q - `Steve C. Beuchaw, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Hi. Good evening, guys. Thanks for taking the questions and thanks for braving the storm out
there. I'd really just like to focus a little bit on China. I wonder if you could first give a sense for
what kind of growth you're assuming in China over the course of 2015 in the company's overall
revenue guidance.
And then I wonder, Doug, if you could reflect a bit more on the comments that you made earlier
about the outlook in China. It sounds like – and you guys have been pretty consistent on this point.
You've seen incrementally a positive sign. But you're not willing to call for a really sustained
recovery there. Are there specifics that you could point us to? Or is it more about maybe a mixed
picture in terms of certain parts of China as an end market, some better, some worse? Thanks so
much.
A - Eugene Gene Cassis `
Yeah. Well, I'll start off talking about our assumptions for growth in China in 2015. China
represents something in the neighborhood of 12% of our sales. And you know what we saw for
the full year on the sales growth for 2014 was very close to flat, or just a tiny bit of growth for that
business. We think that both looking at the momentum on the order side as well as the shipment
side there's some reason for optimism. And I don't think it's unrealistic to think about China as
growing at around the corporate average for next year, so a mid-single digit top line growth rate.
Against what is going to be a tremendously favorable base of comparison is a good base case
scenario for us.
A - Douglas A. Berthiaume `
And, Steve, I think as you look and try to read the tea leaves in China, this dual track of how
orders get processed and then how the financial systems fund that has been something that wefaced through most of the year in China. And at various times we saw a little bit of progress on
the order side, and relatively little flexibility on the financial funding side.
The thing – and I'd say roughly we saw maybe a little bit better orders performance in the fourth
quarter than we had expected. But we saw real progress with the financial system and being able
to fund orders that had been previously booked. And so what begets what in China I think is a fair
question. Does the shutdown of the financial funding lead to reduced orders or kind of different
things working on both sides of the equation?
We take it as a positive that the funding has improved, and our local organization clearly sees
that. If you look at the projects and the underlying demand that we're seeing from customers and
thought leaders in China, nothing's changed. They're still looking for – you'd assume that the
boom was still going in China. If you look at the underlying requests, the demand for new
capabilities and the multimillion dollar projects that they continue to talk to us about. So if you
gauge interest at that level, you'd say, wow, 2015 is going to be a robust year. So we try to gauge
all of that. I'd say, from a top down perspective, we don't see how the cork (59:33) can be held in
the order side of this genie (59:34) for too much longer.
There just appears to be the opportunity to be bursting at the seam. We have an excellent
organization in China. I'd compare it to anyone else in the life science tools business. It's top of
the grade and it's long-service, unlike a lot of organizations in China. So it's been through the mill,
and so we're pretty optimistic if the business and these dynamics turns at all, we're going to be
there to grab a hold of it.
That's why we think this mid-single-digit approach is more likely to offer us the opportunity to
grow faster. The question is will it come earlier or later. So it wouldn't surprise us if it were better
than that, but it's awfully hard to bank on that at this point in time.
Q - `Steve C. Beuchaw, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
That's extremely helpful. Thanks so much and get home safe, guys.
A - Eugene Gene Cassis `
Thank you.
Operator
The next question will come from Bryan Brokmeier with Maxim Group. Your line is now open.
Q - `Bryan Paul Brokmeier, Maxim Group LLC `
Hi. Thanks for taking the question. Doug, you stated earlier in the call that, that you expect the TA
Division to pick up in 2015, but the fourth quarter looks like it was the weakest quarter of the year.
Is that because of an easy comp next year that you expect the pick-up or new products that
you're planning to launch this year? Or is there something that you're seeing now that gives you
the confidence that it will improve?
A - Douglas A. Berthiaume `
I'll let Gene start, since Gene's very tied to this division. Gene, you want to...?
A - Eugene Gene Cassis `Sure. Sure. I think that there's a confluence of activities happening this year that are going to work
favorably for the TA Instruments group. If you look at the long-term growth rate of that business
on the top line, it's been a solid high single-digit grower. Now, a component of that has been
acquired businesses, and I think in 2015, what you're going to see is a nice delivery of some of
the businesses that we have acquired more recently. We do have some new core products that
will be coming to the market midyear. So we should have some second half of the year positive
impact from those launches. And as you already mentioned, I think in comparison to prior years
this base of comparison affords us an opportunity to show some nice growth.
I think that the pipeline looks excellent for both new products for the TA Instruments division. And
as you begin to look at some of the customer dynamics, it looks like there's a lot of building
interest in some of the newer product launches from that group that will begin to show their
positive effects throughout this year.
A - Douglas A. Berthiaume `
And as I said, Bryan, we can already see. I'm normally reluctant to take January results to the
bank. And I'm certainly not going to go hard at this. But already in the January timeframe we're
seeing very good, strong indications of a better performance coming.
Q - `Bryan Paul Brokmeier, Maxim Group LLC `
Okay. Thanks. And another question is, is the money you're spending on your health science
initiatives relatively immaterial? Or is it at the expense of investments in your core platforms? Or
are you offsetting those investments with reductions in spending outside of R&D?
A - Douglas A. Berthiaume `
It's not so much – well, first of all independent of this decision we continue to drive productivity
programs. And so we do that every year and we're doing it in 2015. So we fully expect,
particularly in administrative and in support areas, to be able to grow our sales faster than we
grow the support spending.
With the health science initiative, independently we looked at that and said while the payoff is not
likely to be in 2015, the opportunity, the clear outsized opportunity that we have here means that
we should spend faster to get there. And so we made the decision to do that in our plan. We also
have some initiatives, probably three or four separate initiatives that we think will pay off in added
operating benefits. Any one of which might not happen, but taken in total we think will contribute
towards minimizing the overall P&L pain. Not all of it, but will mean that we can offset some of this
increased spending. So that's probably the most I want to say about it, but it's, we're not trying to
rob Peter to pay Paul.
Q - `Bryan Paul Brokmeier, Maxim Group LLC `
All right. Thanks a lot.
Operator
Our next question will come from Dan Arias with Citigroup. Your line is now open.
Q - `Daniel Anthony Arias, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (Broker) `
Afternoon, guys. Thanks. Just one question from me. Doug or Gene, in thinking about the margin
runway, how do you guys see the ability for new products to be additive to gross margins? Justcurious about the extent to which this happens and then whether that's something that you sort
of aim for explicitly when you're thinking about adding products to the portfolio?
A - Eugene Gene Cassis `
Well, you know, it's interesting that typically when you have a new product launched, the short-
term impact until the volumes ramp is it has a little bit of a drag on gross margins. But I'll take a
look at some of the programs that we've introduced more recently in the QDa and our new
Tandem Quadrupole Mass Spectrometer. I think we've done an excellent job in engineering these
products to be accretive to the gross margin.
So I mean, it clearly is something that we're focused on, especially for products where we know
that there's a large market and you have a lot of initial market receptivity, like the QDa, like our
new Tandem Quadrupole. So and again, we talked about this earlier in the call is the positive
impact that our recurring revenues have on our gross margins and operating margins going
forward, and that's an important driver of our future profitability.
A - Douglas A. Berthiaume `
Operator, I've noticed the time and the conditions. I think we could probably limit it to one more
question.
Operator
Okay. Great. Our next question will come from Jeff Elliott with Baird. Your line is open.
Q - `Jeff T. Elliott, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
All right. Thanks for squeezing me in. Just one quick one here. Doug, when you look at the fourth
quarter, what's your sense, was any of this revenue pulled ahead from the first quarter, perhaps
on the Pharma side? Or were there any large orders on the academic side?
A - Douglas A. Berthiaume `
You know, Jeff, the clearest indication of a pull-forward, and I – it's not often, but I can't say that in
20-plus years of doing this I haven't seen some indications of major pull-forwards. But I would say
the clearest indication is that you see this big bolus of orders in the latter part of December and
then you see orders fall off the cliff early on in January. But let me say that we clearly haven't seen
that. I'm certainly encouraged by the kind of early momentum that we've seen in 2015. So it's not
a guarantee that it continues at a very high level but I will say it's very indicative that we didn't
empty the bucket in December.
Q - `Jeff T. Elliott, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
Thanks a lot. Thank you.
A - Douglas A. Berthiaume `
You're welcome.
Well, I want to thank you all. I appreciate you changing your schedules for this. Who knows what
the response would have been tomorrow. But we do appreciate it and hopefully this is the last
time we'll have to change our schedule like this. We'll look forward to seeing you on a more
rational schedule next quarter. Thanks again.A - Eugene Gene Cassis `
Thank you.
Operator
And with that we'll conclude today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may
disconnect your lines at this time.