Q4 2016 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning. Welcome to the Waters Corporation Fourth Quarter 2016 and Full-Year Financial
Results Conference Call. All participants will be able to listen only until the question-and-answer
session of the conference. This conference is being recorded. If anyone has objections, please
disconnect at this time.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr. `John Lynch, Vice President of Investor Relations, Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir, you may begin.
`John Lynch, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Thank you, operator, and good morning, everyone, and welcome to the Waters Corporation
fourth quarter earnings conference call. Before we begin, I will cover the cautionary language.
During the course of this conference call, we will make various forward-looking statements
regarding future events or future financial performance of the company. In particular, we will
provide guidance regarding possible future income statement results of the company for the first
quarter and full-year 2017. We caution you that all such statements are only predictions, and that
actual events or results may differ materially.
For a detailed discussion of some of the risks and contingencies that could cause our actual
performance to differ significantly from our present expectations, see our 10-K Annual Report for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015, in part one under the caption Risk Factors, and the
cautionary language included in this morning's press release and 8-K.
We further caution you that the company does not obligate or commit itself by providing this
guidance to update predictions. We do not plan to update predictions regarding possible futureincome statement results, except during our regularly scheduled quarterly earnings release
conference calls and webcasts. The next earnings release call and webcast is currently planned
for April 2017.
During today's call, we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of
the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is attached to
the company's earnings release issued this morning. In our discussion of the results of
operations, we may refer to pro forma results which exclude the impact of such items -- of items
such as those outlined in our schedule entitled quarterly reconciliation of GAAP to adjusted non-
GAAP Financials included in this morning's press release.
Unless we say otherwise, references to quarterly results increasing or decreasing are in
comparison to the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2015. In addition, unless we say otherwise, all year-
over-year revenue growth rates, including revenue growth ranges given on today's call, are given
on a comparable constant-currency basis.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Waters' Chief Executive Officer, Chris O'Connell. Chris?
`Christopher O'Connell, Chief Executive Officer
Great. Thanks, John, and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. Along with John
Lynch, joining me on this morning's call are `Sherry Buck, Chief Financial Officer, Waters newly appointed Chief Financial
Officer; and Gene Cassis, Waters outgoing CFO, who is transitioning into a new Corporate
Advisory role.
During today's call, I will provide an overview of our operating results for Q4 and 2016, and will
add some broader commentary on the business. Gene will then review financial details for our
reported results and Sherry will then provide our 2017 financial outlook before the Q&A period.
I'm pleased to report that we finished 2016 with strong broad-based sales growth across our
major market categories and the product lines. The quarter capped off a 2016 fiscal year that
featured robust organic revenue growth, operating leverage and double-digit earnings per share
growth.
In the fourth quarter, revenues grew 9% and adjusted earnings per share increased by 13% as
reported. For the full year 2016, sales grew 7% and adjusted earnings per share increased by 12%
as reported. These full year results were especially encouraging as they followed strong growth
and financial performance in 2015.
Taking a closer look and starting with a review of our market categories at the corporate level;
sales to our broadly defined pharmaceutical category grew 6% in the quarter and grew 10% for
the full year. The strength in pharma demand over the course of the year was driven by macro
trends of rising global regulatory standards, increasing global patient access to prescription drugs
and the growing testing needs of newer biologic drugs that feature ever increasing complexity
and molecular structure.
Sales to our worldwide industrial category, which includes the material characterization, food,
environmental and fine chemical markets across all product lines were robust in the fourth quarter
growing 14%. This category continues to be led by demand for food quality and safety testing
and was also aided by demand for fine chemical applications that rebounded from levels seen
earlier in the year. For the full year, the industrial category grew 6%.
Looking at our governmental and academic category, we saw general rebound in the quarter withEurope, where we saw a notable increase in installations of new research-grade mass
spectrometry instruments, as well as strong performance from governmental agencies in Asia
Pacific.
Like Europe, the US was strong in Q4, but negative for the year, which contributed to a full-year
decline in our overall government and academic category by 3%. As we have consistently
conveyed, this category is small and somewhat lumpy quarter-to-quarter for Waters, so we tend
to focus on rolling trends versus any particularly quarter result.
Now I'd like to review product line dynamics, which I will cover by our Waters and TA branded
lines. Waters instrument sales grew 12% in the fourth quarter with LC and LCMS platforms
performing about equally as well accompanied by continued strong performance for laboratory
informatics offerings. Looking at the full year Waters branded instrument platform sales were up
7%, a rate that reflects our strong product positions and the excellence of our field operations in
a very competitive marketplace.
On the LC front, ACQUITY Arc and workhorse alliance-based systems for regulated testing drove
overall healthy system growth. For LCMS applications, benchtop systems had incorporated our
ACQUITY QDa and the Xevo family of tandem quadrupole mass spectrometers grew
impressively. With thousands of installations now, the ACQUITY QDa mass detector continues to
expand the adoption of mass spectrometry molecular characterization to the larger liquid
chromatography market end-user base.
Waters recurring revenue the combination of servicing chemistry consumables grew 9% in the
quarter. This rate includes the positive effect of two additional selling days in comparison to the
prior year's quarter. For the full year, Waters recurring revenues grew 8%, marking the third
straight year of high single-digit growth. This consistent performance is indicative of strong
instrument utilization, growth in service plans for regulated workflows and leading technology
positions for advanced consumables.
Our differentiation in consumables continues to grow with innovations in LC columns such as
CORTECS and application specific testing kits such as GlycoWorks and ProteinWorks. Additionally,
sales of ACQUITY UPLC columns continue to demonstrate the increasing uptake of UPLC
technology and more challenging biopharma workflows.
Turning to our TA product lines, revenues were down 2% in the fourth quarter. Sequentially we
saw a nice pickup of orders and shipments in comparison to the third quarter result and the
fourth quarter's modest decline was more a reflection of the mid-teens growth that we delivered
in the prior year's fourth quarter. From a product perspective, we saw increasing customer
acceptance of our newly introduced discovery line of thermal analysis.
In the quarter, we began shipping our discovery Thermogravimetric Analyzer or TGA, an
instrument that is often purchased alongside differential scanning calorimeters or DSCs.
Customer feedback on the new discovery line continues to be favorable and our installations
have gone very well. For the full year sales of TA products and services increased 2%. This growth
is slower than the businesses long-term trend and reflected moderate weakening in demand
from industrial end markets against a prior year strong performance. We now enter 2017 with a
strong product position, a growing business pipeline and some early indications of a cyclical
recovery in industrial demand.
Finally, I will review performance by geography at the corporate level. Asia-Pacific continued to
pace our global growth for the fourth quarter, while Europe was also a region of strength and theand this performance continued throughout 2016 with growth in the high-teens range in the
quarter and mid-teens range for the year. The strength in our business in Asia was highlighted in
2016 by strong double-digit sales growth in China, as well as consistent double-digit growth
performance in India.
Within China, we saw growth across all of our market and product lines with particularly strong
demand from pharmaceutical customers. Looking specifically at this category, growth drivers
included new regulatory requirements by China's Food and Drug Administration, which focus on
increasing analytical rigor across key workflows to ensure consistency of results and integrity of
archived data. Our industry-leading empower chromatography data systems has us well-
positioned to meet these rising regulatory needs.
In Japan, sales increased 6% in the quarter and 4% for the year. Growth over the course of the
year was somewhat balanced between the pharmaceutical and industrial categories. Revenues in
the Americas grew by 2% in the quarter with strong growth in specialty pharma, chemical
materials and government and academic markets offset by weaker growth from newer clinical
diagnostic installations and applied industrial markets.
For the year, Americas sales increased by 3% with balanced contributions from the
pharmaceutical and industrial categories offset by modest declines in governmental and
academic business. Europe as a region was a strong contributor to the fourth quarter growing 9%
behind strong trends in pharmaceutical applications for both LC and MS instruments, as well as
service plans. Offsetting stronger growth in Western Europe was weaker demand in Eastern
Europe and the Middle East. For the year, Europe grew 6%, impressive when considering the
backdrop of economic uncertainty in a number of countries.
Stepping back and looking at the corporation broadly, 2016 was a year of great performance and
also great progress. It all starts with our 7,000 employees worldwide, for it is our people, culture
and values that make the Waters difference. I want to congratulate our entire organization for job
well done. The team worked tirelessly and executed all year long. While we delivered strong
financial performance in 2016, we also transitioned to our new leadership structure, advanced our
innovation capability through development of our rigorous portfolio management process and
created a strategic framework to guide our continuing growth and performance for the long
term. It was a busy and rewarding year and I feel very grateful to be part of such a fine company
and team of people.
In a few minutes, you'll have the chance to hear from `Sherry Buck, Chief Financial Officer, our new CFO, she outlines our
financial outlook for 2017. Though Sherry has been with Waters for only a few weeks, she has
already immersed herself in the business, participated actively in financial planning activities and
contributed strongly in our new position. We are very excited to have Sherry and welcome her
warmly as our CFO. Her background skills and character are the perfect fit for Waters at the right
time as we navigate the changing landscape of corporate finance and chart our next phase of
shareholder value creation.
Also I want to salute Gene Cassis, as he support Sherry's onboarding and transitions to his new
Corporate Advisory position focused on technology and strategy. You will continue to see Gene,
but I want to thank him at this time for a truly impactful and memorable three years as our CFO. I
know everyone in the investment community will miss interacting with Gene on a daily basis, but
rest assured his positive impact on Waters will only continue.
Finally, I want to comment on our upcoming Investor Day scheduled for Thursday, March 2nd in
New York City. Our goal as the Waters management team for this meeting is to provide investorswith a fresh look at our markets, products and growth strategies. While much of what you will
hear will feel familiar and consistent with our development to date as a company. Our aim is to
provide fresh new insights on our evolving global markets, our unique competitive position and
our strategies for growth and value creation. Perhaps more importantly you will have the
opportunity to hear from our experienced and talented executive management team. I know you
will enjoy meeting them and I'm confident that their remarks will add new texture to Waters as a
compelling investment opportunity.
Now I'd like to pass the call over to Gene for a deeper review of the 2016 financials. Gene?
`Eugene G. Cassis, Outgoing Chief Financial Officer `
Well, thank you, Chris and good morning. In the fourth quarter, our revenues came in at $629
million, an increase of about 9% before currency translation. Currency translation reduced sales
growth in the quarter by about 2%, resulting in 7% reported sales growth. Our non-GAAP earnings
per diluted share in the fourth quarter were up 13% to $2.21 in comparison to earnings of $1.96 last
year. On a GAAP basis, our earnings were $2.15 versus $1.83 last year.
For the full-year 2016 sales grew about 7% before currency effects, while currency translation
reduced sales growth by 1%. Our non-GAAP earnings per fully diluted share were up 12% to $6.62
per share versus $5.89 last year. In all, the impact of foreign exchange benefited full-year
earnings by about $0.70 [ph] versus the prior year. On a GAAP basis, full year earnings per share
were $6.41 versus $5.65 in 2015. A reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP earnings is attached
to our press release issued this morning.
Looking at the fourth quarter, our growth was balanced with all of our major customer defined
markets contributing nicely. Our pharmaceutical end markets grew 6%, industrial markets grew
14% and sales to global, academic and governmental customers grew 6%. Product line growth
was also balanced with total instrument sales growing at 9% and recurring revenues up 8%.
Breaking that down further, our Waters products and services sales were up 10%, while TA is
declined by 2%. Breaking that down even more, LC and LCMS platform instrument sales
increased by 12% and TA's instrumentation systems sales declined by 4%.
Our total recurring revenues associated with both Waters and TA products grew by 8% with TA
service revenue up 3% in the quarter. Looking at the full-year, instrument and recurring revenues
sales for the corporation grew 6% and 8% respectively.
Now looking at our growth rates in the fourth quarter geographically and before currency
translation; US sales were down 1%, European sales were up 9%, sales in Japan up 6%, and sales
in Asia outside of Japan were up 18%. As for TA, global product and service sales were down 2%
overall with growth in Europe offset generally by declines elsewhere. Looking at the full year,
Asia-Pacific showed strong and consistent growth throughout the year and grew at 12%. Europe
was also solid growing 6% and the Americas grew 3%. This over a strong prior year performance.
Now I'd like to comment on our fourth quarter's non-GAAP financial performance versus the prior
year. Gross margins for the quarter came in at 60% compared to 59.4% in the prior year's
quarter. For the full-year in 2016 gross margins were 58.9% versus 58.7% in the prior year. In the
fourth quarter, foreign exchange impacted gross margin's percent positively by about 60 basis
points and for the full year the impact was neutral.
Now moving down the P&L; in the fourth quarter, operating expenses were up 9% on a constant
currency basis and 5% on a non-GAAP reported basis. In the quarter, higher variable expenses
associated with higher volume and performance incentives contributed to spending growth. Forthe full year, operating expenses were up 5% on a constant currency basis and 3% on a non-
GAAP reported basis.
On the tax front, our effective operating tax rate for the quarter was 14.3%, and for the full-year
14.1%. This versus 13.8% in 2015. In the quarter, net interest expense was $6 million and our
average share count came in at 81 million shares or approximately 1.4 million shares lower than in
the fourth quarter of last year. This being a net effect of our ongoing share repurchase program.
Now turning to the balance sheet, cash and short-term incentives totaled $2.8 billion and debt
totaled 1.8 billion, bringing us to a net cash position of $986 million. As for fourth quarter share
repurchases, we bought 595,000 shares of our common stock for $82 million, this leaves 123
million on our authorized share repurchase program.
We define free cash flow as cash from operations, less capital expenditure, plus non-cash tax
benefits from stock-based compensation accounting and excluding non-recurring items that are
unusual. In the fourth quarter of 2016, free cash flow came in at $151 million after funding $21
million of capital. Excluded from this amount is approximately $2 million of investments associated
with facility expansion. This brings our full-year 2016 free cash flow to $555 million or
approximately $0.25 of cash flow for each $1 of sales.
Accounts receivable days outstanding stood at 71 days in the quarter, which is equal to that in the
fourth quarter of last year and sequentially down five days from the third quarter. In the quarter,
inventories declined by $40 million in comparison to the prior quarter. This is in line with our typical
seasonal patterns.
At this time, I'd like to hand the call over to `Sherry Buck, Chief Financial Officer, Waters CFO for further comments on our
future outlook. Sherry?
`Sherry Buck, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Gene, and good morning, everyone. I'm very happy to be a part of the Waters team,
and I'm looking forward to connecting with many of you during our engagements with investment
community in the coming months.
Looking ahead to 2017, our outlook generally assumes continued stable demand from our
pharmaceutical and markets, consistent growth in our recurring revenue and balanced growth
rates from our other end markets. These dynamics lead up to a mid-single digit constant currency
sales increase in 2017.
At current rates, currency translation is assumed to reduce 2017 sales growth by about 2% to 3%.
Gross margins for the year are expected to be consistent with the prior year in the range of
58.5% to 59% as volume-related manufacturing efficiency gains are expected to be offset by
negative effects from foreign currency translation. Our plan is to continue to manage operating
expense growth at a rate that is less than our sales growth rate.
Moving below the operating income line, net interest expense is expected to be approximately
$26 million. Our current operating tax rate is estimated to be approximately 14%, similar to our
2016 rate.
Our 2017 guidance regarding capital allocation assumes continuation of our share repurchase
program through 2017 at a rate that will result in an average diluted 2017 share count of about 80
million shares outstanding. Rolling all this together and on a non-GAAP basis, full-year 2017
earnings per fully diluted share are projected to be within a range of $6.85 to $7.10. At currentLooking at the first quarter of 2017, sales growth is expected to be in the range of 3% to 5%. At
today's rates, currency translation is expected to reduce first quarter sales growth by about 2%.
This sales growth rate includes the effect of two fewer selling days in the quarter that we assume
will reduce sales growth by approximately 1%. These top line factors combined with moderate
increases in expenses result in an estimated first quarter earnings per diluted share in the range
of $1.26 to $1.36.
Now I'd like to turn the call back to Chris. Chris?
`Christopher O'Connell, Chief Executive Officer
Great. Thank you, Gene, and thank you, Sherry. As we turn to 2017, we will continue to emphasize
execution in our core business and believe the trends in our key business drivers suggest a
continuation of solid operating performance. As always when entering a new fiscal year, we will
strive for balance in our results and seek to cover unexpected changes in our assumptions with
the breadth of our growth opportunities. Additionally, as we have stated consistently, we will seek
to balance growth, operating leverage and investment in the business.
With that, we'll now open the phone lines for Q&A. We are rarely able to get to everyone's
questions, so please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up. And if you have additional
questions, please contact our Investor Relations team after the call. Jay, first question please.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) Our first
question comes from `Tycho Peterson, Analyst, JP Morgan of JP Morgan. Sir, your line is open.
Q - `Tycho Peterson, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Hey, thank you. Chris, want to maybe ask on pharma dynamics. It looked like you had a little bit of
a slowdown there when you take into consideration the extra selling days and easier comps. Can
you maybe talk about what you saw in the channel at the year-end? Was there any kind of budget
flush dynamics that you could call out? And then what's embedded in guidance for both pharma
growth and then separately for biotech for '17?
A - `Christopher O'Connell, Chief Executive Officer
Sure. Thanks, Tycho. Yeah, the pharma quarter, as we talked about, was up 6% on a year of 10%
[ph]. So I think the fact that we saw fairly balanced demand at the end of the year is evidence,
maybe to answer your question on budget flush that we did not see any significant budget flush,
in fact, we saw the strength in our business generally across the quarter and most of the growth
in the quarter came from the smaller and specialty accounts as we've consistently talked about
that we do have a broadening base of pharma demand that's not as reliant on the large pharma
companies that have historically been a question of budget flush. And so really you can see from
the result in the fourth quarter growing more modestly than the year that we did not necessarily
experience that type of flush.
And I would also point though to the prior year where we had a strong pharma year as well in '15,
we saw the same pattern of moderating growth towards the end of the year. And so when I look
at the pharma performance for the company, I really look at the total year result, which was that
double-digit result.In terms of guidance and what we're assuming for '17, to answer the last part of your question, I
think we do what we always do is to be a little more moderate in our outlook and look at more
historical trend lines when forecasting a line of business such as pharma. And as I pointed out in
my prepared remarks, we seek to achieve more balance across our portfolio at least from a
planning standpoint. It doesn't mean we're not going to be going for upside like we've been able
to achieve, but I think we've taken a very pragmatic outlook in terms of our guidance that we've
given.
Q - `Tycho Peterson, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Okay. And then just if I could ask one follow-up. What's in guidance for China and India? These
have been big sources of strength for you guys over the past year. Can you just kind of clarify
what you are expecting there?
A - `Christopher O'Connell, Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, certainly China and India, as we pointed out, had another strong year, and it's a strong year
on top of the strong year. Those performance trends reflect the underlying positive conditions in
those markets for sure, but also the strength and consistency of our approach executionally in
those markets. But, again, like the pharma story, when we look at guidance for the year, we do
look to moderate our expectations to set a bar that we can achieve and don't necessarily assume
that everything goes right, I mean every geography. And so really when you look at what we're
assuming for '17, it's a moderation of the performance we've seen from '16 and '15, but again,
that's a baseline and we'll attempt to improve upon that over the course of the year.
Q - `Tycho Peterson, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Okay. Thanks.
Operator
Next question is from Dan Arias of Citigroup. Your line is open.
Q - `Daniel Arias, Analyst, Citigroup `
Hi, good morning. Thank you. Chris, just to sort of drive home the point on Tycho's question
there, should we take your comments to mean that the mid-single digit assumption overall is kind
of in line with what you are thinking for biopharma? I'm sorry to ask the same question twice, but
just given the magnitude of decline, I am just trying to get a number for the assumption on
biopharma.
A - `Christopher O'Connell, Chief Executive Officer
Sure. I think mid-single digit overall guidance for our company is very consistent with the type of
guidance that we've given heading into prior years, again looking at an overall balanced portfolio,
not assuming everything goes perfectly and wanting the ability to cover changes and
assumptions over time. I would say that the historic rate of the pharma market for us has been a
little bit better than mid-single digits more in line with the company's long-term trend line growth
rate of around 6%. And I think it's responsible to begin the year with that more moderate type of
an outlook. But really underlying that is a set of market dynamics that we think are sustaining.
We've talked about these in the past and certainly conditions we saw in the fourth quarter
continued to reinforce to us that those core drivers are intact, drivers such as the rapid rise of
prescription drugs in the world really fueled by generics, factors such as the increasing researchand now commercial activity of large molecule drugs that carry with them more significant
characterization requirements due to the complexity of those molecules. And just a general rise
in standardization of regulation around the world and that's particularly fueling our business in the
emerging markets like China and India. So, really a lot of those drivers are very much intact and
again we make -- we try to make prudent assumptions when we head into a new fiscal year.
Q - `Daniel Arias, Analyst, Citigroup `
Okay. Thanks. That's helpful. And then maybe within industrial, can you just put some color to the
comment on the early signs of potential cyclical recovery? And then maybe if we just look at the
four sub-segments that you typically tease out, would you kind of mind just sort of listing them in
order of strength? It sounds like food is at the top. I would love to just get a relative sense for
your expectation around materials, chemical, environmental as you look at '17. Thanks.
A - `Christopher O'Connell, Chief Executive Officer
Sure. Yeah, I think our comments on the industrial sector reflect our own experience particularly as
we close the year, but also just the broader backdrop of what we're seeing in the economy. I
mean, certainly we are seeing probably a little bit better tone in the market among some of our
end customers in terms of capital spending. Now, obviously, we're -- we need that to be proven,
in terms of orders as we get into the year, but it does seem like the broad tone is a little bit
better.
In terms of the quarter, obviously, we had a good industrial quarter at 14% growth and actually 6%
for the year. So when you really step back and look at industrial for the company, there were
definitely puts and takes, but pretty solid performance for the year. At the top of the
leaderboard, if you will, for the industrial businesses indeed, the food and environmental, those
applied markets, which are really a reflection of rising testing standards in the food safety
industry and the continued adoption of LCMS technology.
We have a particularly strong product position right now in that area with our tandem quadrupole
mass spectrometer offerings and that's really a combination of the TQ-S micro, which has been in
the market for several years, as you know and the newly launched in 2016 product the TQ-XS,
which is our new high-end tandem quadrupole mass spectrometer. So we have a good product
position. We have a favorable trends in those market segments that are really leading our
industrial category.
The chemical, the fine chemicals market, the chemical materials market was softer during the
year, but did have a rebound towards the end of the year and really normalized I'd say in the
fourth quarter for an overall year look and so that would be really the next on the list and perhaps
hopefully signals some stability in the coming year.
The TA instruments business as we pointed out had a softer year, obviously, on a tougher comp,
but reflecting really a broad year of relatively soft demand in the material science, polymer,
metals market, but, again, we feel really good about the TA franchise overall from the standpoint
of the product position that we enter 2017 with and so. If there is a pick-up in demand in those
end markets, we stand to benefit as we head into '17.
Q - `Daniel Arias, Analyst, Citigroup `
Okay. Thanks very much.
A - `Christopher O'Connell, Chief Executive OfficerThanks, Dan.
Operator
The next question is from Mr. `Dan Leonard, Analyst, Deutsche Bank of Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.
Q - `Dan Leonard, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Thank you. I guess I will start by following up on that last bit. Chris, can you comment on how TA
performed versus plan in the fourth quarter and would the expectation on 2017 just be mid-single
digit like the rest of the company and an assumption that markets improve?
A - `Christopher O'Connell, Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, TA was soft in the fourth quarter and they missed their plan and obviously we're not happy
about that, but we also are putting the right context around that with which is -- they had a terrific
quarter in the year prior, so their comp was tough. Their comp was 15% type growth in the fourth
quarter of '15.
As I pointed out in the prepared remarks, we did see a nice sequential improvement in their
result in Q4 from three to four and we are encouraged by the work they're doing in their pipeline.
And so in terms of the year, we expect TA to have, we certainly model them in and around the
corporate average, which is primarily organic growth, but we will get a small benefit from a small
acquisition we made in 2016 that we talked about in one of the prior calls. But like I said earlier,
we were really keying off of the Discovery product line as our main lever to achieve better growth
in 2017.
Q - `Dan Leonard, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Understood. And I know it is a smaller part of your business and you are not a great barometer,
but can you discuss maybe what you are seeing in the academic market? It sounds like the US
was still weak and maybe what the outlook is there for 2017?
A - `Christopher O'Connell, Chief Executive Officer
Sure. Yeah, the government and academic market as we talked quite a bit about last quarter is
smaller and lumpier and we had a good quarter worldwide. It was strength in Europe and in Asia
offsetting relative weakness in the US, but nothing off the radar. And for the year, the category
overall was down in the low-single digits as I pointed out.
Like we've stated before, we always have relatively modest expectations for the sector because
it does tend to be lumpier and really more research-grade mass spec oriented. We do like our
product position and to the extent there is an improved spending profile coming from those
types of sources we stand to benefit. That market is generally driven by medical research where
there is certainly a lot of interest in broad-based funding and really is an interesting proving
ground for the latest and most exacting measurement technologies and so we like the market,
it's a good market for us, but it is smaller and lumpier and we have relatively modest outlook
because of that.
Q - `Dan Leonard, Analyst, Deutsche Bank `
Got it. Thank you.
OperatorThe next question is from `Isaac Ro, Analyst, Goldman Sachs of Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
Q - `Isaac Ro, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Good morning, guys. Thank you. Wanted to start with a question on just the strength in Europe
and academic globally where it looked like your performance was better than most would've
expected. I know you guys are at the beginning of the earnings cycle here for the Group, but I'm
wondering if you have any views as to whether or not market share was part of the driver and I
know it's hard to measure, but it just seems like you guys at the very least might have gained a
little share, at least in those two areas?
A - `Christopher O'Connell, Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, Isaac, that's a good question, and I think I don't have a very good answer. Market share, as
you point out is tough to ascertain, particularly the further you get out in the world and in different
pockets. I would say that we had in Europe, particular success with our new Vion high-resolution
QTof mass spectrometer in some of the key academic centers. It has attracted some interest
with an increasing perspective, I would say, on ion mobility in workflow and solid execution by the
team. That was true in Asia as well. So whether we picked up share, it's hard to say. Because of
the lumpiness of those markets, I wouldn't want to draw conclusions based on very limited data,
but we obviously like the performance and we're going to continue to attempt to play with hot
hand as the year unfolds here.
Q - `Isaac Ro, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Great. And then just a follow-up on the -- maybe financial side with regards to margins. Sherry, if
you could comment that would be great. I know you are new in the seat, but just curious if, in your
initial overview of the business, anything really stands out in terms of areas where you could drive
an improvement in margins? Waters obviously has been a very profitable company with great
margins for a long time, but I think the assumption here is that there is still opportunity. So if there
is either a category or a theme here that we should think about as you take the reins, I would be
interested in where you think there is opportunity for improvement.
A - `Sherry Buck, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. Yes. So as pointed out there's been a very strong history of our performance and really if
you look at the margins we've achieved historically, I say it's really a factor of the kinds of
businesses that we're in that generate those kinds of margin profiles. I'd say like all companies, I
think we have opportunity to improve in our operations through various efficiencies and that will
be one of the areas that I'll be focused on this year.
Q - `Isaac Ro, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
The next question is from `Ross Muken, Analyst, Evercore ISI of Evercore ISI. Your line is open.
Q - `Ross Muken, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Good morning, guys. Just curious on the capital equipment side. It seemed like obviously strength
broadly, but how much lumpiness was there in some of the order patterns and obviously, you
didn't see much flush in pharma, but I'm just trying to get a sense of, in the industrial and some ofthe other non-traditional businesses, how that cadence looked and then obviously it's tough to
see any look into '17 as we are only in January, but as your sales has had conversations on capital
equipment purchasing, is there any areas you would highlight for us to monitor where it could be
improving or decelerating?
A - `Christopher O'Connell, Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, thanks for the question, Ross. The instrument category, generally the hardware category
was pretty solid across the year. We had in total instruments 9% growth for the quarter and 6%
growth for the year, which is really right in the zone of where we expect and hope to be then with
the recurring lines giving some improvement to that. And what was nice to see particularly as we
came to the end of the year was more balanced between LC and MS, we were a little softer in
the beginning part of the year in the mass spec business. Pretty solid throughout the year in LC
and really as we got towards the end of the year, it seemed like better balance and that's any
time we see better balance, we're encouraged.
In terms of lumpiness, I guess I'm still in the broad sense of the world getting to know the
business and understand the different patterns and there are always a lot of puts and takes. And
so I've tend to see the lumpiness factor within certain sub-categories like government and
academic with more consistency in the bigger categories like pharma. And then really in that
broadly defined industrial trade class, if you will, what I have been looking for is strength and
consistency in the factors that tend to drive that category like the applied markets in food and
environmental and that was really a good story in the year driven by both good product position
as well as relatively healthy end markets.
And I think the trends that are driving some of those end markets in the applied areas are ones
that are sustainable just because of the general rise of regulatory standards and expectations for
quality and safety in the world's food supply.
Q - `Ross Muken, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Got it. And just to be clear, on the operating margin side, obviously, a bit of a shift on the FX
benefit this year turning obviously to a headwind. Just give us a little sense of what the underlying
sort of implied operating margin expansion and/or incrementals look like because obviously it
doesn't look like we are getting much on gross.
A - `Christopher O'Connell, Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, I mean, the gross margin, just one quick comment and I will defer to John as well for any
further comments. But on the gross margin was relatively flattish, but keep in mind that a couple
of key drivers for the business this year, for example were China, and then broadly the global
service business, both of those areas of business tend to carry slightly lower gross margin, but
they're accretive to the operating margin. And so really by the time you get down to the
operating margin, one thing we feel best about over the course of the year was the modest
operating leverage we were able to achieve, and the improvement in the operating margin really
on, and as reported basis as well as on a constant currency basis.
And so to get the 7% top line constant currency to reflect in double-digit operating income
growth was a good achievement by the team and really reflected the mix of the business overall
rather than being too fixated on one particular line or the other, but it was good spending control,
it was efficiency gains and it was at the same time making sure we're making the right
investments back into R&D and things that drive our growth for the future.A - `John Lynch, Vice President of Investor Relations `
And maybe just to add to that, Ross, what Chris said, this is John speaking, I think that the major
dynamic and margins for 2017, let's say we are expecting a bit of an FX headwind in margins. I
think other than that the dynamics will be similar to what Chris described.
Q - `Ross Muken, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Great. Thanks.
Operator
The next question is from Mr. `Jon Groberg, Analyst, UBS of UBS. Your line is open.
Q - `Jon Groberg, Analyst, UBS `
Okay. Thanks. First of all, welcome, Sherry, to Waters and good luck.
A - `Sherry Buck, Chief Financial Officer `
Great. Thank you.
A - `John Lynch, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Jon, you're there? I think you got dropped somehow by the phone, but Jon if you call back in,
we'll take your question right away.
Operator
This is the operator. The next on the line is Mr. `Jack Meehan, Analyst, Barclays Capital of Barclays. Your line is open.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Analyst, Barclays Capital `
Hi, thanks. Good morning. And maybe I just want to start off on FX and just what your thoughts
are on pricing philosophy there and just more broadly what's baked into the guidance on that
front?
A - `Christopher O'Connell, Chief Executive Officer
Baked in, in terms of the overall FX headwind?
Q - `Jack Meehan, Analyst, Barclays Capital `
Yeah, I guess just with some of the recent changes whether it impacted the way that you think
about setting price for some of your products.
A - `Christopher O'Connell, Chief Executive Officer
No, I would say that we tend to be pretty consistent in our pricing philosophy. We do try to
achieve annual modest and sustainable price increases especially where we demonstrate that
value to our customers. So I don't think there is anything unusual in terms of our pricing policy or
strategies right now related to FX. Obviously, we try to protect our revenue in some of the more
volatile currencies through a combination of pricing in dollars and local currency, but I wouldn't say
there's anything unusual heading into this year.Q - `Jack Meehan, Analyst, Barclays Capital `
Got it. Thank you. And then I just want to follow up one more time on biopharma. Getting a few
questions on it. And I was wondering just paring your commentary around biotech and some of
the smaller accounts driving a lot of the growth with the 2% organic you had in America, just what
should be the read-through in terms of the trends with large cap pharma and just the confidence
looking into 2017 that, that can continue to sustain the growth? Thanks.
A - `Christopher O'Connell, Chief Executive Officer
Sure. Now, you have to piece apart the overall pharma picture and the US picture to see some of
the underlying points there. And like you point out Jack, we are less dependent on large pharma,
that's been a consistent trend over time, where 10 years ago, 25% of our pharma business was
large cap, multinationals and today that's only about 11%, and so it is a broadening base that
business and our globalization of that business. And when you really piece it apart US pharma was
comparing to a tough year of 10% growth in prior year, and when you exclude the effects of
some slightly negative government and academic and flattish industrial, US pharma was more of
a mid-single digit, which reflected pretty good performance.
And so, I think we generally feel good about the US, It's sort of steady as she goes and we
continue to seek the balance that I described, but certainly not forgetting about large pharma. It's
been a really our core customer base for a long time and actually some of the most innovative
work going on in the world right now is from the traditional large pharma companies and we're
very excited to participate in that.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Analyst, Barclays Capital `
Great. I appreciate all the color.
A - `Christopher O'Connell, Chief Executive Officer
Thanks. Jon, did we get you back on the line?
Q - `Jon Groberg, Analyst, UBS `
Can you hear me now?
A - `Christopher O'Connell, Chief Executive Officer
Jon, yeah, we can hear you.
Q - `Jon Groberg, Analyst, UBS `
All right. Well, thanks. I'm not sure what happened. So I just had two quick questions, one on -- I
know you don't want to think about this, Chris, but for QDa, can you give a sense as to how
penetrated you think that market is from an adoption standpoint?
And then the second question -- they are both kind of detailed questions -- given kind of the
rhetoric going on in Washington, how are you thinking about or what percent of your products are
manufactured outside the U.S. today? I know it's a pretty significant percentage and how are you
kind of thinking about what you are hearing going on in Washington? Thanks.
A - `Christopher O'Connell, Chief Executive OfficerSure. Sure. Fair question. First of all, QDa, look, I think we're -- I know I have trouble hiding my
enthusiasm of the QDa. QDa is a fantastic product, it's revolutionary in terms of bringing mass
spectrometry to a package that's far more usable and integratable into many more workflows.
The bottom line is today mass spectrometry is used in far less than 10% of traditional
chromatograpic workflows. And so we're only at the very beginning of mass detection and this is
particularly true as it relates to the uses of QDa and mass detection generally in biopharm
workflows, as biopharm becomes bigger and bigger.
And so it's hard -- it's actually hard to put a specific number on percent penetration of
addressable market, even though we do strive to do that, because the other thing we see is that
new uses for QDa continue to present themselves. It's a fairly -- it's a fairly diverse [ph] range of
uses that people are finding for it and we'll put some more color on that when we get to our
Investor Conference in early-March, but we really do like the QDa platform and we like what it will
do for the field of mass spectrometry broadly.
In terms of the rhetoric in Washington, there is a lot of rhetoric for sure. To answer your question
specifically, we're actually relatively balanced today in terms of being a net importer or exporter.
We've got a strong global manufacturing footprint with our major facilities between Singapore,
Ireland, UK and the United States.
And so, from the standpoint of potential changes in corporate tax policy, we're actually excited
about some of those directions, certainly access to our global cash would be a benefit, certainly
lower rates in the U.S. would be a benefit, and operationally depending on how significant some
of those changes are. We're in a good position based on that global footprint to move
production to where it's most optimized to benefit the company operationally, but also financially.
So, we're watching all that very, very closely. I guess, I'm an optimist at the end of the day on
matters like trade policy. I think we have too much to gain in terms of being a global economy.
And while there is a war of words from time to time among different countries, I think the U.S. has
shown over time to take a pragmatic view towards these questions. And I think the U.S. economy
will only benefit from that.
So I'll be an advocate from my chair in terms of free trade type policies and the growth of the U.S.
economy as a result of that which would only benefit our company and our industry.
Q - `Jon Groberg, Analyst, UBS `
All right. Thanks.
Operator
The next question is from `Amanda Murphy, Analyst, William Blair of William Blair. Your line is open.
Q - `Amanda Murphy, Analyst, William Blair `
(inaudible) I just have two quick questions for you. One, you mentioned the importance of
regulatory dynamics and standardization, and you also talked about the Chinese FDA. So I was
curious how much more runway do you have on that specific initiative do you think, and anything
else that is coming down the pipeline that you see in terms of regulatory changes or movements
that could help in various different geographies going forward?
A - `Christopher O'Connell, Chief Executive OfficerSure. It's a good question, Amanda. We've seen this theme in different markets. And for
example, two, three years ago, four years ago, we saw this trend play out in India, for example,
as the FDA took a greater interest in on-the-ground resources in India, and as a lot of these
Indian generic providers both local and multinational began their efforts to step up compliance
activities.
To your point, we're seeing that in China real time as the Chinese government is harmonizing on
the greatest common denominator which are the more exacting FDA level type standards. We
think we're in the middle of that. We're not going to try to predict how long that cycle may exist,
we're just focused on executing within it. But we do think in the, at least, in the near term there is
more runway there.
I think this regulatory theme is not just one for the pharmaceutical market, but it's also therefore
the food market as well. And actually it's no coincidence that our food and applied franchise in
China, in particular, has been a source of strength for the company. We do see over time more
transparency in the supply chain for food from farm to market and really the adoption of more
sophisticated measurement technology such as LCMS.
And so we're trying to pursue those trends, we're trying to advocate with governments for
responsible regulation in that regard, and we think will benefit from it. But rising regulation is also
a trend in the material sciences. As new materials become introduced for industrial products of all
types, there are increased testing standards and even regulation. So we think this regulatory
theme is an important business driver for us and one we're going to key off of.
Q - `Amanda Murphy, Analyst, William Blair `
Yes, okay. It makes sense. I just had another question. I know this might be generic, so forgive
me, but I was wondering if you could just talk a little bit about competition. And I know that is
probably different in each part of your business and I think mass spec historically been a little bit
more competitive than others, but just trying to get a sense of how you feel about the
competitive dynamics at this point and who you are running into type thing?
A - `Christopher O'Connell, Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, I'll probably just give a simple answer to that, which is we think we have really great
competitors. I have a lot of respect for the people we're up against. The dynamics are different,
obviously, in different sectors. In LC, market share tends to be stickier for obvious reasons related
to the standards that endure in terms of the methods used to produce -- develop and produce
medications. Mass spec tends to be a little faster in terms of the innovation cycle and a little bit
more dynamic in that regard. And don't forget about competition on the servicing chemistry side
as well. TA instruments on the materials side faces a more fragmented competitor base than we
do in the LC and MS business.
But overall, I think we're up against smart, well-resourced, disciplined companies, and I think that's
good for the business and for the markets and for the customers. So I wouldn't really want to say
anything more than that.
Q - `Amanda Murphy, Analyst, William Blair `
Okay. Fair enough. Thank you, guys.
OperatorQ - `Derik de Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hey, good morning.
A - `Christopher O'Connell, Chief Executive Officer
Good morning, Derik.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. So just a couple of quick ones and then I have one longer one. Any M&A contribution in the
quarter? And last quarter you had a negative 15% academic result in Q3. Was there stuff that got
pushed from Q3 into Q4 this quarter?
A - `Christopher O'Connell, Chief Executive Officer
Yeah. First of all M&A was very, very minor if -- almost immaterial. We had a tiny bit from the
Rubotherm acquisition within TA, but it was almost not enough to comment on. Academic, yes, it
was down in the quarter, we talked about that being sort of small and lumpy. There were one or
two relatively modest examples of business that was pushed quarter-to-quarter, but that is also
something that happens many quarters. There's always some pushes and pulls. So we tend to
look at that, as I said in the prepared remarks that academic and government over a little bit
more of a rolling period as quarters can -- there's sometimes a lot of noise in various quarters.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. And then just one longer one. I certainly agree with that certainly globally regulation is
going up, but there's news out this morning that Mr. Trump has frozen EPA grants and he is talking
about rolling back 75% of regulation. I mean, how do you sort of deal with sort of like the -- I
would say the mixed messages that we've got wanting to push back regulation in the states and
then sort of by global market? And I guess the question I am going to is like, how much of your
market is U.S. based that could potentially be impacted by some of the plans that Mr. Trump has
been proposing?
A - `Christopher O'Connell, Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, first of all, I think the regulatory drivers of our business have a lot more to do with the
emerging markets, harmonizing lot more global standards. I mean, certainly I don't expect there's
a lot of different types of regulations that I think people are probably talking about in some of
those comments and but I don't think we have any expectation that regulations around the safety
medical therapies is going to be rolled back, and I don't think there's any talk about that. I think
there is a lot of talk about financial regulation, environmental regulation and some things of that
nature, but there are a lot of messages out there and we just try to be little more focused on
what's in front of us, but I would say the two overwhelming factors driving our view of this topic
are -- again the harmonization standards around the world particularly in the Chinese and India's
of the world. And I think there is also an underlying consumer demand for safety, for purity, for
quality, in products of all types whether they're medications, food or industrial products.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay. Thank you.
OperatorThe next question is from (inaudible), your line is open.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Yeah, good morning. Can you guys hear me?
A - `Christopher O'Connell, Chief Executive Officer
Sure.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Thank you, Chris. Thanks, Gene and welcome, Sherry. Just Chris, if I could try to understand the
biomolecules dynamics in the developed market pharma, could you help us understand in the
QA-QC lab in terms of competitive dynamics you have biomolecules that are being entering the
pipeline from the top, from discovery and going through their approval. They are pulling in some
of the competitive technologies into the QA-QC lab where traditionally you've had a very good
position, very strong position. Help us understand a little bit in terms of those competitive
dynamics and of course you're answering that by your QDa Detector, but help us pass out [ph]
where do you see that in 2017 and how do you see that going forward?
A - `Christopher O'Connell, Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, I think it's a good broad question (inaudible) as it relates to the -- really the movement of a
lot of biomolecules from the discovery and development phase into manufacturing. And there is
ultimately going to be a technology set that may look quite different in that large molecule
category than we see in traditional chemical entity type workflows. And this is why the company is
positioned for that. You mentioned QDa and that's certainly one aspect of it, but it also starts with
separations and the advent of UPLC and the technology advantage we have on the UPLC side for
speed and precision of separation sciences is clearly a key driver.
I would also say on the kits in addition to the mass detection that we talked about with QDa,
there is all the work around -- around the kits required to characterize the various qualities of
modules, for example, in glycans. So you've heard us talk about glycans and the GlycoWorks
technology that has been a real boon to protein characterization, additionally our package around
ProteinWorks that goes even further. And then I'd really wrap it also with the comment on
software, please don't forget about the importance of the data integrity equation that continues
to impress us as a need in the market and the validated software that we offer.
So anyway we put a stake in the ground a long time ago and we're continuing to develop this
particular thought process around how the biomolecule world will increasingly look different and
we expect to share more insights on that when we get to our investor meeting in March.
Q - Unidentified Participant
Got it. And just one quick follow-up on the food and environmental comments that you made
earlier. I mean, as you look at the food and environmental market in China, again my
understanding the LCMS world being in that in past [ph] life is sort of the pricing is on the
biopharma and is less sensitive compared to the food and environmental guys as they look at the
overall offering. Help me understand how you are able to penetrate those markets and gain
share, especially in China, which is not only it's so price sensitive, but again food and
environmental being more -- a little bit more price sensitive. And you guys really have premium
offering in terms of UPLCs and across the board. So help me educate a little bit.A - `Christopher O'Connell, Chief Executive Officer
Let me give you just a quick simple answer for that and then I'd like to go to the last question as
we're a little short on time. The reality is those markets are still prioritizing the most exacting
measurement technology and we're actually able to maintain a price premium. We've been hard
at work for a long time with the government agencies to help define these new standard of
analysis, which typically involve adoption of the latest technologies, not price discounted lesser
technologies. So we'll continue to try to push that trend. But thanks for the question. Could we
have one more question, Jay, from the queue?
Operator
Thank you. The next one is from `Doug Schenkel, Analyst, Cowen and Company of Cowen and Company. Your line is open.
Q - `Doug Schenkel, Analyst, Cowen and Company `
All right. Good morning, everyone. First, I welcome Sherry and second, I want to take this
opportunity to thank Gene for all your help over the years and congratulate you on the new role.
So now for the questions I have; I have two. The first is on guidance. I was surprised that gross
margin guidance wasn't a little bit better given the move in the pound sterling. Can you help
educate us a bit? Are you embedding any assumption that product or geographic mix are a lot
different in 2017 as part of the guide?
And then the second question is really on TA and the industrial end market. I was a little surprised
as well to see TA not do a bit better when commentary on industrial was so positive relative to
what we have seen for a little while. I know some of this was attributed to the comp, but do you
think there's also some potential that the market paused a bit, at least for you, due to all the new
product launches that you have coming to the market right now? Thanks. I will get back in the
queue and listen.
A - `Christopher O'Connell, Chief Executive Officer
Sure. Well, I'll take the question on TA and then see if John and Sherry want to comment a little
more on the guidance. But first of all -- thanks for your comment on Gene as well. On TA, maybe
what you suggest is possible that as the market seeks to absorb new technology and it does so
in a little bit more of a measured fashion.
I think -- but I think the TA performance really reflects what we talked about which is strong comps
and also maybe particular factors that are associated with the polymer and the metals type of
industry that TA tends to be more focused on. Our better performance in the overall industrial
category was really driven by, as we talked about earlier, the applied markets of food and
environmental and those are markets that TA has some exposure to but less than Waters
product. So, again, a little bit of a softer year on a great year before but a great product position
and we're hopeful for TA for 2017. So any thoughts on the guidance?
A - `John Lynch, Vice President of Investor Relations `
Hi, Doug. This is John. I'll comment on the gross margin guidance. I think that we do get some
benefit from the pound but we anniversary that about mid-year and what we are feeling some
pain from is the yen and the euro for the full year.
Q - `Doug Schenkel, Analyst, Cowen and Company `A - `Christopher O'Connell, Chief Executive Officer
Thanks, Doug. And with that let me thank everybody for your great questions. Let me conclude
the call now please. So in conclusion, we are encouraged by our 2016 performance, as we've
described, really headlined by our ability to deliver strong organic top line growth, modest
operating leverage and double-digit earnings per share growth. So as we move into 2017, we
remain focused on delivering operating results and feel that market conditions and our
competitive position to support continuing success.
So on behalf of our entire management team, I'd like to thank you for your continued support and
interest in Waters, and we look forward to updating you on our progress during our upcoming
investor conference, as well as our Q1 2017 call, which we currently anticipate holding on April 25,
2017. Thanks very much and have a great day.
Operator
That conclude today's conference. Thank you all for joining. You may now disconnect.