Q4 2017 Earnings Call

Operator
Good morning. Welcome to the Waters Corporation Fourth Quarter 2017 Financial Results
Conference Call. All participants will be able to listen-only until the question-and-answer session
of the conference. This conference is being recorded. If anyone has any objections, please
disconnect at this time.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr. `Bryan Brokmeier, Senior Director-Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations. Sir,
you may begin.
`Bryan Brokmeier, Senior Director-Investor Relations `
Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the Waters Corporation fourth
quarter earnings conference call. Before we begin, I will cover the cautionary language.
During the course of this conference call, we will make various forward-looking statements
regarding future events or future financial performance of the company. In particular, we will
provide guidance regarding possible future income statement results of the company for the first
quarter and full year 2018.
We caution you that all such statements are only predictions, and that actual events or results
may differ materially. For a detailed discussion of some of the risks and contingencies that could
cause our actual performance to differ significantly from our present expectations, see our 10-K
annual report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 in Part 1 under the caption, Risk
Factors, and the cautionary language included in this morning's press release and 8-K.
We further caution you that the company does not obligate or commit itself by providing this
guidance to update predictions. We do not plan to update predictions regarding possible future
income statement results, except during our regularly scheduled quarterly earnings releaseconference calls and webcasts. The next earnings release call and webcast is currently planned
for April 24, 2018.
During today's call, we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of
the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is attached to
the company's earnings release issued this morning. In our discussions of the results of
operations, we may refer to pro forma results, which exclude the impact of items such as those
outlined in our schedule titled Quarterly Reconciliation of GAAP to Adjusted Non-GAAP Financials
included in this morning's press release.
Unless we say otherwise, references to results increasing or decreasing are in comparison to the
fourth quarter and full year fiscal year 2016. In addition, unless we say otherwise, all year-over-
year revenue growth rates, including revenue growth ranges given on today's call, are given on a
comparable constant currency basis.
Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Waters' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Chris
O'Connell. Chris?
`Christopher James O'Connell, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Thanks, Brian. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. Along with Bryan
Brokmeier, Waters' newly appointed Head of Investor Relations, joining me on this morning's call
is Sherry Buck, Waters' Chief Financial Officer, and John Lynch, Corporate Treasurer.
Before we get started, I'd like to thank John for his leadership of the Waters Investor Relations
function over the last several years. Moving forward, John will be focusing on corporate finance
and treasury activities.
During today's call, I will provide an overview of our Q4 and full year 2017 operating results, as
well as some broader commentary on our current business environment. Sherry will then review
financial details for our reported results and provide our 2018 financial outlook. We will then open
up the phone lines to take your questions.
I'm very pleased with our fourth quarter, and 2017 in total. We finished 2017 with a strong quarter
of sales growth in our key end markets, highlighted by broad-based strength from
pharmaceutical customers, a rebounding U.S. market, and balanced product mix. For the full year
2017, the highlight to me was the great revenue balance across end markets, geographies and
product lines, resulting in consistent sales performance and double-digit earnings per share
growth in each quarter of the year.
Total revenue in the fourth quarter was up 6%, against a very strong comparison of 9% growth in
the same period in 2016. Earnings per share grew 14% in the fourth quarter. This strong finish in
Q4 led to full year revenue growth of 6%, a strong P&L featuring modest operating leverage
while investing in promising growth initiatives, and 13% earnings per share growth for the full year.
Additionally, we delivered very strong free cash flow growth of 10% in 2017.
Taking a closer look and starting with a review of our market categories at the corporate level,
sales to our broadly defined pharmaceutical category grew 8% in the quarter, highlighted by
strong demand from U.S. pharmaceutical customers, continued double-digit pharma growth in
China, and a solid pharma rebound in India.
For the full year, global sales growth for pharma was 7% against a strong base of comparison of
10% in 2016. Throughout the year, we continued to see consistent sustainable results driven byour increasingly diverse base of customers, attractive geographical balance, and strong product
positions in our small molecule, large molecule, and medical research applications.
Our ongoing strategy work continues to emphasize the vast opportunities in our pharmaceutical
business, where we believe we are very well-positioned to expand our core technologies into a
greater breadth of applications to meet the growing and increasingly complex requirements of
our customers.
Sales to our worldwide industrial category, which includes the materials characterization, food,
environmental, and fine chemical markets, were flat in the quarter against a very tough 14%
comparison in the prior year's quarter. For the full year, we delivered a solid 5% growth in our
industrial category, and saw growth across all of our key geographies and major product lines. We
continue to be excited about our industrial product positions and pipeline, and the breadth of
opportunity across materials characterization, food safety, and environmental applications.
Looking at our governmental and academic category, sales grew by 13% in Q4, with broad-based
performance across all major geographies. In particular, we saw strong spending in the quarter
from academic institutions focused on biomedical and omics research. For the full year 2017, our
governmental and academic category grew a very solid 6%. Those, we have consistently stated,
this business is a smaller part of our mix and sales tend to be lumpy quarter-to-quarter.
Next I'll review our performance by geography at the corporate level. Asia, now our largest
region in terms of revenue, grew 6% in the fourth quarter led by China, which grew 14% against a
very strong comparison in the prior-year period. Our China operations saw solid growth from all
key end markets. Also in the region, India rebounded nicely in Q4, as we successfully worked
through disruption caused in the third quarter due to the implementation of the new GST system.
For the full year, Asia grew 10% highlighted by 17% growth in China, high single-digit growth in
India, and steady growth in Japan.
Turning to the Americas, sales grew 6% for the quarter, with U.S. sales up an encouraging 9%.
Sales in the U.S. was broad-based across key end markets and product lines. We were
encouraged by the pickup in spending from mid-size and large U.S. pharmaceutical customers,
who had been more cautious earlier in the year. For the full year, sales in the Americas were flat,
with the U.S. growing 1%, as second-half growth more than offset first-half declines.
Europe continued to be a strong contributor, with fourth quarter sales growing 7%, highlighted by
broad-based growth across the region from our pharmaceutical and medical research customers.
We saw European strength in small molecule applications and continued performance in
biopharma applications, where we are well-positioned with our targeted LC-MS and
biopharmaceutical separation solutions. We also saw strong service revenue from our large and
growing base of installed systems. For the year, Europe grew 8%, delivering strong and steady
results throughout the year.
Finally, I will review product line dynamics within our Waters and TA brands. Waters branded
instrument sales grew 3% in the fourth quarter, and 4% for the full year, led by particular strength
in core LC and LC-MS systems sold to our pharmaceutical customers. Within instruments, I would
like to highlight our benchtop LC tandem mass spectrometry systems led by our higher end Xevo
TQ-XS, as well as the workhorse, Xevo TQ-S micro.
LC-MS systems continued to grow solidly in the quarter and consistently for the full year. As we
have commented on in the past, we continue to see the expansion of mass spec technology into
routine quantification workflows, primarily in food safety and biopharmaceutical applications. Thedevelopment of our tandem quadruple Xevo platform has enabled us to meet the evolving
demands for reproducible quantification capabilities for both small and large molecules.
Waters' branded recurring revenues, the combination of service and precision chemistries, which
represent approximately 50% of the corporation's business, grew 9% in the quarter. Recurring
revenues were driven by global strength for our service, HPLC and UPLC application kits and
complete chemistry offerings. For the full year, our service and chemistry revenues grew 7%,
indicative of high utilization rates for the installed base of Waters instruments.
Turning to our TA product line, sales grew by 10% in the quarter, bringing full year growth to a
strong 8%. Instrument system sales for TA grew 12% in the quarter and 11% for the year, with
broad-based growth across thermal analysis and rheology product lines. Looking ahead, we
continue to see opportunities to capitalize on the rising innovation in highly engineered high
performance materials. We will continue to emphasize our Discovery series of thermal analyzers,
while continuing system launches that will add to an already fresh and strong product line.
Stepping back, I am pleased with the consistent top line and bottom line results that Waters
delivered all four quarters over the past year, and I am excited about all we have ahead of us in
2018. As we drive for consistent execution again in 2018, we also remain steadfastly focused on
our five-point long-term value creation model. As I have consistently communicated, we aim to
create shareholder value by, number one, holding a highly differentiated leadership positions in
structurally attractive markets; number two, executing a clear and focused growth strategy driven
by organic innovation; number three, programmatically driving continuous operational
improvement; number four, being a disciplined capital allocator; and number five, operating with
a performance-oriented culture and management team.
As we look to 2018, we are anticipating solid market conditions across our key customer-defined
end markets. In pharma, we continue to see macro trends of rising global regulatory standards,
increasing global patient access to prescription drugs and the growing testing needs of new
biologic drugs that feature an ever-increasing complexity of molecular structure.
In materials, food, and environmental, demand remains strong, driven by healthy global industrial
conditions and the general rise of regulatory standards for performance and quality. All of these
market trends point to customer needs that can be well served by Waters' core technologies and
a greater breadth of applications optimized with our particular strengths in chemistry, software,
and professional service.
Lastly, I would like to make some comments on tax reform generally and the impact on Waters
specifically. Overall, I am very positive about what tax reform means for U.S. economic conditions
and the overall competitiveness of the U.S. economy. In particular, I'm intrigued about the positive
implications for increasing U.S. capital deployment by companies of all kinds. Sherry will provide
details on the short-term effects of the new law on our tax rate, but before she does, I would like
to share my thoughts on capital allocation and the new opportunities created for Waters under
the new tax laws.
As you know, Waters has always been a judicious allocator of capital. We look at our capital
allocation strategy in three buckets: number one, invest in the business; number two, enhance
our balance sheet strength and flexibility; and number three, return capital to shareholders. Now
with tax-efficient access to our significant global free cash flow, we see great opportunity in all
three of these areas. In terms of investing in the business, there is now opportunity to invest in
the United States at a lower cost of capital, where our cash can be very efficiently deployed
alongside our innovation processes and supply chain operations.While we already have a strong balance sheet, full access to our global cash flow gives us the
opportunity to optimize our capital structure for maximum flexibility and opportunistic
investments. In terms of returning capital to shareholders through our share repurchase program,
tax reform provides us with confidence in the sustainability of our program and additional
flexibility to enhance return of capital to shareholders.
Looking forward, we will proceed carefully and thoughtfully in evaluating our opportunities for
enhanced capital deployment. As we do this, I will continue to view our significant cash balances
as a strategic asset of the company that can wait patiently as we seek the right opportunities to
invest in high return on investment initiatives.
With that, I'd like to pass the call over to Sherry Buck for a deeper look of the fourth quarter and
our full year financials. Sherry?
`Sherry L. Buck, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President `
Thank you, Chris, and good morning, everyone. We recorded net sales in the fourth quarter of
$687 million, an increase of about 6% before currency translation, which increased sales growth in
the quarter by about 3% and resulted in 9% reported sales growth. For the full year, sales grew
by 6% before currency translation, which increased sales growth by 1%.
In the quarter, pharmaceutical markets grew 8%, our industrial markets were flat, and sales to
academic and governmental customers were up 13%. For the full year, pharmaceutical markets
grew 7%, our industrial markets grew 5%, and sales to academic and governmental customers
were up 6%.
Product line growth was strongest in our recurring revenue, with the combination of precision
chemistry products and service revenue growing 8%, while instrument sales grew 4% in the
quarter. For the full year, recurring revenue grew 7%, while sales of our instrument product groups
grew 5%.
Breaking the quarter down further, sales relating to Waters branded products and services were
up 5%, while TA sales grew 10%. Combined LC and LC-MS instrument platform sales increased
by 3%, and TA's instrumentation system sales grew 12% as we continue to see the benefits of
new product introductions. Our total recurring revenues associated with both Waters and TA
products grew by 8%.
Looking at our growth rates in the fourth quarter geographically and before currency translation,
sales in the Americas were up 6%, with sales in the U.S. increasing 9%. European sales were up
7% and sales in Asia were up 6%, led by strong growth in China and India.
Now I'd like to comment on our fourth quarter's non-GAAP financial performance versus the prior
year. Gross margins for the quarter were 60.6% versus 60% in the fourth quarter of 2016,
showing a strong finish to the year. For the full year, gross margins were slightly better than the
prior year at 59%.
Moving down the fourth quarter's P&L, operating expenses were up 9% on a constant currency
basis. Foreign currency translation increased the operating expense growth by about 2% on a
reported basis. Stronger than anticipated revenue growth resulted in higher variable expenses in
the quarter. For the full year, operating expenses were impacted by R&D expense growing faster
than sales as we continue to invest in product development and innovation, which is a key
component of our value creation model that Chris spoke to earlier.On the tax front, our effective operating tax rate in the quarter, before the effects of the new U.S.
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which I'll refer to as tax reform, and the new stock compensation rule, was
about 15%. Including a $0.07 benefit from new stock option accounting rules, the non-GAAP
effective operating tax rate was about 13%.
In the quarter, as a result of tax reform, we incurred a GAAP tax expense charge of $550 million.
Nearly 90% of this amount is associated with the transition tax on earnings and profits outside the
U.S. This charge represents our best estimate, and the actual expense may differ from this
estimate due to further refinement of our calculations or additional guidance that may become
available.
For the full year, our effective operating tax rate, before the effects of tax reform and the new
stock compensation rule, was 14.7% versus 14.1% in 2016. The increase in the effective operating
tax rate was driven by the mix of our earnings and higher tax rate jurisdictions. Including a $0.24
benefit from the new stock option accounting rules, the non-GAAP effective operating tax rate
was 11.8%.
In the quarter, net interest expense was $4 million and our average share count on a fully diluted
basis equivalent came in at 80.4 million shares, or approximately 1 million shares lower than in the
fourth quarter last year. This is a net effect of our ongoing share repurchase program. During the
quarter, we bought 431,000 shares of our common stock for $85 million.
Our non-GAAP earnings per diluted share in the fourth quarter were up 14% to $2.51 in
comparison to earnings of $2.21 last year. On a GAAP basis, we reported a loss of $4.44 versus
earnings of $2.15 last year. As noted previously, our GAAP earnings in Q4 2017 include the impact
of tax reform. Both of our non-GAAP and GAAP earnings include a benefit of $0.07 resulting from
the new stock compensation accounting rules. The impact of foreign currency translation in the
quarter on earnings per share was a positive $0.08, bringing the full-year impact to about $0.09.
For the full year, our non-GAAP earnings per fully diluted share were up 13% to $7.49 per share
versus $6.62 last year. On a GAAP basis, full-year earnings per share were $0.25 versus $6.41 in
2016. A reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP earnings is attached to our press release issued
this morning.
Turning to the balance sheet, cash and short-term investments totaled $3.4 billion and debt
totaled $2 billion, bringing us to a net cash position of $1.4 billion. We define free cash flow as
cash from operations less capital expenditures and excluding special items. In the fourth quarter
of 2017, cash flow was strong and came in at $162 million after funding $30 million of capital
expenditures. This represents both a strong quarterly performance and a full-year growth of
approximately 10%. We were able to convert $0.27 of free cash from every dollar's worth of sales
for the full year.
Accounts receivable days sales outstanding stood at 71 days this quarter, which is even with the
third quarter and flat from the fourth quarter of last year. In the quarter, inventories were
approximately $270 million compared to $263 million in the fourth quarter of the prior year, which
was in line with our expectations.
Looking ahead to 2018, our outlook generally assumes continued stable demand from our
pharmaceutical and industrial end markets, consistent growth in our recurring revenue, and
balanced growth rates from our geographies. These dynamics lead up to a mid-single-digit
constant currency sales increase in 2018. At current rates, currency translation is assumed to
increase 2018 sales growth by about 1%. Gross margins for the year are expected to beconsistent with the prior year in a range between 58.5% to 59%. Our plan for the full year is to
manage operating expense growth at a rate that is less than our sales growth.
Moving below the operating income line, net interest expense is expected to be approximately
$16 million to $17 million, a reduction as compared to 2017 due to the increased flexibility in
deploying our cash balances as a result of tax reform. We estimate our full-year tax rate, which
reflects the impact of tax reform and stock compensation rules, to be in a range of 13% to 15%.
This includes an estimated impact of about 2% related to provisions in the new tax reform law.
Breaking this down further, we're estimating a positive impact in the range of 1% to 2% due to
lower U.S. tax rates. However, this is offset by an unfavorable impact in the range of 2% to 3% as
a result of the intangible and base broadening provisions and a lower tax benefit from stock
compensation as a result of the U.S. tax rate reduction to 21% from 35%. We expect to further
refine our full year tax rate as we gain more clarity on the tax reform regulations, and we'll
provide updates as appropriate.
Our guidance regarding capital allocation assumes continuation of our share repurchase program
through 2018 at a rate that will result in an average diluted share count of about 78.5 million
shares outstanding. The share count assumes a share repurchase plan for the year that will
approximately offset the impact to our tax rate from tax reform. Rolling all this together, and on a
non-GAAP basis, full-year 2018 earnings per fully diluted share are projected to be within a range
of $8.00 to $8.25. At current rates, the foreign currency impact on full year earnings per share
growth is expected to be about neutral.
Now looking at the first quarter of 2018, we expect constant currency sales growth in the mid-
single digits. At today's rates, currency translation is expected to positively impact first quarter
sales growth by about 2%. Other key assumptions for Q1 include a moderate increase in
expenses, as well as an estimated increase in our overall tax rate in Q1 of about 5% to 6%.
The Q1 tax rate is impacted by tax reform and a strong $0.09 base of comparison from the stock
option compensation benefit in the first quarter of 2017. Lastly, there's one less calendar day in
the quarter versus last year. We estimate first quarter earnings per diluted share in the range of
$1.48 to $1.60, with an approximate 1% positive impact from foreign currency translation at current
rates.
Now I'd like to turn the call back to Chris. Chris?
`Christopher James O'Connell, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Great. Thank you, Sherry. As we move into 2018, we will continue to emphasize execution in our
core businesses and delivering on our operating performance objectives. As we have stated, we
will seek to balance growth, operating leverage, and investment in the business.
With that, we will now open the phone lines for Q&A. We are rarely able to get to everyone's
questions, so please, limit yourself to one question and one follow-up. And if you have additional
questions, please contact our Investor Relations team after the call.
Operator, can we have the first question, please?
Q&A
Operator
Thank you. Our first question comes from Tycho Peterson with JPMorgan. Your line is open.Q - `Tycho W. Peterson, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Hey. Chris, I want to start with the rebound in the U.S. market; good pharma strength, good
academic. Can you maybe just talk on those two trends how you're feeling kind of exiting the
year? Was there any budget flush dynamic in either of those segments?
A - `Christopher James O'Connell, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, thanks, Tycho. Yeah, we were – as I said in the prepared remarks, we were encouraged by
the U.S. As you know, the first half of the year we sustained some declines, as it was pretty clear
at the time, and even more clear in retrospect, that there was caution on the part of a lot of U.S.
companies, particularly in pharma, and some of the industrial businesses really awaiting some of
the regulation and policy and tax changes that came later in the year. We did see, as you recall,
some improvement in the third quarter in the U.S., and then we had a nice close to the year.
So I would just say that the finish that we hoped for in the U.S. was there. There was a renewed
sense of confidence in a pretty broad-based way across the end markets, and we feel good
about that going into the year. Now, obviously, one quarter does not a trend make, and so as we
enter 2018, we're hopeful, but we're also balanced in terms of what might happen from here.
Q - `Tycho W. Peterson, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
And then you kind of made the comment around cash being a strategic asset here. I understand
there are lot of kind of moving pieces. But, I guess, as we think about the potential to bring back
cash, when do we expect we'll get more granularity and visibility on that? And then you've kind of
alluded to more investment here in the U.S. I guess, over what timeframe should we be thinking
about that?
A - `Christopher James O'Connell, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Sure. Based on the way the tax works – and I'll have Sherry comment further on some of the
mechanics, if you wish – once we pay this toll tax, we have access to that cash. And, obviously, we
are thoughtful of where that cash is to maximize the return on that cash, while we go through our
decision-making on how to deploy it. And really, my comment on cash as a strategic asset is a
very thoughtful approach to making the right decisions in terms of allocation of capital to all of our
priorities to invest in the business, to shore up our balance sheet, and to return capital to
shareholders.
We, obviously, have a great share repurchase program. As Sherry commented, we're going to
continue or even enhance that in the current year to offset some of the effects of the minor
short-term tax rate increase. But we really have an eye towards being opportunistic, I would say.
In terms of investing in the U.S., as I mentioned, it's a much more favorable investment
environment and there are clearly some investments that historically maybe we've been a little
more cautious on in the U.S., given the uncertainty of the tax situation, but now are taking a more
careful look at, and we'll, obviously, provide more details on some of the things that we're
considering as we develop those plans. But we're going to be patient and we're going to be
thoughtful and we're going to be careful about that, because we're very fortunate to be in a
position of having significant cash to allocate against high return on investment opportunities.
Q - `Tycho W. Peterson, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Does this change your view on M&A at all in terms of opportunities?A - `Christopher James O'Connell, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
No, it doesn't change our view at all on M&A. As you know, we're more organically driven. That
said, we're also making sure we're aware of everything happening in the marketplace. If we were
to consider M&A, it would be from a strategic lens. We would not change our approach relative to
our investment priorities, but as a tactic to support a business strategy, we're open to it, but we
would be very disciplined about it. And as I've tried to consistently say, access to cash doesn't
necessarily change our willingness to engage in M&A.
Q - `Tycho W. Peterson, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Dan Leonard, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. with Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.
Q - `Dan Leonard, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Thank you. First question on tax reform. Chris, are you in discussions with your customers? Are
you getting any early indication that tax reform is going to stimulate demand for Waters products
in 2018?
A - `Christopher James O'Connell, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, Dan, that's a good question and I would say, it's too early for me to put too fine a point on
that. I think what we saw with our customers and in discussions is just a general relief that tax
reform is here and excitement about a more favorable investment environment in the United
States. And in terms of tying specific purchases of our technology to that type of an event, it's
probably too early to make that direct of a connection, but certainly there's a tone that's out
there that's generally positive and we're grateful for that. But keep in mind, U.S. is really only
about 30% of our overall business and half of that business is recurring revenue anyway, so I think
the effect you'd see would be balanced.
Q - `Dan Leonard, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Okay. And then for my follow-up question, how are you contemplating the potential for pharma
M&A as you think about your guidance for 2018? Pharma M&A and any potential disruptions
associated with that.
A - `Christopher James O'Connell, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, I guess I'm not really an expert in handicapping whether pharma M&A is going to accelerate
or not. There are probably better sources for that. But I think my view on pharma M&A is that as
long as pharma M&A is being done for the reasons of enhancing product portfolios and
therapeutic portfolios, which is generally what I think happens, I think it's something that wouldn't
necessarily affect us all that much.
At the end of the day, most of our business is tied to late-stage development and QA/QC, and
we know that pharma companies who are undertaking those type of strategies are looking to
enhance their portfolios in the market and really leverage combinations to address overhead
costs, not necessarily innovation, and certainly not production costs as it relates to serving the
market. So either way, I think the demand for our products should be approximate and we'llQ - `Dan Leonard, Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Appreciate the thoughts. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from Steve Beuchaw with Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.
Q - `Steve C. Beuchaw, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Hi. Good morning. I'm probably just going to ask one question but maybe I'll pick on a few parts
within it. It's just a request to get a little bit deeper understanding of some of the components of
the thinking around the top line outlook for 2018.
I guess, first, Chris, as I reflected back on your comments, you gave some pretty encouraging
comments on pharma and how you think about pharma as a source of funds in 2018. I wonder if
you could give us a sense for where you think pharma lands as a growth driver in the model
relative to the long-term trend in the maybe 6%, 7% range. Could we do a little bit better maybe
in 2018 as we get relief in the U.S.?
Second, I didn't hear you talk about what you think about the trend in terms of academic funding.
Very strong quarter for the company there, some enthusiasm around academic funding in a
number of parts of the U.S.
And then third, and sorry to pile on with a multi-parter here, but could you talk a little bit about the
balance between hardware growth in 2018 and recurring growth in 2018, particularly around LC-
MS? And then I'll get back in queue and say thanks so much.
A - `Christopher James O'Connell, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Good. Thank you, Steve. I'll try to remember all that. As it relates to pharma and our outlook for
pharma, like I said, we were encouraged with the close to the year. We had a good, solid year of
7% pharma growth in total, and that was on a tough comp. And that is ahead – a little bit ahead of
the historic trend lines. So just to remind on the historic trend line, the long-term trend line of
pharma growth for us tends to be around 6%, which is a little ahead of the market. We have been
doing a little bit better than that recently.
In terms of our assumptions for 2018, again, we go into a year with a balanced outlook. We don't
assume in our guidance that everything goes right, even though we strive for to do as well as we
can. So we're watching the market carefully, particularly the U.S. As I mentioned before, one
quarter does not a trend make, but I would say we're hopeful for more stable conditions,
particularly in the United States as we enter the year based on the additional certainty there is
relative to tax reform and some other factors.
As it relates to academic funding, again, we're not probably the best proxy – not the best proxy
for that type of question, since academic and government is a smaller percentage of our
business. Academic, though, is the lion's share of our government and academic category. We
had a good year there. We had 6% growth, but keep in mind, the prior year we had a 3% decline.
As you know, that business tends to be quite lumpy. And while we did see decent trends in the
back half of the year for the academic world particularly, really in all geographies around the
world, it's never entirely clear how sustainable that is. So, again, looking at balance coming into
the year in sort of the middle part of our guidance for historical kind of range of academic-type
performance.And then I think the last question you asked about was instrument growth. We had a solid
instrument year overall of 4% growth, and that was on a comp of 6% the prior year, and in the
fourth quarter our instrument growth was about 3% but against a very tough comp of 9% for the
prior year. So really, pretty consistent with historical trends. You're seeing our instrument growth
at slightly slower than our overall top line average, with chemistry and service doing a little bit
better than the average and that mix continues to gradually migrate towards the recurring
revenues. So I don't think there's anything that unusual going on there, other than to say we're
pleased with the solid performance across all those categories.
Operator
And we'll go to our next question. It's from Tim Evans with Wells Fargo Securities. Your line is
open.
Q - `Tim C. Evans, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Thanks. Chris, I just want to push a little bit on the tax reform, because this is just such a massive
change potentially to your capital structure and investment paradigm. Two specific questions that
maybe you can answer about your long-term targets.
Number one, do you want to continue to be in a net cash position or do you at some point in the
future anticipate being in a net debt position? Obviously, your balance sheet should be able to
sustain a net debt position given your cash flow.
Second question is, in the long run, do you anticipate your R&D expenditures or your CapEx to be
materially higher as a percentage of revenue than they are now given the ability to invest
differently in the U.S.? Thanks.
A - `Christopher James O'Connell, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, thanks, Tim. I appreciate the question. In terms of long-term goals of net cash or net debt, I
wouldn't say that we have a pre-described formula in our head. We want to do the right things to
be great capital allocators. I think that's the bottom line. Like I said, cash is a great asset for us to
have and we want to make sure we're flexible to invest opportunistically when the right
opportunities present themselves across that entire range of capital allocation priorities. If that
means that we're more cash heavy until that happens, fine. If that means at some point we find
the right opportunity to invest to get more debt-heavy, that's fine too. It's really going to be a
function of the return on invested capital, which I've been consistent in terms of being the priority,
and at what point in time those investments are most fruitful.
As it relates to changes in R&D and CapEx, I think you've seen me really emphasize R&D in terms
of the returns to the company and the organic growth strategy. In fact, I was looking at some
numbers last night and our R&D over the last five years has very steadily grown and
conservatively grown from about 7.5% of products revenue – that's excluding service, where
there isn't any R&D, but 7.5% of products revenue to 8.5% of products revenue over the last five
years in a very gradual, steady way. And I like that. I'm pleased with that, because we've also
been able to cover that with efficiency gains in other parts of the P&L to deliver modest ongoing
operating leverage.
As it relates to CapEx, we've been a pretty steady 3.5% to 4% of sales type CapEx company, and
CapEx investments and opportunities to invest in CapEx, we would look at. But if they're anything
major, we would, obviously, give more information as we assess those opportunities. So I wouldcharacterize the answer overall as open minded, but very disciplined and patient to be great
capital allocators.
Q - `Tim C. Evans, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Understood. Okay, thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Derik de Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch with Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Your line is
open.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hey. Good morning. Hey, where are we in the industrial analytical instrument growth cycle? I
mean, the market has been rounding, but still been a little bit slower than I would have thought. I
guess, can you sort of talk about some of the industrial end market demands and just what are
your chemical customers doing, some of your materials sciences customers, and just sort of do
you expect that segment to accelerate significantly in 2018?
A - `Christopher James O'Connell, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, I think it's – Derik, I think the industrial marketplace is in a good space right now. Heading
into last year, we were a little more cautious for particularly some of the U.S. type reasons, but as
the year played out and we look at the year as a total body of work, industrial was right in the
zone of the mid-single digits in a solid and, we believe hopefully, sustainable way. And, obviously,
that's reinforced by a broader global economic backdrop of pretty good balance in most major
geographies around the world, good growth. Employment pictures are pretty solid, relatively low
rates of inflation., So the overall economic backdrop, and many people comment on this, has
been supportive of that.
In our quarter, there were some quirky one-time type factors year-over-year. As I mentioned, we
had a 14% growth in industrial in the fourth quarter of 2016, and so if you look at stacked comp
quarter-to-quarter is solid. And we also had some lingering effects that hit the industrial category
related to the natural disaster after-effects in Latin America. So there were some kind of one-
timers in there.
But maybe the best proxy for us in terms of what's currently happening in industrial is TA
instruments. You mentioned material science, material characterization, which is the heart and
soul of TA, and TA had a solid year, as we mentioned. That business does tend to be historically a
little more lumpy, because it's more instrument-oriented, but TA is probably more indicative of
the underlying picture in industrial.
Now, obviously, TA we're getting better than average results because of the new product
platform that we have in the market, the Discovery series, and so we're doing even better than
maybe underlying demand because of that new technology in the market. But I would
characterize industrial overall as reasonably stable. I'm not one to call cycles, so we're just going
to, again, watch it carefully as we go into the year and have a balanced outlook that, I think, gives
us some confidence in reasonable performance as we look at 2018.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. And just one follow-up on this. So in the LC business, in your QA/QC business, I guess, how
much is the – I mean, demand has been very good for a while. I mean, how much the demandright now is replacement business versus capacity addition in the QA/QC market? I'm just curious,
it's like how many plants are going. I mean, obviously, some of your end customers are
consolidating manufacturing. I'm just wondering how you think about that, the dynamic between
new adds versus consolidation versus replacement.
A - `Christopher James O'Connell, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, there's – generally about half the business out there is sort of replacing older units that are
going out of service and about half is new adds. And I think the underlying thing that I look at is
just the volume of testing activity and to me, that's in two different ways. One is just the
additional testing activity related to volume and looking at global prescriptions and global pill
counts and the rising access to medications that many people are enjoying around the world,
particularly in the emerging markets. That's sort of a steady drum beat of fleet expansion, if you
will. And opportunity for new entrants.
We have a pretty broad pharmaceutical customer base, so it's not just about big companies
replacing their products and expanding plants. It's also about a lot of new upstarts that you see
across the range from innovator molecules to generics. And then the – obviously, the testing
activity on the innovator side with more and more focus being on biomolecules and more
elaborate testing methods, those are both things that add up to that total activity, which really
yields at the end of the day expansion of fleet, new facility, and then some kind of drum beat of
replacement as older technologies need to be replaced.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thanks.
A - `Christopher James O'Connell, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Thanks.
Operator
Our next question comes from Dan Arias with Citigroup. Your line is open.
Q - `Daniel Arias, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Hey, good morning. Thanks. Chris, maybe just to finish the thought on Derik's question, how
should we think about TA growth this year, given the things that you mentioned?
A - `Christopher James O'Connell, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Yeah. So, again, like I-I'll go back to the theme that we have a balanced outlook for TA. TA,
obviously, had a strong year. They have tough comps, obviously, coming into the year with the
kind of year they had. So the counter starts at zero again and it's a big hill to climb. And as long as
the overall industrial conditions in the market are favorable, I think we feel we've got the product
portfolio to compete in that market. But again, our guidance doesn't assume that everything
goes right. Although, my expectation is for TA to perform at the company average or better.
Q - `Daniel Arias, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Okay. Then maybe just as a follow-up, two quick geography questions on Europe. Obviously,
things right there in a pretty good place. Can you touch on Western versus Eastern Europe, and
then how those two shape up for the year when you think about your overall outlook for theregion in 2018? And then also just curious, what you're thinking on Japan this year, given the ups
and downs that we've had there?
A - `Christopher James O'Connell, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Sure. In terms of Europe, it was noteworthy in Europe this year to have the type of consistency we
had across the year. And it was, I would say, a consistency quarter-to-quarter that was somewhat
unusual historically, and I think it reflects the broad base of reasonable economic conditions in the
background. We actually had kind of an unusual dynamic, where, for the better part of the year, all
four regions within Europe were in positive territory: Northern Europe, Western Europe, Central
Europe, and Southern – sorry, Northern Europe, Central Europe, Southern Europe, and Eastern
Europe. Eastern Europe had a good year. That business had been down in some prior years, but
had a reasonable year.
I think we're hoping for, again, a balanced outlook as we come to this year, but I certainly don't
know enough to forecast individual sub-geographies with any precision. But Europe has been a
solid performer for us, really driven by that solid base of pharmaceutical customers throughout
Europe, as well as reasonable biomedical research world.
Japan had a solid year. Japan was a pretty typical kind of low-to-mid single-digit type grower for
Waters in both the quarter and the year. And, as you know, Japan tends to move around a little
bit quarter-to-quarter based on how the different categories are doing and fiscal years, and so
forth. But, our Japanese business has been, in the broader picture, quite stable and a good cash
flow generator.
Q - `Daniel Arias, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Thanks very much.
A - `Christopher James O'Connell, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Thank you, Dan.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Doug Schenkel, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC with Cowen. Your line is open.
Q - `Doug Schenkel, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Okay. Good morning and thank you for taking the questions. I just wanted to talk briefly about
SG&A expense in the quarter. It grew 12%, actually a little bit more in the fourth quarter. When we
look at why the incremental margin wasn't a bit higher in a strong top line growth quarter, this is
the line that jumps out at us. So I'm just wondering, was there some opportunistic investment in a
period of growth. And if so, where were these targeted investments made and what are you
looking for in terms of targeted returns, either in 2018 or beyond?
A - `Christopher James O'Connell, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Sure, sure, yeah. Obviously, quarter-to-quarter dynamics in the P&L jump around a little bit, Doug,
as you know. I would point you back to the big picture. For the year, we saw a 40 basis point
expansion in our operating margin, and I count that as good, solid, modest operating leverage,
while we're able to invest exactly to your point. We actually grew R&D expenses for the year at
about 10% constant currency even with the modest operating leverage and also grew our SG&A
expenses slightly lower than sales for the year.So for the quarter, there was some catch-up in terms of incentive compensation with a stronger
than expected finish on the revenue line and some things that are probably more akin to what
you might consider one-timers, but it is that balance that we're trying to strike. I'll have Sherry
comment a little bit further on the P&L, but I think, overall, we feel good about the year that
delivered that balance of growth, investment, and operating leverage. So, Sherry, you want to
add to that?
A - `Sherry L. Buck, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President `
Yeah, just to highlight what Chris said. We go into each year really trying to manage our operating
expenses to grow less than our top line, and fourth quarter in particular, because of the stronger
performance we had, some catch-up on variables. And that's kind of our plan, is to keep
managing that. We have a number of things underway as we go into 2018 to put some more
programmatic things behind how we continue to get continuous improvement on our operating
margins. So we'd look for modest improvements.
Q - `Doug Schenkel, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Okay, and thank you for that. And, Sherry, I think one more for you. Just looking ahead and
thinking about guidance, and specifically gross margin, we saw some nice momentum coming out
of 2017. One might have thought that this would continue in 2018, at least to a level that's maybe
a little bit higher than where you've guided, which is for essentially flat year-over-year gross
margins. Would you just walk us through the puts and takes there? And it seems like FX is likely
part of this, so if you wouldn't mind getting a little more specific there, that would be helpful.
A - `Sherry L. Buck, Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President `
Sure. So, on the gross margin line, the kind of big factors around that, obviously, with higher
volume or higher sales, we'd be able to get a positive impact being able to offset fixed cost
absorption. But really, mix plays a really big part as we look at the mix of our sales, both
geographically, as well as service revenues. So service revenues, as it continues to grow and be a
big part of our business, it's actually dilutive to our gross margin and accretive on our operating
income line.
So we really try to look at kind of the whole picture of how we improve margins. So there are
things underway and operating efficiencies to be able to improve gross margin, but there are a
lot of pushes and pulls and we're guiding to a 58.5% to 59%. And we'll be working to see if there
are other opportunities to improve that, but mix kind of shakes out during the course of the year.
Q - `Doug Schenkel, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Okay. Thank you very much.
Operator
And next we have `Puneet Souda, Analyst, Leerink Partners LLC with Leerink Partners. Your line is open.
Q - `Puneet Souda, Analyst, Leerink Partners LLC `
Yeah, hi, Chris. Thanks for taking my question. So I'm trying to understand a bit better on the
recurring revenue growth. So you delivered, obviously, solidly in the quarter. Just trying to
understand the underlying dynamics. Is it related to some of the more product lines? Is it a more
Glycan Kits or Columns versus the service contract uptake? Would be helpful if you could justelaborate a bit and give us a sense of sustainability of that in 2018, knowing the pharma
uncertainties that you've talked about.
A - `Christopher James O'Connell, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, thanks, Puneet. I appreciate the question. I think the underlying dynamics in the recurring
lines were pretty consistent with historical performance. We definitely continue to drive service
plan up and certainly we see growth opportunity, particularly in the emerging markets, where
there has been more installed base build-out and where more products are still under warranty.
As those products come off, service plan opportunities come on, and so we have opportunities
just to continue that slow, steady march upward in terms of attach rates on service plans. And
they're pretty high and pretty stable in the developed markets, and there's opportunity for
growth in the emerging markets.
We also continued to add to our portfolio in professional service offerings, and these are the
more consultative type of programs that are more informatics driven that customers find
incredibly valuable.
As it relates to the chemistries, it's really a little bit of both of what you mentioned. The core
column business is very solid, very solid after-market that reflects the high utilization of our
systems, but also kind of a gradually improving mix based on the growth of UPLC methods. And
as you know, UPLC Columns tend to be sold at a little more of a premium, and we have a higher
attach rate on our UPLC platforms than our HPLC platforms. And also, the kits. Glycan
measurement is clearly a great area of interest among a lot of our customers, and that plus also
ProteinWorks and other offerings we have in that area. And we think that it's a smaller business
for us right now in terms of these kits, but one that we think has good growth potential on a
pretty sustainable basis.
Q - `Puneet Souda, Analyst, Leerink Partners LLC `
Okay, thanks for that. And one follow-up. In terms of – you've obviously highlighted in the past
that smaller accounts in biotechs have become an increasingly bigger part of the revenue at
Waters over the years. And could you give us your sense of sustainability of that over the next
year, knowing that there is a tax reform driven M&A potentially here?
And, obviously, I mean, I agree the point that you don't have the M&A crystal ball, and neither do
we, so I'm just trying to understand how to think about if those mid to small-size biotech accounts
will continue to become a bigger part of Waters, or become – consolidate a bit. Thanks.
A - `Christopher James O'Connell, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Yeah, I guess, like I said earlier, Puneet, I don't really have that crystal ball, and I'm probably not
the best predictor of what might happen in consolidation. All I can share is the experience I have
as I go out into the marketplace myself and as our teams work every day, and that's that there is
a broadening base of customers and there's been a lot of activity at the startup and mid-size
level as it relates to our business. Many of those companies that I speak with are looking to build
bigger franchises over time. They're going after multiple targets. And to the extent some of
those companies are more U.S. oriented, that gives them some benefit from tax reform as it
relates to their own profitability after tax.
Again, I try to gauge the overall inventive and volume-related dynamics for the industry at large
almost regardless of who's actually driving that, and we certainly see the big companies driving
innovation, we certainly see the small companies driving innovation, and we like the balance thatthat ultimately produces in our business. So it's a dynamic marketplace and we'll just have to
watch it play out and see where the opportunities are.
Q - `Puneet Souda, Analyst, Leerink Partners LLC `
Okay. Thank you. Very helpful.
A - `Christopher James O'Connell, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
I think we have time for about two more questions here before we run out of the top of the hour.
Operator
Okay. Our next question will be from `Jack Meehan, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. with Barclays. Your line is open.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Thank you. Good morning. I wanted to ask about new products. You mentioned growing testing
needs for large molecules, so I'll bite. Could you give us an update on BIOTOF, and do you think
that could be a contributor in 2018?
A - `Christopher James O'Connell, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Sure, yeah, let me give you a quick comment on product, and we remind you of my typical
answer, and that's that brand new products are really important, but also the new technology
that's in the market is really what's driving our business. Clearly, in the last two, three, four years,
we've had some great entrants across the board from ACQUITY Arc to QDa to TQ-S micro, TQ-
XS, the Discovery series in TA, and we're really keying on a lot of those technologies along with
legacy ACQUITY and the legacy Alliance and all the associated chemistries. In 2018, we have a
number of platform enhancements that are coming out that don't sound like big, fancy, new
products, but are really important in terms of enhancing the overall application success of our
customers.
And then BIOTOF continues to move well through development. I don't want to put a specific
timeline on the launch, but I'm very excited about this program to provide more of an off-the-
shelf solution for biomolecule characterization that we believe can work its way right into the
heart of the routine and regulated workflows, first in development, then in QA/QC. We think
there's a lot of demand in the market for it, and all I'll say is that the product development teams
are working very hard and making very good progress, and I anticipate that as we move through
the year, I'll be able to give you a better sense as to when the market might see that.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Great. Looking forward to it. And then just one on the quarter. You mentioned some of the India
GST disruption came back. Is that fully worked through the system now and maybe just what did
that contribute in the quarter?
A - `Christopher James O'Connell, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Yeah. So India, as you know, we had a decline in Q3 as we had some delays with GST. It's a
complex process of harmonization in terms of both state and national transaction taxes. We did
make good progress. One of the things to note, though, is that the laws around GST are still
evolving and that system catch-up that I've talked about before is, I think, doing well, but still notout of the woods yet. And so, we think that this – as we've said before, that the full catch-up
process takes more than a quarter.
So I wouldn't say it's fully back to normal yet, but I think we're probably through the toughest
pieces of it. And we're supporting our India team with everything we have as a company to keep
everything moving while we get through it. But there wasn't any loss in demand through the
process. It was just more of a transition to work through, and we're excited about our India
business.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Thanks, Chris.
A - `Christopher James O'Connell, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Okay. I think we're one more here.
Operator
All right. Our last question will come from `Ross Muken, Analyst, Evercore ISI with Evercore ISI. Your line is open.
Q - `Ross Muken, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Good afternoon, guys. Good morning, sorry. So maybe just on China, can you just give me a view
on sort of how you're thinking about the cadence? Obviously, it'd been strong all year and I'm
more interested in sort of dividing it into kind of the emerging biopharma and generic customers
versus sort of some of the more traditional parts of industrial that you touch.
A - `Christopher James O'Connell, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Sure. Yeah, thanks for the question on China, Ross. As you know, I'm excited about China. I was
excited about China for my whole career in medical devices and now here at Waters. And I think
there's just a lot of interesting things going on in that economy as China really moves towards a
local innovation economy.
Our China business, as I've commented before, is actually more balanced than most of our major
geographies. In fact, while 60% of our worldwide revenue is in pharma, only about 50% or even a
little less of the business in China is related to pharma. But there's a broad – as you suggest, a
broad backdrop of industrial business, food being over-indexed in China, and also the material
science business there.
I guess, I feel like what we're trying to do is to key off some of the major government initiatives.
Obviously, a lot of the focus now has been on some of the evolution in pharma. There's
significant investment in local companies seeking to serve the Chinese market on the small
molecule side, but also on biosimilars. I just was in China in mid-December and one night sat
down with ten CEOs of biosimilar companies that were all Chinese biosimilar companies serving
the local market. And I can't quite quantify what that exactly means, but I do see a lot of drive for
innovation and a lot of optimism that those markets are there and that the government is going
to support those therapies as they come to patients.
There are some broader things going on in China too around One Belt One Road, around
Healthy China 2030, and other key initiatives that we're just making sure that we're providing the
type of technologies and service that companies in China need to take advantage of those
trends. So there is definitely a tilt towards some localization there and we're looking at strategiesas to how we continue to localize. But, overall, we're just trying to maintain that balance and that
growth and make sure we feed the eagles in China with the right investments so that they can
continue to grow and perform.
Q - `Ross Muken, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
That's helpful. And maybe just to close things out. So as we think about 2018 forecast, the
business is pretty predictable, lot of recurring revenue. I guess, variability tends to come on the
instrument line. If you're thinking about sort of the key sub-segments, whether it be geographic,
product, or end market, that is likely to sort of drive maybe a differentiated view versus your
original forecast, where do you see the most likely sort of volatility or maybe variability in kind of
the assumptions? And what markets maybe do you have the best sort of inclination versus
maybe is there anything – it seems like everything is so positive – where you see a little bit of
caution?
A - `Christopher James O'Connell, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Yeah. I think that's a crystal ball-type question that I would hesitate to put too fine a point on.
Obviously, there are different dynamics as it relates to comps, tougher comps and easier comps
in various quarters by various geographies, and the math is fairly clear there. But, I guess, the
thing that I am assuming and I feel good about is the balance across geographies backed by
some reasonable assumptions in the overall global economy and balance across our customer-
defined end markets that we saw this year.
I mean, if you look at 2017 overall, we got 7% out of pharma, 5% out of industrial, and 6% out of
government and academic. And while those numbers are not completely similar to historic
numbers, they do underscore the balance that we see in our business right now. So balance,
balance, balance is what we strive for, and we'll, obviously, build plans to address unforeseen
circumstances as they come up, but just keep our eye on the ball as it relates to delivering this
year, but also investing in things that are exciting and will lead to sustainable growth for the
future.
So anyway, with that, I think we need to wrap up. We're a little over the hour and I do want to
thank all of you for your great questions. Concluding now, we are pleased with our fourth quarter,
as I mentioned, and our full-year results for 2017, and it was headlined by our ability to deliver
consistently strong organic revenue growth, combined with disciplined P&L management, to
deliver double-digit earnings per share growth. As we move into 2018, we remain focused on
execution and feel that market conditions, combined with our strong competitive position,
support continued success.
So on behalf of our entire management team, I would like to thank you for your support and
interest in Waters. We look forward to updating you on our progress during our Q1 2018 call,
which we currently anticipate holding on April 24, 2018. Thank you and have a great day.
Operator
Thank you. That concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may now
disconnect.