Q4 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning. Welcome to the Waters Corporation Fourth Quarter 2020 Financial Results
Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session
of the conference call begins. This conference call is being recorded. If anyone objects, please
disconnect at this time.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr. `Bryan Brokmeier, Head of Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead, sir.
`Bryan Brokmeier, Head of Investor Relations `
Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the Waters Corporation fourth
quarter earnings conference call. Before we begin, I will cover the cautionary language.
During the course of this conference call, we will make various forward-looking statements
regarding future events or future financial performance of the company. In particular, we will
provide guidance regarding possible future results of the company and commentary on potential
market and business conditions that may impact Waters Corporation over the first quarter and full
year 2021. We caution you that all such statements are only our present expectations and that
actual events or results may differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking
statements.
For a detailed discussion of some of the risks and contingencies that could cause our actual
performance to differ significantly from our present expectations, see the risk factors included in
our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019, in Part 1 under the
caption Risk Factors, and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 26, 2020, in the Part 1 under the caption Risk Factors, both of which are on file with
the SEC, as well as the cautionary language included in this morning's press release, including
with respect to risks related to the effects of COVID- 19 pandemic on our business.We further caution you that the company does not intend to update any of its predictions or
projections except during our regularly scheduled quarterly earnings release conference calls and
webcast or as otherwise required by law. The next earnings release call and webcast is currently
planned for May 5, 2021.
During today's call, we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of
the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are attached
to our earnings release issued this morning and available on the company's website. In our
discussions of the results of operations, we may refer to non-GAAP results, which exclude the
impact of items, such as those outlined in our schedule titled, Reconciliation of GAAP to Adjusted
Non-GAAP Financials, included in this morning's press release.
Unless stated otherwise, references to quarterly results, increasing or decreasing, are in
comparison to the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019. In addition, unless stated otherwise, all year-
over-year revenue growth rates, including revenue growth ranges given on today's call, are given
on a comparable constant currency basis.
Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Dr. `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer, Waters' President and CEO. Udit?
`Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Bryan, and good morning everyone. Along with Bryan, joining me on this morning's call
is `Mike Silveira, Vice President, Interim Chief Financial Officer, Waters' Vice President, Controller, and Interim CFO. Some of you may already
know Mike, who has been a part of the Waters finance organization for 16 years. And I'm happy to
have him joining me on this morning's call.
I would like to start by thanking our employees around the globe for their hard work and
dedication to what has been an extraordinarily difficult year. It is one that has brought significant
change and sacrifice, from navigating the pandemic and resulting short-term cost saving
initiatives earlier this year, to changes in leadership, the Waters' team has responded to drive
determination and an indomitable spirit. I am impressed by and grateful for our teams resilience
and commitment to our customers and to each other.
During today's call, I will provide a brief overview of our fourth quarter and full-year operating
results, as well as an update on the stabilization that we have seen in the LC market and a few
factors influencing our thinking for 2021. Mike will then review our financial results in detail, and
provide comments on our first quarter and full-year financial outlook. We will then open up the
phone lines to take your questions.
Briefly reviewing our operating results for the fourth quarter. Revenue grew 10% as reported, 7%
on a constant currency basis, and adjusted earnings per share grew 14%. For the full year,
revenue declined 2% and adjusted earnings per share was up 1%. The strong finish to the end of
a challenging year was driven by the pharmaceutical market improvement, capital spending
recovery in the second half of the year, strong execution and early contributions from our near-
term growth initiatives.
Looking more closely at our top line results, first, from a customer perspective. Our largest
market category pharma was the primary growth driver in the quarter with 15% growth. Our
industrial market grew 5%, while academia and government declined 15%. Now to geography. On
a constant currency basis, sales in Asia were up 12%, with China up 19%. Meanwhile sales in the
Americas grew 3%, with the US growing 4% and European sales grew at 6.%.From a product perspective, our Waters branded products and services grew approximately 8%,
while TA declined by around 1% on a constant currency basis. While still navigating the global
pandemic, we are seeing clear signs of improving customer activity, positive growth trends in our
recurring revenues and an evidence of stabilization in LC instrument demand. Services grew 10%,
while consumables business grew approximately 14%, driven largely by global pharma strength,
including sales of our recently launched PREMIER Columns, which performed exceedingly well in
the first quarter on the market.
LC instruments grew most -- grew across most of our major geographies with high single-digit
growth. This improvement in capital equipment purchasing reflects the combination of the return
of some of the planned capital spending that was delayed from the first half of the year, a normal
pharma year-end budget flush and early contributions from our LC replacement initiative.
Following last June's release of the Arc HPLC system in the core HPLC market, with a particular
focus on the small molecule development and QA-QC space, we look forward to the continued
expansion of our liquid chromatography portfolio.
On February 10, we will launch ACQUITY PREMIER, next generation UPLC system that offers
customers an extraordinary break through in efficiency, sensitivity, and overall capability. This new
system will benefit both large and small molecule discovery and development, as well as
biomedical research. This new system has even more profound benefits when paired with our
ACQUITY PREMIER Columns, which I mentioned earlier, and were launched in the fourth quarter.
The combined solution will alleviate non-specific binding absorption losses and provide a
significant leap forward with enhanced reproducibility, reduced passivation, and an increased
confidence in analytical results.
After a very strong third quarter, mass spec sales were about flat in Q4. As you know, the mass
spec business can be lumpy, which we saw with biomedical research. There are -- there was also
a general softness in clinical diagnostics as budgets were averted to COVID-19 testing. Notably,
however, mass spec sales to pharma customers grew double-digits, driven by the strong double-
digit growth of both BioAccord and the QDa.
Finally to TA. Revenues declined low-single digit, which was -- which was much improved from
earlier in the year. We saw the core thermal business start to pick up, driven by market
improvement in Asia. In particular, life sciences including pharma and medical devices, grew
double-digits. Combined these comprised approximately 10% to 15% of TA's total revenues.
However, this was not enough to offset declines from TA's industrial customers.
Looking now at our geographies, all major regions grew. The Americas grew low-single digits,
Europe grew mid-single digits, and Asia grew double-digits. In the US, the growth was driven by
pharma, which was partially offset by declines in material science, environmental, and academic
and government. Though Latin America continued to decline, it improved meaningfully relative to
earlier in the year. Europe also experienced strong pharma performance, partially offset by
material science, food, and academic and government. In both US and Europe, pharma growth
was broad-based, including strength in big pharma, large molecule customers, generics and
contract labs.
China had an impressive quarter, with strong double-digit growth, driven by continuing
acceleration in pharma, as well as strong environmental growth. The pharma growth was driven
by both small and large molecule customers, including particularly strong growth at contract labs.
India also continue to grow double-digits.In summary, overall in the fourth quarter, we saw further relative strength in the market and
benefited from strong year-end spending trends. Now for the year, our pharmaceutical market
category achieved 1% growth with the US, Europe and India all seeing positive growth. Industrial
declined 3% for the full year, and academic and government declined 16%. Notably, our pharma
market category grew 10% in the second half compared to the first half decline of 8% owed in
part to strength in small molecules, the industry recovered from lockdowns. Industrial also grew in
the second half at 4%, while academic and government declined 12% compared to the first half
declines of 10% and 22% respectively.
Geographically for the year, Asia sales were down 4%, with China -- China sales down 8%. Sales
in Americas were down 4%, with the US down 2%. Europe sales were up 2%. Notably all our major
geographies grew in the second half of the year, with the US up 4% and Europe up 6%, following
first half declines of 9% and 3% respectively. Our China market grew in the second half, up 11%,
reversing much of its sharp 31% decline in the first half of the year.
Now I would like to share some of the progress we've made in our transformation program as
several of the initiatives we're putting into action are starting to contribute to growth. First, I will
talk about our instrument replacement initiative, then our progress in contract lab expansion,
followed by e-commerce, and lastly, I'll give you a BioAccord update.
First, as it relates to our instrument replacement initiative, which is the most advanced initiative
underway, we delivered our first quarterly LC instrument revenue growth in two years, and our LC
Instrument win-loss was the highest it has been in three years. Initial customer feedback has been
very positive on the Arc HPLC as well.
Second, as part of our contract lab expansion initiative, we have made important progress in
targeting this high growth customer group. We've contacted a number of customers globally,
particularly in China, and have strengthened our value proposition with expanded alternative
revenue and service offerings which have been well received by the segment. It is still early days,
but we're pleased with the progress we're making.
Third, our e-commerce initiative is still in the early stages, but waters.com traffic is up double
digits, driven by search engine optimization and paid search. While there isn't a one-to-one
relationship between traffic and revenue, increased traffic is an important first step in driving
revenue growth through the e-commerce channel. In tandem with our e-commerce actions,
we've also enhanced our e-procurement platform on which we have expanded our coverage of
customers leveraging this channel. This supported strong e-commerce -- strong e-procurement
growth, indicating that it's now easier to work with Waters.
Fourth, driving -- launch excellence. BioAccord sales exceeded expectations in the quarter as our
market development efforts and our specialty sales model have started to take effect,
particularly in the US and Europe. Many customers are increasingly adopting BioAccord for
manufacturing, and several have placed follow-on orders. Once we get BioAccord applications on
an enterprise software platform, we believe we will be -- we will be seeing more follow-on
orders. More importantly, customer activity continues to be encouraging, which makes us
optimistic about 2021.
Lastly, I'd like to highlight our efforts to help mitigate the public health crisis. In addition to the
significant efforts by our innovation response team, we are encouraged to Waters' consumable
specked in on QA-QC methods for COVID vaccines and therapeutics. We're also seeing an uptick
in COVID driven demand for our instruments and consumables. This peaked in the fourth quarter
where COVID revenues contributed an estimated 1 to 2 percentage points to the growth, drivenby those pharmaceutical customers developing COVID vaccines and therapeutics whom -- who
saw meaningfully higher growth than manufacturers that don't have COVID-related programs.
In summary, as a wrap up to 2020, we've done a great job at keeping our employees safe and
our operations running. Our teams have focused not only on getting products out the door, but
we have also assisted our customers engaged in COVID-related efforts. Meanwhile, our base
business is showing signs of recovery and our transformation is well underway.
Turning to 2021, while the business environment remains uncertain, we look forward to building
on the fourth quarter momentum. Mike will provide further details on our outlook for 2021 which is
based on three key factors. One, we're assuming a gradual improvement in customer activity led
by the pharma market. Two, we expect all major geographies to perform better than they did in
2020, led by growth in China. Lastly, our near-term growth initiatives are expected to continue to
ramp up, led by our LC replacement initiative, which we expect to increasingly contribute to
performance.
With that, I'd like to turn the call over to `Mike Silveira, Vice President, Interim Chief Financial Officer for a deeper review of the fourth quarter
and 2020 financials, and our outlook for 2021. Mike?
`Mike Silveira, Vice President, Interim Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Udit, and good morning everyone. In the fourth quarter, we recorded net sales of
$787 million, an increase of approximately 7% in constant currency. Currency translation increased
sales growth by approximately 3%, resulting in sales growth of 10% as reported. For the full year,
sales declined about 2% in constant currency and as reported.
Looking at product line growth. Our reoccurring revenue, which represents the combination of
precision chemistry products and service revenue increased by 11% in the quarter, while
instrument sales increased 4%. For the full year, re-occurring revenue grew 3%, while instrument
sales declined 9%. Chemistry revenue were up 14% in the quarter, driven by strong pharma
growth. On the service side of our business, revenues were up 10% as customers continue to
reopen labs, catch up on performance maintenance in professional services and repair visits.
As we noted last quarter, re-ocurring sales were impacted by two -- two additional calendar days
in the quarter, which resulted in a slight increase in service revenue sales. Looking ahead, there
are five additional calendar days in the first quarter, and six fewer calendar days in the fourth
quarter of 2021 compared to 2020. Breaking fourth quarter product sales down further, sales
related to Waters branded products and services grew 8%. While sales of TA branded products
and services declined 1%. Combined LC and LCMS, instrument sales were up 5%, while TA
system sales declined 4%.
Now I'd like to comment on our fourth quarter and full year non-GAAP financial performance
versus the prior year. Gross margin for the quarter was 59.2%, an increase compared to the
58.2% in the fourth quarter of 2019, primarily due to the higher sales volume and FX. On a non --
on a full-year basis, gross margin was 57.4% compared to 58% in the prior year on lower overall
sales volumes in 2020.
Moving down the fourth quarter P&L, operating expenses increased by approximately 6% on a
constant currency basis and 8% on a reported basis. The increase was primarily attributed to
variable expenses related to the strong sales performance. For the year, operating expenses
were 1% lower before currency translation and flat after. In the quarter and for the full year, our
effective operating tax rate was 14.9% and 14.8% respectively, an increase from last year as thecomparable period included some favorable discrete items. Net interest expense was $7 million
for the quarter, a decrease of about $3 million as anticipated on lower outstanding debt balances.
Our average share count came in at 62.5 million shares, a reduction of approximately 3% or
about 2 million shares lower than in the fourth quarter of last year. This is a result of shares
repurchased through the end of the first quarter of 2020, subsequent to which we paused our
share repurchase program.
Our non-GAAP earnings per fully diluted share for the fourth quarter increased 14% to $3.65 in
comparison to the $3.20 last year. On a GAAP basis, our earnings per fully diluted share increased
to $3.49 compared to $3.12 last year. For the full year, our non-GAAP earnings per fully diluted
share were up 1% at $9.05 per share versus $8.99 last year. On a GAAP basis, full year earnings
per share were $8.36 versus $8.69 at 2019. A reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP earnings is
attached to the press release issued this morning.
Turning to free cash flow, capital deployment and our balance sheet, I'd like to summarize our
fourth quarter results and activities. We define free cash flow as cash from operations, less capital
expenditures and excluding special items. In the fourth quarter of 2020, free cash flow grew 52%
year-over-year to $240 million, after funding $47 million of capital expenditures. Excluded from
free cash flow was $19 million related to the investment in our Taunton precision chemistry
operation. In the fourth quarter, this resulted in $0.30 of each dollar of sales converted into free
cash flow.
For the full year in 2020, free cash flow generation was $726 million after funding $172 million of
capital expenditures. This represents a 26% increase and $0.31 per dollar of sales converted into
free cash flow. Excluded from free cash flow was $70 million related to our investment in our
Taunton chemistry operation, and $38 million transition tax payment related to the 2017 US Tax
Reform. Our increased free cash flow is primarily a result of our cost actions -- cost saving actions
and improvements in our cash conversion cycle.
In the fourth quarter, accounts receivable days sales outstanding came in at 70 days, down 7 days
compared to the fourth quarter of last year. Inventories decreased by $16 million in comparison to
the prior quarter -- prior year quarter, reflecting stronger revenue growth in revised production
schedules.
Waters maintains a strong balance sheet, access to liquidity and a well structured debt maturity
profile. We ended the quarter with cash and short-term investments of $443 million and debt of
$1.4 billion on our balance sheet at the end of the quarter. This resulted in a net debt position of
$913 [ph] million and a net debt to EBITDA ratio of about 1.1 times at the end of the fourth quarter.
Our capital deployment priorities remain consistent: invest to growth, balance sheet strength and
flexibility, and return of capital to shareholders. We remain committed to deploying capital against
these priorities, as such, our Board of Directors has approved a two-year extension of our
January 2019 share repurchase authorization that was set to expire last month. As of today, we
have 1.5 billion remains available under the program for share repurchases.
As we look forward to the year ahead, I'd like to provide some broader context on our thoughts
for 2021. The business environment remains uncertain and we are assuming a gradual
improvement in customer activity led by the pharma market. We expect all major geographies to
perform better than they did in 2020, led by growth in China. Our outlook does not anticipate a
return of lockdown seen in 2020. We had a 1% tailwind from COVID-related revenue in 2020,
three quarters of which was in the second half of the year. We expect a similar revenue impact in2021, including a 1% to 2% growth tailwind in Q1. We anticipate the first half growth tailwind will
moderate through the remainder of the year.
Improved execution on our near-term growth initiatives contributed to our fourth quarter growth,
but the quarter also benefited from capital spending that were delayed from the first half and in
the second half of the year, which we don't expect to continue in 2021. The second half of 2021
will have to content with the challenging comp resulting from the revenue shift that took place in
2020. These dynamics support full-year 2021 guidance for constant currency sales growth of 5%
to 8%. At current rates, the positive currency translation to 2021 sales growth is expected to be 1
to 2 percentage points.
Gross margin for the full year is expected to be in the range of 57.5% to 58.5%. Every year we
look to balance growth, investment and profitability. Accordingly, we expect 2021 operating
margins of 28% to 29% based on a combination of growth investments, normalization of COVID-
related cost actions, and disciplined expense controls.
Moving now below the operating income line, other key assumptions for full-year guidance are:
net interest expense of $35 million to $38 million; a full year tax rate of between 15% and 16%,
which includes our new five-year tax agreement with Singapore that will expire in March 2026; a
restart of our share repurchase program in 2021 that will result in an average diluted 2021 share
count of 61 million to 61.5 million shares outstanding. Over the course of the year, we will evaluate
share repurchase program and provide quarterly updates as appropriate. Rolling all of this
together in a non-GAAP basis, full year 2021 earnings per fully diluted share are projected in the
range of $9.32 to $9.57, which assumes a positive currency impact on full year earnings per share
growth of approximately 3 percentage points.
Looking at the first quarter of 2021, we expect constant currency sales growth to be 7% to 10%.
At today's rate, currency translation is expected to increase first quarter sales growth by
approximately 3 percentage points. First quarter non-GAAP earnings per fully diluted share are
estimated to be in the range of $1.50 to $1.60. At current rates, the positive currency impact on
first quarter earnings per share growth is expected to be approximately 15 percentage points.
Now I would like to turn it back to Udit for some summary comments. Udit?
`Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mike. In summary, we're pleased with our resilience in the second half of 2020 and
the strong finish to the year, which is a true testament to the determination of this team. Though
the environment remains variable, pharma markets have shown resilience and our transformation
program is already demonstrating results and contributing to growth. Despite the challenging
environment, the progress we've made as an organization over the last five months is nothing
short of extraordinary.
I remain ever more confident in the team, our portfolio and our market position. There remains a
lot of work to do, but we have a tremendous opportunity in front of us to turn the business
around.
With that, we will begin the Q&A session. Operator?
Questions And Answers
OperatorThank you. We will now begin our question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions). Our first
question comes from `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI from Evercore ISI. Your line is now open.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Hey, congrats on a good print here, Udit. I guess, when you look at the revenue guidance here, I
appreciate the color on curtailments. What is -- I guess, on a go-forward basis, when you think
about some of the growth initiatives you guys were making, is Waters now -- are now 5% or 7%,
you would perhaps talk about what the medium term outlook would be for the company?
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Thank you, Vijay. And first, let me say, I'm super pleased with how they've finished the
year. Looking ahead, I think, we've guided -- we've guided about -- we've guided I think more
prudently than not. I think we have, I would say, we expect the basis of the guidance for the full
year which is about 5% to 8% is continuing strength in pharma, and if -- and there are three
factors. If they go better, it would tend towards the higher end of the guidance, both in the mid --
in the short and the mid-term. First, recovery of the other markets beyond pharma; second,
continuing tailwind from our -- from our COVID -- from COVID-19 programs, where we've seen
our products specked in; and third, even more stronger contribution from our turn-around
programs.
So I think I would simply say the guidance is prudent, and we see several triggers that should
allow us to get on the higher end if they -- if they done in the right direction.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Got it. And then one quick follow-up on that margins, Udit. I know there has been some debate, if
you will, on the margin we set for the company. Is -- I guess, when you look at the -- and correct
me if I'm wrong, I think, I heard 28% to 29% margins for fiscal '21. Is that the new base and should
Waters be expanding margins off of the new base?
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
No, so Vijay, I think -- thank you for looking at it probably much too closely. It's actually rather
simple. The cost actions that we've taken in 2020 come back into the base and then that should
allow us to go from there further on.
But Mike, do you want to provide more color on that?
A - `Mike Silveira, Vice President, Interim Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. I could. So definitely our operating margins are being impacted by the normalization of
those cost actions that were put in place in the second quarter as a result of the COVID-19
pandemic. These costs were temporary and they included furloughs and salary reductions, but
they have been restored already, and we're already seeing that benefit in sales growth. So it will
put a drag on our 2021 operating margins. But as we return to growth and we return to our
historical, geographic and product mix in the future, we believe that our margins will get back to
those historical levels, and maybe we will expand if we can get on higher level of our guidance.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Fantastic guys. Thanks again on a nice prints here.A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Vijay.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from `Derik De Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America from Bank of America. Your line is
now open.
Q - `Derik De Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America `
Hey, good morning. Couple of questions. I guess, the first one, could you talk a little bit more
about the LC cycle and some of the benefits in PREMIER? And specifically, I'm also just curious
about what have your pharma installed base is Alliance versus various security generations and
what's actually potentially amenable to upgrade? I just -- basically just want to get some sense of
where you are in the process of a potential replacement cycle in this key group?
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Thanks, Derik. Look the LC replacement initiative, the one that I introduced in the call earlier
has -- is off to a wonderful start. If you look at the HPLC to UPLC mix of our installed bases, I
would say, roughly 53% to 47% HPLC to UPLC. And in terms of dimensionalzing it, remember, we
talked about Alliance, in particular, instruments that are now on limited service, assuming there
are about 8,000 or so of them, we expect 10% to 15% of those to be replaced.
The initiative in itself is off to an excellent start. I mean, we've contacted over 60% of those
customers already, received rather positive feedback. And I would say a couple of facts. One, Arc
HPLC is of course helping quite a bit in the replacement, but what we've seen in Q4 is the highest
win loss ratio that we've seen in over three years for LC instruments. So this bodes well for the
initiative, and we're seeing rather positive uptick.
Second, you asked a question on PREMIER. We launched our PREMIER Columns in Q4. These
were especially designed for molecules that are -- that have affinity from -- for metals, and we've
designed in non-absorptive surface, which increases the efficiency of the separation. And if you'd
say, well, what is the application? The application is actually squarely targeted towards larger
molecules and oligonucleotides, and the uptake has been excellent. And I would say, it's even -- it
will get even more interesting when we take the technology and implement it across our UPLC
instruments, which is ACQUITY PREMIER, and that's set to launch on February 10. The pre-market
work has been very, very good, and I expect that to do just as well.
So I hope that gives you more clarity on LC and also on PREMIER.
Q - `Derik De Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America `
Yeah, no, I appreciate the detail, it's very helpful. And just how should we think about the tax rate
sort of beyond 2021?
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Mike?
A - `Mike Silveira, Vice President, Interim Chief Financial Officer `We're guiding to the 15% to 16%, right. We've obviously -- I mentioned that we actually have a
new agreement in force. So that will help us maintain our current tax profile between 15% and
16%. But obviously with all the new tax legislation, it could possibly come down the pike. It may be
a different story. We are looking at it. Obviously, there is a rate increase from 21% in the US to
27%. We estimate that the impact would be about a 1% increase in the future to our tax rate
overall worldwide if that were to happen, if that legislation passes.
Q - `Derik De Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America `
Thank you very much. I'll get back in queue.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from `Tycho Peterson, Analyst, JP Morgan from JP Morgan. Your line is now
open.
Q - `Tycho Peterson, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Hey, thanks. Udit, I think, one of the questions you're all going to get is just on the sustainability of
the instrument strength, in particularly the LC strength, especially after last quarter you expected
a moderation in the fourth quarter, because you had talked about Taunton spending in 3Q. It
sounds like you mentioned normal budget flush, return of planned spending, the LC replacement
initiative is the big driver. So why should we expect a moderation going forward on the instrument
side if you're in early innings of the LC replacement cycle?
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Look, Tycho, we're being prudent with what we are guiding at this stage, right. I mean, so if you
just look at the -- let me start with the overall commentary and then I'll comment more on LC and
the instrument replacement and the other initiatives, in particular.
Look, if you just look at how we've guided, we say look towards the end of the year, we should --
and Waters as you know underperformed in the last few years, we would want to reach market
growth above in the next 12 to 18 months and these initiatives will help us, right. So if I just now
break it down, if our initiatives do better than planned, if other end markets recover and we
continue to see COVID tailwind, we believe that we will be on the higher end of the guide and
that should -- and should set us up very nicely for the future.
As far as the LC Instrument replacement side for this concern, we're in the early stages of the
innings, I mean, it's a -- it's a good start, but it's a start all the same. I don't want us to get over-
confident with one data point. I believe the execution is very good. We have a good -- good
feedback -- we have good feedback from our customers. I do believe, especially with Arc HPLC,
the launch of PREMIER, we'll continue to see strength in LC, but I would -- I would still want to
remain prudent. So as I said, it's one data point. It's a good data point, but I would not want to
extrapolate just based on one data point at this stage.
Q - `Tycho Peterson, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Okay. And then one other question we've gotten is a lot of the turnaround plan is on kind of a
refocused selling effort, whether it's penetrating CROs or pushing more of an attach rate or
trying to drive the replacement cycle as you alluded to. The feedback in the market over the last
couple of years as your competitors are selling better products cheaper. Now you highlighted the
ACQUITY PREMIER, Arc, and BioAccord. I'm just curious if you still think there is an innovation gapin the market or how you feel about the current suite of instruments as it stands today versus
competition?
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I think, let's take it -- let's take it across the portfolio, right. So I've had a chance to examine
the portfolio. I would say, if again -- if you remember the turnaround plan was -- the first focus is
on the short-term commercial momentum, I think, you would have agreed on that. It gives us
freedom to act, then we get our processes and systems, right, and then we focus on the
portfolio. So there would be more to say about the portfolio in the future, but the current
assessment suggests the following, right.
First, if you just look at the instrument portfolio, our mass spec portfolio has been completely
refreshed with five new launches in 2019 alone, and we've talked a lot about BioAccord, but also
our Tandem Quad portfolio with the Xevo line have done quite well, especially if you look at the
uptake for traditional Chinese medicine -- medicine in China and small molecule organic testing
for that portfolio. So the mass spec portfolio, both on Tandem Quad and High Res I feel good
about. Of course, there is always more to do, but it's a very, very good start.
And if I move to LC, we talked a bit about Arc HPLC and PREMIER, both are significant steps
forward for our portfolio. And as I mentioned earlier, we are thinking of -- thinking of how to re-
imagine the LC instrument, especially in the QA-QC space, and there'll be more to say about that
in the next few years, that programs is well underway.
If I move into the consumable side, both for small and large molecule pharma, our portfolio is
very well set. I won't speak much about the small molecule. I think that is -- that is well
understood. But on the large molecule side, our ACQUITY Columns in particular have been
designed for large molecules. And these are for proteins, for peptides, for oligos, and now with
the launch of PREMIER that even strengthens the position further. So across the portfolio, on the
instrument side, on the consumable side, and with service, we continue to look for better options.
I believe we're doing -- we've done a lot, we're doing a fair bit to continue to refresh the
portfolio, and going forward, I mean, there are, of course -- there are, of course, things to do to
enhance the portfolio, but I don't feel for a second that we are disadvantaged versus
competition in the market. So I think for the short-term, I believe, with the hand that we have, we
can fight pretty well.
Q - `Tycho Peterson, Analyst, JP Morgan `
Okay. That's helpful. One quick one before I hop off. Just on the share repurchase. I'm curious as
to the kind of a thought process there. Waters has been criticized in the past here, you know
buying back a lot of stock, especially as revenues were going along the way. I don't think you'd be
penalized for reinvesting more, so just talk about that trade-off between repurchases and may
investing more in business?
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, look, I mean, we -- and I'd like -- I'd like -- I'll let Mike comment a bit more in a minute. But at
the high level, we've -- we don't feel that there is any limitation for us to invest. Look, I mean, we
just want to take it one step at a time. I mean, Waters has industry leading margins, superb cash
flow. So there is incredible flexibility to invest. We simply want to make sure that we do it in the
right way and in the right areas, right.And again, coming back to the transformation program. The first focus is to get the sales
momentum back, which we're off to a good start. One or two data points don't make a trend. So
we'll keep at it. We will focus on the processes and the systems, and then there'll be enough
time to think about enhancing the portfolio, both organically and inorganically. So there is no
limitation on that front.
As far as the share repurchase program is concerned, it's part of our overall capital allocation
philosophy. It is a lever, but don't assume that that's the only lever we have. Mike, do you want to
comment on the priorities for a minute?
A - `Mike Silveira, Vice President, Interim Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. I would just add that we do have a strong flexible balance sheet, but we also generate a ton
of free cash flow. Historically we generate about 25% of each sales dollar gets converted into
free cash flow. But we can use that and obviously our debt capacity to both invest in growth, both
organically and inorganically, but we can also return value to shareholders. We have our share
repurchase program over the course of the years which is very beneficial to our shareholders. We
bought back -- it's been in place for about 18 years now, and we bought back close to $9 billion.
So as we move forward through this year and certainly we're still in the pandemic here, we'll
evaluate how much and when we actually will buy during the course of the year. But again, it's
about being flexible. We believe we do have that flexibility and strength to do a couple of
different things with respect to capital.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from Doug Schenkel from Cowen. Your line is open.
Q - `Douglas Schenkel, Analyst, Cowen and Company
Good morning, and thank you for taking my questions. Udit, in recent discussions, you
acknowledged that Waters over the last several quarters has in certain instances than losing
market share. And we've talked about this being a function of strong competitors really targeting
Waters for a long time and finally make some -- making some progress, especially in disrupting
typical replacement cycles where you would kind of have the home-field advantage in placing the
replacement box. I'm just wondering where do you think you are in the process of taking steps to
reverse these trends? How much investment and time is required pursuant of the reversal?
And then keeping in mind that it was a pretty strong quarter, should we put much weight on Q4
results in the context of assessing your progress with these efforts?
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks. Thanks, Doug. Look, it's a good quarter. It's a strong start to our initiatives, and especially
the LC initiative, which we've talked about a fair bit. The basic assumption is -- and as you
mentioned is that there is a replacement cycle. And replacement cycle of our instruments in the
past is, I mean, we knew about it and we've been at it for a while, but I think the focus that we
have now, and you'd say, well, what are you doing differently. I think what we're doing differently
from the past which starts to show -- starts to pay dividends is that we are using, we know exactly
where these instruments are, we've taken a look at the database, we have targeted our reps to
those exact channel -- to those exact customers.
And in addition, armed with Arc -- Arc HPLC as a new product in addition to our value proposition
of PREMIER, we feel our full portfolio with the LC, with PREMIER, with our service offering, is off toa good start in this replacement cycle. I don't want to get too far ahead of ourselves, and I won't
speculate too much on the future, but this data point looks good and leading indicators in terms
of orders also look rather good.
Now in terms of how you should think about it in the future, I think I'd rather share the fact after
we have done rather than speculating, but all I can say is, the data points we have at this point in
time look positive, both in terms of how the customers are receiving our value proposition, and
how we are targeting the customer. So I mean in general, I would remind you that Waters is an LC
company, right. Any time we do something on LC, our whole team, our sales team, our service
team gets super enthusiastic, and we're seeing some of that -- some of that in the results. So I'll
stop there, and of course, happy to answer any follow-ups.
Q - `Douglas Schenkel, Analyst, Cowen and Company
Okay. That was super helpful, Udit. Thank you for that. And then, I guess, this is kind of been
touched on in some of the earlier questions, but I still think it's worth revisiting. If we just think
about what we heard in terms of some of the early updates from some of the other larger tools
companies, they are significantly accelerating investment in the current environment, essentially
taking the COVID-19 related windfalls and reinvesting a lot of that cash flow into growth initiatives.
In response to that, do you see the need to increase investment to -- essentially help maintain
your competitive position, kind of, building off of the last question or do you think that's not
necessary and not something that drove you to kind of be reactionary in terms of how you looked
at your investment plan for 2021?
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Doug, again, a very perceptive question. And look -- you've somehow answered your question in
the last comment. I mean, we will not be reactionary to anything. I mean, I think, R&D and having
been a researcher myself for a good part of my career, I mean, we want to focus on
fundamentals. We want to focus on technology development and what is this technology-
oriented company. So we'll stay true to the problem solving that we have to do.
Now to some facts, right, if you look at the R&D productivity in recent times, the mass spec
portfolio has been completely renewed, both on the High Res side, as well as on the Tandem
Quad side. And to provide you more color on the Tandem Quads, we're seeing very good -- very
good uptake of those, in particular. As I mentioned earlier in China, we want to continue to work
on our software on those Tandem Quads to even increase the uptake, and in pharma, DMPK
[ph], sort of areas as well. So I feel we have done a good job in refreshing the mass spec
portfolio, and we also know what we need to get done specifically and we're funding those
programs very well, especially on the informatic side for mass spec.
BioAccord is another case in point. I mean, as you know, QA-QC -- LCMS and QA-QC is some of
the holy grail in the industry to be able to take large molecules to the same place where small
molecules are in release testing. And we have a robust and reliable instrument in BioAccord which
is starting to see very good uptake, and we have really clear roadmap in increasing applications
and improving the software on that front as well, and that's very well funded.
If I now turn to the LC side, I mean, we've -- we redoubled our effort on that front, both on the
commercial side, but also on the R&D. On the R&D side, it's a question of turning our dollars to
the right -- to the right programs. And there on the consumables, in particular, I mean, the launch
of PREMIER has been received very well in the market. We're expanding that technology into our
full instrument space and that should be -- that is something that the market is, I think, lookingeffort on the software side as well to take and power into the cloud and expand the applications
there.
And then finally if I turn to the service side. There we are always looking at better value
propositions. And here, it's not necessarily a product-based innovation but it's a service-based
innovation as many of our customers are asking us for more flexible value propositions especially
when it comes to -- when it comes to, I would say almost a la carte service is based on the
utilization and we are offering those value propositions as well. So I've gone on long, but just to
give you a flavor that the R&D programs are based on specifics and not what appears to be
popular, and we will not be shy in increasing that funding, and you'll hear more about that as we
go forward.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from `Dan Arias, Analyst, Stifel from Stifel. Your line is now open.
Q - `Dan Arias, Analyst, Stifel `
Good morning, guys. Thank you. Udit, on the specialty selling efforts that you've kind of honed in
on as a need. Can you just sort of share some thought on how we should think about the scale
and the magnitude of that push? I mean, is there a percentage of reps years [ph] from now that
we might be thinking about as focused on either a particular product or a particular application?
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. I use that as an example -- as an example, Dan, when we were talking about -- talking about
BioAccord, in particular, right. I mean, products that require a deeper explanation, products that
could benefit from our customers -- our customers being coached on how to use it, how to
develop methods on them.
And for BioAccord, in particular, I'll just use that as an example. That's off to an excellent start,
right. So we -- we've -- we've turned specialty reps and we've created a specialty reps team and
turned them towards specific customers, especially ones with large molecules and
oligonucleotide applications. And they've gone in and develop methods with these customers,
and in many cases, we have follow-on orders as well. And to just come back to the fact, I mean,
for BioAccord, Q4 was the best quarter since its launch by several fold. So we think this approach
is working.
Now in terms of what fraction of the total field force is especially versus generalist, look, most of
our reps have a technical training. And the reasons Waters has been successful in the market for
so long is because of -- because of our technical capabilities and how we are able to partner with
our customers. And now we basically trained a few of them on specific methods. I would say, we
will continue to expand it. If it works more, we will continue to expand that specialty -- specialty
field force for more complex applications and BioAccord is just a start.
I hope that gives you a bit -- a bit more clarity. I don't want to quantify the fraction of field force
that return specialty. We will basically -- it's a pilot that seems to be showing results and we will
continue to expand as the larger -- as there are larger number of customers and targets.
Q - `Dan Arias, Analyst, Stifel `
Yeah, okay. That's helpful. Okay. And then maybe just one on margins as it relates to product mix.
When you -- when you look at the collective gross margin profile for this last tranche of new-- is there a different profile attached that in aggregate relative to the rest of the portfolio such
that if you guys are successful and we do see some new product acceleration there, we should
think of that as a mix factor that works in your favor. And then along those lines, whether you have
mentioned that there is some other new things that you have in the hopper. Is there a conscious
effort to design and add things to the portfolio that are at a higher level of profitability than say
that the predecessor platforms?
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks. Excellent. Excellent questions. I mean, I'll give you a general answer to your second
question, and then let Mike give you a bit of specifics on how we are seeing the margin evolution.
In general, look, the simple way to think about it is consumables and recurring revenues have a bit
of a higher margin than instruments. And over time, instruments, as the demand rises, you can
see more leverage in the P&L, and you have higher units. So hence you start to see better and
better margins over time. So you start off with a slightly lower margin with instruments, and that
goes up over time.
And with consumables and informatics, you already see a nice starting point. And so with launch
of PREMIER, more informatics solutions, better service, definitely gave a lift. And instruments at
the beginning might start off at a lower starting point, but then would -- would go up rather
rapidly as the demand goes up and we are seeing that already in many of our platforms.
So Mike, do you want to comment a bit more on the margins and the evolution, especially on the
gross margins?
A - `Mike Silveira, Vice President, Interim Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. What I will add is that, obviously when a new product gets introduced, we don't have the
advantage of taking cost out. So over time, over the next couple of years, after a product is
introduced, we're typically able to lower the cost to produce the product, which will help the
margin significantly. Also obviously the more units that we had alluded to, and then we push
through the plant will also help margins. So the combination of those two generally improves,
especially on the instrument side, as we move out from one or two years after we launch.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
But in general, I mean, just to -- just to expand on your question earlier and to give you something
specific. In general, it's a good assumption that we are introducing products that have a higher
margin profile than we have in the past. I think, that's a reasonable assumption.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from Steve Willoughby from Cleveland Research. Your
line is now open.
Q - `Stephen Willoughby, Analyst, Cleveland Research
Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. I had a couple, maybe just one or two starting
from Mike. Mike, I just wanted to double check that we heard you correctly as it relates to some
of the guidance for the first quarter. Did you say that you expect a 15% benefit to EPS from FX in
the first quarter?
A - `Mike Silveira, Vice President, Interim Chief Financial Officer `15%
Q - `Stephen Willoughby, Analyst, Cleveland Research
Wow, okay. And then, I guess --
A - `Mike Silveira, Vice President, Interim Chief Financial Officer `
Sorry. To expand upon that, the number is very small. So it's the power of the denominator a little
bit. So that's what caused (Multiple Speakers) to be impacted.
Q - `Stephen Willoughby, Analyst, Cleveland Research
Okay. Very good. Thank you. Just -- Udit, two questions for you then as it relates to sort of looking
forward. One, how are you thinking about instrument growth versus reoccurring growth in 2021?
And maybe if there is any comments on the strong 14% chemicals growth that you saw in the
fourth quarter, you know if that was, you know how sustainable that sort of growth is?
And then the second question is just, you previously have made some comments about -- you
know, sort of, seen some of the largest orders in company history here recently. I was just
wondering if you could provide any more color on, if that was -- Udit something you think is the
change or sustainable or is it just happened to be kind of a one-off here in the most recent
couple of months?
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Steve, thank you for both of those questions. First on instrument growth versus recurring. You saw
in the fourth quarter that recurring revenues were double digits, instruments were we're mid-
single digits. And I think going forward also, we -- I mean, if you just think through what we are
thinking, what we are -- what we are hoping to see in the future, I mean, we expect that pharma
continues and you should see a similar sort of -- similar sort of mix going forward as well as. If
pharma continues its trend and as other end markets recover, we expect a bit of -- a bit of upside
to it.
And if you just done a bit towards, I think, rather than giving you ratio, let me give you a bit of
specifics on how one could think about it. If you just take of our -- think of our applications in
pharma for both small and large molecules, and then it just give you a bit of the portfolio that
goes towards that, right. So for small molecules, I mean, as that raises, especially as generic
consumption and product for COVID, especially therapeutics, small molecule therapeutics rise,
we see our LC portfolio with Arc HPLC, in particular, going up. Then if you turn to large molecules,
you can start with consumables. And then the reason I'm giving you the specifics is just to give
you color that on both fronts there is reason to believe that -- that we should see some optimistic
development.
And on the consumable side for large molecules, first, I mean our ACQUITY Columns for UPLC
have been designed in particular for large molecules to start with proteins, with peptides, glycans
and also oligos, with the near getting launched first as Columns on the technologies has got very
good traction, especially for oligonucleotide applications and now it goes into the instrument
space which are rather broad-based if I just take the LC example, both on the UPLC side and the
HPLC side. And for mass spec, as you already know, BioAccord and our QDa have done pretty
well for large molecule applications in Q4. So really, really broad based. I would not speculate on
one or the other, but I would say Q4 give you a good indication of what we should see -- what we
should see even going forward, if not better.Now in terms of large orders and to give you -- and give you color on my comment on large
orders previously. You see, with the LC replacement initiatives, we've had some customers come
in and ask us to replace their full fleet and that has resulted in some of the largest orders. And
this is why I'm rather optimistic about this initiative. So that gives you more color.
On the chemicals piece, I'm not sure what you're referring to the 14%. So I don't know Mike if you
have any comments on that? I don't know what that is referring to the chemicals growth of 14%?
A - `Mike Silveira, Vice President, Interim Chief Financial Officer `
I'm not sure even. Sorry.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Steve, I hope that give you color.
Operator
And our next question comes from `Puneet Souda, Analyst, SVB Leerink from SVB Leerink. Your line is now open.
Q - `Puneet Souda, Analyst, SVB Leerink `
Yeah, hi. Thanks, Udit, and first of all, congratulations. This is an impressive quarter, and thanks for
all the work that you've put in in these few months here. So first one based on what you are
saying there, and correct me if I'm wrong, it appears to me that the China pharma recurring
revenue sales in especially columns and small molecules, and then services grew very strongly in
the quarter. Obviously, you highlighted the growth in China. So wondering what has changed in
your approach in China in terms of commercial execution or is that largely market-driven growth
that we are seeing from across the -- some across the peers as well. So correct me if I'm wrong
on any of those assumptions as to what I'm seeing?
And then in that light also, were there any incentives in the fourth quarter that drove this growth
in that geography?
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So thanks for your question, Puneet. On China, look I mean, we have -- we're extremely happy
with the quarter. I mean, it grew slightly shy of 20% after I would say a very difficult first half of the
year. And so, we're very happy with the momentum, and largely led -- largely led by pharma, both
on the small molecule and large molecule side, and a very broad based growth across the
portfolio, across instruments, both mass spec, as well as LC, consumables and service, especially
recurring revenues did super well, especially in the pharma -- especially in the pharma segment.
So we feel really good about that.
In terms of changes, I mean, it goes back to what -- what we talked about earlier, really focusing
the field on what matters. And as I mentioned earlier, as soon as we utter the words LC at
Waters, we have a genuine enthusiasm across the organization and we have not just -- not just
our portfolio but our service teams are state-of-the-art. So I think having the organization focused
on LC, giving them Arc HPLC as a new product, and it was especially designed for China, in
particular, right. So giving the Arc HPLC and PREMIER to go out and have these conversations with
the LC customers has been -- has been -- has been a terrific initiative.
Secondly, I'd also mentioned our CXO or contract testing and contract research organization
initiatives, that's also done rather well in China. Our team has gone out to meet contractmanufacturers. We've increased our penetration in contract testing organizations in the food
segment. It's again one data point, but it's a good data point. I am reluctant to start extrapolating
too much, but it's a good data point that it gives us confidence, that activity is at a higher level.
Now as far as incentives are concerned, they are no different than they have been in the past. It's
just a question of focus, but giving the teams new products, giving them clarity on which
customers to go after, and working with them to succeed, I think, are the key success factors I
would point to.
A - `Bryan Brokmeier, Head of Investor Relations `
And operator, we have time for one more question.
Operator
Thank you. And our final question comes from Dan Brennan from UBS. Your line is now open.
Q - `Daniel Brennan, Analyst, UBS `
Great. Thank you. Thanks for that. Thanks for taking the question. I kind of hopped on late, but I
was hoping -- I know you spoke a lot about Asia and China, but I was hoping to dig in a little bit
more there if you don't mind. Could you just kind of break apart kind of China because there was
a lot going on in the last couple of years for Waters there, particularly on the food and the
pharma side which -- and I know you've addressed that a little bit. But can you just walk us through
a little bit, how you think about the opportunity going forward for Waters in China, maybe some
of what are the strategic initiatives that you have ongoing? I know you are talking about a bigger
portion at the contract research organization. But I'm just wondering if you can kind of maybe
peel the onion a bit more on China for us?
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure, sure. Look, Dan, very good question. In China, look, we talked a bit about in the past about
what had caused the slowdown, right. I mean, the slowdown was led by the food segment, but
also a bit of a slowdown in pharma and our focus on pharma. So, again, let me break it down a bit
across the different initiatives in the pharma. We expect our focus with LC, with Arc HPLC, with the
launch of Arc HPLC and PREMIER and the replacement initiative should give us -- should give us
good tailwinds in pharma going forward.
Second, for the food segment, we have really focused on expanding our coverage for the
contract testing organizations. You remember, I mentioned we were a little bit late in following
that trend. The team has gone and reached out to each and every one of those customers and
now we have to make sure that our value propositions work before we start to see meaningful
growth in that area.
And then across clinical, China is one of those markets that in the past grew very well in that
segment. I mean, this year, we've seen some headwinds, especially on -- especially due to -- due
to the diversion towards COVID- 19 testing. So I expect that to come back. So across the board,
we see some good opportunities in China. Now talking at a -- bit of a higher level in the pharma
industry in China, you -- if you look at -- look at these -- the latest five-year plan, it calls for cost for
having roughly 45% or so of the production for biopharmaceuticals occurring locally in China for
China use. And today that number is around 20% -- between 20% and 25%. So there is
commitment in the Chinese government, in the Chinese economy, to increase pharma
consumption.So we feel rather well placed with our portfolio, with our commercial focus to go after the
opportunity in pharma, as well as in food. And from a portfolio perspective, Arc HPLC was
specifically designed for the Chinese LC market. Our Tandem Quad portfolio is doing rather well
for traditional Chinese medicine and food testing and environmental testing in China. So I feel
very good from a portfolio perspective and from a commercial perspective on the base we've
set, but it's -- as I said, it's a good start. It's a start all the same. So we're bit prudent about what
we want to -- what we -- what we want to see in the future.
Operator
And that was the final question.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you very much. So as we -- as we conclude, thank you. Thank you all for joining today. I want
to thank our team for doing such a stellar job in the first -- in the fourth quarter and we're looking
forward to continuing the effort and the strength as we go forward. I'd like to thank you for your
continued support and interest in Waters, and we look forward to updating you on our progress
on Q1 -- in the Q1 2021 call, which is currently anticipated on May 5, 2021. Thank you, and have a
great day.