Q4 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning. Welcome to the Waters Corporation Fourth Quarter 2021 Financial Results
Conference Call. All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer
session of the conference call begin. This conference call is being recorded. If any one has
objections, please disconnect at this time.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr. `Caspar Tudor, Director of Investor Relations, Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead, sir.
`Caspar Tudor, Director of Investor Relations
Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the Waters Corporation fourth
quarter earnings conference call.
Before we begin, I will cover the cautionary language. During the course of this conference call,
we will make various forward-looking statements regarding future events or future financial
performance of the company and particularly we will provide guidance regarding possible future
results of the company and commentary on potential market and business conditions that may
impact Waters Corporation over the first quarter of 2022 and full year 2022. We caution you that
any and all such statements are only our present expectations and that actual events or results
may differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements.
For a detailed discussion of some of the risks and contingencies that could cause our actual
performance to differ significantly from our present expectations, see the risk factors included in
our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020, in Part 1 under the
caption Risk Factors and in our most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
October 2, 2021, in Part 1A under the caption Risk Factors, both of which are on file with the SEC
as well as the cautionary language included in this morning's press release, including with respect
to risks related to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business.
We further caution you that the company does not intend to update any of its predictions or
projections except during our regularly scheduled quarterly earnings release conference calls andwebcasts, or as otherwise required by law. The next earnings release call and webcast is currently
planned for May 3, 2022.
During today's call, we will be referring to certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of
the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are attached
to our earnings release issued this morning and in the Appendix of our presentation, which are
available on the company's website. In our discussions of the results of operations, we may refer
to non-GAAP results, which exclude the impact of items such as those outlined in our schedule
titled Reconciliation of GAAP to Adjusted Non-GAAP Financials, included in this morning's press
release and in the Appendix of our presentation.
Unless stated otherwise, references to quarterly results, increasing or decreasing, are in
comparison to the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020. In addition, unless stated otherwise, all year-
over-year revenue growth rates, including revenue growth ranges given on today's call, are given
on a comparable constant currency basis.
Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Dr. `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer, Waters' President and CEO. Udit?
`Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Caspar; and good morning, everyone. Along with Caspar, joining me on this morning's
call is `Amol Chaubal, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Waters' Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
We've ended a very successful year at Waters. In end markets with sustainable growth drivers, we
have revived our resilient business and are now focused on growing our portfolio. Despite higher
comparables, we saw strong growth continued with an acceleration on a stacked basis as the
year went on. The strength we've seen in our instrument portfolio is a positive indicator for the
future as our new products have gained traction and this all supports the sustainable future
growth we expect to see in our consumables and service.
Before summarizing the quarter and full year, let me start by thanking my colleagues around the
globe who represented the indomitable spirit of Waters throughout 2021. We remain focused on
supporting our customers and delivering exciting new products, despite the challenging
conditions of the pandemic. Achieving these results in a normal year would have been quite an
accomplishment, but to do so while balancing the continued ups and downs of the pandemic with
a major transformation and the new leadership team is indeed quite remarkable.
Now, I'm turning to Slide 3. We have three messages. We have a resilient and attractive portfolio
of instrument systems, chemistry, consumables and services in end markets that are supported
by sustainable growth drivers. We've revitalized this core by engaging our customers progressing
on -- in number of growth initiatives and continuing to innovate across our portfolio while
launching exciting new products and now we're focused on growth of our core business as well
as accessing existing high volume applications in faster growing adjacencies.
I will now provide a brief overview of our fourth quarter and full-year operating results as well as
commentary on our end markets, geographies and technologies. Amol will then review our
financial results in detail and provide comments on our financial outlook. We will then open up the
phone line to take your questions.
Moving on to Slide 4. In the fourth quarter, our revenue grew 6% as reported and 8% on a
constant currency basis, reflecting broad strength across our end markets and geographies with
double-digit year-end demand for our instruments and continued growth in our recurring revenue
products. This translates to a 7.5% two-year stacked CAGR for the quarter versus 2019 on aconstant currency basis. For the full year, revenue grew 18% as reported and 16% in constant
currency as we saw strong growth in 2021 across all our regions, led by pharma and industrial end
markets. This translates to the 7% two-year stacked CAGR for the year versus 2019 in constant
currency.
Our Q4 non-GAAP adjusted earnings per share was $3.67 per share, up 1% year-on-year and 7%
stacked. Excluding the effect of our prior year COVID cost actions and effects, EPS grew 8%
versus last year. For the full year, non-GAAP adjusted earnings per share grew 24% to $11.20 and
12% on a two-year stacked basis.
Now looking more closely at our topline results for the quarter on Slide 5. In constant currency
first by operating segment. The Waters division grew 7%, while TA grew 16%. By end market, our
largest market category, pharma, grew 8%; industrial grew 7%; and academic and government
grew at 5%.
In Pharma, we saw continued broad based strength in sales across segments, geographies and
applications. Biopharma and contract organizations grew well above 20%. In industrial, growth
was led by our TA business, which saw strong global strength in thermal as well as
microcalorimetry and rheology.
Within the Waters division, we saw broad demand for LC instruments across our geographies as
well as our customers, as well as our customer segments who continue to invest in huge new
capital equipment.
Turning to academic and government. We saw an improvement with growth across most of our
geographies into the year-end. We're actively revitalizing our relationships with KOLs, which is an
integral part of achieving long-term success in academic and government. While it takes some
time for us to regain traction, Waters has familiarity and a fan base amongst KOLs who have
often used instruments throughout their careers. Just last week, I was talking with the head of a
leading core lab at one of our -- one of the top medical institutions in the United States. He's
worked closely with Waters for the better part of two decades to build up proteomics capabilities
at this institution and currently has over 40 Waters LCs and 20 mass spec instruments from our
company.
Moving now to our sales performance by geography. On a constant currency basis, sales in Asia
grew 9% with China up 13%, Americas 8% with US up 8% and Europe grew 5%. In China, we saw
strong demand throughout the quarter with growth led by contract arcs, biopharma and a strong
recovery in clinical. We also saw strong growth in food testing and chemical assays.
In the US, growth came from ongoing strength in our pharma and industrial end markets. In
pharma, sales were strong in LC and mass spec, which combined grew in the mid-teens with
chemistry up low double-digits. In Industrial, our TA business saw strong instrument placement
across applications led by advanced materials, chemicals and battery deck [ph].
In Europe, all end markets continue to grow led by pharma and industrial with food and
environmental businesses resulting strong demand for our tandem quads. Meanwhile, pharma
sales remained solid with growth led by large molecule applications. By product and services,
customer demand for our instruments finished the year strong, continuing the trend of instrument
growth that we saw throughout the year, while demand for recurring revenue products remain
strong. Overall, instrument sales grew 12% for the quarter with robust demand driven by our
commercial execution and new product contribution.In LC, Arc HPLC continued to see strong global growth in our core segments as demand
continues to ramp. Meanwhile, our ACQUITY and Arc Premier instruments continue to see strong
adoption, driven by applications in large molecule and novel modalities, such as mRNA. In mass
spec, we saw growth in our high-end tandem quad portfolio led by Xevo TQ-XS, Xevo TQ and
Xevo TQ-XS Micro (sic - Xevo TQ-S Micro). We also saw strong demand from our biopharma and
CRO customers as well as for food safety applications.
In our high-res mass spec portfolio, we saw the demand for Cyclic with drug discovery
applications. We're also encouraged by the early adoption of our new Select Series MRT Time-of-
Flight platform with customers using it for biopharma, discovery and Onix applications.
For recurring revenues, despite the quarter having six fewer days than the fourth quarter of
2020, chemistry sales grew 5%, led by continued high utilization biopharma customers. Our new
MaxPeak Premier Columns continue to provide incremental growth for our chemistry business.
This technology provides important benefits in separation and purification of mRNA,
oligonucleotides, peptides and glycans, which is effectively answering the needs of our
customers as they work with more complex molecules.
Service grew 2%, despite a tough double-digit comparison a year ago with strong growth in both
China and in India, which has been a theme throughout the year.
Finally, TA had another great quarter with sales up 16%, led by strong growth in thermal analysis,
microcalorimetry and rheology. Demand for TA products continues to be strong in all regions with
growth driven by advanced materials and chemicals, including batteries and electronics.
Looking now at our topline results for the full year on Slide 6. In constant currency, the Waters
division grew 15%, while TA grew 25%. By end markets, pharma grew 19% and industrial grew
15%, while academic and government came at 5% for the year.
Pharma, which is our largest market, has grown 10% on a two-year stacked basis driven by strong
demands in our instruments and recurring revenues with strength in both large and small
molecule applications. We've also seen ongoing strength in our industrial and applied market,
which has grown 6% on a two-year stacked basis, led by China as well as North America and
Europe. In academic and government, which has been our slowest market to recover, sales in
Europe and the US are close to pre-pandemic levels, while China has furthered in its recovery as
university spending continues to be constrained.
By geography, Asia grew 19%, China growing 25%; Americas grew at 16% with the US growing at
14%; and Europe also grew 14%.
For the full year, on a two-year stacked basis, our three largest geographies; the US, China and
Europe; grew 6%, 7% and 8%, respectively. What is especially pleasing is that the demand is
balanced across all geographies, including a robust recovery in the US.
By products and services, instruments grew 23% for the year, chemistry 15% and service grew
9%. On a stacked basis, instruments grew 6%, chemistry 9% and service 6%, showing strong
performance above our historical averages.
The strength we've seen in our LC instrument portfolio throughout the year remains a positive
indicator for sustainable future growth in consumables as well as service. Our growth in recurring
revenues has also been supported by the progress we've made in e-commerce as well as
delivering higher attachment rates and service. Given the global nature of our business, we're
certainly not immune to the ongoing supply chain constraints and inflationary pressures, but weare proactively addressing these challenges, leveraging our global manufacturing footprint and
working closely with our customers and suppliers.
Now moving on to Slide number 7, we covered this in our Q3 earnings call and also at the recent
JPMorgan Conference. Our initiatives across instrument replacement, service attachment,
contract organizations, e-commerce and new product launch excellence have all been important
components for us, regaining our momentum and delivering strong performance in 2021. We've
continued to exceed expectations and milestones on these initiatives and believe that each has
further runway not just in 2022, but in the years beyond, providing an average incremental growth
impact of roughly 100 basis points annually across the base business in the next two to three
years as our transformation program is firmly on track.
Moving now on to Slide 8, the strength of our business is being supported by instrument
innovation with recent product launches that have revitalized our core. Waters continues to build
on its robust base, deep customer relationships and, importantly, it's highly technical team of
scientists and engineers with deep understanding of our customers problems to solve.
For example, Arc HPLC, which was launched in 2020, allows customers to increase the
performance and capabilities for their high volume work cost instruments without revalidating
their existing methods. This is absolutely critical in a compliant environments and helps us provide
the benefits of newer technology to our customers, while ensuring backwards compatibility.
Meanwhile, our MaxPeak Premier technology provides important benefits and applications where
sensitivity and reproducibility is key by virtually eliminating the metal binding affinity of compounds
like mRNAs, oligonucleotides, peptides and glycans.
On the instrument side, ACQUITY Premier is a UPLC that was custom designed for biologics and
novel modality applications, providing a 100 times better detection sensitivity than non-Premier
instruments and a 50% reduction in peak tailings.
Within our chemistry portfolio, MaxPeak Premier Columns, which also offer this high performance
surface coatings has set a record in terms of uptake for new columns as this technology
continues to be well received by our pharma customers.
Turning to our mass spec portfolio, one additional example of innovation is our Select Series MRT,
which is our high resolution multi-reflecting Time-of-Flight instrument that provides remarkable
accuracy at high speed with outstanding clarity. This instrument is setting the benchmark in mass
accuracy. Its high throughput is enabling large sample studies of proteins and metabolites, which
previously would have taken too much time to conduct.
Additionally, you may have seen our announcement this morning of Waters' acquisition of Charge
Detection Mass Spec Technology, CDMS. CDMS overcomes limitations of conventional mass spec
in characterizing, analyzing and quantifying complex, large molecules. These investments will
allow Waters to develop and commercialize CDMS technology to solve significant unmet needs in
novel modalities setting such as cell and gene therapy for drug development.
With the discipline my colleagues Jon Pratt and Jianqing Bennett have brought into launches, new
products have meaningfully grown in their contribution this year and with our product vitality index
around 150 basis points -- up around the 150 basis points to approximately 15% in Q4.
Turning now to Slide 9. A key element of our informatics strategy is to provide customers with
tools that help them better manage their workflows and achieve faster, easier results with high
quality compliance data. Last month, we extended our next generation informatics platformwaters_connect to our tandem quad mass spectrometers for core quantification, starting with
food testing.
As any scientists who works in mass spec will tell you, current software across the industry is
powerful, are designed to fit all purposes and as a result can be complicated and difficult to use.
Our new software is built around the purpose and end market application for which it is being
used, delivering on our key principle of providing advanced technology that is fast, robust and
easy to use. It reduces review times by -- it reduces review times by up to 50% compared to the
current market leading platform by allowing labs to meet their compliance and data integrity
requirements.
The overriding benefit here is that analysts can reduce review time to a minimum, which is one of
the largest bottlenecks in the lab, improving workflows for quantitative LC-MS and mass spec
data review is critical for our customers as it helps improve the throughput and efficacy. I spent
time with our launch team last week and the rollout has begun with food testing applications and
we plan to extend it to other applications in the near future.
Now turning to Slide 10. Let me turn to the critical problems in higher-growth adjacencies that we
identified this year and believe we can solve over time. First, in bio-separations, we see an
opportunity to take our chemistry expertise from small molecule separation and apply to novel
modalities and large molecule separation. Despite their rapid growth, there are significant
challenges in characterizing and confirming the quality of these large complex molecules.
Take mRNA as an example. The industry has a key unmet need of restraining analytical controls
when measuring molecular integrity. Current practices for newer modalities like this are not as
reproducible as desired, because there is not enough precision. So by advancing our biologic
capabilities, we can unleash our chemistry expertise and our engineering expertise to better
characterize and separate these molecules and then identify items such as process related
impurities and degradation that are of critical in later-stage development and high volume
manufacturing.
In this area specifically, we're looking at bio-separation solutions for mRNA and other nucleic acid,
proteins and lipid nanoparticles, as well as viral vector gene therapies and vaccines and adeno-
associated viruses.
Second, in bioprocess characterization. One of the key differences in bioprocessing versus small
molecule processing is that once you define the manufacturing process, you're effectively stuck
with it and cannot optimize it without completely revalidating the process, because it is tied to the
drug master file. By providing analytical techniques that are powerful enough to characterize the
cost -- the product sufficiently, we believe that we can overcome this barrier and separate the
process from the product. This is a significant need in the industry and has the potential to be a
very attractive market.
Our partnership with Sartorius is a key step in this journey and as we bring the processing power
of LC-MS at line with BioAccord in a workflow that is simple, powerful and fast and can be easily
used on-site by bioprocess engineers.
The third application is give up LC-MS in diagnostics, where we need a fast, unbiased detection
of multiple biomarkers to enable early disease detection. We believe mass spec has a significant
role to say here and we have already demonstrated a proof-of-concept with the UK government
in characterizing the SARS-CoV-2 virus with excellent sensitivity and selectivity leading to a lower
false positive rate than many other techniques.In review, our strong fourth quarter results capped a very successful year for Waters with broad-
based growth across our end markets and geographies. We sustained our momentum with
strong two-year stacked revenue growth throughout the year with our transformation now
embedded in how we operate. Our core business has been revitalized with growing contributions
from innovative new products and initiatives. We are laser-focused on our commercial execution.
The markets we serve remain in a healthy state and our regions have rebounded solidly from
pandemic lows.
Meanwhile, we see opportunities in higher growth adjacencies that will raise our exposure to
faster growing market segments as we start to solve the critical problems we've identified over
time.
With that, I'd like to pass the call over to Amol for a deeper review of the fourth quarter and full
year financials, as well as our outlook for the first quarter and the full year of 2022. Amol?
`Amol Chaubal, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Udit; and good morning, everyone. As Udit outlined, we recorded net sales of $836
million in the fourth quarter, an increase of 8% in constant currency and an increase of 6% as
reported. We had a record instrument sales this quarter, which increased 12% versus prior year
and 8% on a two-year stacked basis. Despite six fewer calendar days, our recurring revenue,
which represents the combination of chemistry and service revenue, increased by 3% for the
quarter. Chemistry revenues were up 5% and service revenues were up 2%, both of which had
tough comparisons in the prior year.
The six fewer calendar days in the quarter translated to a growth headwind of approximately 6%
for recurring revenue and approximately 3% for total revenue.
For the full year, sales grew by about 16% in constant currency and 18% as reported. Recurring
revenues grew 11% with chemistry up 15% and service up 9%, while instrument sales grew 23%,
driven by strong customer demand and new product introductions.
Our two-year stacked constant currency sales growth was 7.5% for Q4 and 7% for the second half
of 2021 versus 6.5% for the first half. This acceleration underscores our good commercial
momentum heading into 2022.
Looking ahead, comparing 2022 to 2021, there is one fewer day in the first quarter, no change in
the second or third quarters, and one additional day in the fourth quarter.
Now, I would like to comment on our fourth quarter and full year non-GAAP financial performance
versus the prior year. Gross margin for the quarter came in as expected at 58%. On a full year
basis, gross margin was 58.5% compared to 57.4% in the prior year with improvements driven
primarily by volume leverage and a 30 basis points tailwind from FX.
Moving down to the P&L, for Q4, operating expenses increased by approximately 12% on a
constant currency basis and include an increase of approximately 7% due to the normalization of
our prior year COVID-related cost actions. For the year, operating expenses were approximately
18% higher in constant currency and include an increase of 15% due to the normalization of prior
year COVID-related cost actions.
In the quarter and for the full year, our effective operating tax rate was 14.4% and 13.8%,
respectively. For the full year, our effective tax rate decreased by 100 basis points, due to a
favorable change in our income mix by jurisdiction.Our average share count came in at 61.4 million shares, which is about 1.1 million less than the
fourth quarter of last year.
Our non-GAAP earnings per fully diluted share for the fourth quarter increased 1% to $3.67 in
comparison to $3.65 last year. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange and the normalization of
prior year COVID-related cost actions, non-GAAP EPS increased 8%. On a GAAP basis, our
earnings per fully diluted share increased to $3.52 compared to $3.49 last year.
For the full year, our non-GAAP earnings per fully diluted share was up 24% at $11.20 versus $9.05
in the prior year. On a GAAP basis, full year earnings per share was $11.17 versus $8.36 a year ago.
The increase was driven primarily by sales volume, partially offset by the normalization of our
COVID-related cost action. A reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP earnings is attached to the
press release issued this morning and in the Appendix of this presentation.
Turning to free cash flow, capital deployment on our balance sheet. We define free cash flow as
cash from operations, less capital expenditures and excludes special items. In the fourth quarter
of 2021, free cash flow was $187 million after funding $45 million of capital expenditures. Excluded
from the free cash flow was $9 million related to the investments in our Taunton precision
chemistry operations and $5 million in costs relating to one-time litigation settlement. For the full
year, free cash flow was $675 million with approximately $0.24 of each dollar of sales converted
into free cash flow.
In the fourth quarter, accounts receivable DSOs came in at 66 days, down 4 days compared to
the fourth quarter of last year and down 5 days compared to the last quarter. Inventory DIO
decreased by 9 days compared to the fourth quarter of last year. Given higher sales volumes and
our proactive measures to secure supply, inventory increased by $52 million in comparison to the
prior year.
We maintain a strong balance sheet, access to liquidity and a well structured debt maturity profile.
In terms of returning capital to shareholders, we repurchased approximately 448,000 shares of
our common stock for $156 million in Q4. At the end of the quarter, our net debt position was
$945 million with a net debt-to-EBITDA ratio of about 1.
Our capital deployment priorities are investing for growth, maintaining balance sheet strength
and flexibility, and returning capital to shareholders, along with focus on deploying capital to well
thought out attractive and adjacent growth opportunities.
Now, as we look towards the year ahead, I would like to provide you with our thoughts for 2022,
which is on slide 11. In 2021, our momentum has progressively accelerated, driven by robust end
market demand and strong commercial execution across our geographies. As we head into
2022, we expect our momentum to continue and that we will be able to address supply chain
constraints and inflationary pressures and believe that our near-term growth initiatives will
continue to contribute to our performance. These dynamic support full year 2022 guidance of 5%
to 7% constant currency sales growth.
At current rates, a negative currency translation is expected to subtract approximately 1
percentage point, resulting in full year reported sales growth guidance of 4% to 6%.
Gross margin for the full year is expected to be approximately 58% and operating margin is
expected to be approximately 30% to 30.5%. We expect our full year net interest expense to be
approximately $35 million and full-year tax rate to be approximately 15.5%.Average diluted 2022 share count is expected to be approximately 61 million. Our share
repurchase program will continue into 2022 and we'll provide quarterly updates as appropriate.
Rolling all this together, and on a non-GAAP basis, full-year 2022 earnings per fully diluted share
are now projected in the range of $11.75 to $12. This includes a negative currency impact of
approximately 2 percentage points at today's rates.
Looking at the first quarter of 2022, we expect constant currency sales growth to be 6% to 8%. At
today's rates, currency translation is expected to subtract approximately 3 percentage points,
resulting in first quarter reported sales growth guidance of 3% to 5%. First quarter non-GAAP
earnings per fully diluted share are estimated to be in the range of $2.25 to $2.35. This includes a
negative currency impact of approximately 4 percentage points at today's rates.
Now, I would like to turn it back to Udit for some summary comments. Udit?
`Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Amol. In summary, we are pleased with our performance this year. Our core business
has reenergized, our transformation is on track and we dealt really good commercial momentum
going into 2022. We are now laser-focused on our commercial execution and accelerating
innovation through our portfolio, while reaching higher growth close adjacent markets. With the
new leadership team in place and our transformation is well underway, we are also expanding our
focus on environmental, social and governance topics. We've initiated a complete materiality
assessment, which will allow us to look at areas where Waters can contribute and ensuring we do
our part to leave the world better than we found it. I look forward to sharing an update on this
later this year.
With that, we will now begin the Q&A session. Operator?
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you, sir. At this time, we will begin our Q&A session. We do ask that you limit yourself to
one question and one follow-up. Our first question is from `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI with Evercore ISI. Your line
is open.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Hey, guys. Thanks for taking my question. I had one on the Q and one on guidance. And maybe
we'll start with the Q, Udit. If I look at the instrument growth of around 12%, that came in well
above expectations. Was there any year end budget flush or is this the continuation of the
execution momentum we've seen throughout the course of '21? Maybe talk what happened in
Q4? Why instruments came in so strong?
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. So, Vijay, thank you for the question, and good morning. We've seen strong instrument
momentum, instrument growth momentum throughout the year and Q4 is no exception. And this
is largely attributed to our commercial initiatives, especially the replacement initiative, and the
successful launch of new products, especially the Arc HPLC, the ACQUITY Premier and more
recently the high-res mass spec platform.The full year numbers from an instrument perspective are, I would say, even more interesting. I
think, there instruments have really led the growth with mid-20s sort of growth rate with LC
coming around that range, mass spec a little bit slower and TA really endearing in the high-20s in
growth rates. So instruments have really led the charge in terms of our recovery and that bodes,
as you know, very well for the future for our service and recurring businesses. So it's -- to
summarize, really it's commercial momentum, new products that we've seen throughout the year
and nothing sort of dramatic that was taking place at the end of the year that was very different
from what we've seen throughout the year.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
That's helpful, Udit. And maybe one for Amol and the guidance. It looks like Q4 gross margin
came in a little bit light [ph] and I thought I heard you say it was in line with expectations. Is there
anything on the gross margin line for fiscal '22? Because I look at your revenue growth, reported
revenue growth of 4% to 6%, earnings growth of 5% to 7%, you do have some share repurchase
going on, so they're in place, maybe -- perhaps to margins were flat to down. What would cause
margins to be down and you've had a gross margin issue?
A - `Amol Chaubal, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Good morning, Vijay, and thanks for the question. So, look, I mean, the gross margin for Q4 came
in as we had guided. And if you compare it versus prior year, the gross margin is lower, because
of three factors. There is a $0.50 -- 50 basis points headwind from exchange rate, but then there
were also prior year COVID cost actions that normalize this year and then the quarter was heavier
on instruments and instruments have lower margin compared to other elements of our portfolio.
So when you put those three things together, it sort of reconciles with the gross margin last year.
Where we are guiding for '22 at -- approximately 58% is in line with what we did this year. And on
the operating margin side, we are saying about 30% to 30.5%. So it's sort of slightly better than
30.2% at the top end of the range. What is in there is also the tax rate. We are saying tax rate --
we are expecting 15.5%, that's higher than the tax rate we had this year, primarily because the
2017 REGS have a provision in place which requires capitalization of R&D expenses and our ex-US
R&D expenses, when capitalized, will have an impact on the GILTI provisions, so that has added
about a little over a percentage point to the tax rate that's included in our guidance.
Operator
Thank you so much for your question. Our next question is from Dan Brennan with Cowen. Your
line is open.
Q - `Daniel Brennan, Analyst, Cowen and Company `
Great. Thanks for taking, thanks for the questions, guys. Congrats on the quarter. Maybe just to
start off, just on the overall biopharma market. Just could you give us a sense, Udit, in terms of
what the addressable market is growing at today? How -- what are you doing from a share
perspective, particularly across your LC-MS spec portfolios?
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Good morning, Dan. And, look, overall, the best way to look at this is to look at stacked
growth rates, right. If you just look at the stacked growth rates, we finished the year around 7%
overall in the business where pharma came in higher at double digits, right. And what we've seen
on the pharma side is really strong uptake, not just the demand, not just the increasing demandin the market, so it's slightly higher than the historical averages, but also Waters-specific
execution, first, from a commercial perspective across our five commercial initiatives as well as
new product introductions, which has had really good uptake, especially in pharma.
Arc HPLC has done very well, especially in China and then increasing in the US and Europe. The
ACQUITY Premier with the MaxPeak technology has really hit a real sweet spot with novel
modalities, which have higher affinity to metal surfaces. So new products, especially on the
instrument side, and now we have introduced our next generation of informatics platform for
mass spec. We expect new products to continue to do well.
So, to summarize, the pharma end market has been a bit more robust than historical averages,
but in that robust market we have been executing extremely well from a commercial perspective
as well as with new product introductions. So that bodes well for what we think about in the future
for this, our largest end market.
Q - `Daniel Brennan, Analyst, Cowen and Company `
Great. Thank you for out. And then, maybe if I can ask a two-part. Just one on China, obviously, in
the Q4, there was a really nice stack acceleration, you had some color in the prepared remarks,
just wondering what's assumed for 2022 in China? And then, on M&A [ph] basis, is bioproduction,
with the deal today, which is likely a very small tuck-in, you have the Sartorius deal, but how do we
think about it your organic and inorganic investments going forward over the next years in
bioproduction? Thank you.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Dan -- I mean, China -- thanks for the question. Really excited. I mean, it all starts with leadership.
We have a new leader in China, who is really executing what I talked about at a global level from
a commercial perspective. Overall -- I mean, as the overall business grew 16% for the year, China
was in the mid-20s, driven again by very, very strong instrument growth rates, well in excess of
30% growth, where LC is doing very well. From an end market perspective in China, pharma and
our -- especially our focus on CDMOs there has grown the business in excess of 40%. So excited
about what we're seeing in China.
New products are doing extremely well and there is no reason to believe that that should slow
down going into the new year. If anything, we expect newer products to gain even more traction
and there is a lot more to do in China, by the way, increasing penetration across the board.
And then turning to your question on bioproduction, look, in general, the two growth initiatives
that we've highlighted that are focused on biologics and novel modalities are number one on bio-
separations and number two on bioproduction. On bio-separations, we are a world leader in
separating small molecules; and with our chemistry and engineering expertise, we're simply
turning back to larger molecules, like mRNAs, oligonucleotides, proteins.
And then from a bioproduction perspective, we've talked about, first, the collaboration we have
with Sartorius where we first focused on characterizing the process for a high volume application,
call it, flow introduction [ph], where we took the workflow from about six weeks to less than a
week and that has a lot of traction with our customers. We are now adding on other attributes
that we want to measure for the process, creating a seamless software bridge between the
Ambr of Sartorius as well as the BioAccord that we have and then looking at other applications,
be it scale up to larger bioreactors or other modalities like again oligonucleotides and more
complex proteins.So a lot of runway on the bioproduction side and the deal that we announced, a small tuck-in, as
you know, CDMS, thanks for asking about it, it's something that near and dear to my heart and I
must admit I started off as a skeptic when I first heard about the technology, the team sent me
some publications and said, hey, it's a technology and I thought it's another hobby, but it's a really
good fit, right. So basically the CDMS technology takes mass spec to larger molecules where we
can now separate mRNA as well as viral vectors, which are larger proteins, intact proteins where
mass specs reaches its limits.
And what excited us the most is a demonstration we did with our customers several months ago
where we expected roughly 20 customers to come in, Kendall Square, where we have our MS
lab, roughly 40 showed up. I was so excited, I even asked Amol and our Head of Strategy, Dan
Rush, to join me to listen to the customers and that's in the deal, right. So we basically said, look,
this is a technology that our customers really, really want. It's going to allow them to analyze more
complex molecule much more carefully and now we have the development, commercialization,
manufacturing rights for the technology, so super excited about what we are seeing in the
bioproduction, bio-separations area.
Operator
Thank you for your question. Our next question is from `Puneet Souda, Analyst, SVB Leerink with SVB Leerink. Your line is
open.
Q - `Puneet Souda, Analyst, SVB Leerink `
(Technical Difficulty) question. So, first of all, congrats on the strong quarter here, really strong in
instrumentation growth. So I have a bit of a question on the guide first. 5% to 7% full year
guidance, how much are you expecting in terms of contribution from the replacement initiative
here? I mean, is this still a $40 million or so replacement initiative for 2022 as you were expecting
before, is it more now? And how much contribution in the full year guide from maybe new growth
initiatives of the separation of the bioprocessing, including selecting the diagnostics? (Technical
Difficulty) I'm sorry, that's a two different background noise.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Q - `Puneet Souda, Analyst, SVB Leerink `
No worries. Yeah, please. Yeah. Contribution overall from the -- in the guide from the
replacement initiatives and these new initiatives that you have in place now, because I mean, Udit,
you joined in 2020, it's been one full year of lift that we're seeing in the replacement cycle and
just wanting to get as to sort of how should we think about this year and maybe even into next
year for the replacement initiatives in these new efforts that you have underway?
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Puneet, the way I would think about the contribution across the five initiatives; instrument
replacement, service attach, e-commerce, CDMO is about 100 basis points of acceleration,
beyond what we see in the market, right. So that's how I would look at these. Sort of lump it
altogether and it's about 100 basis points, give or take.
Second, on the new growth initiatives, as I commented in the previous quarter as well as at a
recent conference, this is something that we expect to meaningfully contribute in the mid to long-collaboration with Sartorius. We're doing very well on the early stages of adopting LC-MS for
specialty applications in diagnostics and we have a very good start on bio-separations as well as
some other initiatives. So -- but you should expect that to contribute in the mid term. So in the
short term, about 100 basis points from our initiatives that are already ongoing and in the mid
term these other initiatives are starting to contribute meaningfully. So, great start, but I would say
midterm starting 2023, 2024 is when you should start seeing some impact of these initiatives.
Q - `Puneet Souda, Analyst, SVB Leerink `
Got it. And then on the order book and overall demand, just maybe could you update us of
where the backlog stands? I think it was fairly strong in the fourth quarter, even in third quarter, so
just -- maybe just give us how do you see that conversion in the first quarter and through the
year, and just update us, if you could, on the supply chain? Obviously, that's impacting number of
companies, but how do you -- how should we bounce that order conversion versus the supply
chain and any other inflation in terms of what you're seeing in the market? Thank you.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So, Puneet, you asked two, maybe three questions in one. I'll try to take them each in turn. First, in
terms of the order book, it's extremely strong. We don't give specific numbers on the backlog,
but it's higher than it's been in the past. You can safely assume that. Orders are growing faster
than sales.
Now in terms of challenges that we're facing on supply chain, on pricing, let's take a step back,
we're not immune to those challenges, like anybody else, especially on the material side, where
there are material constraints. What I would say on that front, having now extreme transparency
into the primary, secondary, tertiary suppliers, deep sort of discussions with those colleagues in
different companies and the fact that we have a nimble organization and here our size and our
simple portfolio is a huge advantage. We're able to communicate any sort of changes rapidly
through the organization through supply chain into commercial and be able to deal with it and
we've done successfully with any sort of disruption in Q3 and Q4. I'm not saying it was easy, but
we've dealt with it given our -- given the transparency and given the communication we have
internally and externally with stakeholders. And, by contrast, I think Q1 is like summer vacation
versus Q4. So I'm not diminishing the topic. It's still with us, but we have developed that muscle.
And in terms of pricing and freight, look, we've had about 100 basis points or so of pricing in
2021, you should expect, say, 150 basis points give or take. But what I would like to emphasize
here is, this is not really nearly transfer of pricing to our customers. We have, as I said many times,
very, very strong relationships with our customers. We have open discussions and whenever we
see challenges, we discuss with them and there is a lot of understanding as we pass on some of
the increases in pricing that we see. So, I think, I've addressed several of your questions. Then,
Amol, do you want to (Multiple Speakers)
A - `Amol Chaubal, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I mean, just to build on it, Puneet, you know, right, I mean, our products are differentiated
and that's not just instruments. I mean, we have very innovative chemistry portfolio that the
customers like, we have a great track record on a seamless service and we have an informatics
platform that's really valued by our customers. So that puts us in a great spot to have these
discussions to -- with our customers, walk them through what's happening in the market. And
then, internally, what we've done is, we are keeping a close eye on how prices are moving in the
market, especially labor, freight and electronic components. We are constantly training andso that they can have productive dialogues with our customers. And through Q4, we've navigated
that well and that gives us a lot of confidence going into 2022.
Operator
Thank you for your question. Our next question is from `Jack Meehan, Analyst, Nephron Research with Nephron Research. Your
line is open, sir.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Analyst, Nephron Research `
Thank you. Good morning. So, strong end to the year on the chemistry front. I was hoping if you
could comment more on customer ordering trends? Do you think there was any stocking benefit
in the quarter or any quantifiable budget flush across the portfolio?
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Jack, good morning. Look, not really. Didn't see, I would say, what we saw -- of course, there is
always a run-up at the end of the year in this business. But I would say it's nothing unusual. And
the way -- the reason I say that is, we are seeing similar trends persist into the year as well, right.
So we're seeing really continuation of what we saw towards the year-end and the orders, as we
commented earlier, orders are outpacing the sales, so that gives us confidence that this is not
sort of a big pull forward of any, sort of, products.
And when you look at Waters-specific reasons, right, so we can -- and, again, I'll draw your
attention to the overall stack growth numbers, we've basically ended the year with the second
half being stronger than the first half of the year. Overall, for the year, it's roughly 7% stacked
growth, whereas where instruments are roughly 6% growth, which is well above our historical
averages and again the same thing for consumables, which are close to double-digit growth. This
is again above historical averages. But there are Waters-specific reasons driving both of those,
right. So in both cases we have commercial initiatives that have driven that and new products that
have contributed. So nothing really that one should look at as a blip. I mean, this is something that
we expect to continue, both the commercial as well as the new product we will make.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Analyst, Nephron Research `
Great. And then just was hoping either you or Amol to comment on expectations for operating
expenses in 2022. So gross margins of 58% would be down something like 50 bps year-over-
year, the op margin was more like flat. So just talk about the investments in R&D and sales and
marketing for '22? What's the plan there?
A - `Amol Chaubal, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Jack. That's a great question, right. So as we get into 2022, our focus is to drive
productivity gains through various different initiatives that are in place across service productivity,
operational excellence in manufacturing, both direct and indirect procurement programs, as well
as things like digitization and building capability center in India. And those will provide a great
amount of space for us to fund the high-growth adjacencies that we've talked about, right. And
so, net of that, we think, as we've said at JPMorgan Conference, allows us to deliver 20 to 30
basis points of the year-over-year margin expansion and that's what is embedded in our guide.
So we've guided a 30% to 30.5% versus the 30.2% for 2021. So at the higher end of the guide,
you do get the 20 to 30 basis points that we had.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `Yeah. I mean, I think, just to sort of conclude the formula is very simple. I mean, we drive the
topline with our initiatives as a lot of leverage in the P&L and with the productivity initiatives we
make a bit more room. We're not skimping on the investments, we believe that these are really
necessary and helpful for us to set up the future and hence we deliver a 20 to 30 basis points
increase in margin, right. So the idea is very simple.
Operator
Thank you for your question. Our next question is from Josh Waldman with Cleveland Research.
Your line is open, sir.
Q - `Joshua Waldman, Analyst, Cleveland Research Company
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. First, Amol, wondering if you could comment on how
you're thinking about growth across instruments, consumables and service for 2022 or within your
2022 guide?
A - `Amol Chaubal, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So, look, I mean, as we've traditionally seen you would see service growth at the midpoint
of the guide, instrument growth is slightly lower than that and chemistry growth is slightly above
that, about 2 percentage point spread plus or minus.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And then -- and, Josh, not much different than what you would have seen in and how we exited
2021, right. So 7% stacked growth with consumables being closer to double-digit, instrument
being slightly lower at 6%, but well above historical averages.
Operator
Thank you for your question. Our next question is from Derik De Bruin with Bank of America. Your
line is open.
Q - `Michael Christian, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thanks. Thanks for taking the question. This is Mike Christian on for Derik. I'm going to ask two
quick ones. First, on the academic and government markets, didn't really touched in our -- the
prepared remarks, you guys had a little bit of a bounce back to end the year, but I know that can
be super volatile and 2020 was an easy comp. So could you give us an update on what you're
seeing in that, probably more in the mass spec portfolio? But still is that end market across the
geographies starting to come back to normal or is there still some choppiness there?
And then a quick follow on is on M&A. The Megadalton deal, most technology tuck-in, is that
something like that technology or an underlying platform deals something we should expect
going forward? Just given your leverage in the balance sheet, are you willing to look at bigger
assets? Thanks.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Mike. On academic and government, look, we're pleased with how we ended the year
with a 5% growth, but it's still very choppy across the geographies and across the portfolio. We
saw a nice recovery in Europe, very much driven by our mass spec portfolio, right, so -- and therethe business is rather lumpy. So, that said, what I'd rather focus on in that end market is what
we're trying to do to establish a base. This is reviving our KOL relationships.
And recently I was with a KOL who has been with Waters for a very long time, head of proteomics
institute at one of the top medical schools in the US. And his -- he basically said in no uncertain
terms, that his career has been sort of build together with Waters, especially on the mass spec
side. So we are very optimistic on what we will be able to do in that market, but it's early days,
right, on the academic and government market.
And then on M&A, on the Megadalton deal, this is a very good fit, right, so for large novel
modalities to characterize and better with mass spec and we know mass spec really, really well.
You should expect us to continue to look for such technology accelerators, but also we're open
to building our portfolio as I mentioned earlier, both in the core as well as the faster growth
adjacencies where we find something relevant.
But I will remind you that, look, our core business is performing extremely well and that is the
number one focus: to continue the commercial momentum; to continue delivering new products
across our base portfolio; and, as you noticed, across the LC portfolio; across the mass spec
portfolio; now informatics, we're seeing a drumbeat of new products that are adding on to the
flow. So the focus is on the core and we are very open to looking at M&A that accelerates our --
and strengthens our position. Amol?
A - `Amol Chaubal, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. No, I just wanted to add on the previous question, right. So on the academics and
government, China is one area of focus for us. Because if you look at China, we grew on a
stacked basis in pharma 13% constant currency, industrial stacked 16%, but what brought it down
was academics and government and we are laser-focused on revitalizing growth in that business.
There are two parts to the problem. Part of it is our own commercial execution, which we are
focused on, but there is also drag from the VAT reimbursement issue, which we think will
progressive, it is all over the course of 2022.
Operator
Thank you for your question. Our next question is from `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Citigroup, Inc. with Citi. Your line is open,
sir.
Q - `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Citigroup, Inc. `
Great. Thanks for taking the questions. Maybe just a follow up on Mike's question there in terms
of M&A. You've mentioned the large mol (sic - molecule) strategy a few times, obviously one you
seem to have some enthusiasm about. How do you think about balancing organic versus
inorganic investments in that segment? I mean, is the base business do you feel like the
technology is in a good enough place to kind of go after some of those high growth areas, or do
you feel like it really needs to be supplemented inorganically with some deals? Just curious on
the strategy on that front.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Patrick, I mean, look, it's a great question. I mean, we don't have a dogma there, right, but it
always starts with what we know how to do it, right. So we know how to do analytical
measurements and we've turned that focus towards larger molecules and more complex
molecules, both in the bio-separations arena, where there are significant challenges even if youtake mRNA as an example in aggregation and separation of these molecules, the per
nanoparticles or plasmids. And there we are perfectly capable of making a difference with our
internal focus and collaborations with reagents' companies and people who know how to do
sample prep for biologics, right. So, I think, that for me is the -- is a perfect combination.
And on the bioprocessing side, we started with the partnership where we wanted our
organization to learn the whole bioprocessing domain and now we -- as we get a better
understanding, we will surely be looking at augmenting our capabilities in the -- on the analytical
front. So you will not see us going and buying a bioreactor or a filtration company, but you will see
us looking at better analytical techniques to elucidate the structure and properties of these
complex molecules. So -- but, it's a mix, right. So it's a heavy focus on organic investments, where
relevant partnerships and where we see opportunities that speed up the separations of these
molecules or help us characterize bioprocessing better, we will be active in the M&A space.
Operator
Thank you for your question. That does conclude our Q&A portion of today's conference. I will
now turn our call back over to Mr. `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Thank you all for your participation and your questions. And on behalf of our entire
management team, I'd like to thank you for your continued support and interest in Waters. We
look forward to updating you on our progress during our first quarter 2022 call, which is currently
anticipated on May 3, 2022. Thank you, and have a wonderful day.
Operator
This does conclude today's conference call. We thank you all for participating. You may now
disconnect, and have a great rest of your day.