Q4 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning and welcome to the Waters Corporation Fourth Quarter 2022 Financial Results
Conference Call. All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer
session of today's call. This conference is being recorded. If anyone has any objections, please
disconnect it this time.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr.`Caspar Tudor, Head, Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations. Please
go ahead, sir.
`Caspar Tudor, Head, Investor Relations
Thank you, Catherine. Good morning, everyone and welcome to the Waters Corporation Fourth
Quarter Earnings Call. We're very pleased to be speaking to you from Santa Barbara this morning,
where Wyatt Technology is located. We've a lot to cover today, given our exciting -- given our
earnings results and our exciting announcement.
Today, I am joined by Dr.`Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer, Waters' President and Chief Executive Officer; and Amol
Chaubal, Waters' Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. We're also glad to be joined
by Wyatt Technologies' Chief Executive Officer, Geof Wyatt as well as its President, Cliff Wyatt.
Now, before we begin, I will cover the cautionary language. In this conference call, we will make
various forward-looking statements regarding future events or future financial performance of
the company. In particular, we will provide guidance regarding future possible results and
commentary on potential market and business conditions, including with respect to the
announced transaction with Wyatt that may impact Waters Corporation over the first quarter of
2023, full year 2023, and 2024.These statements are only our present expectations and actual events or results may differ
materially. For more details, please see the risk factors included in our most recent annual report
on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q's, and the cautionary language included in this morning's earnings
release.
During today's call, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures, including in our
discussions of the results of operations. Reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to
the most directly comparable GAAP measures are attached to our earnings release issued this
morning and in the appendix of our presentation, which are available on the company's website.
Unless stated otherwise, references to quarterly results increasing or decreasing are in
comparison to the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2021. In addition, unless stated otherwise, all year-
over-year revenue growth rates and ranges given on today's call are given on a comparable
constant currency basis. Finally, we do not intend to update our predictions or projections, except
as part of a regularly scheduled quarterly earnings release or as otherwise required by law.
Now, I'd like to turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer, Dr.`Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer. Udit?
`Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Caspar and good morning, everyone. Before diving in, I would like to extend our
thoughts and our prayers to the thousands of those who are affected in turkey and Syria by the
earthquakes.
Today, marks a major milestone in accelerating value creation for our customers and
shareholders, as we progress to the next step in the execution of our strategy. This morning, we
made the exciting announcement that Wyatt Technology, the recognized leader in light scattering
will be joining forces with Waters. Bringing with it, a fast-growing, attractive business with key
capabilities to accelerate our $1.8 billion double-digit growth opportunity in bioprocess
characterization.
More than 40 years ago, Wyatt was the first commercialized light scattering instruments,
incorporating lasers as their light source. Ever since, they've defined and redefined state-of-the-
art light scattering instrumentation, software, and services. Along the way, they've also added
several related technologies, including dynamic light scattering, viscometry, refractometry, and
field-flow fractionation.
Together, their innovative products are used to determine the properties of novel therapeutics
such as, TALEN gene therapy, vaccines, and proteins as well as synthetic polymers and nano
particles. Wyatt was the top asset and priority we identified for bioanalytical characterization,
making the acquisition a significant step forward in this high growth adjacency.
I would like to take this opportunity to invite, Geof, and, Cliff, to say a few words about this
exciting combination. Geof?
`Geofrey Wyatt, Chief Executive Officer, Wyatt Technology
Thank you, Udit. We're thrilled to be with you here today at this incredible moment for our
company. For over four decades, Wyatt Technology has delighted customers with industry
leading innovation in light scattering, characterizing, life-enhancing large molecule therapeutics.
Our common scientific heritage, deep mutual respect for science-based innovation, and a
passion for customer success makes Waters, the ideal steward to propel our family legacy into itsNow, Cliff, would you like to add anything?
`Clifford Wyatt, President, Wyatt Technology
Sure. Thank you, Geof. I would like to echo your comment and also my father's Dr.Wyatt's
sentiments that we could not have been more excited or could not be more excited about this
combination. Waters will broaden Wyatt's global reach, scale and would accelerate deployment
of light scattering technologies in downstream and QA/QC spaces, integrating this technology
onto Waters' well-established Empower platform. Waters is such a natural and logical fit for us in
this next exciting chapter of Wyatt's history.
`Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Geof, and thank you, Cliff. We're honored to get this unique opportunity to carry
Wyatt forward into the future. This combination is a fantastic opportunity to integrate our
powerful analytical technologies, which are highly complementary to each other.
And as you highlight a chess our shared, deep scientific culture and common passion for
customer success will accelerate integration and drive value creation for our customers and
shareholders in the years to come.
Today what else has a strong and growing portfolio serving large molecules separation and
characterization, which are approximately 30% of our pharmaceutical revenues. These
applications serve high-volume, downstream workflows in biologic development and QA/QC
central labs, using LC-UV and LC MassSpec. Wyatt's significant exposure to the very fast-growing
biologic applications will build on this presence and give -- and we'll give our customers an
unmatched set of analytical solutions across large molecules, including gene therapy and viral
vectors.
For Wyatt, as Cliff mentioned, this combination will provide expanded geographic reach and will
accelerate the adoption of light scattering in downstream applications through our established
presence and Empower informatics platform. As you can tell, we're excited to share more details
about the strategic benefits of this combination. However, this is our fourth quarter and a full
year's earnings call and we've some excellent results to share with you first.
So now, I will cover our key messages and financial results for the core business. Then we will
continue outlining the value of this combination as we take this next step in the evolution of our
strategy.
Looking at our financial results, we ended another very successful year delivering strong results in
the fourth quarter with growth across our end-markets. This was led by yet another outstanding
double-digit instrument growth quarter. Our incredible performance this year would not have
been possible without our dedicated and talented colleagues. We overcame numerous
macroeconomic and pandemic related challenges throughout 2022, including global supply chain
challenges, COVID lockdowns, inflationary pressures, and currency headwinds, all while
responding to high customer demands for our products.
Today, we've three key messages, which reflect the strength in our core business and the
exciting future that lies ahead. First, we continue to deliver consistently strong execution. You can
see this in our 2022 performance, where we sustain strong growth after a stellar year in 2021. You
can also see this in three-year CAGR of approximately 9% in constant currency, where our results
have placed us among the top players in the industry since the beginning of our transformation.Second, our revitalized portfolio has contributed to our growth and we expect this to continue.
New products have resulted in growth opportunities in large molecule, applications, p-fats and
battery testing, while supporting strong core instrument replacement. Third, while they have
accomplished a lot in the past 2.5 years, we're now augmenting our organic efforts with M&A to
accelerate our journey into high-growth adjacencies.
Turning now to our fourth quarter results. Our revenue growth 3% as reported and 9% on a
constant currency basis. We saw broad spent across our end markets and regions with robust
customer demand.
Industrial was again our fastest growing end market up 14%, led by environmental testing which
grew over 20% and TA, which grew mid-teens. Pharma saw continued robust growth up 6% with
strength in both small and large molecule applications. Strength was led by Europe, which grew
low double-digits offset by headwinds in China.
Academic and government grew 8% as increased activity and funded -- funding resulted in strong
year-end spending in several of our geographies. Instruments grew double digits that by
MassSpec, new products contributed across our portfolio with Arc HPLC, ACQUITY Premier, and
cyclic unit sales growing over 40%.
Meanwhile, our newest instrument launches Xevo TQ Absolute and Xevo G3 saw excellent
continued tractions with very strong demand. Recurring revenues grew high single digits
supported by our e-commerce and service attachment growth initiatives. Our Q4 non-GAAP
adjusted earnings per share was $3.84. This is up 5% year-over-year despite FX headwinds of
8%.
For the full year, revenue grew 7% as reported and 12% in constant currency. 2022 was a very
strong year for Waters, where be executed well throughout the organization against a
challenging macroeconomic environment.
Our growth was broad-based across geographies and end-markets, each of which grew low
double-digits or above. This strength was led by instrument sales, which grew 16% for the year
with LC, MassSpec, and TA systems all going double-digits. For the full year, non-GAAP adjusted
earnings per share was $12.02, up 7% year-over-year, despite FX headwinds of 9%.
Now, as we enter 2023, our end-markets remain robust and healthy, with strong customer
demand for products. These attractive end-markets are durable growth drivers and are well
funded. We saw solid auto growth in the fourth quarter and our backlog remains at elevated
levels. We expect the strong instrument sales we saw in 2022 to drive future growth in our
recurring revenues.
So, our end markets are healthy, we've regained our commercial momentum, innovation has
been revitalized and we've strengthened our organization with new leadership capabilities,
bringing a proven track record in transformation.
Now, we're entering the next phase of our execution strategy as we accelerate our path toward
faster growth. This brings us now to the chart on the next slide. As you can see, biologics
manufacturing is a complex process and we've shared an example which shows how large-scale
monoclonal antibodies are produced. It starts with the upstream production of the drug
substance, where the raw materials components are fingerprinted and monitored during initial
cell culture creation before the protein or antibody of choice is produced.Then in downstream manufacturing cells and debris are separated from the map in a series of
filtration and separation steps. Each step involves numerous stages of testing to ensure that the
product is stable and effective. Then as a last step in QA/QC, the final purified drug product is
formulated and filled in vials or prefilled syringes. Throughout the process, different tools and
technologies are required for characterization, depending upon what you need to analyze.
Liquid chromatography with ultraviolet detection or LC-UV is used extensively across all four
states -- all four stages. At the same time, MassSpec is increasingly being used with BioAccord
seeing a lot of traction in cell culture media characterization, clonal selection and process
optimization in both upstream and downstream manufacturing. It is also seeing adoption in
QA/QC applications. We shared details on this at the beginning of the year and have included a
slide in the appendix.
In addition to LC-UV and LC-MS, powerful techniques such as dynamic light scattering, and multi-
angle light scattering are also used to give relevant information about the size or the molecular
weight and aggregation of biologics. By combining the data of each -- from each of these
detectors, our customers can develop a more comprehensive profile of their biologics. This is
essential to speeding up the manufacturing products process and reducing the cost of complex
biologics such as cell and gene therapies.
The bioanalytical characterization market is around $1.8 billion, growing around 10% to 12%. Waters
already has a strong, established position in LC-UV and LC MassSpec, whereas Wyatt Technology
biotechnology is a pioneer in light scattering. Hence, this combination is a fantastic opportunity to
integrate our powerful analytical technologies, which are highly complementary to each other and
will accelerate our journey in this opportunity.
Let me now ask, Geof, to describe the company and its highly innovative portfolio. Geof?
`Geofrey Wyatt, Chief Executive Officer, Wyatt Technology
Thanks again, Udit. Well, Wyatt is a remarkable company and we owe much of its success in high-
growth applications to our amazing team. Our flagship technology is multi angle light scattering
mold, which is used by leading biopharma, biotech, and academic institutions to measure
fundamental properties of complex biologics, including cell and gene therapies, mRNA vaccines,
biopolymers, biosimilars, and therapeutic proteins.
We're based here in Santa Barbara, California. And have 225 outstanding employees of whom
roughly 25% have PhDs. Over the past 40 years, we've built Wyatt into the recognized leader in
light scattering detection, defining the segment, very much like Waters did for liquid
chromatography and mass spectrometry.
Our sales have grown around 20% on the three-year CAGR to approximately $110 million in 2022.
We're also a highly profitable business with an adjusted operating margin approximately of 40%.
More than 80% of our revenues are in large molecule applications.
Our biopharma customers are eager to use light scattering for QA/QC applications and have
been keen for us to combine our software with Empower. So, you can you can only imagine how
excited we're with this combination, which will add additional choices and capabilities for our
existing customers and let us delight even more.
Now, back to you Udit.
`Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `Thank you, Geof. I look forward to welcoming our new colleagues to the Waters. Let's now talk
about some of the benefits that integrating Wyatt and Waters capabilities that provide for our
customers.
In our existing Waters' portfolio, our LC system separate complex mixtures into individual
constituents or bulk property analysis by UV and detailed characterization by MassSpec. These
are properties such as tighter, aggregation and protein sequence. The missing piece has been
additional critical information about the INTACT molecule like the empty full captured ratio of
adeno-associated viruses or the size of lipid nanoparticles or mRNA therapies.
These will be augmented by Wyatt's MALS detectors, which will allow our customers to develop a
more comprehensive, critical quality attribute profile for their biologics. This is essential to fully
characterizing their manufacturing process. In each case for these tools to gain successful
adoption in point of view settings, they must be number one, sophisticated, but simple for use in
high volume applications, such as what we've already demonstrated with BioAccord.
Number two, supported by leading service like Waters already has to help run workflows and
respond to evolving needs. And number three, and most importantly, they need to be connected
to a common informatics platform, so that all the data comes together in one place.
Our ambition is to create an ecosystem of sophisticated, yet simple instruments that can all use
Empower to collect data and submit to regulators. No differently than what Waters established
for small molecules years ago. This transaction will create a number of compelling revenue
synergies and results in an attractive set of pro forma financials.
First from a geographic footprint, Waters' revenues are highly diversified, whereas Wyatt's
presence is concentrated in the United States. This provides us an opportunity to expand Wyatt's
geographic footprint in Europe and Asia, particularly in China.
Second, HPLC instruments and size exclusion, chemistry columns are sold together with light
scattering instruments. We expect to see cross-selling synergies with our liquid chromatography
instruments and chemistry.
Third, bias instruments and expertise will enable Waters to meaningfully accelerate the high-
growth adjacency opportunity in bioanalytical characterization. This will give our customers an
unmatched set of analytical solutions across large molecule applications and will augment our
ability to create a comprehensive bio-analytical platform.
And fourth, Waters' -- fourth, Wyatt's portfolio is well established in upstream development
setting -- settings for large molecule applications today. Waters Empower platform as well as
presence -- as well as our presence and expertise in high-volume downstream recurring
applications will accelerate the use of light scattering in biologics manufacturing and in QA/QC.
Now, to the pro forma. The combination will increase our large molecule footprint to around 35%
of our pharmaceutical revenues. Our increased exposure to these faster growing markets will
raise the combined growth profile of the markets we serve by at least 50 basis points.
We expect the transaction to contribute more than 60 basis points to our annualized constant
currency growth over the next five years. We also expected to add more than 50 basis points to
our industry-leading adjusted operating margin. Net, we expect to realize a high single-digit plus
return on invested capital by year five. Although, we expect the Wyatt business to grow low
double-digits in the near to mid-term. In addition, we expect this combination to create more
than $70 million in annualized revenue synergies by year five.Now, I would like to pass the call to, Amol, to walk us through further details on the financing. He
will then continue covering our fourth quarter financial performance and provide our guidance for
2023. Amol?
`Amol Chaubal, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Udit and good morning, everyone. It's been great to work with Geof, Cliff, and the
entire team at Wyatt Technology. Like, Udit, I'm very thankful to the Wyatt family for considering
us as the rightful stewards of their mission and legacy and for providing us this opportunity to
create value for our customers and for our shareholders.
Now, to the transaction highlights, this $1.36 billion investment will result in immediate accretion of
our revenue growth and our adjusted operating margin percentage. The synergies that, Udit, just
described, along with Wyatt's highly attractive financials are expected to result in accretive non-
GAAP EPS impact as early as first quarter of 2024.
Altogether, as Udit mentioned, this combination is expected to deliver a high single-digit plus
return on invested capital by year five. We will fund this investment through cash in our balance
sheet and existing debt capacity that is available on our revolver.
On day one, our net debt-to-EBITDA ratio will be around 2.3. We will temporarily suspend our
share buyback program for the remainder of 2023 and will utilize our free cash flow to pay down
the debt through the rest of the year. We expect our net debt-to-EBITDA ratio to land at around
1.7, by year-end 2023. The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of this year,
subject to regulatory approval and customary closing conditions.
Now, to our fourth quarter financial results. We delivered an excellent close to a very strong year
for Waters with constant currency growth of 9%. Waters' division group 8% and TA grew 15%. By
end-market for pharma grew 6%, industrial grew 14% and academic and government group 8%,
which, Udit, already covered.
By geography sales in Asia grew 7%, America's grew 8% and Europe grew 11%. In Asia, growth in
the region overall was strong. Japan grew 25% and India grew 15%. China has declined low
single-digits for the quarter as a sharp increase in COVID infections at year end resulted in
delayed spending due to customer site closures.
We expect these headwinds from the post zero-COVID reopening to continue into the first
quarter of 2023 before catching up throughout the remainder of the year. In other regions, the
U.S. grew 8% and Europe grew 11% with broad sense across end-markers. By products and
services instruments grew 10% led by MassSpec, which grew over 30%. Recurring revenues grew
7%, with chemistry up 8% and service up 7%.
Finally, TA grew 15% with double-digit growth across our major geographies. Growth was led by
sales in electronics and battery applications as well as strong growth in advanced materials and
chemical testing.
Looking now at our full-year results by end-market. Pharma grew 10%, industrial grew 15%, and
academics and government grew 13%. In Pharma, growth was led by large molecule applications,
which grew mid-teens, while small molecule grew high single-digits.
By geography, sales in Asia grew 12%, Americas grew 14% and Europe grew 10%. Wyatt products
and services, instruments grew 16% for the full-year with Liquid Chromatography, MassSpec, and
TA system sales all up double-digits.In our recurring revenues, chemistry grew 9% supported by our strong launch of MaxPeak Premier
columns in large molecule applications and further expansion in digital commerce adoption.
Service grew 8% with continued expansion in attachment weights, which increased 150 basis
points in 2022 and have increased 350 basis points since 2019.
Now, I would like to comment on our fourth quarter and full year non-GAAP financial performance
versus the prior-year. Gross margin for the quarter was 59.4% up 140 basis points versus prior
year, driven by sales volume and pricing, partially offset by inflationary costs.
For the full year, gross margin came in as expected at 58%. Operating margin for the quarter was
33.7% growth of 110 basis points versus prior year, driven by gross margin dynamics. For the full
year, operating margin was approximately 30.2%, which was flat with last year.
On an underlying basis, we expanded our operating margins by approximately 100 basis points
versus our guide of 20 basis points to 30 basis points at the beginning of the year. This is narrow
for investments in our growth adjacencies and despite higher instrument mix in our revenue. On
an as reported basis, our expansion was offset by 80 basis points of FX headwinds and 20 basis
points of additional compensation to help our colleagues with the temporary impacts of inflation.
In the quarter, our effective operating tax rate was 17.6% and for the full year, it was 15.6%. For the
full year as anticipated, our effective tax rate increased by 180 basis points, primarily due to
change regarding the capitalization of R&D costs. Average share count came in at 59.6 million
shares, which is about 1.8 million less than the fourth quarter of last year.
Our non-GAAP earnings per fully diluted share for the fourth quarter increased 5% to $3.84
compared to $3.67 last year. Foreign exchange headwinds lowered our non-GAAP EPS growth by
8%. On a GAAP basis, our earnings per fully diluted share was $3.81.
For the full year, our non-GAAP earnings per fully diluted share increased 7% to $12.02 versus
$11.20 in the prior year. The foreign exchange had been lowered our non-GAAP EPS growth by
9%. On a GAAP basis, fully earnings per share was $11.73.
Turning to free cash flow, capital deployment, and our balance sheet. We define free cash flow as
cash from operations, less capital expenditures, and excludes special items. In the fourth quarter
of 2022, free cash flow was $145 million after funding $62 million of capital expenditures,
excluded from this free cash flow was $8 million related to the investment in our Taunton
precision chemistry operations. In the quarter, we continued to build inventory to secure supply
and build safety stock, given strong instrument demand.
For the full year, free cash flow was $506 million, after funding $176 million of capital expenditures
and includes approximately $100 million of additional inventory versus the prior year-end.
Excluding -- excluded from the free cash flow was $32 million related to the investment in our
Taunton precision chemistry operations and a $38 million tax reform payment.
We maintained a strong balance sheet access to liquidity and a well-structured that maturity
profile. This strength allows us the ability to prioritize investing in growth including M&A, which will
meaningfully accelerate value creation in well-thought out attractive adjacent markets.
In Q4, we repurchased approximately 475,000 shares of our common stock for $149 million. At
the end of the quarter, our net debt position was approximately $1.1 billion with a net debt-to-
EBITDA ratio of about 1.1.Now, as we look towards the year ahead, I would like to provide you with our thoughts for 2023.
We've seen strong performance throughout 2022, driven by robust end market demand,
excellent commercial execution across our geographies and new production introductions driving
growth. As we enter 2023, we expect our sales momentum to remain solid in our durable end-
markets and there are refreshed portfolio and growth initiatives will continue to enhance our
performance.
This dynamic support a full year 2023 guidance of organic constant currency sales growth of 5%
to 6.5%, excluding Wyatt. At current rates, negative currency translation is expected to subtract
approximately 1 percentage point, resulting in full year reported organic sales growth guidance of
4% to 5.5%.
We expect the Wyatt transaction to close in the second quarter of 2023 and depending on the
timing, we expect it to add approximately 2% to 3% to our full-year 2023 revenue probes.
Therefore, our total reported sales growth guidance is 6% to 8.5% versus 2022, including Wyatt.
For the full year 2023, organic gross margin is expected to be approximately 58% and organic
operating margin is expected to be approximately 30%. Before FX, this includes 20 basis points
to 30 basis points of net margin expansion after 70 basis points to 80 basis points of investment
in high-growth adjacencies. FX is expected to be a headwind of 50 basis points, particularly in the
first half of the year.
The addition of Wyatt in Q2 is expected to be accretive to our full year 2023 adjusted operating
margin by 20 basis points to 30 basis points. Excluding the transaction, we expect our full year
net interest expense to be approximately $42 million. The transaction is expected to add $27
million to $43 million of additional interest expense, depending on the timing of the close.
The full year tax rate is expected to remain at approximately 15.5%. Since we will be temporarily
suspending our share repurchase program for the remainder of the year and using free cash flow
to pay down debt, our average diluted 2023 share count is expected to be approximately 59.5
million.
Rolling all this together on a non-GAAP basis, our full year 2023 earnings per fully diluted share
guidance, excluding the transaction is projected in the range of $12.70 to $12.90. This represents
6% to 7% growth versus last year and includes a negative currency impact of approximately 3
percentage points at current FX rates. Though, Wyatt transaction is expected to be accretive to
EPS as early as in the first quarter of 2024. And this is even net of our share buyback suspension
for the remainder of 2023.
Overall, we expect to deliver a high single-digit plus adjusted return on invested capital name of
tax by your five. Due to interest expense incurred on higher debt balance and the suspension of
share repurchase program this year, the transaction is expected to result in
a 2023 EPS headwind of approximately $0.15. Hence, including Wyatt, non-GAAP full year 2023
earnings per fully diluted share is projected in the range $12.55 to $12.75.
Looking to the first quarter of 2023, we expect constant currency sales growth to be 4% to 6%,
which is 10% to 11% on a two-year stacked growth. At today's rates, currency translation is
expected to subtract approximately 4 percentage points, resulting in first quarter reported sales
growth guidance of flat to 2%. First quarter non-GAAP earnings per fully diluted share are
estimated to be in the range $2.55 to $2.65 with the negative currency impact of approximately 6
percentage points.Now, I would like to turn it back to this for some summary comments. Udit?
`Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Amol. As I outlined at the beginning of our transformation journey and later at our
Investor Day last year. Our first focus was to regain our commercial momentum and strengthen
our organization with new leadership capabilities.
As you have observed, over the last 2.5 years, we've delivered incredible results with consistently
strong execution. And we've assembled an amazing leadership team that brings with it a proven
track record in transformation, which is pivotal to driving seamless integration.
Our second focus was to revitalize our portfolio. The success of our new product launches, the
increased vitality index of our portfolio, and the rich pipeline ahead of us underscores our
accomplishments this year. Today, we're entering our next phase, which is to accelerate value
creation for our customers and shareholders by adding a fantastic fast-growing technology
platform and increasing our capabilities to address high-growth adjacent markets.
So, with that I'll turn the call back over to Caspar.
`Caspar Tudor, Head, Investor Relations
Thank you, Udit. That concludes our formal comments and we're now ready to open the phone
lines for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
We'll now begin our formal question-and-answer session. As advised, please limit your questions
to one and one follow-up. The first question is coming from `Luke Sergott, Barclays of Barclays. Your line is
open.
Q - `Luke Sergott, Barclays `
Hey, guys. Thanks for the question here. So, I guess before we get into Wyatt, can you kind of
give us a sense on continued instrument strength you guys shared a lot? Your visibility here, how
the backlog built mass spec up over 30%, that's from the strength in the business building here
the last six months, any kind of color here we can get going forward on that on the new
instrument launches there and the revitalization.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Sure, Luke. Thank you for the question. So instrument growth, I mean, in the quarter again
finished with double-digit instrument growth. For the year, it's 16% and it's really across the board,
right? For the full-year, you see, mass spec well into the 20s, TA in the high teens, LC also in the
double-digit range and this is largely due to the success of our commercial initiatives which were
around instrument replacement and really focusing on our new product launches. And there
you've seen a complete revitalization of the portfolio, especially, on the mass spec side where
we gained traction in biologics application with the Xevo G3, with the BioAccord, more recently
with the Cyclic and the Xevo TQ Absolute for food and environmental applications on the light --
on the LC side, same thing with Arc HPLC and ACQUITY Premier. So you see very strong newNow, as we look ahead, when orders are as strong as ever. We see a very, very healthy backlog
going into the year. And as we look forward, the end markets are still very robust, right? So, we
don't expect -- and across the board, we are pretty robust in industrial pharma itself as well as
with additional funding. But as we look ahead, I would caution against using the 16% and
extrapolating. I think we've been saying this for a while, these are incredible growth numbers on a
stack basis. You're looking at double-digit growth for instruments, but we cannot expect
instrument growth to continue at a double-digit level.
I mean, the long-term averages are around 3% to 4%, and if I were to just dig into the guide a
little bit and we say 5% to 6.5% So, the 5%, if you just take the higher end and then make it
consistent, let's say, with the recurring revenues and the lower end consistent with the instrument
growth in the future long-term averages for instrument growth are between 3% and 4%. Add a
100 basis points of additional commercial execution and another 100 basis points for pricing, and
there you have the 5-ish percent instrument growth.
So we think, in long term, we should be seeing healthy instrument growth and I've heard several
comments would say, hey, you've seen series significant instrument growth, will it come crashing
down? Not at all, we don't see any signs of that. We do see it reverting back to sort of long-term
growth averages and we think we will out-execute the overall market growth with our commercial
initiatives with our new products and with additional pricing.
Q - `Luke Sergott, Barclays `
All right, great. Just a quick follow-up on that. Can you clarify if orders grew faster than sales, and
then I'd love to dig in on why we're -- so where that fits into the overall characterization portfolio.
So you have the BioAccord on the raw materials, on the upstream, where would Wyatt's light
scattering technologies kind of fit into the overall instrument portfolio and the bioprocessing
workflow?
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
This is a fantastic question. So the orders are growing very nicely, Luke. And we've been saying
that for a while and they continue to do so. Now moving on to Wyatt, look, it's a perfect strategic
fit. We've been talking about bioanalytical characterization of $1.8 billion market growing 10% to
12% and Wyatt, $110 million. I mean, there are hardly many companies that have accretive growth
on -- in the industry on margins, 40% margins and growing at a 20-ish percent CAGR right, so
terrific, terrific financial profile.
When you look at the bioanalytical space and you talk about LC-UV and LC-mass spec, LC-UV and
mass spec are used to characterize sequence of the proteins, the configuration of the proteins,
the chemical composition right there exquisite techniques to characterize the composition of the
molecules and the composition of raw materials, upstream-downstream process development
and of course in QA/QC. Light scattering on the other hand gives you biophysical characterization,
the size of the molecule, the level of aggregation of the molecule, think of -- think about
monoclonal antibodies and proteins.
And even more exciting these days is what it does for us in viral vector therapies, empty versus
full capsids, right? Light scattering allows you to get at that lipid nanoparticles, how aggregated
they are, how well characterized, how awful they are with mRNA molecules, super exciting
application applications and our customers -- and Jeff and Cliff tell me, have been asking us or
their customers have been asking us to integrate it with a compliant software platform so they
can use it in QA/QC applications. It's already used by a significant number of large pharmaSo, super excited, highly complementary, it gives you even a better footprint of biologics and our
dream is -- and our ambition is to make large molecule characterization similar to small molecule
characterization as we've done in the past.
Operator
The next question is coming from `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI of Evercore. Your line is open.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI `
Hey guys. Congrats on the transaction. And I had two questions. Udit, in a first maybe on the
guidance here, the 5% to 6.5% guide for the year. What is there to see, I mean, for pricing and
China outlook? And I thought FX headwinds came down, why is FX and margin headwind?
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So I'll comment a bit on China first and what we expect there, and I'll pass it on to Amol to take it
up from there. Look, Q4 in China, I mean, is a special -- has been especially tough with 50% to
75% of our colleagues at any point in time being infected due to the reopening. And despite that,
if you take from remember last year we had a shipment delay from the third quarter to fourth
quarter, and if you take that into account China grew roughly 4-ish percent, despite that
headwind. We expect our colleagues to, of course, enjoy the Chinese New Year reconnect with
their families after several years and that we see the same with the customers. So step by step, I
think China will open up. We expect better growth in the second half of the year than the first
half, but Vijay, as you can imagine, it's anyone's guess how fast this comes back. We currently
assume a high-single digit-ish sort of growth for the full year with the second half of the year
being stronger than the first half.
Amol, do you want to talk about the guide and FX?
A - `Amol Chaubal, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So look, Vijay, the FX situation has improved versus end of Q3 earnings call. Now, we are
looking at 1% headwind on sales and about 3% headwind on EPS. The 3% headwind on EPS
translates to about 50 basis points headwind on operating margin. And the reason for that is, U.S.
dollar progressively strengthened throughout the course of 2022. And then it sort of weakened
towards the end of 2022. But where it is today, it is still a significant headwind for the first half of
the year 2023, and that is sort of playing through the numbers.
And the reason there is an headwind on headwind on the operating margin is. We are one of the
most geographically diversified companies in the sector. And we have a lot of revenue coming
out of markets like Japan and China. And while we are operationally etched in a currency like Euro
and pound, we still have significant profit there. So if you have a headwind and that profit shrinks,
and then we don't have the level of cost structure in these other markets like China and Japan,
which then creates a higher FX flow-through on our operating margin versus our sales profile by a
little bit. And that's why you see the headwind on FX on operating margin.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And just, Vijay, your question on pricing, it was roughly 300 basis points. So this year, we expect
200 basis points as an assumption for 2023. And you can imagine that's largely because the
inflation still not gone. Second, our new products definitely should command a higher margin as
you go forward. And then finally, the teams are -- have built the muscle through these very, veryA - `Amol Chaubal, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
And same one with FX, mean, we had 80 basis points of headwind on FX and the business was
resilient, it sort of offset it pretty much all that impact and delivered a flat operating margin. So if
dollar goes back to where it started back in 2022, I mean all the work is done in terms of margin
expansion.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And going into the year, we feel very good about where our margin profile is.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI `
Yes, that's helpful, Udit. And one quick one on the acquisition, $70 million of revenue synergies,
that's a big number relative to Wyatt's revenue base. Can you give us some background on how
well was this asset known? What kind of due diligence was done, what White's revenue mix is
coming from established biopharma versus early stage. What gives you the confidence in that
revenue energy?
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
It's a lot of questions to take them one after the other. 80% of the applications for Wyatt are in
large molecule applications. As you know, we've screened and we were pretty clear on the
Investor Day, we've screened a lot of targets and I can tell you without reservation in bioanalytical
or biophysical characterization, this is the number one asset that we had in our mind.
So, when we spoke with Jeff and we spoke with Cliff and we started our discussions, this was not
something that's unknown to us. We've known this company really well for a significant period of
time. And what that does on the chemical characterization, on the compositional characterization
Wyatt does for using light scattering for physical characterization. So, with 80% of their revenues
coming from large molecules, the growth is roughly 20-ish percent on a three-year CAGR,
margins are appreciative to our margins. And as I said before, this is not something that we see in
the industry as much, $110 million in sales already, it will be accretive to our revenue growth and
margin growth to our revenue and margins on day one.
And to the $70 million, it comes across four dimensions. First, Wyatt is heavily concentrated in the
United States and to some extent in Europe with that less than 20% of their sales coming from
APAC. And as you know with Waters, which have geographically quite diversified with APAC
constituting 40 % of our sales. We think there's a significant opportunity to expand and serve
many more customers in fast-growing areas across the globe.
Second, we want to provide customers with many more choices. If you look at light scattering
instruments, especially malls, it is sold with SEC columns and Waters has leading SEC columns in
the industry, the LC is used as a separator before you insert products, insert molecules into the
light scattering for characterization. Not dissimilar to mass spec. We think the attachment rates
could be significantly higher as we do the software integration across the two companies.
Number three, it starts us on the journey of building a bioanalytical platform with a suite of
products that all eventually have one compliant software that can be used across to submit data
to regulators. And then finally, there is an immediate opportunity to serve our customers a really
big pinpoint of taking malls into QA/QC, and who better than Waters to assure that journey
through? So that's why we think by year five, there's a potential for $70 plus million in synergiesand even higher bioanalytical platform starts getting established sooner and we'll be doing
power integration faster. So that's I think gives you a color across the synergies, Vijay.
Operator
The next question is coming from Matt Sykes of Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
Q - `Matthew Sykes, Goldman Sachs `
Hi, good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. Congrats on the acquisition and the quarter.
Maybe just if you could help us put a kind of a finer point on services and chemistry growth in '23.
I hear your comment about, think about it's really the high end of your guide, but just giving the
instrument growth that you've seen in '22 and previous to that. How should we be thinking about
services and chemistry growth in '23?
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So, Matt, it's a great question. Look, I mean it's a proven diet at this stage on services in
particular, right? I mean, service definitely will benefit from the incredible growth that we've seen
in instruments over the last two years. In addition, we've increased our attachment rates by 350
basis points since we started our transformation journey roughly two-ish years ago.
But I think at this point in time in time especially given the uncertainty we see in China, we think
it's a prudent starting point to assume what we will assume for service. And for chemistry, I mean,
it goes from strength to strength. We've seen our e-commerce platform do extremely well. We
now have about 35% of our sales going through e-commerce, we intend to increase that number
higher max speak premier columns and the pipeline looks extremely good, especially serving
larger molecules, and complex therapies and now with a deeper understanding after the
acquisition closes of the biologic space, we think there's a significant growth opportunity there as
well. And there too, we are a bit prudent thinking through what the rest of the year holds
especially in China. So, I think that's how I would look at it, right? So really positive, but really
thinking through how the year will emerge in China and as the year progresses we'll have more
information.
Q - `Matthew Sykes, Goldman Sachs `
Great. And then just one quick follow-up on Europe. Obviously, very strong growth there in Q4
and for the full year. Obviously, a mild winter there, so things seem to be better than expected.
Could you just talk about what you're assuming for Europe this year and kind of thoughts in terms
of the end market demand within Europe or '23?
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Look, I mean, Europe has been a standout cross the Board right through the early parts of
the pandemic and then of course this year itself and also on a stack basis, it looks extremely
good when the full year and the full year numbers for Europe were in the double-digit range as
you've seen. As we look ahead, I mean, our assumptions are still sort of going back to market
plus in Europe, which is mid to high single digits for the balance of 2023.
The orders look extremely good across all end markets and I'll remind you that Europe is more
heavily weighted towards pharma. And then in the mass space, Europe came out really, really
strong, especially with applications in food testing for the Xevo TQ Absolute and environmental
testing, which is where we saw the first and the fastest result adoption of the mass specportfolio. So mid to high single digits with all the puts and takes. Really excited about what we're
seeing in terms of mass spec, especially in pharma and industrial in Europe.
Operator
The next question is coming from `Dan Brennan, Cowen and Company of Cowen. Your line is open.
Q - `Dan Brennan, Cowen and Company `
Great. Thanks. Thanks for the questions and obviously, congrats on the quarter and the steel.
Maybe just one on Wyatt to start off, just a kind of multi-part of your -- obvious question is, the
company has been growing 20%, your guidance is 10% to 12%. Is that just prudence? Or is there
any COVID in the numbers, just kind of why that delta, and then could you just clarify like what
percent of the business you said 80% is biologics. What percent of that is actually used in
manufacturing whether on a clinical basis or on a commercial basis versus R&D today?
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So look, Dan, firstly, thank you for your question. You can imagine that we're just getting in
through the integration. And there is, of course, a little bit of prudence built in, and we want to
make sure that we start off on the right foot. The integration goes -- we don't expect the
business to slow down, but that's the low double-digit guide has that in the assumptions.
And in terms of biologics, I mean a bulk of the applications are in large pharma, in discovery, in
development and in QA/QC and online and at-line testing. So. I mean, I think that's where you see
most of the applications and increasingly now more weighted towards cell and gene therapy
applications where these small particles need to be characterized really well before they are
injected into people. So, I hope that gives you more color. We don't intend to break down the full
biologics piece, but you can imagine, it's mostly late stage and TAT testing and QA/QC. Amol?
A - `Amol Chaubal, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Dan, I mean -- not much COVID in the number side, so it's pretty clean in that sense and so we're
(inaudible) a bit prudent there. And then here on the second piece, I mean, light scattering is
further along in terms of upstream adoption in large molecules. I mean, as just mentioned,
customers are eager to take it downstream and now, with this, and with our Empower platform,
we will be able to accelerate that journey.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And I'll just -- one last thing I've used light scattering myself in my PhD. I didn't want to let the call
finish without stating this. And I was reviewing my PhD thesis before this call. And you know what,
of course, it's great. And for the life of me, I don't understand all the equations that I was using to
defect lighting. So we're super excited even at a personal level to get access to the technology.
Q - `Dan Brennan, Cowen and Company `
Great. And then just maybe one on the instrument outlook, listen, kudos to gross spend
outstanding, just wondering on the 5% instrument outlook, I mean investors have become
accustomed to Waters exceeding the numbers that you put out. And there's still a lot of really
positive momentum there, it looks like it's around 8% full year CAGR if you want to look at that.
Just kind of give us a sense what's baked in on the 5%, Udit, maybe for mass spec specifically?
And is there like that 8% category, I know you've kind of talked about the 3% to 4% long-term
trend and you're trying to be prudent here. But just maybe give us a sense on what the massspec contribution is? And to the extent we were to get 12 months out and you were to be
stronger than that, like where do you think the biggest opportunity would be for that? Thank you.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Dan, the same thing, right? I mean, we don't expect mass spec will fall off the cliff, I mean, the
applications are tremendous. The 5-ish percent, I mean the math is pretty simple, right? I mean,
3% to 4% long-term growth 100 basis points of pricing, in addition to the past and about 100
basis points of commercial execution and innovation in that number. And you can imagine, I mean,
look, coming off such really, really strong growth over the last two years. We think the growth will
start to normalize.
Now that said, there's also a bit of prudence with China built in, right? I mean China is one of our
fastest growing markets and I think at this point in time, we feel comfortable saying, look it's a
high-single-digit market by the end of the year as the recovery goes faster. Of course, there's
upside and if there is more traction for new products, there is upside. So I think it's a great place
to start the year and we'll keep you posted as more facts emerge.
Operator
The next question is coming from `Derik De Bruin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Bank of America. Your line is open.
Q - `Derik De Bruin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hi, good morning. And thank you for taking my question. Can we talk a little bit about the pharma
business please. The 6% growth in the quarter a little bit lower than we were looking for, can you
unpack that, talk about what was the potential impact from China? What are you seeing demand
at CROs and CDMOs? I mean, that's been a driver. Have they pulled back on capital spending at
all? And just sort of your major peer in LC talked about some of the slowing the replacement
cycle and LC and pharma in the second half of the year. Just sort of wondering what you're going
to bake in for that. So, just a little bit more color on your pharma business, please. Thank you.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Derik, for the question. I mean, pharma is a healthy end market. We see no weakness in
pharma, especially as we are in the late stages of pharma, right? Late stage development and
QA/QC. From a numbers perspective on a full-year basis, it's double-digit growth for the Q, it
came in at 6% largely because of China. If you exclude China, it's also double-digit growth, right?
So that should hopefully give you some clarity on what we're seeing in pharma.
Going forward, we don't see the demand abating at all, right? We see significant demand for our
products on the instrument side, especially mass spec and to some extent as he is with the new
products as well. We see, very nice traction on the consumable side and service should benefit
from really strong instrument growth that we've seen over the past two years. So, see really no
slowdown especially as the portfolio now even more so goes towards that scale -- large
molecules, especially biologics on mass spec, on LC with instruments, especially like acuity
premiere for consumables, especially with MaxPeak and with mass spec with the BioAccord
gaining increasing traction with the G3 QTof gaining more and more traction. We feel very good
about what we see in pharma going forward.
Now to your question on slow down on LC cycles. Look, I mean, we don't expect any of the
instruments to be overall growing between 16% and 20% like we've seen in the last couple of
years. I mean that's, we've always been very clear about it. Where the new normal occurs issomething that will emerge over the next few months. But it's not going to go back to zero or
negative growth that we are 100% certain, right? So that's why we have guided 5% to 6.5%. And
Dan had asked that question earlier on what is the justification for 5%? We think it's a prudent
starting point for the year.
Amol, anything to add on the instrument side?
A - `Amol Chaubal, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
No, everything you covered well.
Q - `Derik De Bruin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thank you.
Operator
The next question is coming from `Rachel Vatnsdal, JPMorgan of JPMorgan. Your line is open.
Q - `Rachel Vatnsdal, JPMorgan `
Great, thanks for taking the questions you guys, and congrats on the quarter and the deal. So first
up, I just wanted to follow up on some of these China comments. You talked about China to
returning to high-single-digit growth for the year in 2023, but I really wanted to dig into the
expectations embedded into that 1Q guide for China. So you noted that China declined low-
single digits in 4Q and that you expect that to continue into 1Q. Can you just give us some color
on -- do you expect further sequential declines in China. And then how much of a headwind do
you think China will be to that for 4% to 6% growth that you've guided to for 1Q?
A - `Amol Chaubal, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So, I mean, look, we expect some of the headwind we saw in China in Q4 to continue into
Q1. And our adjusted Q4 when you adjust for that shipping was sort of 4% and we think sort of
our Q1 in China would be similar and then as we know, China bounces back very quickly. And so,
we expect that trend to sort of catch up through the remainder of the year when people are back
to work.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
And in terms of end markets, Rachel, this is Udit. In terms of end markets, in terms of what we
see as visibility. There is no signal that fundamental demand for our products in China is slowing
down, there is no such thing. So we feel very good about China and it's a good place to start at
the beginning of the year to assume a high single digit-ish growth. And as I mentioned, if the
recovery is faster, of course, you expect faster growth.
Operator
The next question is coming from `Josh Waldman, Cleveland Research, Cleveland Research. Your line is open.
Q - `Josh Waldman, Cleveland Research `
Hi guys, thanks for taking my questions. Udit, I appreciate you were reviewing your PhD thesis
before the call, really covering all your bases. Just two questions for you, let's say, to Udit,
wondering if you could give us an update on where you think Waters is in the LC replacementplatform versus the Legacy alliance. And what you think that could look like in '23. Just, I guess,
curious your thoughts on if we do see a slowing in the LC replacement cycle kind of broadly
giving Waters push to rotate customers into the newer LC platforms could elongate that refresh.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So Josh, thank you for your comment. Look on the LC replacement cycle and I guess overall
the instrument replacement cycle, we've been pretty clear. We're almost one-third of the way
through in 2022 when we started or two years -- two-ish years ago. So there's a pretty significant
runway. Now it's -- these things don't go in a smooth, smooth way, right. So they go given that
these are large, large orders, they go in a lumpy cycle, be it LC, be it mass spec, be it ACQUITY,
be it Arc. So I think that's the first comment on what you should expect in terms of the
smoothness of the growth.
Second in terms of what has accelerated the growth and how the replacement cycle has
happened. Undoubtedly, the introduction of Arc HPLC has given the customers a more of an
impetus to replace the old alliance instruments and that has helped us quite a bit. Some of them
were also replaced it with the ACQUITY line, which is more UPLC space. But, like for like, there
are equal number of customers who've gone from Alliance to Alliance, customers have gone
from Alliance to Arc. And then a fewer have gone from Alliance to ACQUITY. ACQUITY, I'll remind
you is a UPLC platform where Arc HPLC was specifically designed for high volume, small molecule
applications in QA/QC and it's a direct sort of replacement for Alliance. So I hope that gives you a
bit more color that I think the right assumption would be Alliance to Arc HPLC and Alliance to
Alliance, and then ACQUITY in a small minority of applications.
Operator
The next question is coming from `Jack Meehan, Nephron Research of Nephron Research. Your line is open.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Nephron Research `
Good morning. Congrats on the Wyatt deal. Had just a question on that which is, could you tell us
what is their mix today of instruments versus recurring? Do you think there's any opportunity to
shift that over time? And then just one clarification $70 million of revenue synergies, is that
included in the low to mid-teens for if you talk about or would that be added to over 5%?
A - `Amol Chaubal, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So let me quickly cover the second one, the low-double-digit growth that we're talking
about, that's the standalone business. The $70 million synergies that we're talking about are short
of incremental to that.
And on the first question, there's roughly about 75% of the revenue is instruments, roughly a
quarter today is what we traditionally call recurring revenue, but as you know with Waters, we
think instruments are also recurring. And again, there is a great opportunity on that not just on the
light scattering platform, but also the HPLC and the HSC columns that go with it.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I mean, and with such a significant service team around the globe, currently shy of 2,000
people, we believe that there is a significant opportunity to increase the service attachment
rates. And in addition about 1,400 to 1,500 sales, field sales representatives should help us
increase penetration of scattering and Jeff is smiling as I say this, light scattering deeper into ourSo, extremely, extremely excited about the opportunity there. But as I'm all set, we think of
instruments as recurring just as much as we think of service and consumables. They just recur
over a longer time frame, and if you're disciplined, you can make sure that they are.
Operator
The next question is coming from `Patrick Donnelly, Citi of Citi. Your line is open.
Q - `Patrick Donnelly, Citi `
Hey guys, thank you for taking the questions. Udit, maybe one on the industrial piece that put a
pretty nice growth in the quarter, I think in the mid-teens. Can you talk about what you're seeing
there? I mean, I know in the past quarters, you talked a little bit about PFAS testing, environmental
being nice tailwinds. So maybe just talk through what you're hearing from the customer base,
their expectations into '23. Thanks.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. So, thanks for the question, Patrick. Industrial for the year as just on the fact, I mean, grew
15% and we saw nice high teens in the U.S., mid-teens in Europe, China high-single-digit to low
teens despite the lockdowns and industrial across the board, right? So applications in food
testing with the Xevo TQ Absolute with PFAS testing was excellent, the TA business with battery
testing especially with the introduction of our new powder rheometer.
We see incredible opportunity there to increase penetration of our existing instruments and
that's been going extremely well. And electronics chemicals testing has also been doing
extremely well in the TA business, which has been in the high teens in the industrial segment. So
industrial across all regions, across the food and environmental segments as well as material
segment has been doing extremely well.
So I hope that gives you color on how we explain the results so far going forward. With the new
products, there is a lot more runway for Xevo TQ Absolute and PFAS applications. We intend of
course to take that instrument into the pharma space. We think that there's incredible
opportunity.
For TA we are seeing really, really good traction of our products in the battery testing value chain,
all the way from raw materials to process development, not unlike bioprocessing to now
establishing online at-line testing with our instruments for several of our customers. So also going
forward a really healthy outlook. And I think the only prudence that we have sort of built-in is with
what we expect in China, right? China is a pretty strong grower in that segment as well and we
want to make sure that we get more data before we start reaching out more.
Operator
The next question is coming from `Puneet Souda, SVB Leerink, SVB Securities. Your line is open.
Q - `Puneet Souda, SVB Leerink `
Yes. Hi Udit. And congrats on this acquisition, that's great to see a light scattering outlook going
into QA/QC. So maybe my first question there is when we look at the downstream QA/QC and
late stages, when you look at the five years $70 billion synergies, is that the sort of the timeline
you're thinking about moving light scattering into a number of these applications. And Udit could
you maybe elaborate what is needed to integrate malls into Empower. And what's the sort of the
outlook for Empower potentially becoming sort of the backbone for biomolecules with BioAccordand light scattering. And last one, if I could squeeze in, any thoughts on the China loan stimulus
benefit for 2023? Thank you.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So, to your first question, Puneet, thanks for the question. So your first question on light scattering
and its application in biologics, light scattering is actually further ahead than mass spec in late
stages of characterization of particles. As you can imagine -- and particles being biologics here,
as you can imagine proteins when they are purified can sometimes appear as aggregate and this
can create severe immunogenic responses in patients. And so, light scattering is the technique of
choice to ensure that the proteins that we consume as therapeutics or viral vectors for cell and
gene therapy are not aggregated, this is the instrument of choice for it. So, there is a pretty
significant penetration in some large accounts and key accounts for light scattering. We see a lot
of opportunity in that area to expand geographically and also to take it into key accounts that
Waters has had and relationships that Waters has especially in QA/QC.
Now to your question on Empower, look, I mean, I would think about software in two to three
steps, right? The first step is to make sure that the instruments talk to each other and that works
been ongoing for a while as the companies have collaborated over the years. And so, there's a
data bridge that would be built rather seamless data bridge. So our customers can transfer data
from one instrument to the other and control one instrument from the software of the other.
The final piece is of course on Empower and a compliant software that is an ambition that we
have for instruments across the board, not just light scattering from mass spec as well as LCUV,
and several other instruments. And that's the journey that we -- that we have started with the
Waters Connect platform, the architecture is rather open, so you can imagine over the next one
to two years. You should start to see serious progress in that in that direction. So slightly longer
term than the immediate talking of instruments to each other in transferring data from one to the
other.
A - `Amol Chaubal, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
And just to clarify, right on the $70 million that we talk about, there is very little or we are
assuming that is the time where it's super early days on Empower, most of that is coming really
from geographical expansion, and SEC column, and HPLC attachments.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So the first two synergy is geographic expansion, segment expansion, increase attachment
over the next five-year period, get us to close to $70 million. And the last to the larger sort of
opportunities, the more ambition with the bioanalytical platform and taking malls into QC with
Empower is something that we expect in the latter part of the five-year period, but not a
significant contribution to the $70 million.
A - `Amol Chaubal, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
And then the last piece on China, Puneet, I mean, it's early days, we're still evaluating hard to put
a number at this stage on that.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So at this point, I want to thank you for your participation and all your questions. And on behalf of
our entire management team, on behalf of Jeff and Cliff and the Wyatt family, I'd like to thank youOperator
This will conclude today's conference. All parties may disconnect at this time.