Q4 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning, and welcome to Waters Corporation's Fourth Quarter 2023 Financial Results
Conference Call. All participants will be on listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session
of today's call. This conference call is being recorded. If anyone has any objections, please
disconnect at this time.
It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to `Caspar Tudor, Head, Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations. Go ahead,
sir.
`Caspar Tudor, Head, Investor Relations
Thank you, Cedric. Good morning, everyone and welcome to Waters Corporation Fourth Quarter
Earnings Call. Today I am joined by Dr.`Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer, Waters' President and Chief Executive Officer;
and `Amol Chaubal, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Waters' Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before we begin, I will cover the cautionary language. I would like to first point out that our
earnings release and the slide presentation supplementing today's call are available on the
Investor Relations section of our website at ir.waters.com. In this conference call, we will make
various forward-looking statements regarding future events or future financial performance of
the company. In particular, we will provide guidance regarding possible future results and
commentary on potential market and business conditions that may impact Waters Corporation
over the first quarter of 2024 and full year 2024. These statements are only our present
expectations and actual events or results may differ materially. For more details, please see the
risk factors included in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, our Form 10-Qs, and the
cautionary language included in this morning's earnings release.
During today's call, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures, including in our
discussions of the results of operations. Reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to
the most directly comparable GAAP measures are attached to our earnings release issued this
morning and in the appendix of our presentation, which are available on the company's website.
Unless stated otherwise, references to quarterly results increasing or decreasing are inaddition, unless stated otherwise, all year-over-year revenue growth rates and ranges given on
today's call are given on a comparable organic constant currency basis. Finally, we do not intend
to update our guidance, predictions or projections, except as part of a regularly scheduled
quarterly earnings release or as otherwise required by law.
Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Udit to deliver our key remarks, then Amol will provide a more
detailed look at our financial results. After, we will open up the phone lines to take questions.
Udit?
`Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Casper, and good morning, everyone. I would like to begin today's call by expressing
my gratitude to all my colleagues. 2023 was another transformative year for Waters. Throughout
the year, our teams kept an unwavering focus on customers, launched innovative new products,
and delivered strong business performance, all during highly eventful times with dynamic market
conditions. As 2022 ended, the results of our transformation clearly showed on the top line,
having delivered several years of very strong, above average sales growth.
Since then, in 2023, we have demonstrated our ability to manage exceptionally well through a
downturn while continuing to make investments for growth. In 2023, we also initiated the next
phase of our transformation with the acquisition of Wyatt. This brings with it a new vector for
value creation to our shareholders through M&A and we're off to a great start. As an added
benefit, it has accelerated our journey into high growth adjacent markets where we made
continued progress with our organic investments over the course of the year. We launched new
and innovative products in 2023, including our Alliance iS next generation LC platform. We
expanded our Xevo TQ mass spec into clinical applications and developed size exclusion columns
for viral vectors that pair with Wyatt MALS instruments. We even had our first light scattering
launch as a combined company with ZetaStar.
Finally, we were recognized as one of the world's most sustainable companies achieving a variety
of ESG awards. This includes our top five ranking on Barron's most sustainable companies list
which scores over 1,000 publicly traded companies based on 230 ESG performance indicators.
We are very proud of what we've achieved at Waters in 2023. Today as I share our fourth quarter
and full year results I have three key messages. First, we've continued to execute well. Second,
our transformation is contributing to our results. And third, we are well positioned for future long-
term growth.
Turning now to our results. The fourth quarter sales declined 4.5% as reported which was in line
with our expectations. Our non-GAAP earnings for fully diluted share landed at the high end of
our guidance at $3.62, driven by strong margin performance. On a GAAP basis, EPS was $3.65.
For the full year, sales declined 0.5% as reported and 2% in organic constant currency. Even with a
constrained CapEx environment, all our regions outside of China grew in 2023 in organic constant
currency terms. As expected, Wyatt successfully delivered on target M&A contribution of 2.5% to
sales. And with a strong EPS result in Q4, non-GAAP earnings for fully diluted share came in at
$11.75, which reflects underlying growth of approximately 2% before FX headwinds of 3% and 1%
dilution from the Wyatt acquisition.
I will now describe our sales results in more detail. The spending environment for instruments
remained challenging into year-end. However, Q4 revenue increased versus Q3 levels in all our
geographies, even China, as we continued to execute well in tough macro conditions. Reported
sales were $108 million higher in the fourth quarter than the third quarter. This reflects a 15% ramp
that was consistent with our guidance for a muted year-end budget flush. For the full year, ourthe Americas, Europe, and Asia, excluding China, all grew in 2023. This took a lot of effort from
our sales team, who did a fantastic job capitalizing on the available opportunities in the market
with our competitive portfolio. As a result, on a four-year stacked basis, our ex-China growth
remains at a healthy high-single-digits.
A key challenge in 2023 was the abrupt turn we saw in China where conditions deteriorated as
the year progressed. This was particularly the case in the pharma market where our revenues are
most heavily weighted. For the full year, China sales declined more than 20% overall, which was a
5% headwind to our total growth. This brings us now to our margin performance. We believe that
the best reflection of good operational execution is effective margin management when things
slow down. During 2023, we saw volume and FX headwinds while inflationary pressure continued.
We responded with stronger pricing and added further discipline to our operational objectives.
We redoubled our productivity efforts, including the opening of our global capability center in
Bangalore, India. And we undertook proactive cost alignment as the slowdown began to emerge.
This resilience focus and commitment allowed us to deliver excellent operational results in our
P&L. Our full year gross margin was 59.6%, which is 160 basis points better than the previous year.
Our full year adjusted operating margin was 30.9%, which is 70 basis points of expansion.
Now, let me share our progress with the acquisition of Wyatt Technology. The strong start to lead
sharing between Wyatt and Waters allowed us to offset a slowdown in biotech spending,
resulting in an on-target M&A contribution of 2.5% to our full year sales. I will now give some detail
on how our revitalized portfolio and alignment with higher growth segments are contributing to
growth as part of our transformation. Our strong results in 2023 were supported by our
innovative portfolio which helped drive customer spending. Our new products are gaining good
traction in the market, including TQ Absolute, Alliance iS, and MaxPeak Premier Columns, as well
as several of our high-res mass spec instruments such as Cyclic, G3, and MRT. From an adoption
perspective, this puts us in an excellent position when instrument budgets begin to normalize.
Turning now to our adjacencies. We have continued to invest and expand into adjacent high-
growth markets where our business model of solving problems in downstream regulated
applications can be deployed. For bioseparations and bioanalytical characterizations, we've made
organic investments, launched new products, and deployed capital to M&A. Large molecule
applications are now 35% of our pharma revenues and expected to trend higher, up from around
20% just a few years ago. For diagnostics, we have invested in our clinical business and added
workflows for specialty applications of mass spec. This has transformed related revenue growth
from that of low to mid-single digits to double digits in the past several years. Finally, our focus on
batteries is paying dividends where very strong growth has remained throughout the year.
Revenues from battery applications are now at over 10x 2019 revenue levels, and our TA
business is increasingly aligned with less cyclical faster growing applications. Each of these
exciting growth areas is delivering incremental revenue to the company.
Now, I will share some facts supporting the long-term outlook for above average growth and
provide our 2024 guidance. Since 2010, Waters has grown on average 6% in organic constant
currency terms. For instruments, while the standard deviation is high, long-term average growth
has been 5%. For recurring revenues, the standard deviation is much lower and the average
growth is 7%. As we look ahead, several vectors make us confident that this growth could be
even higher. The first is even faster volume growth in segments that we serve driven by global
prescription drug sales and environmental regulations. Second is increased use of analytical
instruments for characterizing large molecules and novel modalities. And third is above historic
pricing where we expect to sustain a 100-basis-point long-term tailwind in incremental growth.Let's take each of these growth vectors in turn. There are at least two key drivers of testing
volume acceleration. The first is related to the adoption of GLP-1 drugs where Waters'
instruments and columns are specified into in-process testing and QA/QC testing at the two
leading manufacturers. We expect our position to contribute an average additional revenue
growth of 30 basis points per year between now and 2030. The second is PFAS testing, where
we've been gaining shares in a rapidly expanding market, in part driven by the sensitivity and
compact size of our Xevo TQ Absolute mass spec. We expect PFAS testing to contribute an
additional 30 basis points to our revenue growth for the foreseeable future.
Finally, Wyatt Light Scattering is a high growth business serving attractive large molecule
applications. We expect it to contribute 40 basis points of core growth accretion to our business
on an annualized basis. It also accelerates our ability to solve customer challenges in formulation
development, bioanalytical characterization, and QA/QC testing, which has positive repercussions
for our Waters' business as we increasingly tie our columns, LC, and mass spec into these
workflows.
I will now cover our 2024 full-year guidance. We expect customer spending caution to continue in
the first quarter of the year with slow budget releases for downstream instrumentation. We then
expect to see a gradual improvement for the remainder of the year as budgets open up, market
conditions improve, and as prior year comparisons become easier. We expect weakness in China
to continue, particularly in the first half of the year, which also plays into the growth phasing of our
guide. With this initial outlook for 2024, we expect fully organic constant currency sales growth to
be between negative 0.5% to positive 1.5%. We expect continued strong operational
performance to build leverage in our P&L with 20 basis points to 30 basis points of further
operating margin expansion while still reinvesting for growth. And we expect adjusted EPS growth
of 0% to 3% in the range of $11.75 to $12.05.
Now, I will pass the call over to Amol to continue covering our fourth quarter financial results in
more detail and give additional commentary on our guidance for 2024. Amol?
`Amol Chaubal, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you, Udit, and good morning, everyone. We delivered a solid close to a tough year in the
fourth quarter with sales that were in line with our expectations despite continued market
challenges. In the quarter, sales declined 4.5% as reported, which aligned with our expectations
for 15% increase in reported revenues versus Q3. Organic constant currency sales declined 8%
against the high-single-digit growth comparison last year. We did observe a budget flush in the
fourth quarter as sales grew across all geographies in Q4 versus Q3. However, this year's budget
flush was more muted than typical than typical, consistent with our expectations.
Our Wyatt acquisition delivered excellent results again, adding over 3% growth to the reported
sales. In organic constant currency, by end market, pharma declined 11%, industrial declined 4%,
and academic and government declined 9%. In pharma, our results were impacted by a further
weakening in China, which declined 45% for the quarter. Outside of China, pharma sales declined
4% as instrument sales were impacted by a muted budget flush, in line with our expectations. In
industrial, growth was flat outside of China, against a tough high teens prior year comparison.
China declined approximately 20% as weakness has broadened into non-pharma segments due
to weak economic conditions. Overall, we observed continued strong growth in PFAS and battery-
related applications, which have continued to partially offset weakness in more cyclical areas.
In academic and government, our ex-China business continued to perform well with mid-single-
digit growth. However, this was more than offset by a decline of almost 40% in China, wheregeography, sales in Asia fell 16%, as China weakness more than offset mid-single-digit growth in
the rest of Asia. The Americas declined 2% and Europe declined 6%, driven by this year's muted
budget flush dynamics. By products and services, instruments declined 20%. Recurring revenues
grew mid-single digits with continued high-single-digit growth outside of China. There was one
additional day in the quarter versus the prior year.
Looking now at our full year results. By end market, pharma declined 5%, industrial was flat, and
academic and government grew 10%. Excluding China, pharma and industrial grew low single
digits and A&G grew mid-teens for the year, each reflecting solid results against double-digit
comps. Now by geography, sales in Asia declined 7%, with China declining more than 20%, while
Asia, ex-China grew high single digits. The Americas grew 1% and Europe grew 2%.
By products and services, instruments declined 10%, which is primarily driven by China. Excluding
China, instruments declined low single digits in 2023, reflecting healthy high-single-digit four-year
CAGR. Recurring revenues grew 6% overall and high single digits outside of China with robust
growth throughout the year. Chemistry growth has been supported by strong customer demand
for MaxPeak Premier Columns, serving large molecule workflows and adoption of e-commerce.
For service, growth has been supported by expansion of plan attachment. In 2023, we exceeded
our objective for a further 100 basis points of service plan attachment and delivered a 200 basis
point increase for the year.
Now, I will comment on our fourth quarter and full year non- GAAP financial performance versus
the prior year. Despite headwinds from lower sales volumes, FX, and inflation, in 2023, our team
responded to these challenges with resilience and commitment. Our continued focus on
operational excellence with pricing, productivity, and proactive cost alignment together with lower
incentive compensation, allowed us to deliver a fourth quarter gross margin of 61.2%, an
expansion of 170 basis points, and fourth quarter adjusted operating margin of 34.9%, an
expansion of 120 basis points. For the full year, our focus and effort resulted in gross margin of
59.6%, an expansion of 160 basis points, and an adjusted operating margin of 30.9%, an
expansion of 70 basis points, which is after reinvesting in our high growth adjacencies.
Our effective operating tax rate for the quarter was 17.1 %, 50 basis points below prior year
quarter. For the full year, it was it was 16.2%. Our average share count came in at 59.3 million
shares, which is about 300,000 less than the fourth quarter of last year. Our non-GAAP earnings
per fully diluted share were $3.62. On a GAAP basis, our earnings for fully diluted share were
$3.65. For the full year, our non-GAAP earnings per fully diluted share were $11.75. For an
exchange, headwinds lowered our non-GAAP EPS growth by 3%, and there was a 1% dilution from
the Wyatt acquisition. On a GAAP basis, EPS was $10.84. A reconciliation of our GAAP to non-
GAAP earnings is attached to this morning's press release and in the appendix of our earnings
call presentation.
Now turning to free cash flow capital deployment on our balance sheet. We define free cash
flows as cash from operation less capital expenditures and excludes special items. In the fourth
quarter of 2023, free cash flow was $192 million after funding $42 million of capital expenditures.
For the full year, free cash flow was $554 million after funding $161 million of capital expenditures.
Excluded from the free cash flow were payments of $72 million related to tax reform, $26 million
for Wyatt assumed liabilities, $16 million related to investment in our Taunton precision chemistry
operations.
We maintained a strong balance sheet, access to liquidity, and well-structured debt maturity
profile. This strength allows us to prioritize investing in growth, including M&A, and returning
capital to shareholders. We continue to evaluate M&A opportunities that will meaningfullyaccelerate value creation. At the end of the quarter, our net debt position further declined to $2
billion, a net debt-to-EBITDA ratio of about 2x. This represents a decrease of approximately $150
million during the quarter as we delivered the Wyatt acquisition. As previously disclosed, our
share buyback program has been temporarily suspended to enable us to pay down debt incurred
as part of the Wyatt transaction. We will evaluate the resumption of our share repurchase
program throughout 2024 as part of our balanced capital deployment objective.
Now, as we look towards the year ahead, I would like to provide you with our high-level thoughts
for 2024. Similar to others in the industry, our growth in 2024 -- 2023 was slower than usual,
driven by unprecedented weakness in China and cautious spending from customers in other
regions. We view these market conditions as temporary and anticipate a gradual recovery in sales
growth throughout 2024. While our customers remain healthy, market uncertainty still remains
and necessitates prudence in our guide, these dynamics support full year 2024 organic constant
currency sales growth guidance of negative 0.5% to positive 1.5%. At current exchange rates,
currency translation is expected to result in a negative impact of just under 1% on full year sales.
We expect Wyatt transaction to add approximately 1.3% M&A contribution to our full year 2024
revenues from inorganic sales incurred in the first four and half months of the year Therefore, our
total reported sales growth guidance is approximately 0% to 2%.
We expect to extend our strong margin performance into 2024 and deliver a gross margin of
59.8% for the full year, which is 20 basis points of expansion versus 2023. We also expect to
deliver 20 basis points to 30 basis points of additional operating margin expansion versus 2023,
resulting in an adjusted operating margin of slightly over 31%. We expect our full year net interest
expense to be approximately $80 million. Our full year tax rate is expected to remain largely
consistent with 2023 levels at 16.3%. Our average diluted 2024 share count is expected to be
approximately 59.7 million. Now, rolling all this together, on a non-GAAP basis, our full year 2024
earnings per fully diluted share guidance is projected in the range of $11.75 to $12.05, which is
approximately 0% to 3% growth and includes an estimated headwind of approximately 2% due
to unfavorable foreign exchange.
Turning now to our expectations for the first quarter of 2024. We believe that customer budget
release timing will be slower than typical in the first quarter. In addition, current levels of market
weakness in China are not fully reflected in last year's for comparison. Last year's deterioration
picked up significantly in the second quarter and thereafter. The first quarter also last year
benefited from A&G stimulus in China. As a result, we expect our China business to decline
approximately 40% year-over-year in Q1.
Given these dynamics, we expect organic constant currency sales growth in the range of negative
11% to negative 9%. At current rates, currency translation is expected to subtract approximately
1%, while Wyatt is expected to add approximately 3.5% to sales for the quarter. Therefore, our
total first quarter reported sales growth guidance is negative 8.5% to negative 6.5%. Based on
these revenue expectations, first quarter non-GAAP earnings for fully diluted share are estimated
to be in the range $2.05 to $2.15, which includes a negative currency impact of approximately 4
percentage points at current FX rates.
Now, I would like to turn the call back to Udit for some summary comments. Udit?
`Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Amol. So, in summary, another transformative year for Waters. We will continue to
navigate the current market environment well and deliver earnings growth for our shareholders in
2024.Before I close, I would like to share a few updates on our ESG efforts. We've made strong
progress towards our environmental goals with 70% -- 77% of our electricity now sourced from
renewable or low-carbon sources. In 2023, we started working with the science based targets
initiative to build on this progress and develop further emissions reduction targets. We've also
enhanced our climate-related disclosure with our TCFD related reporting.
Waters was recognized as one of the best companies to work for by the U.S. News & World
Report, and we achieved a perfect score of 100 on the Human Rights Campaign Foundation's
Corporate Equality Index. We're also proud that our governance has been recognized. Waters'
Board of Directors was named the 2024 Public Company Board of the Year by National
Association of Corporate Directors New England Chapter.
So, with that, I'll turn the call back over to Casper.
`Caspar Tudor, Head, Investor Relations
Thanks, Udit. That concludes our formal comments. We are now ready to open the phone lines
for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. Now, first question comes from `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI with Evercore ISI. Your line is open.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI `
Hey, guys. Thanks for taking my question. Udit, just on the annual guidance here, at the midpoint, I
think, it's about 50 basis points growth. What is the guide assuming for price, and can you talk
about any markets, pharma, government, academia, industrial sort of assumptions? I know you
gave the China assumption, China is expected to be down, but could you just parse out between
China versus non-China for those end-markets?
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. So thanks, Vijay, for the question, and good morning. Look, I mean, a couple of high-level
comments, and then I'll go to the end markets, and I'll let Amol comment on the pricing question.
The 2024 guidance, in general, assumes that the trends that we saw in 2023 continue in large
part, right? So, you start off just looking at what happened in 2023 outside of China, all end
markets and geographies grew low single digits or thereabouts, right?
So, all geographies were low single digits, and we assumed the same trend for the balance of
the year, and all end markets were in the similar sort of zip code. And in China, we assume
roughly sort of mid-teens to high-teens decline for 2024.
Now, when you do the arithmetic, you basically look at the comps. The first half of the year will be
slower than the second half, right? The first half of the year has significantly higher comps, when
you look at the academic and government stimulus, especially in China, and then the second half
of the year that alleviates, so you start to see a bit of a growth.
So, now to your question on the full year and the assumption for different end markets. For the
full year, pharma, we are expecting to grow low single digits, and this is again on the back of whatwe saw in 2023.
Industrial was flat in 2023 for the full year, we expect it to be there or thereabouts low single-digit
growth, and A&G with a very strong year, roughly 10%, 12% for 2023, we expect it to be a low
double-digit decline, basically in China declining quite significantly because of high comps, and
the rest of the world you sort of go back to the long term trends of low single-digit growth.
So really overall, expecting the same execution that we saw in 2023, basically really nice
performance in markets outside of China with low single-digit growth in China, mid-teens decline,
and by end-market sort of similar trends, strength continuing in pharma due to our QA/QC focus.
Amol on the pricing.
A - `Amol Chaubal, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. Thanks, Vijay. And look on pricing, when we started in 2023, we started with an assumption
of 200 basis points to 250 basis points. But as the year panned out, our team gathered strength
quarter after quarter, and you see full year, we finished about 300 basis points on price, right?
Now, long-term, we've said we'll do about 100 basis points better than what we've historically
done, and historically, we had done 50 basis points to 75 basis points. So, that's where our guide
assumption is starting, roughly around 200 basis points of pricing gains in 2024.
And again, the underlying trend is, I mean, we're doing better than that, and we're better to see
it, right? I mean, it reflects loud and clear in our gross margin expansion, which is where it should
show up.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, and then, I think, just to sort of emphasize that point even more, what gives me sort of a lot
of confidence is what we saw in our gross margin and our operating margin. I mean, in such an
environment, I mean, we took proactive cost actions, operating margin for the full year expanded
by 70 basis points and gross margin by 160 basis points. I mean, you can talk a good game on
pricing, but at the end, it has to show up in the P&L, and that's what we're really proud of.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI `
Absolutely. That's a helpful comment, Udit. Amol, one for you. Operating margin expansion, that's
really pretty impressive considering revenues are almost flattish here organically. Is that all being
driven by gross margins? I think in the past, you noted FX could have an impact on gross margins.
So, maybe just talk about what's driving OMX and FX assumptions on the margins?
A - `Amol Chaubal, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, look. I mean, we expanded our full year margins by 70 basis points, and on a constant
currency basis, that's a 120 basis points of expansion, because we had a good 50 basis points of
FX headwind during the year.
The negative leverage from volume was partially offset by mix and AIP, so net-net, it was
negative 40 basis points. Pricing added 110 basis points, freight and material savings another 60
basis points, cost actions added another 60 basis points, and then we invested about 70 basis
points in nurturing higher growth adjacency. So, that's roughly the breakdown.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI `So, all hands-on deck, basically.
Operator
Okay, thank you. Our next question comes from Matt Sykes with Goldman Sachs. Your line is
open.
Q - `Matthew Sykes, Goldman Sachs `
Hi. Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. Maybe just the first one, a higher-level
question, would it just on the replacement cycle impact, just any outsized growth we saw in
instruments during the sort of COVID period.
What kind of impact do you think this has had on replacement cycles, particularly in biopharma,
given a lot of the spend was concentrated there? Do you think the replacement cycle has been
pushed out, or do you think that you'll see that impact of that coming back in this year, or is it
more of a 2025 impact?
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, it's a great question, Matt, and thank you for that. So, let me start by first just talking about
what we have seen in Q4, right? You would have seen that Q4, our sales ramped from Q3 to Q4
by about 15%, right? And this is typical in a QA/QC-driven business, and it's muted versus
historical trends, which are roughly 24% for Waters, but in a QA/QC-driven business, you do see a
ramp in replacement towards the end of the year, right?
So, that intact is -- that trend is very much intact, especially outside of China, right? So, there is --
it's, I think, naive to think that replacement cycles have suddenly stopped, right? This Q4 ramp
tells us that replacement cycles are still ongoing. Now the question -- the underlying question is
what are driving these replacement cycles and how do you trigger them, right? So, when you -- in
a muted capital -- in a muted CapEx environment, the conversations we've had with customers
on replacements have largely centered around new products, right? Arc HPLC and Alliance iS,
which have both gained a lot of nice receptivity, right? So, new products allow you to continue to
have that conversation and you see that reflected in our sort of pharma results outside of China
and as you compare it to our peer group.
Now to your question on, did we see an outsized replacement during the post-COVID years, I
mean, it's very difficult to tell. We think it was more a pushback from the depression that you saw
during COVID and outsized execution that we saw due to the replacement cycle that we had not
had from 2018 to 2020. So, pent-up demand sort of helped us get really outsized growth.
Now, to corroborate that point, if you just look at LC, LC is 70% a replacement business. And if
you look at how we ended the full year, 2023, right? So, LC, and again, once you look at long-
term trends, on a long-term basis is roughly 1% growth on a four-year CAGR. So, LC is growing
roughly 1% on a four-year CAGR basis, which is well below the long-term average of about 4% to
5%. And you add pricing, so it's actually 4%-ish sort of below in volume versus the long-term
trend of 4% to 5% LC growth.
So, we do expect LC replacement to start imminently, now don't ask me exactly, when that
inflection point is. Short-term, we have a ton of visibility, with a lot of data and a lot of
conversations with customers. Long-term, we think the trends are going to revert back to the
mean or even better, given what we've talked about in our prepared remarks. The inflection
point, you don't get any extra marks to call it.So in 2024, we've assumed the same trends as 2023 to persist, but definitely we believe LC is
due to come up in growth rates. So, long answer, but I hope that gives you a lot of context on
how we are thinking about it.
Q - `Matthew Sykes, Goldman Sachs `
Yeah, that's great color. Thank you. And then just a quick one on PFAS. You mentioned in that slide
deck that the market is starting to expand into food, which is probably earlier than we had
expected.
Just given the potential size of the market of food relative to water, one; how big do you assume
the food market to be over the long-term, and two, how much of that 30 basis points annual
contribution from PFAS actually comes from food relative to water, in your assumptions?
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Early days, Matt, I mean, we've assumed roughly $50 million to $75 million for now in the food
market. And over time, we expect it to expand. As you well pointed out, that could be a pretty
significant market. We want to be a bit cautious here, right? So, the 30 basis points is largely on
the back of water testing and not much from food testing at this point.
But that said, the PFAS market is super dynamic. So, we've gone from water testing to expansion
into food testing, into tissue samples, into soil samples, into sewage, and into industrial
companies sort of purchasing mass specs to analyze their effluent stream.
So, it's a market that's going to significantly expand. We're a bit cautious in trying to guess
exactly, what that size is. What we're focused on is sort of going after each and every opportunity
in these segments. And you see that with roughly 40% growth. So, stay tuned. I mean, as we find
out more, you'll progressively see the increased market sizes or better information emerge.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question comes from `Rachel Vatnsdal, JPMorgan with JPMorgan. Your line is open.
Q - `Rachel Vatnsdal, JPMorgan `
Great. Good morning. Thanks for taking the questions. I just want to dig into this 1Q guide a little
bit. This is weaker than most of us had anticipated. Appreciate that the market's pretty dynamic
and you have some really difficult comps in China during 1Q. But are there any other one-timers in
terms of why you would have that level of sequential step down? And, was there any pull forward
that may have helped 4Q that led to that softer 1Q guide as well?
A - `Amol Chaubal, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. No, Rachel. Thanks for your question, and good morning. I mean, the one-timers are largely
in China, right? I mean, you had the stimulus last year in ANG and the level of weakness we are
seeing now in China last year's Q1 baseline doesn't reflect that at all.
In the rest of the world, we are assuming customers will be slow out of the gate versus what we
typically see. And that's based on the trend that we saw in Q4, where the budget flush was
muted. And that will somehow, we think, reflect in how quickly budgets are released to
customers. And that's sort of playing out in the guidance.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `Yeah. So, Rachel, just to sort of build on what Amol has said, really no different than what we saw
in Q4 overall, right? I mean, Q4 was almost 7.5%, 8% down versus previous year. And we're
assuming at the midpoint of the guide, Q1 is roughly 10% down. We expect, as Amol said, the
trends from Q4 to persist into Q1, right? Low single digit-ish growth or flat growth in ex-China.
And in China, roughly 40% decline due to the heavy comps, especially from A&G last year, where
the benefit of the stimulus was coming through.
So, no real challenge. And I mean, I'll just sort of say one more thing in pharma, in China in
particular, we're starting to see a bit of stabilization, right? We're starting to see biotech spending
start to reemerge. We're starting to see CDMOs spending on recurring revenues. And we're also
in the branded generic segment, which is roughly 50% of our pharma market, where more and
more cities and more and more hospitals are starting to open up. So, we see that trend, but we
are cautious in calling that at this point in Q1. So Q1, basically similar trends to Q4.
A - `Amol Chaubal, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
And just keep in mind, Q1 is our smallest quarter, right? So, small changes have a meaningful
impact on the pattern.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Q - `Rachel Vatnsdal, JPMorgan `
Great. That's helpful. And then just my follow-up, on this assumed gradual improvement that you
guys are embedding throughout the year. Can you just dig a little bit more into those
assumptions? Which markets and which geographies are you assuming more of an improvement
than others? You talked about some of the China and the comp dynamic. So, how much do
comps really have to do with that improvement that you're expecting throughout the year as
well? Thank you.
A - `Amol Chaubal, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I mean, great question. And look, I mean, we've sort of looked at it from various different
vantage points. If you look at sort of how we've performed ex-China, we've grown sort of low
single-digits and we expect that to be the case for the full year, with some slow out of the gate,
with how the budgets are released in Q1.
And then you sort of face a muted budget flush baseline towards the later part of the year.
China, you will see decline as we talked about in Q1, because the baseline is pretty strong. But as
we get into the second half of China, we think things will normalize, because a lot of the demand
slowness is reflected. So, if you sort of look at it from that vantage point, for the first half, we sort
of decline mid-single digits.
For the second half, we sort of grow mid-single digits, when you look at it on a five-year stack
versus 2019, roughly it's mid-single-digits growth both for the first half as well as the second half.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. I mean, similar trends in Q1, in the first half and second half, just the arithmetic is that the
comps in Q1 are higher than -- comps in the first half are higher than the second half.
OperatorOkay. Thank you. And our next question comes from `Doug Schenkel, Wolfe Research with Wolfe Research. Your
line is open.
Q - `Doug Schenkel, Wolfe Research `
Okay. Good morning, guys, and thanks for taking the questions. Actually, I want to look at China a
different way, and I'm just doing some quick math on the fly, which is always dangerous. But one
thing, as I look back the last few years, I've noticed is, I think, Q1 revenue in China is typically about
70% of Q4 revenue in China, just kind of thinking about the historical sequential pattern to the
extent you can do that over the last few years, given how different that has been.
But if we use that as precedent, it seems like you're essentially embedding that pattern into your
guidance this year again. So, when I keep that in mind and I look at Q3 and Q4 revenue in China,
which were about $100 million each, while the comps are really tough and the growth is not going
to look great in the first half of the year, are you at some level kind of assuming a normalization of
sequential growth over the course of 2024 relative to Q4 on a sequential basis?
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, it's a great question and welcome back, Doug. Look, you nailed it, right? I mean we've, and
when we gave our Q4 guidance also last year, there was a lot of questions on how did you come
up with the guidance? And we use similar sort of math, right? You basically look at 15 years of
data, which is what we have, and you look at sequential changes mathematically.
Then you look at the funnel itself and look at what the funnel is saying in terms of the orders. And
third, you have conversations with customers and during a difficult time, the visibility, I mean,
ironically, people say visibility is pretty low. Well, visibility in the short term is incredibly high. We
just don't like what we're seeing. And so, people keep saying visibility is low. The visibility is pretty
high.
Analytically, we're looking at things very carefully. We're talking to a ton of customers. We're just
executing really, really well, just getting every opportunity that's in front of us.
So, to answer your question, yes, we are using that math of sequential growth quarter-on-
quarter, and that's embedded in the full year guidance. Now, if that improves, so, I mean, I'm sort
of anticipating the next question. If that improves, of course, you'll see upside, right? And we are
starting to see trends from Q4, especially in China, look a bit better in Q1, especially in the largest
end market, which is China -- which is pharma.
In the ex-China geographies, in Q1, we've assumed that the same trends continue from Q4, and
customers are cautious, like they were cautious in Q1, which is what we are sort of hearing from
many of our customers. They want to see how Q1 lands before they start releasing CapEx, but
you've got one of the elements of our guide philosophy nailed, yes.
Q - `Doug Schenkel, Wolfe Research `
Okay. Super helpful. And then Udit, either for you or for Amol, I was wondering if you'd be willing
to delineate between large and small molecule growth on the chemistry side.
1I'm just curious how that's been trending and what's incorporated into guidance. That may be
cutting things in an unfair way, but if you're willing to indulge us, I think that would be really
interesting just to hear how that's been trending and how you're thinking about it for 2024?
Thank you.A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I think let's look at clean results ex-China, which is where things are not sort of affected by
shutdowns and the like, right? Overall, I mean, I can give you the overall statistic. Back in 2020,
the revenues from biologics out of our total pharma revenues were less than 20%.
Now that number is in excess of 35%. 400 basis points of that is wired, but the rest of it is the
base organic acceleration in large molecule applications. Now, I can't tell you off the top of my
head, how much of that comes from chemistry and how much of that comes from instruments.
It's a mix, I would argue.
At this point, it's basically a mix of the two, BioAccord sort of picking up, Xevo G3 picking up. But
in chemistry, what I can tell you is roughly 70% to 80% of our R&D spend is now on large-
molecule and biologics applications. MaxPeak Premier column in its third year is growing in excess
of 30%. We've introduced a new gene therapy column. So really, really pleased with what we're
doing on large-molecule applications, with 35% of our pharma revenues now coming from
biologics.
Operator
Okay. Thank you. And our next question comes from Dan Brennan with TD Cowen. Your line is
open.
Q - `Tom Stevens, TD Cowen `
Hi, this is `Tom Stevens, TD Cowen. I'm with Dan Brennan today. Thanks for taking my question. I guess my
first one is just on the industrials guide, and given the strength of that category with PFAS testing
and battery testing alike. What kind of gives you confidence that momentum kind of continues in
the back half, and why we shouldn't see maybe a rest of world cyclical slowdown? So, that would
be my first one, and I've got a couple of others to follow up.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So, Tom, thank you for the question. Look, I mean, industrial finished 2023 roughly flat, right? And
flat in a year, where there were significant macro challenges, right? And this was largely -- this was
largely due to PFAS and battery testing offsetting the other macro sensitive segments in our
industrial business, right? And TA, and we've not talked about that business in a while, but the TA
business for the full year grew 3%, right, in a year, where growth was a very difficult to get, and
that included -- that number includes China, right?
Now, as you look into 2024, we assume that the full year will be there or thereabouts low single-
digit growth. Ex-China growing low single-digits, really on the back of PFAS battery and a bit of
recovery on food and environmental, and China really now given this large -- the large comps in
2023 in the negative territory in the low to mid-single-digits.
So, expecting 2024 to look similar to 2023 overall, especially ex-China, a little bit of stronger sort
of comps in China, maybe a bit of muted growth. So, you should assume that industry will be sort
of flat to low single-digit growth in 2024.
Q - `Tom Stevens, TD Cowen `
Great. That's really, really helpful. Just to pivot to LCs and that kind of long-term trajectory, could
you remind us kind of what the net contribution of China was in the kind of prior four years on awith a potentially muted China going forward, and/or you're kind of mixed into kind of larger
molecular applications?
A - `Amol Chaubal, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So look, I mean, China, if you look at 2019 or 2022 was roughly 17% to 19% of our revenue.
Now, where we finished in '23, it's about 15% of our revenue. When you look at sort of, there are
different issues compounding the current situation in China, but we generally feel barring maybe
one or two smaller issues, most of these issues are cyclical rather than structural.
So, for example, CDMOs struggling with overcapacity as well as geopolitical challenges, or
branded generics, pulling back spend, because of anti-corruption campaigns, or industrial
business, especially food and environmental slowing down because of government pulling back
reimbursement. We think these issues are largely cyclical. They will all come back. It's just a
question when, and it's very hard to predict, when that will happen.
On the other hand, the biotech funding and the resultant volume they placed on Tier 2, Tier 3
CDMOs, that we think is structural. And in the near-term, they're not going to be at the levels of
'21-'22 spending, but at least on that issue, which is structural, the good news is, we think we
found the bottom on that issue, because newer molecules are starting to see funding, but there
is going to be sort of $30 million to $40 million corrections to our '22 baseline.
The remaining issues, we think, eventually will come back, and that's the business that is today.
And then, as we've said before, right, what we are super excited about is this whole push for
innovative medicines. And there's a whole new vector opening up in China, and we think that will
create significant value, and we absolutely want to be part of that equation, and we are taking
steps, so that we have local presence and participate in that journey more closely.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. And just to sort of embellish on that, Amol's covered it extremely well. Tom, LC, as I
mentioned earlier, I mean, two or three facts to keep in mind. On a long-term basis, it's traversing
well below our long-term averages, right? So, in general, on a four, five-year stack basis, you
should expect LC to be mid-single digits. It's actually flat to 1%. You look at that number for 2023,
LC overall declined almost 10%, 11%, and bulk of that decline came from China, right?
So China declined roughly 30%, 40% -- maybe actually close to 40%, 45% in LC. Outside of
China, we were sort of low single-digit decliners in LC, right? So, to your question on how will the
recovery be impacted with coming back to growth in China, we expect that in the first half of the
year, we'll see similar trends that we saw in the second half of the year in LC, and the second half
of the year we will start to see a bit of a relief and growth.
And as we talk to our customers, to our largest customer segment, which is pharma, we're
starting to see biotechs start to spend again. We're starting to see CDMOs, especially recurring
revenue, come back. And in brand generics, more and more hospitals are opening up. So, it's
going to be a mix of replacement cycles beginning again in ex-China markets and in China
recovery in pharma. So, put those two together and you should start to see LC come back. We're
not assuming it -- assuming that in our guide at this point, but definitely there are trends in that
direction.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from Catherine Schulte with Baird. Your line is open.Q - `Catherine Ramsey Schulte, Baird `
Hey, guys. Thanks for the question. Maybe first just touching on some of your commercial
initiatives. Any comments on what you're targeting for service attachment rates or e-commerce
improvements in '24?
A - `Amol Chaubal, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Sure. Thank you for that question, Catherine. So, really continuing the trend, right? So, we went
from what 20 it's for e-commerce from what 20% to 35% already, 35% plus already in e-
commerce, and we expect that to grow closer to 40% by the end of 2024.
And in service attachment, I mean, having already seen roughly 500 basis points of service attach
increase from the time we started the initiative three years ago, we are planning for another 100
basis points of service attachment increase in 2024, so continuing on with our commercial
initiatives.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question comes from `Derik De Bruin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch with Bank of America. Your line is
open.
Q - `Derik De Bruin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hi, good morning, and thanks for taking my question. So, I've got a couple. Could you comment
on order trends in Q4? If I missed it, I apologize. I mean, did you see orders pick up sequentially?
And how should we think about the tax rate sort of in 2025 as we work through the pillar two
stuff? And I have one more follow-up.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. So, I'll start with the order and then I'll let Amol talk about the tax piece. Orders are in line
with sales again, Derik, so no real difference between the two for Q4.
And the trend from Q3 to Q4, I mean, it's almost a 15% ramp from Q3 to Q4, same thing we saw
with orders, really as expected. So, Q4 really landed as we had talked about.
Amol on tax.
A - `Amol Chaubal, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, Derik, great question on tax. So, look, I mean, if you trace last few years with us, the tax
rate has gone up roughly about 150 basis points to 200 basis points, and bulk of that is really
coming from the U.S. R&D capitalization.
And as a company, we've sort of taken a position that Section 174 changes have an ongoing
effect on our P&L and absent of future legislation, we are not excluding those charges from our
non-GAAP P&L, which is different from some of us in the sector, right. But we think those
expenses are part of our non-GAAP P&L and that's the bulk of the change.
The other things that are creeping in there is Singapore going from 0% to 5% and Ireland
adopting Pillar 2 going to 15%. I think '25, the big one is, will Singapore adopt and in what form,
and in what offset they provide, when they do adopt that. So, that remains to be seen, we areclosely watching that and as that plays out, we will provide more commentary, when that
happens.
Q - `Derik De Bruin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. And one final one if I may. I would expect, why it was a great deal nice fit in. Your leverage
is down I would expect you to potentially restart the buyback program. Did you sort of talk about,
about what other technologies you could potentially be thinking about in terms of how to
augment, it's -- I'm just sort of curious in terms of what your capital deployment outlay is? Thank
you.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So, look, I mean, Derik, fantastic question. I mean, our goal in bioanalytical characterization is to
make it as simple as it is in small molecules. The QA/QC environment for large molecules in cell
and gene therapy should become just as simple. And to do that, you need to take some mature -
- some high-end technology, simplify them, move them into downstream applications, so they're
simple to use.
LC is already there. Mass spec with BioAccord has made great strides. Light scattering is ahead of
mass spec, so it's going to enter QA/QC sooner. And there are a couple of other technologies,
like Raman, like cellular analysis, that also belong in the QA/QC and the process analytical testing
domain.
But all of this hinges on having a simple software that the regulators trust, like Empower. So, our
single largest initiative with Wyatt, after commercial -- delivering our commercial results, is to get
Wyatt light scattering software onto Empower. And we will have a beta version of that by the end
of the year. And I think that's the primary requirement for QA/QC and large molecules to become
like small. So, stay tuned, really exciting area. And we're investing in the future, while we're
navigating the present really, really carefully.
A - `Caspar Tudor, Head, Investor Relations
Thank you very much. That concludes our Q&A session. I'd now like to turn the call back over to
Udit to deliver our closing remarks.
A - `Udit Batra, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So thank you, Casper. Thank you, Amol. Thank you, everyone, for listening. Look, it's -- yes, 2023
has been an unprecedented and challenging year, we've navigated extremely well, as you look at
our results outside of China every end-market, every geography grew, which is unusual in this
environment amongst our peer group as well, and what is even more pleasing -- pleasing is our
focus on cost management.
So, really third 70 basis points of margin expansion in a year, where the top-line went down
dramatically is quite a -- quite an achievement. And we've done that while setting ourselves up
very well for the future. We expect the long-term growth of our business to be very much intact
and accelerate based on what more than I described to you.
So, thank you again for your interest and your attention.
Operator
Thank you. That concludes today's conference. You may all disconnect at this time.