Q4 2015 Earnings Call

Operator
Good afternoon. My name is George, and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the NVIDIA financial results conference call. All
lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks,
there will be a question-and-answer period. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded
Wednesday, February 11, 2015.
I will now turn the call over to Ms. Colette Kress, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer with NVIDIA. Ms. Kress, you may begin your conference.
Colette M. Kress `
Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to NVIDIA's conference call for the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2015. With us on the call today from NVIDIA is Jen-Hsun Huang, President and
Chief Executive Officer. I'd also like to introduce Arnab Chanda, who joined us last week as the
Head of Investor Relations. Arnab and Raj (01:10) will closely work to support the investment
community.
I'd like to remind you today's call is being webcast live on NVIDIA's Investor Relations website. It is
also being recorded. You can hear a replay by telephone until February 18, 2015. The webcast will
be available for replay up until next quarter's conference call to discuss Q1 financial results. The
content of today's call is NVIDIA's property. It cannot be reproduced or transcribed without our
written prior consent. During the course of this call, we may make forward-looking statements
based on our current expectations. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of
significant risks and uncertainties that our actual results may differ materially.
For a discussion of factors that could affect our future financial results and business, please refer
to the disclosure in today's earnings release, our most recent Form 10-Q and the reports that wemay file on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All of our statements are
made as of today, February 11, 2015, based on information currently available to us. Except as
required by law, we assume no obligation to update any such statements.
During this call, we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures. You may find a reconciliation of
these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures in our CFO commentary, which is
posted on our website. With that, let's start.
We achieved record revenue for the fourth quarter and the full year, with impressive growth in
each of our market-specialized platforms. NVIDIA's strategy of creating an ecosystem in gaming,
enterprise graphics, accelerated computing and automotive continues to make excellent
headway. Our gaming platforms grew more than 30% year-on-year and accelerated in the fourth
quarter, driven by our 10th-generation Maxwell processors and the vibrant gaming market.
Launched in September, our GeForce GTX 980 and 970 GPUs continue to be enthusiastically
received. The Maxwell architecture provides new capabilities, such as real-time, dynamic global
illumination, which simulates the true interaction of light with the environment and is the most
energy-efficient GPU architecture ever created.
We added to our lineup the GTX 960, which brings Maxwell to $199, what we see as the gaming
market's sweet spot. Powered by 1024 CUDA cores, it plays even some of the most demanding
titles on 60 frames per second on full HD displays, and it leaves plenty of headroom for
overclockers. The GTX 960 will let gamers enjoy the latest games at quality and performance
greater than even the best gaming consoles at half the price.
There are now more than 50 million PCs with GeForce Experience; our application for the gaming
ecosystem that optimizes the user settings for each title and enables players to record and share
their victories. In the month of November alone, GeForce Experience users downloaded our
drivers over 30 million times. GeForce Experience brings the simplicity and the community
benefits of a console to the PC.
NVIDIA powered the holiday season's two best-reviewed Android tablets, the Google Nexus 9
and our own SHIELD Tablet, which are based on our Tegra K1 processor. More than a dozen
media outlets recommended SHIELD in their holiday gift-giving guides. Over the course of the
quarter, SHIELD, which has pioneered a premium gaming experience for tablets, became one of
the very first devices to be upgraded to the Google's latest OS, Android 5.0 Lollipop. The NVIDIA
GRID graphics virtualization platform continues to gain momentum. More than 300 companies
worldwide tested the product in recent months and experienced the benefits of GPU accelerated
virtualization.
They range from large institutions such as the University of Southern California, leading
manufacturers such as Airbus and Lockheed Martin and defense providers like Raytheon.
Enterprise virtualization leaders continue to deploy GRID. Just last week, VMware rolled out the
latest version of its vSphere virtualization software, including full support for our GRID vGPU
graphics virtualization technology. Quadro professional graphics continued to maintain market
leadership. Refreshed in Q3, the lineup is now being shipped in all major OEMs. For the sixth year
in a row, every film nominated for an Academy Award for special effects was made using Quadro.
Our accelerated computing platform performed very strongly. Tesla's revenue growth from a
year ago exceeded 50%, as HPC customers and cloud service providers continued to deploy
large GPU-powered systems. These provide deep learning capabilities that help enable our
amazing capabilities like voice recognition and natural language processing. Using Tesla, ourDuring the quarter, we introduced the Tesla K80 dual-GPU, our new flagship Tesla offering. It
provides nearly twice the performance and double the memory bandwidth of its predecessor,
the Tesla K40. A single server with Tesla K80 delivers the same performance as eight servers
with our old Fermi generation GPU accelerators for a range of applications.
A powerful endorsement of Tesla came just ahead of the recent Supercomputing 2014 Show.
The U.S. Department of Energy announced that its next generation of supercomputers would
utilize Tesla GPU accelerators in conjunction with our powerful new NVIDIA NVLink high-speed
interconnect technology. These systems will be deployed at Oak Ridge and Lawrence Livermore
National Laboratories. It will be at least three times faster than today's most powerful systems.
These supercomputers will serve scientists across our nation in every field of science to
accelerate their research for the next 20 years.
Finally, NVIDIA's automotive platforms remain on a sharp upward trajectory, registering better
than 80% growth on the year. More than 7.5 million cars with our technology are now on the road,
up from 4.7 million a year ago.
At CES, we announced NVIDIA DRIVE, a computing platform for next-generation advanced driver
assistant systems and digital cockpits. NVIDIA DRIVE makes driving safer and more enjoyable by
introducing surround vision and Auto-Valet capabilities. Its cockpit computing platform includes 3D
navigation systems, natural speech, and image processing capabilities dramatically transforming
the automotive user interface.
NVIDIA DRIVE is the first car computing platform, utilizing advances in deep learning. DRIVE will
leverage our dramatic advances in deep learning for voice, language and image recognition to
enable surrounding and situational awareness in cars. We believe deep learning is the key
enabling technology to continue advancements and autonomous driving capabilities.
At the heart of NVIDIA DRIVE is the recent announcement of Tegra X1, a 256-core superchip with
over 1 teraflops of floating point processing power. Built on the same Maxwell architecture rolled
out only months earlier for high-level gaming, Tegra X1 provides the computational horsepower,
computer vision and graphic capabilities for cars that can see and learn.
Now let's take a more detailed look at the financials. Fourth quarter revenue increased 9% year-
over-year to a record $1.25 billion. Growth was driven by strength in gaming, data center, cloud,
and auto. Fourth quarter revenue was up 2% sequentially, the GPU business grew 8%, helped by
Maxwell GPUs and the seasonal increase in consumer PCs. Overall, Tegra Processors sales
decreased 33% as growth in our automotive and SHIELD devices was more than offset by lower
revenue from smartphone and tablets.
Fiscal 2015 revenue grew 13% to a record $4.68 billion. In our GPU business, revenue grew 13% in
Q4 from a year earlier. Revenue from our PC gaming platforms rose 38%, due to the popularity
of our high-end Maxwell-based GTX GPUs. Tesla GPUs for accelerated computing increased
strongly, driven by large project wins with cloud service providers. Tegra Processors declined 15%
in Q4 from a year ago as smartphone and tablet designs reached the end of their product
lifecycle. This is partially offset by the increased revenue from auto infotainment systems, which
more than doubled and from SHIELD devices.
Moving to gross margins, GAAP gross margin was 55.9% above our outlook for the quarter and
up 70 basis points from last quarter. Non-GAAP gross margin was 56.2%, also above our outlook
and was up 70 basis points sequentially. Strength in margins from gaming and accelerated
computing was partially offset by those from Tegra Processors and certain inventory provisionsmargin was 55.8%. These full-year record levels were led by the strength of our high-end GPUs
for gaming and accelerated computing.
GAAP operating expenses for the fourth quarter were $468 million. Non-GAAP operating
expenses were $420 million in line with our outlook and inclusive of legal fees associated with our
litigation against Samsung and Qualcomm. For fiscal 2015, GAAP operating expenses were $1.84
billion and non-GAAP operating expenses were $1.66 billion. The low single-digit growth from the
previous year represents discipline from our continued management of our investments in both
R&D and capital expenditures to enhance return on invested capital.
The U.S. federal R&D tax credit was reinstated for calendar 2014. For the full year, the GAAP
effective tax rate was 16.5%. Non-GAAP was 16.9%, incorporating the U.S. federal R&D tax credit.
For the fourth quarter, GAAP net income was $193 million, up 31%, driven by increased operating
profit from strong revenue and margins. GAAP earnings per diluted share of $0.35 increased
40% from a year ago quarter, reflecting net income growth and share repurchases. For the full
year, GAAP net income was $631 million, up 43%, and GAAP earnings per diluted share were up
51% from a year earlier.
Now turning to some key balance sheet items. During the full fiscal year of 2015, we paid $186
million in cash dividends, and repurchased 44.4 million shares for $814 million. As a result, we
returned to shareholders $1 billion during fiscal 2015. Since restarting our capital return program in
the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, we have returned approximately $2.22 billion to shareholders.
This represents 111% of our cumulative free cash flow for fiscal year 2013 through 2015, reflecting
the acceleration of our capital return program from cash generated in prior years.
In November of 2014, we announced our ongoing commitment to deliver shareholder value
through capital return, with the intention to return approximately $600 million to shareholders
through ongoing quarterly cash dividends and share repurchases in fiscal 2016.
Accounts receivable at the end of the quarter were $474 million, down from $563 million in the
prior quarter. Inventory at the end of the quarter was $483 million, up from $408 million in the
prior quarter. The sequential increase included the ramping of our new Maxwell-based GPUs and
Tegra-based SoCs and SHIELD devices.
Cash flow from operating activities was $443 million, up from the $216 million in the prior quarter,
reflecting higher net income and the annual payment from Intel. Free cash flow was $412 million in
the fourth quarter. Depreciation and amortization expense amounted to $54 million, capital
expenditures were $31 million.
Now turning to the outlook for the first quarter of fiscal 2016, we expect revenue for the first
quarter of 2016 to be $1.16 billion, plus or minus 2%. Growth year-over-year is expected from our
key platforms, gaming, data center and cloud, and automotive. Our GAAP and non-GAAP gross
margins are expected to be 56.2% and 56.5%, respectively, plus or minus 50 basis points.
The gross margin outlook is slightly higher than our Q4 performance, driven by our gaming and
accelerated computing platforms. GAAP operating expenses are expected to be approximately
$478 million with non-GAAP operating expenses of approximately $425 million, inclusive of legal
fees associated with our litigation against Samsung and Qualcomm. Excluding these legal fees,
we expect to maintain our operating expense levels near Q4 levels.
GAAP and non-GAAP tax rates for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 are expected to be 20%, plus or
minus 1%, excluding the benefit of the U.S. federal R&D tax credit which expired December of
2014.In summary, we are pleased with our record revenue for the quarter and the full year, which
reflects strength across our platforms and businesses, profitability as measured by earnings per
diluted share increased 51% in fiscal 2015 as our revenue and gross margin growth continued to
outpace our investments.
This concludes our remarks, and we will now turn it back to the operator for questions. Please be
sure to limit your questions to one with one follow-up. Operator?
Q&A
Operator
Certainly. Our first question comes from the line of Ross Seymore, he's with Deutsche Bank.
Q - `Ross C. Seymore, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
(17:31) on the strong results and guidance. I guess, the first question, Jen-Hsun, one for you on the
Tegra side of the business. I know that can be inherently lumpy in how it operates, but can you
talk about what you envision the biggest drivers in fiscal 2016 will be to get that business on a
growth trajectory versus the year-over-year drop that it's currently running at?
A - Jen-Hsun Huang `
Yeah, Ross, first of all, thanks. Our strategy for Tegra is to focus on automotive, gaming, and
wherever opportunities arise in OEMs, we surely will entertain it, but our fundamental focus is
automotive and gaming. And you already heard Colette say that our automotive business nearly
doubled year-over-year. Our gaming business is really strong. And we have some exciting things
that we'd love to share with you in the near future, but those are our two focuses for Tegra.
And if you look at the opportunities that we're pursuing in the area of automotive, obviously,
more and more cars are becoming computerized cars. And at CES, we announced a brand-new
platform called DRIVE. And DRIVE is basically a mobile superchip, a mobile super computer with a
ton of software on top and it provides for three basic functionalities. The first is a very advanced
digital cockpit. You know that we're incredibly good at computer graphics and the things that we
can do in the car, with more and more displays showing up in the car is pretty wonderful.
Now the second is the technology called surround vision. Beyond surround view, which is basically
cameras connected around the car, surround vision not only allows you to see the images from
the videos around the car, but also create a virtual environment around it, and using computer
vision technology, keep your car alert of the surroundings.
And the third is using a technology called deep learning that has been revolutionized recently.
And it's something that we're very much at the center of. Using deep learning, we can do voice
processing, natural language processing and understanding of imagery so that the car can be
more situational and environmentally-aware. All of those technologies I just described we believe
will help pave the path to the self-driving car.
In the area of mobile gaming, the gaming market, as you know, is huge and it's growing quite
rapidly internationally. It's about a $70 billion business now. We know that mobile cloud is probably
one of the most important disruptions in the history of computing, and yet, there's really no
computer gaming architecture that serves mobile cloud very well. And that's what SHIELD is all
about, to create the platform that allows mobile cloud to bring gaming to a lot more people. And
we think that by doing so, we'll be able to engage a much, much larger part of the overall gamingmarket than just PC gaming, okay. So our Tegra business model is about focusing on automotive
and gaming.
Q - `Ross C. Seymore, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Great. Thank you. I guess, as my follow-up, a bigger picture question for the GPU side of the
equation. You talked about the GeForce business being up 38% year-over-year, and GPUs, as an
entirety, were up 13%. Is there any color you can provide just into the size of the buckets within
your GPU segment, so we can get a little more granular in how we model those very disparate
growth rates, whether it's the four segments you break out and your segment definition and the
CFO commentary, or any other color you give that will be helpful. Thank you.
A - Jen-Hsun Huang `
We serve four markets: gaming, automotive, enterprise graphics, and high-performance
computing and cloud computing. Those are the four major segments that we – four major
markets that we serve.
GPUs serve gaming, enterprise graphics and cloud. Gaming, as we said earlier, has grown, as you
mentioned, 38% year-over-year. Our enterprise graphics business, the workstation business, is
relatively flattish. However, our enterprise virtualization – virtualized graphics platform, called
GRID, about doubled year-over-year.
And our Tesla business, which is our accelerated computing business, about doubled year-over-
year. The PC OEM business declined. The PC OEM business represents, I would say, low-teens,
maybe, approximately, part of our overall business. We've been talking about its decline for some
time now and this year, again, it declined.
Obviously, the PC OEM business representing umpteenth percent of our overall GPU business
represents a substantially lower part of its profits, because the gross margins at OEMs tends to
be much lower, but nonetheless, it declined year-over-year, okay. So looking at those segments
then, gaming grew, enterprise grew, cloud computing and high-performance computing grew.
OEM business, PC OEM business, declined from a low-teen percent level. Okay?
Q - `Ross C. Seymore, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. `
Great. Thank you very much.
A - Jen-Hsun Huang `
Yep, you're welcome.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Vivek Arya with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi. This is Shankar (23:36) on behalf of Vivek. Just a follow-up on that GPU breakdown. Could you
give a color on what's the – based on the guidance given for Q1, how do those individual
segments kind of play out?
A - Jen-Hsun Huang `
Sure. We guided seasonally down, and of course, as usual, we'll see how it turns out. But if you
look at the position of each one of our platforms, our position in gaming is very strong. Thethe production value of games is increasing all the times. And whenever the production value of a
game increases, it requires more GPU performance.
For the very first time in history, a game console has come out that uses essentially a PC
architecture. And its performance is substantially higher than the average PC performance. And
so as a result, we see a lot of adoption to our higher-end GPUs, and that's good. We also expect
that the Tesla platform continues to be quite robust. We know now that GPUs are wonderful
processors for massively parallel applications like deep learning.
Deep learning could be used for voice recognition, natural language processing, image
recognition, video tagging, all kinds of interesting applications that are made possible because of
cloud computing, and because there are so many sensors and images and voice being uploaded
into the cloud. That's one of the drivers for Tesla, and Tesla business has doubled year-over-year
from a fairly large base now. My expectation is that this coming year, Tesla will remain on that
trajectory. And I hope that Tesla will grow very nicely this coming year.
GRID, another part of our GPU business, is all about enterprise virtualization. Because of GRID,
we're now able to – companies are able to now virtualize beyond the data center all the way to
the end-user computing device. For the very first time, it is now possible to virtualize graphics-
intensive applications and make it possible for people to enjoy their applications wherever they
are. So now you can be virtualized, you can be more secure, you can be more mobile; enjoy
graphics on any device.
That platform is growing nicely. A year ago, we had about 400 trials. Today we have well over
1,000. And recently, the largest enterprise virtualization company in the world, VMware, has
integrated GRID into vSphere, and it has gone to production. And so we're seeing quite a bit of
momentum from that production release. So these platforms are all growing nicely and I expect
this year to help drive our growth.
Q - Operator
Great. So I just have a follow-up on the autos business. I know you have – you talked about
different products and features that you have been working on. And those seem to be kind of
the -maybe a high-end side of auto. But can you talk about the products that you have for the mid
and low-end because looks like that might be the area where the scale is? And also talk about
how you are – you plan to increase the gross margin for autos business, because looks like it's in
the low-30%, if I just back out all the numbers based on your reported numbers.
A - Jen-Hsun Huang `
Well, the answer to the second question, I know better than the answer to the first, so I'll just
answer that one first. The way to increase our gross margins is to continue to innovate and
increase the amount of value-added that we bring. And if you recall a long time ago, a long time
ago meaning about 10 years ago, NVIDIA's gross margins was about 30%-some-odd, and over
time, we made the platform more and more software-rich. Today's our gross margins are surely
much, much higher than 35%.
And so my expectation is to do the same on the NVIDIA DRIVE platform. It's intensely software-
rich. I think somebody said that today a car is about 10% software, but soon the car will be about
80% software. And I think that's right. I think that's right. I mean, in the future, with electric cars,
you have obviously still very sophisticated drivetrain and such, but the car's going to be largely a
computer with software. And that's where we can add an enormous amount of value and that's
what DRIVE is all about. Adding value through a very powerful processor, of course, but most ofthe capabilities I described from the digital cockpit to surround vision to deep learning is all about
software. It's all the software that runs on top of TX1. So that's number one.
On your question about high-end versus mid-range, I believe that more and more of the car's
value will be delivered through software. And if you have to deliver it through software, then the
processor underneath it is obviously more and more important. And my expectation is that great
computing platformers will extend well into mid-range and into the low-end part of the
marketplace. And that's a belief, and just as I believed a long time ago, that the car is going to be
one of our most sophisticated computers, which is obviously at this point coming true. My sense
is that it's going to continue to go down that path. And we're going to see a lot more
computation capability inside a car. To the point where I actually believe that every car will have a
good processor, the high-end cars will have many good processors.
Q - Operator
Okay. Thank you.
A - Jen-Hsun Huang `
You're welcome.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Matt Ramsay; he's with Canaccord Genuity. Please go
ahead.
Q - `Matt D. Ramsay, Canaccord Genuity, Inc. `
Yes. Thank you for taking my question. I think the first one, Jen-Hsun, you made some interesting
comments earlier about the need for, I guess, a fairly virtualized mobile gaming experience. I
assume you're meaning across desktop, tablet, smartphone, cloud, et cetera. One of the things
that strikes me is obviously there's the suit going on between yourselves and Qualcomm,
Samsung, et cetera. And your market share within the mobile graphics business, when you think
about smartphones, it's fairly small from a hardware perspective. So do you see that changing
dramatically going forward? And if not, do you see the gaming mobile device market bifurcating
from, like, the traditional smartphone market going forward?
A - Jen-Hsun Huang `
Yeah, Matt, thanks a lot for that question. First of all, mobile is much more than phones. Mobile is
a fundamentally new way of designing computers. And I believe the mobile will impact almost
every segment of computing as we know it. They will impact refrigerators; that's not a phone. It
will impact drones; that's not a phone. It will impact earrings; that's not a phone. It will impact
watches; that's not a phone. It will impact game consoles; that is not a phone. It will impact cars;
and that's not a phone. I think mobile is going to be important in all kinds of computing devices.
When I say mobile, that's what I mean. I don't mean mobile as in the mobile phone. Mobile
technologies are important. I also believe that mobile cloud in combination is one of the most
powerful computing forces that the computer industry has ever known. Because of mobile cloud,
we've been able to extend the capabilities and the benefits of computing to billions of people,
whereas in the PC era, we were able to benefit hundreds of millions of people.
And yet no one has yet created a game platform around mobile cloud. The technology of mobile
cloud, the power of mobile cloud, the architecture of mobile cloud, so that we can extendgaming not to tens of millions of game console users, but billions of users. I think that that's the
great opportunity, and I don't have anything to announce today, but that's what we're trying to
endeavor. So I appreciate you asking that question. I think it's going to be a really big opportunity
for us.
Q - `Matt D. Ramsay, Canaccord Genuity, Inc. `
Thank you for that perspective. As a follow-up, this one's for Colette. Obviously, you guys have
done a great job in returning cash to shareholders and announcing a new plan for the next fiscal
year. Maybe as the last fiscal year ends, maybe you could update us on your onshore and
offshore cash balances, if you could, and any perspectives on the difference in cash flow onshore
and offshore? Thanks.
A - Colette M. Kress `
Thanks, Matt, for the question. Again, we are looking at a cash balance lower than where we
ended at fiscal year 2014 due to our $1 billion return to shareholders, but also the increase in cash
flow. Nothing has materially changed in terms of our cash flow from international and our cash
flow in the U.S. So again, the majority of our cash flow tends to arrive from international overall
operations. We have about the same mix of overall U.S. cash versus international cash, a little
lower than where we ended at the end of fiscal year 2014. But we feel very confident with our
overall capital return program for fiscal year 2016 and the overall cash flow prospects. So I think
we're well aligned there.
Q - `Matt D. Ramsay, Canaccord Genuity, Inc. `
All right. Thank you very much.
A - Colette M. Kress `
Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of David Wong; he's with Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.
Q - `David M. Wong, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Thanks very much. Can you give us some idea of what percentage of Tegra is now automotive?
And just a clarification, when you say that automotive infotainment more than doubled year-over-
year, do you mean all automotive? Is there some other segment than infotainment or – yeah.
A - Jen-Hsun Huang `
Most of our automotive today is infotainment. More and more people are starting to do what
Audi has done with their really amazing virtual cockpit, where infotainment and digital clusters
merged into one. And digital clusters is much harder than infotainment. And so with Tegra, with
our automotive platform, we're able to easily merge the two. And so you'll see some more
examples of that in the future, but initially, it's largely infotainment, some of amount of digital
clusters, if that's your question. Between automotive and SHIELD, our gaming platform, that
represents the vast majority of Tegra now.
Q - `David M. Wong, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `Okay. Great. And you also mentioned Tesla more than doubled from an already substantial base.
Can you give us some idea of the size of Tesla today?
A - Jen-Hsun Huang `
I'm sorry, Tesla?
A - Colette M. Kress `
Tesla.
Q - `David M. Wong, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Tesla, yes.
A - Jen-Hsun Huang `
Tesla. Our Tesla is several hundred million dollars, it's multiple hundred million dollars now.
Q - `David M. Wong, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
On a quarterly basis?
A - Jen-Hsun Huang `
On an annual basis.
Q - `David M. Wong, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
All right. Okay. Great. Thank you.
A - Jen-Hsun Huang `
And it grew – nearly doubled year-over-year, so.
Q - `David M. Wong, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Great.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Christopher Rolland; he's with FBR Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Q - `Christopher Adam Jackson Rolland, FBR Capital Markets & Co. `
Hey, guys. Thanks for the question. Can you guys talk a little bit about your eventual move to 20
nanometers? And it seems like you guys are staying on 28 nanometers for perhaps a bit longer
than you have prior nodes, and if you are staying here for longer, is it safe to assume that you can
get some gross margin uplift year-over-year?
A - Jen-Hsun Huang `
Well, let's see. We're always moving to the next node. And Tegra X1, the mobile superchip that
we announced at CES is 20 nanometer. And so we're always moving forward. But the equation is
much more complicated than that. And the reason for that is because we have the ability –because of the fact that we architect and innovate from architecture all the way to software, we
have the ability to improve our performance and efficiency and features on all of those
dimensions.
We can improve at the architectural level, using the same process; we can innovate at the design
level, using the same process and same architecture; we can innovate at the process level; we
can innovate at the software level; we can innovate at the algorithm level. And because we
control all of that, we have the ability to move the needle forward in multiple dimensions.
And so if you look at Maxwell, Maxwell is an unbelievable energy-efficient processor. And because
of the energy efficiency of Maxwell, not only did we make all of GeForce higher performance,
lower power, quieter, we were also able to take that GPU just a few months later and put it into a
Tegra X1, and the performance is really quite shocking. And so we can innovate on multiple levels
as a company. That's one of the benefits. But overall, we're moving forward all the time in
process technology.
Q - `Christopher Adam Jackson Rolland, FBR Capital Markets & Co. `
Okay, great. And then also at CES, loved the automated driving stuff, but I was a little confused
on the way that you're positioning yourself in that market, particularly sort of you against or either
with Mobileye, I mean, I talked to one person, they say you're going head to head; I talked to
another person, they say you're partnering; and I talked to another person at the booth who said
that you guys are really enabling third parties to go after Mobileye. So how do we think about
yourself positioning yourself in that market? Are you really going after them there?
A - Jen-Hsun Huang `
Oh, wow, I appreciate that question. I think it's a great question. And the answer is actually really
simple. I mean, we are in two different things. We make two different things. And so we're very
complementary. Mobileye, think of it as a computer vision signal processor ISP, if you will. It's
connected to the camera, and they do wonderful work in computer vision in that area.
The DRIVE platform is a computing platform, just as a phone has a ISP as well as the application
processor; in this case, we're the application processor, if you will. This application processor has
been designed to be incredible in the three areas that I talked about, digital cockpit, surround
vision and deep learning-based computer vision.
And so, many of the customers, in fact, most of the customers that I know, where there's ADAS
work being done, we're both involved. And so we're connected to many Mobileye devices, and
we're delighted by that. But even if you're able to detect images and objects, you still need to do
something to process that information. And we could do it, we could reconstruct the surround
environment, we still have to drive the infotainment and the digital cluster, and of course, we
could apply higher-level deep learning algorithms to figure out what to do with the objects that
you detect.
And so I see ourselves very, very complementary and, of course, because we're a general
purpose processor and it's one teraflops of computing, we can do a lot of things for computer
vision. And that's probably where people are questioning the overlap. But from where I see it,
we're very complementary.
Q - `Christopher Adam Jackson Rolland, FBR Capital Markets & Co. `
Great. Thanks, guys.Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Blayne Curtis, Barclays Capital, Inc.; he's with Barclays. Please go ahead.
Q - `Blayne Curtis, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Thanks for taking my question. Jen-Hsun, I just want to follow up on in terms of the auto
opportunity, just your dollar, how you see your dollar content progressing? You're talking about
selling modules, multiple processors and then, more importantly, monetizing the software. And
then, if you could talk about some of the timing here, I think the auto OEMs have become a little
quicker. Where are you today in terms of the generation of products you're selling, Tegra 3 or K1?
And when could you see some of these more advanced systems actually hitting revenue?
A - Jen-Hsun Huang `
Yeah, I really appreciate the question. And you're exactly right. The dynamics are that more and
more of the value of a car is going to have to go into its computing, the hearts and soul of its
computing platform. And our expectations about a computer car and the software capabilities we
can bring to bear over mechanical electronic type of widgety things is going to grow substantially.
Second, the fact of the matter is you can't spend five years designing a car anymore. Consumer
electronics moves way too fast. People's expectations are set by what they have in their phones.
And so you've got to move faster. And the most progressive car companies are moving at the
speed of light now. They've taken their design cycle from five years to three years, and I think I'm
seeing them moving down to two years, potentially one year. And so this is going to be a brand-
new automotive industry.
And the third thing that you mentioned is the content. Well, if you think about cars, as a chip
opportunity, and it's an application processor opportunity like in infotainment, like a smartphone,
then, of course it's intensive dollars. But I actually see the car as a multi-thousand dollar computer
opportunity. Some are one computer. Some are many computers. And we're a computer
company; we're a visual computing company. We are software-rich. All of the applications that I
mentioned, the capabilities I mentioned are all software. We provide the entire BSP. We're one of
the few companies in the automotive industry that can provide literally end-to-end solutions, and
that's what DRIVE is about. DRIVE is a computer platform, software and all, and we provide
capabilities across the board, okay. So I see the car long-term as quite a large opportunity for us,
not a chip opportunity, because we're not a chip company anymore.
Q - `Blayne Curtis, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Thanks. And just for Colette quickly on gross margin. I think you mentioned gaming as the tailwind
for gross margin. Is that more a function of just Maxwell in pricing? Or are you actually seeing
gaming not down as much seasonally? And then as you look out the rest of the year, how should
we think of that tailwind?
A - Colette M. Kress `
Yeah. Thanks for the question. So our gross margin guidance is just for Q1. We do see seasonal
effects as we usually go from Q4 to Q1. We believe gaming is still a driver, just due to the mix of
the type that we're selling into the market. And we've also talked about accelerated computing
and cloud also as a driver of our guidance in Q1.
Q - `Blayne Curtis, Barclays Capital, Inc. `Okay. Thank you.
A - Colette M. Kress `
Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Harlan Sur with JPMorgan. Please go ahead.
Q - `Harlan L. Sur, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Hi. Good afternoon and great job on the quarterly execution. Maxwell is driving a solid sound
expansion into the notebook market. I think you guys started to see that in Q3 with that segment
up 2x year-over-year. Customer gaming mobile platforms are pretty visible during the holiday
season. So I apologize if I missed this, but how much did the notebook gaming business grow for
you guys in Q4? And maybe, Jen-Hsun, if you can just help us quantify where the attach rates
could go, and how much this expands your GPU gaming opportunity?
A - Jen-Hsun Huang `
Yeah. I really appreciate the question. Maxwell made it possible – first of all, the background,
Maxwell made it possible for the very first time the ability to put a high-end GPU in a laptop and
deliver a desktop-quality experience. So you can now get a laptop with a GeForce in it and have –
and run triple-A titles at 1080p and at quality levels and frame rates higher than the state-of-the-
art game consoles. That's pretty amazing. You can now just have a nice and thin laptop and it's
better than a game console. It's better than a game console. And so people are quite excited
about that. Maxwell made that possible.
We see this business growing well over 100% per year at the moment simply because it's off of a
small base. This has been an under-served part of the market for some time. We really welcome
just about every company in the world, laptop company in the world into this opportunity, from
ASUS to MSI to Gigabyte, recently even HP came into this, and I say even because, of course, HP
is largely focused on enterprises. And yet this opportunity is so significant that their notebook
business decided to jump into the GeForce platform. Of course, Dell, of course, Alienware, of
course, Razer.
We're just seeing a lot of support from every notebook maker in the world, because this is an
under-served market, if you will. And with the Maxwell energy efficiency, for the first time, we're
able to deliver an experience that quite frankly is pretty amazing. And so where do I see the
attach? I guess, I don't think about attach anymore. And the reason for that is because PC OEM
business is not really our focus, in the sense that it's already a low umpteen part of our business.
The way we think about that business is that's really a gaming business. And how big can it be
really is a function of how many gamers are there in the world. And I think the numbers are
actually quite substantial – are really quite substantial. So I see this as a growth opportunity for
some time.
Q - `Harlan L. Sur, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Thanks for that, Jen-Hsun. And then, Colette, nice job on your part and on the team's part on the
OpEx discipline in Q4 and here in Q1, how should we think about the OpEx trajectory for the
remainder of the year?Yeah. We really just are here to focus on our Q1 guidance. And what we can see at this time,
when we get further into the year, we'll talk about the full year. But again, we do just want to
balance our Q1 with the investments that we need to make, with again, looking at the efficiencies
across the org and what we can do. So I think that's a consistent theme. And you've seen us play
that out in fiscal year 2015. And our guidance for Q1 is about that same.
Q - `Harlan L. Sur, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Sanjay Chaurasia, Nomura Securities International, Inc. with Nomura. Please go ahead.
Q - `Sanjay Chaurasia, Nomura Securities International, Inc. `
Hey, Jen-Hsun, one question on your GRID GPUs. My impression was that you were very excited
about upcoming VMware release, and it has G8 obviously. I was just wondering if you – does it
give you better visibility in terms of upcoming deployments? And do you see that all the
challenges that remain for the customers that were trialing GRID, they're ready to deploy that? Or
you see there are some missing pieces still? I just wanted to get some color on that. Thanks.
A - Jen-Hsun Huang `
Well, with VMware's integration, we're now able to engage probably some 80% of the world's
enterprises. Just about anybody who has virtualized their enterprise has done so with VMware's
technology. And so I think that this is a really big deal. And if you look at our trials, we went from
about 400 last year this time to well over 1,000 this year this time. Our revenues doubled.
My sense is that there's no reason for that pace to slow. And we'll see how it turns out. But I
would think that my intuition would be kind of like yours, that if anything, it ought to accelerate.
But there is really – the most important thing about enterprise virtualization all the way to the
client is to have deep integration with VMware, and we've done that. And they've done a great
job. They've been a great partner.
Q - `Sanjay Chaurasia, Nomura Securities International, Inc. `
Another follow-up, Jen-Hsun. You guys indicated some large project wins with cloud service
provider on Tesla side. Could you give us some color on what exactly is the use case? You did talk
about deep learning and image processing. Just wanted to understand a little bit if you could give
us more color. And where exactly are you on that ramp? Is that kind of a lumpy deployment that
you saw? Or is that something very early in the ramp and we could continue to see that grow?
A - Jen-Hsun Huang `
Yeah. A lot of these projects are quite confidential. But I'll highlight two that have been public.
Baidu announced they've built a supercomputer based on Tesla for deep learning and it's used
for natural language processing, translations in real-time from language to language, image
recognition. Another one that was public, I just saw it yesterday. And this is actually quite a
monumental event. The event is for the very first time, for the very first time in history, a
computer is able to understand images better than humans.
This is a milestone event in the development of neural nets, the development of computer vision.
And it was announced by Microsoft yesterday. The best human has the ability to detect and makeerrors on about 5.1% of the time or recognize 95% of the images that they're presented. For the
very first time in history, a computer is now able to recognize over 95%, better than a human.
That I think is really quite a record. We will remember this day for a long time and look back on it.
And they also said that their deep neural nets were trained using NVIDIA GPUs. And so you could
see that these are a couple of the examples, and they were public about it. In the coming event,
there's a GTC coming up. It's on March 15?
A - Operator
17.
A - Jen-Hsun Huang `
17, I'm sorry. March 17, our annual GPU Technology Conference. And this year we're going to
highlight deep learning and computer vision. I really, really encourage people who love computer
technology to come and see some of the largest computer companies and most influential
computer designers in the world talk about using GPUs in these areas. It's just a huge event. And
this is going to be the largest GTC we've ever held. It's right here in San Jose, and this could be
the Mecca for deep learning.
Operator
Our next question comes from Rajvindra Gill with Needham. Please go ahead.
Q - `Rajvindra S. Gill, Needham & Co. LLC `
Yes, thanks, and congrats on great results as well. Could you just talk a little bit about your
transition to a platform company? You definitely, over the last few years, have transformed from
a component supplier to more of a platform-based business where you're getting higher
margins. I'm just wondering kind of where we are in that development cycle? And how do you
look at the overall – the business model over the next three years to five years for the company?
A - Jen-Hsun Huang `
Yeah. I really appreciate the question. First of all, if you look at our company 10 years ago, 10
years ago, we were 100% PC OEMs largely. Maybe it wasn't a 100%, but it was close. And now
we're less than – we're only umpteen percent, substantially less than 20%. And so the company
has been transitioning to this new model with our own platforms, largely software. And they serve
four vertical markets. These four vertical markets have a characteristic that really, really benefits
from great visual computing technology.
And those four vertical markets, as I've mentioned is gaming, it's automotive, it's enterprise
graphics, and it's high-performance computing and cloud computing. And our PC OEM business is
continuing to decline because PCs have largely become good enough, and it's fragmented. Most
people use their PCs for information access, for working and some people use it for gaming. And
so for those gaming markets, we serve those, but for most of the generic and mainstream PCs,
we've largely been out of those for some time. And so if you look at our business, it's now really
focused on serving these four markets with our market specialty platforms. And so I really
appreciate that.
Now the gross margins are obviously higher because it's very software-rich. If you extracted out
the PC OEM business and just looked at those four segments, our gaming business, I think
somebody mentioned was growing at over 30%; our automotive business has doubled; our Tesladoubled year-over-year. And so those value-added highly differentiated platforms are really
growing nicely. And it's more than making up for the decline of our PC OEM business, which, as a
result, our margins also increased. And so now you're starting to see the dynamics of the
business and it basically works like that.
Q - `Rajvindra S. Gill, Needham & Co. LLC `
So very good. And last question from me with respect to GRID. So I was wondering if you could
maybe update us on the design engagements with GRID in 2014 relative to, say, 2013. And as
you continue on this trajectory, can you talk a little bit about how the enterprises are beginning to
realize the leverage that a cloud-based visual computing architecture enables? And when do you
think – because the installed base is very large, as you've mentioned. And do you think this share
will be the inflection point? Or are we already past the inflection point and you think we're going
to start to see more acceleration of this cloud-based visual system?
A - Jen-Hsun Huang `
Yeah. Well, there's a – let me break that question down into a couple of pieces. One, the number
of OEM platforms that we were designed into, that we were designed into, was about 50 last
year. It's almost 100 this year. About 50 this time last year, about 100 at this time. The number of
trials we have last year was about 400. And number of trials we have here is about 1,000-plus.
And the difference – and I think the difference going forward for this coming year when we stand
here and look at this coming year backwards, I believe that what we're going to see is because of
our now completed integration with both VMware and Citrix, and the fact that every single
enterprise OEM has now adopted GRID, and that GRID is making its way through just about every
enterprise, every company in the world, as they get to be familiarized with them. I believe that
this year could be a very important year for GRID.
Now, the second question that you asked is, what are some of the things that people found are
benefits of GRID. And I would say that there are several. The first one, the very first one, is, of
course, mobility. Mobility as in the sense that you can now access your PC applications from
anywhere you happen to be on any device you happen to be on. And so whatever device you
have, all you have to do is to have a browser, and – or an application, a receiver, if you will,
receiver application from VMware or Citrix, and you remote back into your PC, and every graphics
application is perfectly compatible. The performance is wonderful. And it's where you left off,
okay.
So, one is mobility. Second, for the benefit of the IT department, it's security. No more digital
downloads. The computer has now moved to the data center, the computer has moved to the
data center where the data is, so that you don't have to move the data to the client. I think that
that's going to be a utter transformational event for security.
And then, the third is collaboration. Because more and more of us are working on the same
dataset, and the data has become quite large, the ability to move the computer, if you will, to the
data prevents all of us from having to download large data to our own client and become out of
sync. And so now we can collaborate on the same dataset because our computers are all right
there in the data center.
There are many other benefits, but these are the three. I mean, I've also heard great stories. In
Japan, one particular car company wanted to move all the workstations into the data center
because it's dangerous to have so many heavy things in such tight environments. And during
earthquakes, it's harder for them to manage all those different computers. And so they have aAnother one, because of flexible work forces, this is now in Europe, large car companies do a lot
of outsourcing, and because they work with different Tier 1s from a lot of different industries, it's
hard for them to collaborate with them without having all their engineers of the Tier 1s or the
subcontractors move on-site, and so now with GRID, they can actually have the computer be
remotely accessed off-site in a secure way without digital download of the data, and the
engineers, their subcontractors, can literally be everywhere. There are all kinds of anecdotal stuff.
IT departments of colleges, college is a perfect example, another example. They have a large
number of computers, but the computer per square meter is very, very low, because, as you
know, the colleges are very large in campus. And then also, the people come and go, they only
stay for a couple, two, three years, by definition. And so in that particular case, putting all of the
workstations into data center has tremendous benefits to the IT department. So I hope that
answers your question.
Q - `Rajvindra S. Gill, Needham & Co. LLC `
It really did. Thank you, and exciting stuff. Thanks.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Stephen Chin, UBS Securities LLC with UBS. Please go ahead.
Q - `Stephen Chin, UBS Securities LLC `
Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. Jen-Hsun, if I could first ask about the gaming business in
terms of PCs, in fiscal Q4, can you talk a little bit more about geographically, how demand was
across the developed markets as well as the emerging markets?
A - Jen-Hsun Huang `
Yes, Stephen. Our largest market is China. As you know – well, as you probably could guess,
GeForce is the largest game platform in China. And the reason for that is because it's a market
that historically hasn't had access to game consoles. It's still extremely important, even though
extremely expensive consoles are, and of course, most of the titles are from the West, and most
of the titles that people enjoy in China tends to be multiplayer; it tends to be role-playing games;
it tends to be Internet-based games.
And so China still remains our largest market. The fastest growing market is probably Southeast
Asia. These developing countries – developing markets, excuse me, developing markets, when
they get to a certain point in their computer history and Internet history, all of a sudden, the
gaming market booms. And in that area, Southeast Asia, we know now the economies have
become sufficiently vibrant because of the outpouring of opportunities from China.
Those local, regional economies have now become quite large and quite vibrant. And we're
seeing the same thing now as we saw five years ago in China. We're seeing the same
developments in Southeast Asia. So I would say that Southeast Asia is probably the fourth largest
region, but it's the fastest growing region by far. And then, of course, the U.S. and Europe are
both quite vibrant.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Alex Gauna with JMP Securities. Please go ahead.
Q - `Alex D. Gauna, JMP Securities LLC `Hey, thanks very much. Congratulations on the great quarter and year. I was wondering, Jen-Hsun,
if you could update us on what's going on in the licensing front, perhaps comment on if it's
getting to the point where it might provide a tailwind to gross margins this year, or if not this year,
when? Thanks.
A - Jen-Hsun Huang `
Well, our licensing discussions are ongoing and quite rigorous. And the thing that is, of course,
very important to know is that we are unquestionably the world leader in visual computing. And
we have created so much of modern computer graphics, it's almost hard to even make a list of it
anymore. Fundamentally, from the invention of the GPU to modern general-purpose computing
GPUs like CUDA and others, the type of work that we're doing is obviously pioneering, and it's
very important to many markets.
We're open to licensing technology to companies who would like to exercise their own design
and build their differentiated products, but protecting our IP is extremely important to our
company. We're in discussions – of course, the most public discussion is the one with Samsung
and Qualcomm. And we're looking forward to some of the developments that will be happening
in just a few more months. And so I look forward to reporting on the developments in that area in
the next several quarters.
A - Colette M. Kress `
Okay. Operator, we're going to take one more question.
Operator
Okay. Our last question comes from the line of Ian Ing with MKM Partners. Please go ahead.
Q - `Ian L. Ing, MKM Partners LLC `
Yes, thanks. Could you talk about your foundry strategy a little bit? I mean, TSMC, good supplier,
but not considered the best FinFET out there. Would you consider diversification being something
you'd evaluate?
A - Jen-Hsun Huang `
Well, first of all, TSMC is a fabulous supplier; and number two, their FinFET technology is
excellent. And we've been evaluating it. And we – of course, we do test chips. And our test chip
technology is incredibly rigorous. And we take it very, very seriously. This comes from the years of
learning that, and working with advanced process nodes and fast process ramps. We take it
incredibly seriously. So we've been working with TSMC on FinFET now for a couple of years. And
so we have quite a bit of confidence in their ability to deliver amazing FinFET transistors. I guess,
with respect to that, we always look at all foundries. And TSMC remains our most strategic, of
course, and they're going to continue to be a very, very important partner for us for the
foreseeable future.
A - Colette M. Kress `
Okay, operator, I think this is the end of our call; and to all that joined us, I thank you. And we'll see
you next quarter.
OperatorLadies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. We thank you for your
participation and ask that you please disconnect your line.