Q4 2019 Earnings Call

Operator
Good afternoon. My name is Christina, I will be your conference operator for today. Welcome to
NVIDIA's Financial Results Conference Call. Thank you.
I'll now turn the call over to `Simona Jankowski, Vice President, Investor Relations, Vice President of Investor Relations, to begin your
conference.
`Simona Jankowski, Vice President, Investor Relations `
Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to NVIDIA's conference call for the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2019. With me on the call today from NVIDIA are: `Jen-Hsun Huang, Co-founder, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, President and
Chief Executive Officer; and Colette Kress, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'd like to remind you that our call is being webcast live on NVIDIA's Investor Relations website.
The webcast will be available for replay until the conference call to discuss our financial results for
the first quarter of fiscal 2020. The content of today's call is NVIDIA's property. It can't be
reproduced or transcribed without our prior written consent.
During this call, we may make forward-looking statements based on current expectations. These
are subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties, and our actual results may differ
materially. For a discussion of factors that could affect our future financial results and business,
please refer to the disclosure in today's earnings release, our most recent Forms 10-K and 10-Q,
and the reports that we may file on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission.All our statements are made as of today, February 14, 2019, based on information currently
available to us. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update any such
statements. During this call, we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures. You can find a
reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures in our CFO
Commentary, which is posted on our website.
With that, let me turn the call over to Colette.
`Colette M. Kress, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Thanks, Simona. As you know, we lowered our fourth quarter guidance on January 28, and our
results are in line with our pre-announcement. Q4 revenue was $2.21 billion, down 24% from a
year earlier, driven primarily by a 45% year-on-year decline in Gaming. Full-year revenue was $11.72
billion, up 21% from the previous year.
Starting with our Gaming business, revenue of $954 million was down 45% year-on-year, and
down 46% sequentially, weaker than our expectations heading into the quarter. Full-year revenue
was up 13% to $6.25 billion.
Three factors contributed to the Q4 Gaming revenue decline. First, post-crypto inventory of GPUs
in the channel caused us to reduce shipments in order to allow excess channel inventory to fill
through. We expect channel inventories to normalize in Q1, in line with one to two quarter timeline
we had outlined on our previous earnings call. Second, deteriorating macroeconomic conditions,
particularly in China, impacted consumer demand for our GPUs. And third, sales of certain high-
end GPUs using our new Turing architecture, including the GeForce RTX 2080 and 2070, were
lower than we expected for the launch of a new architecture.
These products deliver a revolutionary leap in performance and innovation with real-time ray
tracing and AI, but some customers may have delayed their purchase while waiting for lower
price points or further demonstration of the RTX technology in actual games. The significant
volatility in our Gaming business over the last few quarters has been challenging to model. Crypto
mining demand and its after effects have distorted the quarter-to-quarter trends in the Gaming
business and obscured its underlying trend line.
Let me try to give you some visibility into what we believe the normalized business looks like. As
you know, our Gaming business consists of desktop gaming, notebook gaming and gaming
console products. To get a sense of the underlying run rate in our Gaming business last year, it is
helpful to look at desktop gaming revenue across a period that doesn't include crypto demand.
Let's look at the four quarters, starting from Q2 of last year to the current quarter or Q1 this year.
In Q2 and Q3 of last year, with the benefit of hindsight, we shipped a higher amount of desktop
gaming products relative to where end demand turned out to be. To allow the channel to work
down that excess channel inventory, we shipped a lower amount relative to end demand in Q4,
and we'll do so again in Q1. Therefore, exiting Q1, we expect channel inventories to be at normal
levels.
On average, our desktop gaming revenue across these fours quarters is about $900 million. We
believe this represents the normalized level of desktop gaming for this period. Notebook gaming
and gaming consoles have averaged close to $500 million per quarter over the same four
quarters. Thus, in total, we believe our normalized quarterly gaming business revenue run rate is
approximately $1.4 billion.As we look past Q1, we expect the channel inventory correction to be behind us and our business
to have bottomed. On a full year basis, we expect our Gaming business to be down slightly, given
the tough first half compares with growth in Turing and notebook gaming.
At CES last month, we launched into the recovery of our Gaming business. We announced the
GeForce RTX 2060 at the midrange price point of $349. The 2060 delivers a 60% performance
improvement over the GTX 1060, while also bringing Turing's real-time ray tracing and AI features
to the mass market for the first time. The 2060 has received rave reviews and is off to a great
start.
In addition, we announced a record of 40-plus new Turing-based gaming laptops, which became
available on January 29. This is more than double the number of GeForce-powered notebooks in
the market last year, featuring the energy efficiency of the Turing architecture, thin and light
laptops are able to deliver the performance of desktop gaming PCs. We expect GeForce laptops
to continue to be the fastest growing segment of gaming.
We are also pleased to see growing momentum in the RTX ecosystem as more game
developers are creating content to take advantage of the Turing architecture's amazing
capabilities. Just this week, DLSS technology is becoming available in two blockbuster games,
Battlefield V and Metro Exodus and Anthem coming soon. In addition, at CES, Justice and Atomic
Heart showed demos featuring ray tracing and DLSS. And a large pipeline of games plan to
integrate RTX technology.
Pairing DLSS with ray tracing can provide comparable frame rates to traditional rasterization, but
also much more beautiful cinematic visuals, the best of both worlds. This is the next generation of
gaming. While this was a challenging quarter in our Gaming business, we look forward to putting
the channel inventory correction behind us and building on the solid foundation of our Turing
architecture.
Moving to Datacenter, revenue was $679 million, up 12% year-on-year, and down 14% sequentially.
Full year Datacenter revenue was $2.93 billion, up a strong 52%. The Q4 sales decline was broad-
based across vertical end markets and geographies. As the quarter progressed, customers
around the world became increasingly cautious due to rising economic uncertainty and a number
of deals did not close in January.
In addition, hyperscale and cloud purchases declined both sequentially and year-on-year as
several customers paused at the end of the year. We believe the pause is temporary. The
strength of NVIDIA's accelerated computing platform remains intact. We continue to lead the
industry in performance for scientific computing and deep learning. And with CUDA's
programmability, we can continue to expand the value of our platform. For example, we recently
announced RAPIDS or CUDA acceleration stack for data analytics and machine learning.
In December, the first objective third-party AI benchmark called MLPerf became available and
NVIDIA captured the top spots in the six test categories for training deep learning models that
we competed in. And in January, Google Cloud announced that NVIDIA T4 Tensor Core GPUs are
now available in beta in its datacenters in the U.S., Europe, Brazil, India, Singapore and Tokyo.
The T4 is a universal cloud GPU that accelerates a variety of workloads, including high-
performance computing, deep learning training and inference, broader machine learning, data
analytics and graphics. Our visibility remains low in the current cautious spending environment,
and we don't forecast a meaningful recovery in the Datacenter segment, until later in the year.
However, we are working closely with hyperscalers around the world to integrate NVIDIAInference currently drives less than 10% of our Datacenter business, but represents a significant
expansion of our addressable market opportunity going forward. We have also strengthened our
product portfolio and go-to-market capabilities to address vertical industries that have an
enormous data and analytics requirement, such as automotive, financial services, retail,
healthcare and consumer Internet services.
With our RAPIDS software stack, NVIDIA can accelerate data analytics and machine learning as we
have done in deep learning. And we made it easier for customers to adopt our technology by
partnering with Cisco, IBM, NetApp and Pure Storage to create pre-integrated systems that can
be sold through their global IT channels.
Moving to Pro Visualization. Revenue reached $293 million, up 15% from the prior year, and down
4% sequentially. Full year revenue was $1.13 billion, up 21% year-on-year. New applications like data
science, AI and VR, as well as the need for thin and light mobile workstations remain key growth
drivers for the business. We had key wins in the quarter including Boeing, Google, LinkedIn and
Toyota for applications including AI and robotics.
This past week, with our partners HP, Dell, Lenovo, we announced the availability of Quadro RTX
workstations. Quadro RTX is the most significant workstation GPU upgrade in 10 years. It will
enable millions of designers and creative artists for the first time to work interactively with super
high resolution media and photorealistic 3D rendering, enabling them to be creative with
dramatically improved productivity.
Finally, turning to Automotive. Q4 revenue was $163 million, up 23% from a year ago and down
5% sequentially. Full-year revenue reached $641 million, up 15%. The sequential decline was
largely seasonal. The year-on-year growth was driven by the increasingly adoption of next-
generation AI cockpit solutions and autonomous vehicle development deals, partially offset by
declines in legacy infotainment.
Last month at CES, we announced DRIVE AutoPilot, the world's first commercially available Level
2+ self-driving car computer. This system offers sophisticated automated driving features that far
surpass today's ADAS offerings, increasing the vehicle's performance, functionality and road
safety, while the driver remains in control.
To deliver these capabilities, DRIVE AutoPilot uses multiple deep neural networks, surround
camera perception both in and outside of the car, and significant AI processing capability.
Systems from our Tier 1 partners including Bosch, Continental, Veoneer and ZF were all on display
on our booth.
Volvo, as announced back in October, was our first Level 2+ design win with cars slated for
production in the early 2020s. Mercedes-Benz has also chosen NVIDIA for its next-generation
autonomous vehicle and cockpit computer. This centralized AI computing system replaces dozens
of smaller processors inside current cars.
DRIVE AutoPilot is a major milestone for NVIDIA, and takes our high functioning self-driving
capabilities into the mass market. This will be an important year for robotaxi pilots and initial Level
2 design wins.
Moving to the rest of the P&L and balance sheet, Q4 GAAP gross margins was 54.7%, and non-
GAAP was 56.0%, down sequentially and year-on-year primarily due to a $128 million charge for
DRAM boards, and other components associated with our lower-than-expected Q4 revenue and
current market conditions.GAAP operating expenses were $913 million and non-GAAP operating expenses were $755
million, up 25% and 24% year-on-year, respectively. The GAAP EPS was $0.92, down 48% from a
year earlier. Full year GAAP EPS was $6.63, up 38% from the prior year. Non-GAAP EPS was $0.80,
down 53% from a year ago. Full year non-GAAP EPS was $6.64, up 35% from the prior year.
We returned $1.95 billion to shareholders in the fiscal year through a combination of quarterly
dividends and share repurchases. As we announced last quarter, we plan to return $3 billion to
shareholders through the end of fiscal 2020 in the form of dividends and buybacks. We
repurchased $700 million during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019.
With that, let me turn to the outlook for the first quarter of fiscal 2020. We expect revenue to be
$2.2 billion, plus or minus 2%. GAAP and non-GAAP gross margins are expected to be 58.8% and
59% respectively, plus or minus 50 basis points. GAAP and non-GAAP operating expenses are
expected to be approximately $930 million and $755 million, respectively.
GAAP and non-GAAP OI&E are both expected to be an income of $20 million. GAAP and non-
GAAP tax rates are both expected to be 10%, plus or minus 1%, excluding discrete items. Capital
expenditures are expected to be approximately $150 million to $170 million.
For fiscal 2020, we expect Q1 to mark the bottom as we pass the inventory collection in Gaming.
We expect total revenue for the year to be flat to down slightly with growth in our four end
markets, compensating for the absence of crypto revenue and the excess sell-in from last year.
We plan to grow OpEx in the high single digits this year, and we continue to invest in our focused
growth areas of graphics, AI and self-driving cars. Further financial details are included in the CFO
commentary, and other information is available in our IR website.
In closing, I'd like to highlight upcoming events for the financial community. We'll be presenting at
the Morgan Stanley Technology, Media & Telecom Conference on February 26. And our next
earnings call to discuss our financial results for the quarter of fiscal 2020 take place on May 15.
We will now open the call for questions. Operator, would you please poll for questions? Thank
you.
Q&A
Operator
Our first question comes from the line of `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC with Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Toshiya Hari, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Great. Thank you so much for taking the question. I had two questions. First, Colette, you talked
about the weakness you saw in the 2070 and the 2080 in the quarter. I guess this question is
more for Jen-Hsun. Are you concerned at all about your ability to convince and incentivize gamers
to upgrade? Or as Colette pointed out, is it more of a timing thing?
And the second question is, inventory was up on the balance sheet. Colette, if you could just
provide some color there expectations going forward? Thank you.
A - `Jen-Hsun Huang, Co-founder, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director
Yeah, Toshiya, when we launched the 2070 and 2080, it was the first time we've ever launched a
new generation, where the only available SKUs were very high end. And in addition to that, theearly boards that came out into the marketplace were the special edition and the overclocked
versions. And the MSRP versions didn't show up for some short time after, couple of months
after. And so, the conditions weren't ideal, if you will.
Now, we weren't able to launch into the mainstream segment with 2060 for all the reasons that I
think everybody understands now. And so, I think the situation wasn't ideal. When you take a look
at our situation now, every single graphics card had the best performance at its price point, and it
remains so today.
And I think that, right out of the box, it delivered excellent performance. It is true that everybody
was hoping to see more games with RTX on day one. But it's such a new technology with ray
tracing and AI for image processing that it's only really possible to make available with new
games, which is tied to the schedules of new games. And now, they're starting to come out.
Battlefield V, Metro Exodus, I think the reviews from this week are just spectacular. People are
finally realizing what it is that we were talking about. And that it's possible with RTX technology,
the combination of applying ray tracing and AI for us to deliver much more beautiful images
without sacrificing performance, to understand now the benefits of the RTX technology.
And we just needed some time to demonstrate it. And I think the takeaway is simply this. RTX is
the best graphics card in every single price point without using ray tracing technology. And for
new games that are coming out, each one of the new games that come out in the future will
apply ray tracing, work with developers to apply ray tracing technology. I think everybody agrees
that it's surely the next generation.
And then, probably, one of the biggest stories that came out just last week is Unreal Engine and
Unity both of the game engines are going to incorporate RTX and ray tracing technology in the
engine itself. And so, all future games in the future will be able to take advantage of that. So,
that's a really big news, and I'm excited about that.
A - `Colette M. Kress, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
So, Toshiya, to answer your second question regarding our inventory balance, our inventory
balance at the end of Q4 rose just due to the weaker-than-expected finish to Q4. Inventory right
now is primarily related to Turing, Volta and DGX. And we don't expect any further write-downs,
as we have incorporated approximately $128 million of write-downs within the current Q4.
Operator
Your next question is from `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC with Evercore.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC
Yeah. Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my question. I guess, on the commentary regarding a
pause in spending in datacenter, and a handful of deals that got delayed, can you give a little bit
more color in terms of I guess what you're seeing across the enterprise, cloud, high-performance
compute? And I guess within that, how you're seeing the ramp of T4? And I guess, if you can kind
of then speak to I'm sure embedded in the fiscal 2020 guidance is a pretty nice ramp into the
second half. What are the key drivers, key milestones that you're looking for to see that business
reaccelerate higher as we go through the year?
A - `Jen-Hsun Huang, Co-founder, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director
Yeah. Hi, C.J. The slowdown is broad-based. We saw it across every vertical, every geography.service providers that we've not experienced in a while. And I think that it has to be temporary.
The computing needs of Earth has not certainly been satisfied with what we shipped last quarter.
And so, I think that the demand will return and customers will return.
Our situation in datacenters is dramatically better year-over-year. And if you take a look at where
we are, our deep learning solution is unquestionably the best in the world. We introduced T4 with
inference capability. It's the world's first universal cloud GPU, and it does everything that NVIDIA
does, all-in-one GPU in 75 watts. And so, it fits into every hyperscale datacenter.
We're engaged with Internet service providers all along around the world optimizing and
importing their high production models networks. so that we can deploy it into production. We
now have four different new growth drivers for our datacentre, in addition to deep learning and
scientific computing. We have inference that we're actively working on. We have data analytics
that's called RAPIDS. Some people call it big data, but data analytics and machine learning.
The third is rendering. And because of the partnership that we've developed and the excitement
the people see around enterprises around the world, we've developed partnerships with large IT
companies to preconfigure systems that make it easier for enterprises to be able to adopt our
technologies. So, we have four new ways for us to grow our enterprise business. And so, we are
looking forward to when the pause releases and we'll get back to growing.
Operator
And your next question comes from the line of `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thanks for taking my question. I just had a clarification and a question. On the clarification, gross
margins, Colette, what is normalized run rate for gross margin as you get your sales back to
normalized levels? How should we think about the trajectory of gross margins? And will there be
any impact from the balance sheet inventory?
And then on the question, Jensen, can you give us more reassurance that Gaming is still a growth
business? But I understand that, over the last year, there's been a lot of confusion, there's been
macro issues. But if you look at the number of gamers and the mix of products that they're
buying, so essentially the sell-through to gamers, has that been on an upward trajectory? And as
part of that, when do you think we could see Turing exceed the demand you saw for Pascal?
Thank you.
A - `Colette M. Kress, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
So, I'll go first. Thanks for the question. On gross margin, our gross margin – the largest
contributor to our absolute gross margin was really just the mix of our products. The mix of our
products based on our market platforms, but also the mix of our products within Datacenter as
well as within Gaming. We provided guidance for Q1, which has a good level of confidence from
us, and we'll see how it goes from there.
A - `Jen-Hsun Huang, Co-founder, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director
Hi, Vivek. The fundamentals of gaming has not changed. There are more gamers than ever.
Games are better than ever. There's been a recent shift in the popularity of multiplayer
competitive esports-like games. That's good for hardware. It lowers the barrier to entry because
it's free to play with the exception of downloadable content. And so the barriers to entry is lower,but you could see that the excitement around Fortnite and recently with Apex Legends. PUBG is
still popular. League of Legends is still popular.
And so, this genre of games is both competitive, requires great hardware. It attracts a lot more
players, because it's social and you want to play with your friends. And it's much stickier, because
it happens to be social. It happens to be a game where you have to play with a whole bunch of
other people. So, I think that gaming is vibrant as ever before.
If you take the methodology that Colette described earlier and you averaged out our underlying
Gaming business, and you compare that to a year before, surely it grew. If you compare that – if
you compare also the rate at which our gaming notebook is growing, I think that's pretty exciting. I
think last year we had mentioned that before that our gaming notebook business grew 50%
year-over-year. And just at CES, the number of new notebook designs that came out with Turing,
because of an invention that we created called Max-Q and because of the energy efficiency of
the Turing architecture, you can now make notebooks that are really wonderful and also high-
performing at the same time. And so, I think the dynamics are the same and Gaming is going to
continue to be a growth business.
Operator
And your next question comes from the line of John Pitzer with Credit Suisse.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
Yeah. Good afternoon, guys. Thanks for letting me ask the question. Colette, I appreciate all the
data you gave us on trying to size normalized demand for Gaming. What I have to ask though is, if
you're still going through channel inventory worked out in fiscal first quarter, it seems like to hit
your full year guide, the expectation is for Gaming revenue to accelerate well above that
normalized level you talked about. One, am I doing the math right? And if I am, kind of what gives
you confidence throughout the year that you can see that kind of Gaming growth off of these
bottoms?
A - `Colette M. Kress, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
I'll start and I will let Jensen finish that question. So, along the lines of Jensen's response in terms
of what we do believe are the key drivers of Gaming and everything still intact in terms of
Gaming, both with our Turing architecture, the growth expected with our Turing architecture as
well as the growth from the notebook, we do believe will be great drivers as we head into the
rest of the year. We'll have to wait and see in terms of how that plays out, but that is really the
underlying reason why we think the growth will continue.
A - `Jen-Hsun Huang, Co-founder, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director
Yeah. I think your math isn't wrong. The part that you probably didn't consider is notebook. Our
GeForce notebook business is quite large.
Q - `John William Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC `
That's helpful, Jensen. And then, maybe I just follow up, just on the Datacenter side. Clearly, you
talked about new applications that should help grow your TAM inside of Datacenter. I'm just kind
of curious, the calendar fourth quarter of last year I think marked the first time that a competitor
had some meaningful volumes of GPU in the datacenter. There's always talk about the
hyperscaling guys wanting to do to their own ASICs. What kind of anecdotal evidence can yougive us to help us get more comfortable about what's going on here is more macro and not
share loss either to competition and/or architectural differences between GPUs and ASICs?
A - `Jen-Hsun Huang, Co-founder, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director
We don't see them in high-performance computing. And so, I haven't found where – we haven't
met them in high-performance computing and deep learning and in the areas that we serve. And
so, competitively I can't – I don't really – we don't see it. But the bigger picture I think is this, that
the market segments that we serve, whether it's in deep learning, machine learning, data
analytics, those segments are really quite large. And I think that it is unquestionably the future of
high-performance computing is going to be highly data driven both computational methods,
algorithmic methods as well as data-driven methods.
And so, I think the fundamental trend has not changed. We have four new growth drivers, four
new ways to grow in the datacenter. The first one of course is inference. We're making a lot of
progress there. T4 is doing great. I think we're going to be quite successful with T4s. You just got
to keep saying that it has second-generation Tensor Core, 75 watts. And you can use that for
training. You can use it for inference. You could use it for remote graphics. You could use it for
high-performance computing. And it fits literally into any hyperscale datacenter.
The second way is data analytics. This is a brand new thing for us. You must know that big data
and using data to predict dynamics in the marketplace is really important in retail, in e-tail, in
healthcare, in financial services. And there's never been a accelerated approach to solve this
problem for people. And because of the flexibility of CUDA and the because of the performance
of our architecture, over the course of last year, we reengineered the entire data analytics stack
so that we can accelerate it. It's called RAPIDS. That work is really, really important. And I hope to
give you guys updates on that on a regular basis.
Rendering is a brand-new market for us because of Turing. Finally, we can render photorealistic
images and accelerate away. There are millions of servers in the world that are driving render
farms, and they're getting upgraded on a regular basis. And then lastly, we've been successful
with CSPs because they're easy for us to reach. But the world's enterprises are far and many, and
they're giant industries. And our company's sales coverage doesn't allow us to reach every single
healthcare company and every single insurance company and retail company. And that's where
our network of partners really come in.
We have great partnerships with HP. We have great partnerships with Dell and Cisco and IBM. And
now we've developed relationships with the storage vendors, and the reason for that is because
most of these big data problems require a great deal of storage. And they both – they all see,
they see the opportunities that we've created. And we came together to create preconfigured
systems that are optimized and tuned and these high performance systems, you can just bring
into the company, prop up and install. And we're seeing a lot of great success with that. And so,
we have four different ways to grow our Datacenter business, and we're enthusiastic about it. I'm
optimistic about it.
Operator
And your next question comes from the line of `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC with UBS.
Q - `Timothy Arcuri, Analyst, UBS Securities LLC `
Thanks a lot. First, I had a clarification, Colette. I just wanted to clarify what the mix is assumed for
the fiscal Q1 guidance? Are you kind of assuming that Datacenter and Gaming are both kind offlat sequentially? And then I guess my question was, can you help us sort of shape the revenue
through the year? To get to your full year guidance, you have to add roughly maybe $1.3 billion,
$1.5 billion from where you are in fiscal Q1. How does that shape through the year? Thanks.
A - `Colette M. Kress, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yeah. Our guidance for the next quarter is a makeup of many different types of options across
our market segment and forms. We feel confident in terms of that rollup, as we provide the
guidance today. And we'll just have to see how that ends out. With the expectation that we will be
flat or slightly down for the full year, you are correct, in some pace that in some pace we're going
to have to build up to that over the course of the several next quarters. Likely, the second half of
the year will definitely be stronger than the first half of the year and that is our expectation at this
time.
A - `Jen-Hsun Huang, Co-founder, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director
Yeah, Tim, one of the things to keep in mind is that we have four growth drivers. We have four
growth businesses. Our Datacenter business is growing. It's unquestionably that our footprint is
larger than ever. Our Pro Vis business is growing. Our workstation business now has three ways to
grow. One is rendering. The second is data science. Data scientists are now a workstation
customer. That has never happened before. And our software stack with Turing turns a
workstation into an ideal data science workstation.
And the third is, finally, we're able to make workstations into notebooks. And they're delightfully
thin using all the same technologies that I talked about for gaming notebooks. And so,
workstations is a growth business. And then, lastly, our Automotive is going to be a growth
business. We've been investing, as you know, in self-driving cars. And this year, we announced
entry into Level 2+, our first foot into the mainstream marketplace of autonomous vehicles. And
the first design win is Volvo, and we have others to announce. And so, I think this is going to be a
good year for self-driving cars as well. So, we have four growth businesses. Our four core
businesses are all growing.
Operator
And your next question comes from the line of Stacy Rasgon with Bernstein Research.
Q - `Stacy Aaron Rasgon, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. First, I wanted to get again at the mix. Colette, you've –
this is a question for Colette – you had said that mix was going to be the primary driver of your
gross margins. And I know that sequentially they're up. But if I correct for the inventory write-down
in Q4, the normalized gross margin this quarter was 61.7%. And so you're guiding it to 59%, so it's
down 270 basis points sequentially on flat revenues. So, do I take from that guidance that that's
an indicator of the mix between the businesses is the primary driver of that gross margin
degradation? Is there something else going on that we should be aware of?
A - `Colette M. Kress, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Thanks, Stacy. We'll start with that first question on gross margin. You are correct. Mix is still the
primary driver of our gross margin every single quarter. You have correctly reduced – or changed
our Q4 numbers to remove the overall inventory write-down. So, when you look at Q1, there is a
mix around our products that we plan on shipping by platforms, but also within our Gamingbusiness, and within our Datacenter business. We also have different gross margins that (37:59).
This is our best estimate that we have at this time, and we'll see if (38:05)
Q - `Stacy Aaron Rasgon, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
So, what do you think the bigger – between those two, whether it's intra business mix or inter
business mix between the businesses or within the businesses, which one of those is the biggest
driver of the gross margin degradation sequentially into Q1?
A - `Colette M. Kress, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
I think it's more on the inter business. Now, keep in mind, our Q4 has a very low percentage of
Gaming as a total in terms of there, and then a different mix within there as we move to next
quarter as well.
Q - `Stacy Aaron Rasgon, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
So, do you think it's the mix between the businesses within like – you said inter, is that mix
between the businesses that you think is the bigger driver then?
A - `Colette M. Kress, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
The mix of the intra, both within the segments as well as between the segments.
Q - `Stacy Aaron Rasgon, Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC `
Okay. Thank you. For my follow-up, Jensen and Colette I guess, you mentioned the Datacenter
was growing. But if I got fully revenue sort of flat to down slightly and I've got Gaming revenues
down a bit, like you said, and I have Pro Vis and Auto growing, it's kind of really hard for me, within
the envelope of that guidance, to get Datacenter growing much, if at all. I mean it could even be
down within that. I mean how are you thinking about the idea of Datacenter growing within the
context of the full year guidance that you've given?
A - `Jen-Hsun Huang, Co-founder, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director
Well, in the short term – in the near term, we have relatively limited visibility. We don't think it's
going to remain this way. And with a little bit of a tailwind, I think we could have a fairly good year.
And so, we'll just see how it turns out. This is our year guidance for now, and we'll update you as
we go.
The fundamental dynamics doesn't change. The fact of the matter is that the world needs more
computing. And a lot of that computing is related to machine learning, data analytics, deep
learning. It's related to the things that we're working on. And we have four new ways to grow our
Datacenter business. I think our deep learning position is as good as ever. Our scientific
computing position is as good as ever. And we have four new ways to grow. We have inference.
We have data analytics and machine learning. We have rendering. And now we're taking that
entire stack to the enterprise.
And so, I think we have the right strategy. We have the best platform. And the utilization the utility
of it is really fantastic. And so, with a little bit of a tailwind, I think we could have a fairly good year,
and we'll just report as we go.
OperatorQ - `Joseph Moore, Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Great. Thank you. I wanted to ask about again competition in datacenter. AMD on their call had
talked about graphics in their datacenter business being as big as server, which is sort of north of
$100 million a quarter, which surprised me. My sense is they're doing quite a bit different
applications than you guys are. But maybe if you could just give us some context around what
they're doing and how you see the competition coming up within other graphics vendors.
A - `Jen-Hsun Huang, Co-founder, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director
Our Datacenter business is really focused on computing. And we just don't – we don't see
anybody. Our primary competitor is CPUs. That's really the starting of it and the ending of it. And
it's very clear. The vast majority of the world's datacenter only runs on CPUs today. But the
advance of technology has slowed. And it's creeping along at a few percent a year, and
unfortunately, that's just not good enough. And so, either datacenters are going to continue to
increase in CapEx or they're going to have to find a new approach. And I think people are fairly
enthusiastic about, universally about accelerated computing. And I think our position is really quite
good.
And so, I would say that those are largely the positions. If you think about competitively
comparing our GPU to a competitor's latest GPU, I think the expectation was really high, and it
didn't turn out quite that way. I think our – we've established that the Turing energy efficiency is
much better. I think we've established that NVIDIA's Tensor Core architecture, as a result, allows
our Volta out to be four times the performance of the highest end of the alternative. And T4 is
one-fourth the power at the same performance.
And so, the benefit of having great architectural advantage, a really rich software stack, and
engineering that resulted in energy efficiency that we've achieved, generation in, generation out,
I think those are really great advantages.
And then, lastly, because of the broad reach of our architecture, an OEM or a cloud service
provider can adopt our architecture and the utility of it is going to be greater, because there's just
a lot more applications. And the best way to reduce cost for any utility is to increase its utility. And
I think that our position there is really strong as you could imagine.
Operator
And your next question comes from the line of Matt Ramsay with Cowen.
Q - `Matthew D. Ramsay, Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC `
Thank you very much. Good afternoon. I have just a couple of questions. The first one, Jensen, it
seems like, I mean, the Turing platform is delivering some amazing results, but as you talked
about relying on some new software features to do it, I wonder if you might talk about any steps
you're taking in the roadmap to really upgrade performance for the installed base of games,
given the time that it might take for some of those software features to roll out.
And then, secondly, you noted in the pre-announcement something about the write-down having
to do with DRAM. I mean, obviously, that commodity pricing has been volatile. Colette, is there
anything you can talk about how big an effect that might have on the business and on pricing
overall? Thank you.
A - `Jen-Hsun Huang, Co-founder, President, Chief Executive Officer & DirectorYeah. Thanks a lot, Matt. First of all, the Turing architecture is the highest performing architecture
at every single price point, and it's a big jump from our last generation in every single way.
Without ray tracing, the Turing architecture is the first GPU to do concurrent floating point and
integer operations at the same time. The instruction per clock of the Turing processor is so much
better than our last generation, so much better than what's available in the marketplace.
The cache architecture is a big improvement. And you can just see it in all of the existing games. If
you just measure the existing games without touching anything, Turing gives you a big boost. And
that's before we talked about ray tracing. And we've already spoken about ray tracing earlier,
Matt. And we know that every single game that are coming out, we're working with the
developers to incorporate RTX technology. And a very, very big deal both Epic with Unreal Engine
and Unity Engine are going to incorporate ray tracing. It is very, very clear that the next generation
of computer graphics is ray tracing. And all of the work that we've done with RTX to move the
industry forward is well worth it.
But remember, that's just the graphics part of Turing. Turing comes with its several new
opportunities for growth for us. The first is, of course, advancing games. Advancing games for
notebooks, advancing computer graphics photorealistic rendering for film, all the work that we've
done with Tensor Core that we just talked about. It's our second-generation Tensor Core making
it great for training as well as inference, a big leap for us for inference. And then, lastly, all of the
work that we're doing for data analytics and machine learning will take advantage of all the
capabilities of Turing.
And so, Turing is a big deal for us. And that's one of the reasons why it's – last year was so busy
for us as we put Turing into workstations, into datacenters, into clouds, into rendering, into video
games. And so, Turing is really a gigantic leap for us architecturally. We're really excited about it.
It's just – I think the turbulent Q4 kind of overshadowed all of it. But in the final analysis, I think
Turing was a home run for us.
A - `Colette M. Kress, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
And to also answer your question regarding DRAM prices, yes, they have definitely been volatile
over the historical period. It is great to see them coming down in price. Over the long-term, yes,
that is beneficial to us from a gross margin perspective. So, if we look out to the horizon later, we
will probably be able to incorporate that into our gross margins.
Operator
And your next question comes from the line of `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC with Wells Fargo.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Yeah. Thanks for taking the questions. Kind of building on the discussion around the Turing
platform and particularly to the gaming market, I'm curious – you mentioned in your prepared
comments pricing of these new solutions was a bit of an inhibitor. Has the company invoked any
changes in their pricing strategy around Turing? And then, also I'd be interested in, can you help
us frame how important China is to the Gaming segment? And whether or not you're assuming
that the China market rebounds in your annual assumption?
A - `Jen-Hsun Huang, Co-founder, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director
First of all, on the pricing part, the biggest inhibitor was that we didn't have – we couldn't launch
our midrange segment. The inability to launch 2060 was a big inhibitor for us. But we did so atCES. The launch was a great success. The reviews are fantastic. People loved 2060. The price
point is great.
And so, now we have a great stack from the midrange all the way to enthusiasts. The other part,
which could have turned out better is, at the time of the launch, there were so many special
editions and there were so many overclocked versions that the price point appeared high. But
now, we have MSRP pricing for all of our segments. And so that's terrific. China is an important
market. China is an important market and it's an important gaming market. And I have every
confidence it's going to rebound.
Operator
And your next question comes from the line of `Mark Lipacis, Analyst, Jefferies LLC with Jefferies.
Q - `Mark Lipacis, Analyst, Jefferies LLC `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. Could you just, a clarification, could you repeat what you said
you thought the OpEx would grow in this fiscal year? And where is focus of that investment? To
what extent is it R&D versus SG&A? And then, maybe one layer deeper, where is the focus of the
higher OpEx? Thank you.
A - `Colette M. Kress, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Sure, I'll start off. To repeat what we indicated in our transcript, we plan to increase OpEx in the
high single digits over where we finished in terms of fiscal year 2019. That is related to our
opportunities that we see in front of us, gaming, AI as well as self-driving cars. Our focus in terms
of investment, we are a very R&D-heavy significant company. But there are investments across
the board both in R&D as well as what we need in terms of go-to-market strategies to obtain
these high markets in front of us.
Operator
And your next question comes from the line of `Mitch Steves, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC with RBC Capital Markets.
Q - `Mitch Steves, Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC `
Hey, guys. Thanks for taking my question. So, I don't want to poke too many holes on the memory
side and the downturn in gaming due to the crypto inventory. But if I think about kind of the gross
margin profile, you guys almost reached 65%. So if I look out, let's call it, a year or even call it 18
months to make it more kind of a long-term target, is there any reason why you guys can't get
back up to kind of the mid 60s level?
A - `Colette M. Kress, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yeah. On your gross margin question, yes, we still have drivers within the mix of our products that
allow us to grow our gross margins over the long term, absolutely. And there is definitely a goal
for us to continue doing that. There is a focus in terms of what the cost components of what we
do, but also moving the entire portfolio into the higher value-added platforms that we sell. So,
over the long term, absolutely, all of those things are still in place and intact that we can do. And
we'll look quarter-to-quarter to give the best guidance that we can to help you see that.
Operator
And your next question comes from the line of `Blayne Curtis, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. with Barclays.Q - `Blayne Curtis, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Yeah. Thanks for that question. Obviously, a pause in Datacenter, particularly in the hyperscale, it's
pretty well documented. I'm just kind of curious your perspective, particularly being AI still a
growth area versus more run-rate in memory and CPUs, can you give us any perspective as to
how widespread it is, maybe number of customers or geographic perspective. I'm just kind of
curious how AI is affected with this greater slowdown. Thanks.
A - `Jen-Hsun Huang, Co-founder, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director
Yeah. Blayne, the hyperscalers, their pause is probably the most dramatic. We still see a lot of
activity in enterprise. It's just a much smaller base for us. But we expect it to be a much larger
base in the future. And the reason for that is because most of the enterprises today don't use
deep learning. They use an approach called machine learning. They might use things like decision
trees or graph analytics or regressions or clustering or things like that, algorithms like that. And
they'll run data analytics applications for business intelligence on a large amount of data. And they
might be running it on top of a Spark stack that was created out of Berkeley and open source
from Databricks.
And so, if you recognize some of these things, that's what healthcare companies do and financial
services companies do and retail companies do. They use it for fraud detection, predicting
inventory, trying to make the best matches between riders and drivers, and trying to predict
which route to take to deliver food, dinner to you. And so, those kinds of applications, most of
the developers today use machine learning and large, and big data analytics.
And so we invested in a stack called RAPIDS, and built our architecture called T4. And we're in the
process of partnering with large IT companies to take the stack and the solution out to the
world's enterprise. And so, I expect enterprise to be a fairly exciting growth opportunity for us.
Meanwhile, the CSPs, their pause will end. The amount of computation they do is increasing. More
and more of them are using deep learning. And we have inference opportunity with the work that
we did with T4 and TensorRT. And so we've got a lot of exciting opportunities to go.
Operator
And your next question comes from the line of Pierre Ferragu with New Street Research.
Q - `Pierre C. Ferragu, Global Team Head, Technology Infrastructure, New Street Research LLP `
Hi. Thanks for taking my question. A question for Colette. I'm trying to figure out how your
position with cloud datacenters evolved last year in financial year 2019. So, if I look at the cloud
CapEx, they were up about 70%. If I look at the CPU going into the cloud, according to Intel, it was
up about 50%. So, I was wondering how much you guys have been increasing revenues within
your cloud business. Did you grow faster than CPUs? Did you grow faster than overall CapEx?
And then I have a follow-up on 2020.
A - `Colette M. Kress, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Sure. Let me start on that piece. As we talked about earlier on the call, our hyperscales and our
hyperscalers, many of them are also cloud providers, did start to slow down in terms of their
purchasing in the latter half of the year. But the overall growth rate, as you can see, from our
Datacenter business grew more than 50% for the full year.Now, even with that strong growth, we are still a very small percentage of overall CapEx that we
see in the cloud providers or the overall hyperscalers. We are likely one of their top priorities of
areas of where they need to grow in terms of in their datacenter as they focus on AI, as they
focus on the cloud instances, importance of that compute, and necessary. But we are still a very,
very small percentage of it, so slowdown in the second half of the year, full year growth,
phenomenal growth of 50%. And we track with those prime parties.
Q - `Pierre C. Ferragu, Global Team Head, Technology Infrastructure, New Street Research LLP `
Thanks, Colette. But is this 50% growth, is that for your overall Datacenter business? Is that what
like specifically your cloud hyperscale business grew as well? Or did that grow even faster with
that?
A - `Colette M. Kress, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President `
Yes, depending on the quarter, we will have a mix of what is hyperscale growth or what is cloud.
And again, in the core – in the fourth quarter that was not a growth opportunity for us. But earlier
in the year, it definitely was.
Q - `Pierre C. Ferragu, Global Team Head, Technology Infrastructure, New Street Research LLP `
Great. And then, quickly, maybe Jensen, on 2020, so you seem to be very cautious on the
Datacenter outlook. When we listen to players like Google and Facebook and others, they all
seem to be seem like very keen to grow their overall spending this year. And when we listen to
other providers around you, they all seem to be – I mean they all demonstrate a bit of a
confidence that, in the second half, spending should resume. Is that just because they are being
more optimistic than you? Do they see something you don't see? What do you hear from your
clients about the second half?
A - `Jen-Hsun Huang, Co-founder, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director
We're enthusiastic about the second half. We're enthusiastic about our position, and we're
enthusiastic about the solution we offer. And Pierre, as you know, we've also expanded our
application and our market reach. We guided – I think probably the biggest takeaway is we guided
flat to slightly down for the whole year, for the whole number. We do have four growth drivers.
And maybe – the best way to think about it is, we should just wait and see how it goes. I think we
are – concerning where we are, I feel pretty good about our guidance, but I feel even better
about our strategic position. And so I look forward to working through the year with you, guys.
Operator
And your last question comes from the line of `Harlan Sur, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC with JPMorgan.
Q - `Harlan Sur, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my question. On the China gaming weakness, is it the slower
economic environment? Or is it sort of government policy related? Because we know that the
China government has had a freeze on new gaming approvals, although they recently started to
approve new games. This ban in place I think since the first half of last year. So given what you
know of the business, how much of the China weakness is coming from the China gaming bans
versus just overall slower economic environment?
A - `Jen-Hsun Huang, Co-founder, President, Chief Executive Officer & DirectorI don't know that we could tear that apart – tease that apart, Harlan. We just know that China, the
consumer market is relatively slow towards the end of the year. But the China economy is in the
final analysis of growth economy, and so we're looking forward to it recovering. And gaming is
one of the most important pastimes of their culture, and so I'm excited about our prospects
there.
All of the things that we're seeing in the near term, Colette has done a really good job in
describing. And as we leave the bottom and leave this inventory issue behind us, we're super
well positioned. We have a full stack of RTX. The Turing architecture is fantastic. It is
unquestionably the best in the world. We have the best performance at every single price point.
And we have great notebooks that the market can now buy. And so I'm looking forward to
reporting our status with you guys as the year goes on. It should be a good year.
Operator
Thank you. I will now turn the call back over to Jensen for any closing remarks.
A - `Jen-Hsun Huang, Co-founder, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director
2018 was a record year, but it was a disappointing finish. This quarter, we expect to put the
channel inventory issue behind us and get back on track. As the pioneer of accelerated
computing, our position is unique and strong. And the opportunities ahead in graphics, high-
performance computing, AI and autonomous machines remain enormous. We are as enthusiastic
about these growth opportunities as ever. Thanks, everyone, for joining us today.
Operator
And this concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.