Q2 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good afternoon. My name is Mel, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I
would like to welcome everyone to the NVIDIA's Second Quarter Earnings Call. All lines have
been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will
be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) Thank you.
`Simona Jankowski, Investor Relations, you may begin your conference.
`Simona Jankowski, Investor Relations `
Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to NVIDIA's conference call for the second
quarter of fiscal 2022. With me today from NVIDIA are `Jensen Huang, Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief
Executive Officer; and `Colette Kress, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'd like to remind you that our call is being webcast live on NVIDIA's Investor Relations website.
The webcast will be available for replay until the conference call to discuss our financial results for
the third quarter of fiscal 2022. The content of today's call is NVIDIA's property. It can't be
reproduced or transcribed without our prior written consent.
During this call, we may make forward-looking statements based on current expectations. These
are subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties, and our actual results may differ
materially. For a discussion of factors that could affect our future financial results and business,
please refer to the disclosure in today's earnings release, our most recent forms 10-K and 10-Q,
and the reports that we may file on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
All our statements are made as of today, August 18, 2021, based on information currently
available to us. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update any such
statements. During this call, we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures. You can find a
reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures in our CFO
commentary, which is posted on our website.With that, let me turn the call over to Colette.
`Colette Kress, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Simona. Q2 was another strong quarter with revenue of $6.5 billion, and year-on-year
growth of 68%. We set records for total revenue, as well as for Gaming, Data Center and
Professional Visualization.
Starting with Gaming. Revenue was $3.1 billion was up 11% sequentially, and up 85% from a year
earlier. Demand remained exceptionally strong outpacing supply. We are now four quarters into
Ampere architecture product cycle for gaming. They continued to be robust ever. At Computex in
June, we announced two powerful new GPUs for gamers and creators; the GeForce RTX 3080 Ti
and RTX 3070 Ti, delivering 50% faster performance than their prior generation with acclaimed
features such as real-time ray tracing, NVIDIA DLSS, AI Rendering, Reflex and Broadcast.
Laptop demand was also very strong. OEMs adopted Ampere architecture GPUs and a record
number of designs. From the top of the line gaming laptops to those two mainstream price
points as low as $799, that bring the power of GeForce CPUs to gamers, students and creators
on the go [ph]. Ampere architecture powered laptops feature our third generation Max-Q power
optimization technology that enables ultra tech [ph] designs, such as the new Alienware x15, the
worlds most powerful sub-60 millimeter gaming laptop.
NVIDIA RTX technology has reset computer graphics and spurred our biggest ever wafer cycle.
Ampere spend our fastest ramping gaming GPU architecture on stream and the combination of
Turing and Ampere RTX GPUs have only upgraded about 20% of our installed base. 80% of yet
to upgrade to RTX. And the audience for global e-sports will soon approach by 0.5 billion people,
while the number of those who live stream games is expected to reach over 700 million. The
number of PC gamers on stream is up almost 20% over the past year. More than 60 RTX games
now support NVIDIA's RTX ray tracing or DLSS, including today's biggest game franchises such as
Minecraft, Fortnite and Cyberpunk. New RTX games this quarter includes that Red Dead
Redemption 2, one of the top-rated games of all-time, popular titles like Rainbow Six Siege and
Rushed [ph] and Minecraft RTX in China with over 400 million players. The competitive gamers
NVIDIA Reflex, which include latency is now supported by 20 games.
Let me say a few words on Cryptocurrency Mining. It is an effort to address the needs of liners
and direct GeForce to gamers, we increased the supply of Cryptocurrency Mining Processors or
CMP, and introduced low hash rate GeForce GPUs with limited Ethereum mining capability. Over
80% of our Ampere architecture based GeForce shipments in the quarter were both hash rate
GPUs. The combination of crypto to gaming revenue is difficult to quantify. CMP revenue, which is
recognized in OEM was $266 million, lower than our original $400 million estimate on reduced
mining profitability, and we expect a minimal contribution from CMP going forward. GeForce
NOW reached a new milestone this quarter, surpassing 1,000 PC games more than any other
cloud gaming service. The premium tier is available for a subscription of $10 per month getting
gamers access to RTX class performance even on an underpowered PC, Mac, Chromebook, IOS
or Android device.
Moving to Pro Visualization. Q2 revenue was a record $519 million, up 40% sequentially, and up
156% year-on-year. Strong sequential revenue growth was led by desktop workstations driven by
demand to outfit design offices at home as remote work becomes the norm across industries.
This is also the first big quarter of the Ampere architecture ramp for pro visualization. Key
verticals driving Q2 demand include, automotive, public sector and healthcare.At scene [ph] graph last week, we announced an expansion of NVIDIA Omniverse or simulation
and collaboration platform that provides the foundation of the metaverse. Through the new
integrations with lender, the world's leading open source 3D sound emission tool and Adobe,
we're opening the Omniverse platform to millions of additional users. We are also collaborating
with Apple and Pixar to gain advanced physics capabilities to Pixar's Universal Scene Description
framework, embracing open standards to provide 3D workflows to billions of devices.
Omniverse enterprise software is in the early access stage and will be generally available later
this year on a subscription basis from NVIDIA's partners, including Dell, HP, Lenovo, and many
others. Over 500 companies are evaluating Omniverse enterprise, including BMW, Verizon and
Lockheed Martin. And more than 50,000 individual creators have downloaded Omniverse, since
it entered open beta in December.
Moving to automotive. Our Q2 revenue was $152 million, down 1% sequentially, and up 3% year-
on-year. Sequential revenue declines in infotainment were largely offset by growth in self-driving.
Looking further out, we have substantial design wins start to ramp that we expect will drive a
major inflection in revenue in the coming years. This quarter we announced several additional
wins. Self driving startup AutoX unveiled its latest autonomous driving platform for robotaxi
powered by NVIDIA DRIVE. The performance and safe capabilities of the software defined
NVIDIA DRIVE platform has enabled AutoX to become one of the first companies in the world to
provide full self driving mobility services without the need for a safe to drive on [ph].
In autonomous trucking, DRIVE ecosystem partner plus signed a deal with Amazon to provide at
least 1,000 self driving system to Amazon's fleet of delivery vehicles. These systems are
powered by NVIDIA DRIVE for high performance, energy efficient and centralized AI compute. An
autonomous trucking startup embark is building on NVIDIA DRIVE. The system is being developed
for trucks for four major OEMs; Freightliner, Navistar International, PACCAR and Volvo,
representing the vast majority of the Class 8 or largest size trucks in the US. The NVIDIA DRIVE
platform is being rapidly adopted across the transportation industry from passenger-owned
vehicles to robotaxi, to trucking and delivery vehicles. We believe everything that moves will be
autonomous from gaming.
Moving to Data Center. Revenue of 2.4 billion, grew 16% sequentially and 35% from the year ago
quarter. The year ago quarter, which was our first quarter to include Mellanox. Growth was driven
by both hyperscale customers and vertical industries each of which has record revenues. Our
flagship A100 continue to ramp across hyperscale and cloud computing customers with Microsoft
Azure announcing general availability in June, following AWS and Google Cloud platforms general
availability in prior quarters.
Vertical industry demand was strong with a sequential growth led by financial services,
supercomputing and telecom customers. We also had exceptional growth in inference, which
reached a record, more than doubling year-on-year. Revenue from inference focus processors
includes the new A30 GPU, which provides four times the inference performance of the T4.
Customers are also turning to NVIDIA GPUs to take AI to production and shifting from CPUs to
GPUs, driven by the stringent performance latency and cost requirements of the point and scaling
deep learning AI workloads.
NVIDIA's networking products posted solid results. We see momentum across regions driven by
our technology leadership with upgrades to high speed products such as conductor 6 [ph] as well
as new customer wins across cloud, service providers, enterprise and high performance
computing. We extended our leadership with Supercomputing, the latest TOP500 list shows that
NVIDIA technologies power 342 of the world's top 500 supercomputers, including 70% of all newsystems and eight of the top 10. To help companies harnessed the new industrial high
performance computing obligation, we need to deliver a turnkey AI data center solution with the
NVIDIA DGX SuperPOD, the same technology that powers for new Cambridge-1 supercomputer
in the UK, and a number of others in the top 500.
We expanded our AI software and subscription offerings making it easier for enterprises to adopt
AI from the initial development stage through to deployment and operations. We announced
NVIDIA Base Command. Our software-as-a-service offering for operating and managing large
scale multi-user and multi-team AI development workloads on DGX SuperPOD. Base Command
is the operating and management system software for distributed training customers. We also
announced general availability of NVIDIA Fleet Command, our managed edge AI software-as-a-
service offering to command help companies solve the problem of securely deploying and
managing AI applications across thousands of locations combined the efficiency and simplicity of
central management with the cost performance and data sovereignty benefits of real-time
processing at the edge.
Early adopters of Fleet Command include some of the world's leading retail, manufacturing and
logistics companies and the specialty software companies that work with them. The new NVIDIA
Base Command and Fleet Command software and subscription offerings followed last quarter's
announcements of the NVIDIA AI enterprise software suite, which is in early access with general
availability expected soon. Our enterprise software strategy is supported by the NVIDIA-Certified
Systems program with server OEMs, which are bringing to market over 55 systems ready to run
on NVIDIA's AI software out of the box to help enterprise simplify and accelerate their AI
deployment.
The NVIDIA ecosystem keeps getting stronger. NVIDIA inception, our acceleration platform for AI
start-ups just surpassed 8,500 members. With cumulative funding of over 60 billion and numbers
in 90 countries inception is one of the largest AI startup ecosystems in the world. CUDAC [ph]
now has been downloaded 27 million times, since it launched 15 years ago, with 7 million in the
last year alone. In terms RT for inference has been downloaded nearly 2.5 million times across
more than 27,000 companies. And the total number of developers in the NVIDIA ecosystem now
exceeds 2.6 million, up four times in the past four years.
Let me give you a quick update on Arm. In nearly one-year, since we initially agreed to combine
with Arm, we have gotten to know the company, its business and its people, much better. We
believe more than ever in the power of our combination and the benefits, it will deliver for Arm,
for the UK, and for its customers across the world in the era of AI. Arm has great potential. We
love their business model and committed to keep its open licensing approach. And with NVIDIA's
scale and capabilities Arm will make more embedded customers, while expanding into data
center, IoT and other new markets.
NVIDIA accelerate computing, which starts with the CPU. Whatever new markets are open with
the CPU and our accelerated computing opportunities, we've announced accelerated platforms
for Amazon Graviton, Ampere Computing, MediaTek and (inaudible), expanding cloud
computing, AI, cloud gaming, supercomputing, edge AI to Chrome PCs. We plan to invest in the
UK, and we have with the Cambridge-1 Supercomputer, and through Arm making UK a global
center in science, technology and AI. We are working through the regulatory process, although
some Arm licensees have expressed concerns and objected to the transaction. And discussions
with regulators are taking longer than initially thought. We are confident in the deal and that
regulators should recognize the benefits of the acquisition to Arm is licensees and the industry.Moving to the rest of the P&L. GAAP gross margin of 64.8% for the second quarter was up 600
basis points from a year earlier, reflecting the absence of certain Mellanox acquisition-related
costs. GAAP gross margins was up 70 basis points sequentially. Non-GAAP gross margins was
66.7%, up 70 basis points from a year earlier, and up 50 basis points sequentially, reflecting
higher ASPs within desktop, GeForce, GPUs and continued growth in high end Ampere
architecture products, partially offset by a mix shift within data center. Q2 GAAP EPS was $0.94, up
276% from a year earlier. Non-GAAP EPS was $1.04, up 89% from a year earlier. Adjusting for the
four-for-one stock split, effective this quarter, Q2 cash flow from operations was a record $2.7
billion.
Let me turn to the outlook for the third quarter of fiscal 2022. We expect another strong quarter.
We center with sequential growth driven largely by accelerating demand in data center. In
addition, we expect sequential growth in each of our three other market platforms. Gaming
demand is continuing to exceed supply as we expect channel inventories to remain below target
levels as we exit Q3. The contribution of CMP to our revenue outlook is minimal. Revenue is
expected to be $6.8 billion, plus or minus 2%.
GAAP and non-GAAP gross margins are expected to be 65.2% and 67%, respectively, plus or
minus 30 basis points. GAAP and non-GAAP operating expenses are expected to be
approximately $1.96 billion and $1.37 billion, respectively. GAAP and non-GAAP other income and
expenses are both expected to be an expense of approximately $60 million, excluding gains and
losses on equity securities. GAAP and non-GAAP taxes are supposed to be expected from 11%
[ph] plus or minus 1%, excluding discrete items. Capital expenditures are expected to be
approximately $200 million to $225 million. Further financial details are included in the CFO
commentary and other information available on our IR website.
In closing, let me highlight upcoming events for the financial community. We will be attending the
following virtual events with BMO Technology Summit on August 24; the new street big ideas in
semiconductors Conference on September 9th; the Citi Global Tech Conference on September
13th; the Piper Sandler Global Technology Conference on September 14th; and the Evercore ISI
Auto Tech and AI Forum on September 21st. Our earnings call to discuss the third quarter results
is scheduled for Wednesday, November 17th.
We will now open the call for questions. Operator, would you please poll for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch of Bank
of America. Your line is now open. You may ask your question.
Q - `Vivek Arya, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thanks for taking my question. I actually had a near and longer term question on the Data Center.
I think near-term, you mentioned the possibility of accelerating data center growth from the 35%
rate. I was hoping if you could give us some more color around that confidence and visibility. And
then longer term, Jensen, we have seen a lot of announcements from NVIDIA about your
enterprise software opportunity. I honestly don't know how to model that. It sounds very
promising, but how should be model it? What problem are you trying to solve? Is it cannibalizing
demand, you might have otherwise seen from your public cloud customers, or is this incremental
to grow? So just any guidance or any just insights into how to think about NVIDIA's enterprise
software opportunity longer term? Thank you.A - `Jensen Huang, Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, Vivek, thanks for the question. We are seeing accelerated -- or as we've already reported
that we have record revenues in both hyperscale cloud and industrial enterprise this last quarter.
And we're seeing accelerated growth. The exploration [ph] in hyperscale and cloud comes from
the transition of the catalyst providers in taking their AI applications, which are now heavily deep
learning driven into production. There were some of the things that we've spoken about in the
past that, that we will make some very good ideal platform to scale-out with. And if my learnings
are (inaudible). The several platforms -- the several airlines of our platform, number one, Ampere
GPU, which is known Universal GPU for AI, for training, but incredibly good for (inaudible). It's
terrific and it's throughput, it's terrific, and it's as fast response time as well. And therefore the
cost of deployment, the cost of operating in AI applications is the lowest.
The second is the introduction of Tensor RT, which is our optimizing compiler, that makes it
possible for us to compile and optimize any AI application to our GPUs. And whether it's
Computer Vision or Natural Language Understanding, or Conversational AI, recommender
systems, the type of applications that are deploying AI is normally quite vast. And then lastly, this
software inference server that we have to call Triton, which supports every one of our GPUs, it
supports GPUs as well as GPU's. So, every Internet service provider could operate their entire
data center using Triton. These several things are really accelerating a growth, which is, so the
first element is the deployment of transition of deep learning AI applications into large-scale
deployment.
In the enterprise, the application that is driving AI, as you know every enterprise must be want to
move and raise towards being a tech company and take advantage of connected clouds and
connected devices and artificial intelligence to achieve it. And we have an opportunity to deploy
AI services out of the edge. And in order to do so, there are several things that has to happen;
first, we have to create a computing platform that allows them to do training in the IT
environment that they understand, which is a virtualized, which is largely managed by VMware.
And our collaboration with VMware are creating a new type of systems that to be integrated in
the enterprise has been in quite a significant effort and it's in volume production today.
The second is a server that allows the enterprise customers to deploy their AI models out to the
edge. And the AI engine, the software suite, that we've been developing over the last 10 years
now have been integrated into this environment and allows the enterprises to basically run AI out
of the box. There are three elements of our stock split [ph] product there. First is NVIDIA AI
enterprise, and that puts, that basically puts all of the state-of-the-art AI solvers and engines and
libraries that we've industrialized and perfected over the years, made it available to enterprise
nicely.
Second is a operating system platform called Base Command that allows for distributed scale
software development in the -- for our training and development models. And then the third is
Fleet Command, which is a operating system software product that let's you operate and deploy
and knowledge the AI models out to the edge. These three software products in combination
with the server called NVIDIA-Certified taken out through our network of partners is our strategy
to accelerate the adoption of AI by the enterprise customers.
And so we are really enthusiastic about entering into the software business model. This is the an
opportunity that could represent of course tens of millions of servers. We believe all of them will
be GPU accelerated. We believe that enterprises will be deploying and taking advantage of AI to
revolutionize the industry, and using quite traditional enterprise software licensing business
model. This could represent billions of dollars business opportunity for us.Operator
Thank you. Next question comes from the line of `Stacy Rasgon, Analyst, Bernstein Research of Bernstein. Your line is now
open. You may ask your question.
Q - `Stacy Rasgon, Analyst, Bernstein Research `
Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. I wanted to go back collect the sequential guidance, you
gave a little bit of color by segments. And although look at your gaming revenues, it's currently
three quarters in a row you've been up call it ballpark 10% or 11%. And my understanding is that
was sort of a function of your ability to bring on supply. So I guess what is the supply addition work
like, as you're going from Q2 into Q3? And do you think you can still maintain that kind of
sequential growth or does it dial down, because I also need to -- I also would say that we're
going to other commentary suggesting that the sequential growth and I assume on the dollar
basis was driven primarily by data centers. So, how do we think about the interplay within those
comments sequential growth of gaming, especially given the trajectory is out of the last several
quarters?
A - `Colette Kress, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, so let me start, but Jensen add a bit, Stacy to your question. Just for providing the
guidance for Q3 of $6.8 billion in revenue. Now excluding CMP, we expect our revenue to grow
over $500 million sequentially. Our lion's share about sequential revenue increased slightly on a
sequential basis, but remember, we are still supply constrained. Automotive and Pro Vis are also
expected to be up slightly quarter-over-quarter. And from a CMP perspective, we'll probably just
have minimal amounts in Q3. So, our Q3 results don't have seasonality with some for gaming and
are really about the supply that we believe we can have for Q3. We'll see if Jensen wants to add
any more color.
A - `Jensen Huang, Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. Thank you. Thanks for the question, Stacy. As you know, RTX is a fundamental reset of
computer graphics. This is a technology coverage ratio that, that has been the holy grail of
computer graphics for quite a long time from 35 years and research -- in our NVIDIA research for
10 years, we finally made it possible to do real-time ray tracing with RTX. RTX demand is quite
incredible. And as you know, we have a large installed base of PC gamers, the new and
architecture called GTX based on programmable shatters then we invented some 20 [ph] years
ago. And now we reset in entire installed base and Ampere is of to just an incredible starting the
best selling GPU architecture in the history of our company. And yet, we've only upgraded some
20%, less than 20% of our total installed base. So there's another 80% of the world PC gaming
market that we have yet to upgrade to RTX.
Meanwhile, the number of PC gamers in the world grew substantially, still grew 20% this last year.
And so I think the -- a world wide beginning of our RTX transition. Meanwhile, computing graphics
is expanded into so many different new markets. RTX we've known, we've always believed we
reinvent the way that people do design. And we're seeing that happening right now as we speak
as workstations is growing faster than ever and has achieved record revenues. And at the same
time because of all of our work with cloud gaming, we announced the public clouds, pretty cloud
graphics, whether it's workstations or PC will probably gaining consoles up in the cloud. So we're
seeing strong demand in PCs, in laptops, in workstations, in mobile workstations and cloud. And
so RTX is really doing great work. Our challenge there is that demand is with so much growth in
supply, and then as closely we'll do supply constraints.Operator
Thank you. Next question comes from the line of `Matt Ramsay, Analyst, Cowen and Company of Cowen. Your line is now open.
Q - `Matt Ramsay, Analyst, Cowen and Company `
Yes, thank you very much. Good afternoon, everybody. Before my question, Jensen, I just wanted
to say congrats on the noise [ph] award, that's a big honor. For my question, I wanted to follow-
on, on Stacy's question about supply. And Colette maybe you could give us a little bit of
commentary around supply constraints in gaming in the different tiers or price tiers of your
gaming cards. I'm just trying to get a better understanding as to how you guys are managing
supply across the different price tiers? And I guess it translates into a question of, are the gaming
ASPs that we're seeing in the October quarter guidance, are those what you would call
sustainable going forward, or do you feel like that mix may change as supply comes online?
Thank you.
A - `Colette Kress, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
So, I'll start here. Thanks for the question on our overall mix, as we go forward. First, our supply
constrained in our gaming business is largely attributed to our desktop and notebook, that can
mean a lot of different things from our components that are necessary to build so many of our
products. But our mix is really important. Our mix as we have also seen many of our gamers very
interested in our higher-end higher performance products. We will continue to see that as a driver
of that overall lifts both our revenue and can lift our overall gross margins. So there's quite a few
different pieces into our supply that we have to think about, but we are going to try and make the
best solutions for gamers at this time.
Operator
Thank you. Next question we have in line from `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore ISI -- your line is -- from Evercore. Your line
is now open.
Q - `C.J. Muse, Analyst, Evercore ISI
Yeah. Thank you. good afternoon. I guess a follow-up question on the supply constraints. When
do you think that the lease? And how should we think about gaming into the January quarter B2B
typical seasonality given. I would assume you would continue to be supply constraints. Thank you.
A - `Jensen Huang, Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Colette, if I can take it or you can, either one of them.
A - `Colette Kress, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Well, go ahead, Jensen, and I'll follow up if there are some other things.
A - `Jensen Huang, Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay. What's the price in training process, and with supplied constrained graphics, what we're
delivering record revenues in graphics. Cloud gaming is growing. Cloud graphics is growing. RTX
made it possible for us to address the design in accretive workstations. Historically, the ray tracing
and photo those images has largely been done on CPUs and for the very first time. And you
could actually accelerate it with NVIDIA GPUs and RTX GPUs. And so the workstation market is
really doing well. The backdrop of that of course is that people are building offices in their homes.And for many of the designers and creators around the world some 20 million of them they have
to create, they have to build a workstation or an office at home, as well as the one that work,
because we're now working with the new one.
And meanwhile, of course RTX, which we stopped all of our consumer graphics, the few hundred
million installed base, PC gamers and to operate. And so there's a whole bunch of reasons.
We're achieving record revenues what was supply constraints. We have enough supply to, I mean
our second half company growth points. We want -- the next year we expect to be able to
achieve our company's growth plans for next year. Meanwhile, we have and are securing pretty
significant long-term supply commitments as we expand into all these different market initiatives
that we've sort set ourselves (inaudible). And so I would expect it enables to a supply constrained
environment for the vast majority of next year, as my guess at the moment. But a lot of that has
to deal with (inaudible) demand is just. RTX is moving once in a generation of computer model,
computer graphics, not the one just as happened is in the beginning of picture graphics. And so
the convention is new pipeline working and need (inaudible)
Operator
Thank you. Next question comes from the line of `Harlan Sur, Analyst, J. P. Morgan of J. P. Morgan. Your line is now open.
Q - `Harlan Sur, Analyst, J. P. Morgan `
Good afternoon, and congratulations on the strong results, I'll look at execution. The Mellanox
networking franchise, this has been a really strong and synergistic addition to the NVIDIA
Compute portfolio. I think kind of near-to mid-term, the team is benefiting from the transition to
200 gig and 400 gig networking connectivity in cloud and hyperscale. And then I think in addition
to that, you guys are getting some good traction with the BlueField SmartNIC products. Can you
just give us a sense on how the business is trending year-over-year? And you expect continued
quarter-over-quarter networking momentum into the second half of this year, especially as the
cloud and hyperscalers are going to a server and CapEx spending cycle?
A - `Jensen Huang, Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I really appreciate that question. Now let's have a solid growth quarter, and the long lasting
networking business is really growing globally. There are three dynamics happening all at the
same time. The first is the transition that we're talking about. You know that the world data
centers hyperscale data centers are use this forum of computing comp disaggregated, which
basically just single application is running on multiple servers at the same time. This is what makes
it possible for them to stabilize the more users for AI application or a service you just have to add
more service. And so the ease of scale out that this aggregated computing provides also put
enormous pressure on the networking. And at the Mellanox, the world's lowest latency and a high
bandwidth and performance networking on plant. And so the ability to scale out, and the ability to
provisioning disaggregated applications. It was really much, much better work on Mellanox
networking. So that's number one.
Number two, almost every company in the world has to be high-performance computing
company in that. You see that, that the cloud service providers one after another are building
effectively supercomputers. What historically was InfiniBand and Supercomputing centers, the
cloud service providers have to build supercomputers themselves and the reason for that is
because of artificial intelligence in terms of these gigantic models. But the rate of growth of our
network sizes, AI model sizes is doubling every two months. It doubling in our every year, every
two years, it's doubling every two months. And so you can imagine the size. We're now talkingturning financials, and so -- for nuance. And so that gives you a sense of the scale of AI models
that people is developing.
And so you will see supercomputers that are built out of Mellanox, InfiniBand and the high-speed
networking along with NVIDIA GPU computing in more and more cloud service providers. You're
also seeing in enterprises, for used in the discovery of DRIVE. There is a digital biology revolution
going on, as the competition is stable. The large scale computing that we're going to do now and
AI, better understand biology and better understand chemistry, and bringing both of those deals
into the field of information sciences. And so you're seeing in March, the enterprises around the
world as well. And so the second dynamic has to do with our (Technical Difficulty) InfiniBand
networking that as well. The fact is one of them on high performance computing.
And the third dynamic is a (Technical Difficulty) data centers going sparkling. In order to
orchestrate and run a data centers, we're just a few (Technical Difficulty) essentially when the
entire data centers hundreds of thousands of servers as it is just one computer in front of you.
That entire data center is software defined and the (Technical Difficulty) non-software that goes
into the software defined data center run on today CPUs, is the network, is the storage that and
now because of zero trust, the securities that. All of that is putting enormous pressure on the
available computing capacity for applications, which is ultimately what data centers are designed
to do.
And so for the software defined data center needs to have a place to Triton infrastructure
software, and it's downloaded to offloaded to (inaudible) and very important to isolate it from the
application plan. So that intruders can jump into the ability to offload, accelerate and isolate
(Technical Difficulty) what they're supposed to run, which would be (Technical Difficulty)
application. Just about every (Technical Difficulty) data center in the world is moving towards a
zero trust and BlueField is just incredibly well positioned. So these three dynamics disaggregated
computing, which means (Technical Difficulty) really strong with best networking with every
(Technical Difficulty). And so these are (Technical Difficulty) the opportunity to tell you on that, how
super exciting (Technical Difficulty) about the other prospects and the networking business and
the employment for (Technical Difficulty).
Operator
Thank you. Next question comes from the line of `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Wells Fargo of Wells Fargo. Your line is open.
Q - `Aaron Rakers, Analyst, Wells Fargo `
Yeah. Comes around the data center in (Technical Difficulty). So maybe I'll just ask kind of on a P&L
basis. One of the things that I see in the result (Technical Difficulty) more importantly the
guidance. You're now collect guiding over 67% gross margin potentially. I'm curious as we move
forward, how do you think about the incremental operating gross margin upside still from here?
And how you're thinking about the operating margin leverage for the company from here
through the P&L? Thank you.
A - `Jensen Huang, Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I really appreciate the question at the highest level. The important thing to realize is that artificial
intelligence, greatest technology force that the computer industry has ever seen. And potentially
the (Technical Difficulty) the automation opportunities, which drives productivity, which translates
and it opens up, it opens up opportunities for technology and computing company, like it never
happened before. And let me just give you some examples. (Technical Difficulty) The fact that we
can apply so much technology to warehouse logistics, retail automation, customer call centerautomation is really quite impressive. The fact that we could automate truck driving and last mile
delivery providing a automated show further. Those can services and benefits and products are
never imaginable before. And so the size of the IT industry if you will (Technical Difficulty) the
industry that, that computer companies are themselves are part of has expanded tremendously.
And so the thing that we want to do is to invest as smartly, but as quickly as we can (Technical
Difficulty) to go after the large operating -- large business opportunities, where we can make a
real impact. And in doing so, while doing so, to do so in a way that is architecturally sensible. One
of the thing (Technical Difficulty) make sure, which allows us to be so efficient, while doing, while
addressing climate science on the one hand, digital biology on the other, artificial (Technical
Difficulty) you talked about computer graphics and video. Using one architecture and having the
ability and having the discipline now for almost 30 years, (Technical Difficulty) comes from, which
is (Technical Difficulty) architectural, our products are architectural in that way and the company's
built architectural in that way. So, hopefully, as we go after these large market (Technical Difficulty)
and we do so in a smart and disciplined way. We have great leverage through our architecture.
We can continue to drive really great operating leverage for the company and for our
shareholders.
Operator
The next question comes from the line of `John Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse of Credit Suisse. Your line is open.
Q - `John Pitzer, Analyst, Credit Suisse `
(Technical Difficulty) let me ask the question. I apologize for the short-term nature question, but
it's what I get asked most frequently, I cannot now return to the impacted (Technical Difficulty)
crypto with the potential impact of crypto. (Technical Difficulty) just measure any way to kind of
(Technical Difficulty) the effectiveness of the low hash rate GeForce, why only 80% and not 100%?
And how confident are you with CMP business being down as a reflection of crypto cooling off
versus perhaps LHR not being that effective. And then I bring it up, because there's a lot of blogs
out there that would suggest there as much as you guys are trying to limit the ability of miners to
use GeForce, there are some work arounds?
A - `Jensen Huang, Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, go ahead.
A - `Colette Kress, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, let me start there and answer a couple of the questions about our strategy that we've put
in place in this last couple of quarters. As you recall, what we put in place was for both harsh
records as well as putting industry and (Technical Difficulty). So, well (Technical Difficulty)
articulated one of the metrics that we were looking as what percentage of those cards in
Ampere, we were able to sell with lower hash cards. Almost all of our cards in Ampere are with
hash rates, but also we are selling other type of cards. We're much higher than 80%. But just at
the end (Technical Difficulty), we were approximately at 80%. So yes, that is moving up and we
will continue as we move into Q3.
I'll move it to Jensen here to see if he can discuss further.
A - `Jensen Huang, Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah. I mean, there is -- there is the question about the strategy of how we're steering GeForcestrategy is about steering GeForce supplies to gamers. And we have every reason to believe that
because of the drive and gaming, which is really a measure of gamers, the rate of growth of our
team adoption of Ampere GPUs, there is some evidence that we are successful, but there are
several reasons why it is different this time.
And the first one is, of course, the LHR, which is new and the speed at which we CMP to steer
GeForce supply to gamers. Second is at the very beginning of the Ampere and RTX cycles. As I
mentioned earlier, RTX is a complete reinvention of computer graphics. Every evidence is that,
that gamers are incredibly -- game developers are incredibly excited about ray tracing. This form
of computer rendering, graphics rendering is just dramatically more beautiful. And we're at the
beginning of that cycle and only 20% has been upgraded so far. So, we have 80% to go in a
market that is already quite large and installed base is quite large, but also grown. Last year,
gamers grew 20% and just made (inaudible). The third reason is that our demand is strong in our
channel of games. And you can see that every day with the shortage of supply as quickly as we're
shipping it. It's (inaudible) all over the world.
And then lastly, we just had more growth drivers today because of RTX than ever. And we have
the biggest wave of NVIDIA laptops. Laptops is our fastest-growing segment of computing and
we have the largest wave of laptop coming. The demand for RTX in workstation, whereas
previously, the workstation market was a slow growing market, it is now a fast-growing market
and has achieved record. And after more than a decade of working on cloud graphics, our cloud
graphics is in good demand. And so all of these segments are seeing high demand and we are
(Technical Difficulty). So, I think the situation is a very different (Technical Difficulty)
Operator
Thank you. We have the next question comes from the line of `Chris Caso, Analyst, Raymond James of Raymond James.
Your line is now open.
Q - `Chris Caso, Analyst, Raymond James `
Yes. Thank you. Good evening. My question is about the split between the hyperscale and the
vertical customers and the data center business, and the trends you're seeing in each. I think in
your prepared remarks, you said both would be up in the October quarter. But I'm interested to
see if you're seeing any different trends there, particularly in the vertical business as perhaps
business conditions normalize and companies return to the office and they adjust their spending
plans accordingly.
A - `Colette Kress, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. So let me start out with the question, and I'll let Jensen answer the tail. So far with our data
center business, with our Q2 results, our vertical industries is still quite a strong percentage.
Essentially, 50% of our data center business is going to our vertical industries. Our hyperscales
make up the other portion of that, slightly below the 50%. And then we also have our
supercomputing business with a very small percentage doing quite, quite well. As we move into
Q3, as we discussed, we will see an acceleration of both our vertical industries and our
hyperscalers as we move into Q3.
With that backdrop, we'll see if Jensen has additional commentary.
A - `Jensen Huang, Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer `There's a fundamental difference in hyperscale, use of HPC or AI versus the industrial use of HPC
in AI. In the world of hyperscalers and internet service providers, they're making
recommendations on movies and songs and articles and search results and so on and so forth.
And the difference in the improvement in accuracy that deep learning and artificial intelligence
large recommender systems can provide us is really working for them.
In the world of industry, the reason why artificial intelligence is transformative, recognizing that
most of the things I just mentioned earlier, it's not really dynamic in the world's largest industries,
whether it's healthcare or logistics or transportation and retail, the vast majority of the reasons
why in some of the physical sciences industries, whether it's energy or transportation as such or
healthcare, it's the simulation of physics, the simulation of the world was not achievable using
traditional first principle simulation approaches. But artificial intelligence or data-driven
approaches has completely shaken that up and put it on its head.
And some examples, whether it's -- it's using artificial intelligence, so that you could feed up the
simulation of the prediction of the protein structure of an -- or the 3D structural protein, which
was recently achieved by a couple of very important networks, it's groundbreaking. And by
understanding the protein structure, 3D structure, we understand it -- we can better understand
its function and how it would adapt to other proteins and other chemicals. And it's a fundamental
step of the process in drug discovery, and that has just taken a giant leap forward.
In the areas of clinical science, it is now possible to consider using data-driven approaches to
create models that overcome this -- not overcome but accelerate and make it possible for us to
simulate much, much larger simulations of multiphysics geometry-aware simulations, which is
basically climate science. These are really important field of work that wouldn't have been
possible for another decade, at least. And just as we made it possible using artificial intelligence,
the realization of real-time ray tracing in every field of science, whether it's climate simulation,
energy discovery, drug discovery, we're starting to see the industry recognizing that the fusion of
the first-principle simulation and data-driven artificial intelligence approaches is going to get a
giant leap up. And that is a second dynamic.
The other dynamic for industry is for the very first time, they could deploy AI model out to the
edge to do a better job with agriculture, to do a better job with asset protection and
warehouses, to do a better job with automating retail. AI is going to make it possible for all of
these types of automation to finally be realized. And so the dynamics are all very different. That
last one has to do with Edge AI, which was just made possible by putting AI right at the point of
data and right at the point of action because you need to be low cost, you need to be high
performance and instantly responsive. And you can't afford to stream all of the data to the cloud
all the time. And so each one of them has a slightly difficult (Technical Difficulty)
Operator
Thank you. Your final question comes from the line of `William Stein, Analyst, Truist Securities of Truist Securities. Your line is
open.
Q - `William Stein, Analyst, Truist Securities `
Great. Thanks so much for taking my question. Jensen, I'm wondering if you can talk for a
moment about Omniverse. This looks like a really cool technology, but I tend to get very few
questions from investors about it. But it looks to me like this could be potentially very meaningful
technology for you longer term. Can you explain perhaps what capabilities and what markets this
is going after? It looks like perhaps this is going to position you very well in augmented and virtualreality, but maybe it's a sort of different market or group of markets, it's a bit confusing to us. So,
if you could maybe help us understand it, it would really appreciated. Thank you.
A - `Jensen Huang, Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I really appreciate the question, and it's one of the most important things we're doing. The
Omniverse responses what is it? It's a similar investment that we (Technical Difficulty). And was
made possible because of two fundamental technologies we invented. One of them is of course
RTX, the ability to physically simulate light behavior in the world, which is beneficial. The second is
the ability to compute or simulate the physics, simulate the artificial intelligence (Technical
Difficulty) and objects inside the world. So we have the ability now to simulate physics in a realistic
way, and it created an architecture that allows us to do in the cloud, distributed computed way,
and to be able to scale it out to very much (Technical Difficulty).
And the question is, what would you do with such a frame? The simulator, it is a simulation in
virtual world with portals, we call them connectors, portals are based on a industry standard,
open standard that was pioneered by Pixar, and as we mentioned earlier that we're partnering
with Pixar and Apple to make it even broadly adopted, with more broadly adopted it's called
USD, Universal Scene Description. So basically portals of warm holes into virtual worlds. And this
virtual world it was simulating -- to be simulating a -- it could be a concern for consumers. It could
be, it's the key part for consumers. In the world of the industries we could use it for simulating
robots, because robots (Technical Difficulty) robots inside these virtual worlds before they are
downloaded from the stimulated tool real-world. (Technical Difficulty) to stimulate factors, which is
one of the early works that, that we've done with IBM that we're going to shown at GTC,
(Technical Difficulty) the future that it is done completely in Omniverse in the related in
Omniverse, robots trend in Omniverse with goods and materials that are its original. CAD data
put into the battery, the logistics plan like a ERP system, except this is a ERP system of physical
goods and physical simulation -- stimulated through this Omniverse world and we could plan the
entire factory in Omniverse.
This entire factory now becomes what is called visible tool. In fact, it could be a factory, it could be
a stadium, it could be a airport, it could be an entire (Technical Difficulty) cost. These digital tools
would allow us to simulate new algorithms, new AI, new and optimization algorithms. This tool we
deployed into the physical world. And so what is Omniverse? What Omniverse is going to be an
overlay, if you will. A virtual world increasingly people called metaverse. And we've now heard in
several companies talk about the metaverse, the outcome from different perspectives, some of
them from social perspective, some of them from (Technical Difficulty) perspective, some of
them in our case from an industrial and design and engineering perspective. But the Omniverse is
essentially an overlay of the internal and overlay of on the physical world (Technical Difficulty) fuse
all these different worlds together long-term. And you'll be able to get -- you mentioned the
(Technical Difficulty) even built into the Omniverse world, so warm holed into the virtual world in
the (Technical Difficulty). You could have an AI or object portal into our world using augmented
reality season, when you have a (Technical Difficulty) it's only enjoyed in the virtual world and you
can (Technical Difficulty) into your physical world within AI.
And (Technical Difficulty) fairly sure at this point Omniverse or the metaverse is going to be a new
economy that is moduled in our point of time. And we'll have more enjoy a lot of our time in the
future in Omniverse and in metaverse, and we will do a lot of our work there and we have a lot of
robots, they're doing a lot of work on that we have. And (Technical Difficulty) themselves. And so
Omniverse to us is an extension of our AI strategy, it's an extension of our high performance
computing strategy on the mix of possible for companies and industries to be able to createdigital twins that stimulate the physical version before (Technical Difficulty) before they deploy it
and while they operate.
Operator
Thank you. I will now turn the call over back to Mr. `Jensen Huang, Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer for closing remarks.
A - `Jensen Huang, Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. We had an excellent quarter (Technical Difficulty) by surging demand for NVIDIA
computing. Our premium work and a solid computing continues to invent graphics (Technical
Difficulty) computing with AI. And then both by NVIDIA it's strongly computing, developers are
creating the most impactful technology of our time. Our Natural language understanding and
(Technical Difficulty) to autonomous vehicles in logistics centers to digital biology and (Technical
Difficulty) science research, in metaverse world that obeys the lot of physics. This quarter we
announced NVIDIA Base Command demand and Fleet Command to develop, deploy, sales and
orchestrate if AI workloads that run on the NVIDIA AI enterprise software systems. With our new
enterprise software, a wide range of NVIDIA-powered systems and global network of system and
integration partners. We can exploit the world's largest industries have been raised to benefits
from the transformative power of AI.
We are thrilled to have launched NVIDIA Omniverse, a simulation platform nearly five years in the
making that runs physically realistic virtual world and commence to other digital platforms. We
imagine engineers, designers and even autonomous machine connecting to Omniverse to create
digital twin simulated worlds that help train robot, operate autonomous (Technical Difficulty)
stimulate fleet from autonomous vehicle and even predict serious impacts on (Technical
Difficulty). The future will have artificial intelligence augmenting our phone and then metaverse
augumenting our physical world. They will be populated by real and AI visitors and open new
opportunities for auditors, designers, scientists and the businesses. Our whole new digital
economy for (Technical Difficulty). Omniverse is a platform for building the metaverse division.
We're doing some part that's work and most impactful work in our history. And I want to thank all
of the NVIDIA's employees for your remaining work and the exciting future we are inventing
together. Thank you. See you next time.
Operator
Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.