Q4 2014 Earnings Call

Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to our Fourth Quarter 2014 Mettler-Toledo
International Earnings Conference Call. My name is Dustin and I will be your audio coordinator for
the day. I would now like to turn our presentation over to our hostess for today's call, Ms. Mary
Finnegan. Please proceed, ma'am.
Mary T. Finnegan `
Thanks, Dustin, and good evening everyone. I am Mary Finnegan. I'm the Treasurer and
responsible for Investor Relations at Mettler-Toledo, happy you're joining us tonight for the call. I
am joined here today by Olivier Filliol, our CEO and Bill Donnelly, our Executive Vice President. I
need to cover just a couple administrative matters. This call is being webcast and is available for
replay on our website. A copy of the press release and the presentation that we will refer to is
also available on the website.
Let me summarize the Safe Harbor language which is outlined on page one of the presentation.
Statements in this presentation which are not historical facts constitute forward-looking
statements within the meaning of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 and the U.S. Securities Exchange
Act of 1934. These statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our
actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from
those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. For a discussion of these risks
and uncertainties, please see the discussion in our recent Form 8-K. All of the forward-looking
statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors discussed under the captions
Factors Affecting our Future Operating Results, in the Business and MD&A Analysis in our Form
10-K.
One other item, on today's call we may use non-GAAP financial measures. More detailed
information with respect to the use of and differences between the non-GAAP financial measure
and the most directly comparable GAAP measure is provided in our Form 8-K.I will now turn the call over to Olivier.
Olivier A. Filliol `
Thank you, Mary, and welcome to everyone on the call. I will start with a summary of the quarter
and then Bill will provide details on our financial results and guidance. I will then have some
additional comments before we open the lines for Q&A.
The highlights for the quarter are on page two of the presentation. We're pleased to end the
year with very solid broad based sales growth in the fourth quarter. Local currency sales increased
6% above the expectations we outlined with you the last time we spoke. Europe's growth was
better than expected and it's particularly impressive given the very strong growth in the year
earlier period. Americas continued to perform quite well and Asia/Rest of World also had solid
growth. For China specifically, sales growth was on target with our expectations.
Our margin enhancement and cost control initiatives continued to yield benefits, which
contributed to our margin improvements and EPS growth in the quarter, this despite currency
headwinds. While there is economic uncertainty in certain regions of the world and recent
currency movements will create greater headwinds than we had expected we feel good about
our outlook for 2015.
I will have some further comments on 2015 later on the call, but now I will turn it to Bill to cover
the numbers.
William P. Donnelly `
Okay, thanks, Olivier and hello, everybody. Sales were $697.4 million in the quarter, an increase of
6% in local currency. On a U.S. dollar basis sales increased by 2% as currency reduced sales by 4%
in the quarter.
Turning to page three of the presentation, we outlined sales by geography. In the quarter, local
currency sales increased by 6% in both Europe and the Americas and increased by 5% in Asia/
Rest of World as compared to the prior year.
For China specifically, local currency sales increased by 1% in the quarter which was in line with our
expectations. The next slide provides full-year sales which increased 5% in local currency. By
region for the year, sales increased by 5% in Europe, 6% in the Americas and 4% in Asia/Rest of
World.
Turning to slide number five, we outlined sales growth by product line for the quarter. Both
laboratory and industrial increased by 6% in local currency while food retailing was up 4%. For the
year which is on the next slide, laboratory sales increased by 6% in local currency, industrial sales
by 4% and food retailing by 2%.
Turning now to slide number seven, let me walk you through the key items in the P&L. Gross
margins were 56.5%, that's a 160 basis point increase over the prior-year margin of 54.9%. We're
obviously very pleased with this increase which was driven by the benefit of pricing and lower
material costs. Specifically, net realized prices increased by about 230 basis points while our
material costs declined by 270 basis points.
R&D amounted to $31.3 million, a 7% increase in local currency, while SG&A was $186.8 million, an
increase of 8% in local currency. Higher variable comp and increased investment in our field
organization were offset in part by cost saving initiatives and lower employee benefit costs.Adjusted operating income amounted to $176.3 million in the quarter. That represents a 7%
increase over the prior-year amount of $165 million. Our operating margins were 25.3%, an
increase of 120 basis points over the prior year. We estimate that currency reduced operating
profit growth by about 3% or $4.5 million in the quarter, while foreign exchange hurt operating
profit by 3%, it actually helped our operating margins by 40 basis points. This is because the
percentage impact of currency on the sales line was larger than the impact on operating profit.
A couple of final comments on the P&L. Amortization amounted to $7.6 million in the quarter,
while interest expense was $6.9 million, our effective tax rate continued to be 24%. Fully diluted
shares for the quarter were 29 million, which is a 4.4% decline from the prior year reflecting the
impact of our share repurchase program.
Adjusted earnings per share was $4.24 per share. That's an increase of 11% over the prior year
amount of $3.82 per share.
Currency proved to be a greater headwind than we expected reducing adjusted EPS by
approximately 3% in the quarter. Our guidance had assumed a 2% currency headwind on EPS
growth.
On a reported basis, EPS was $4.17 per share as compared to $3.63 in the prior year. Reported
EPS includes pre-tax restructuring charges of $1.5 million or $0.04 per share, which is primarily
employee related costs. Reported EPS also includes $0.03 of purchased intangible amortization.
The next slide provides details on full-year 2014 results, specifically local currency sales increased
by 5% while operating profit was up 7% and adjusted EPS grew by 11%. We're particularly pleased
with the operating margins, which exceeded 20% for the full year and for the full year currency
reduced EPS growth by about 3%.
Now let's talk about cash flow. Free cash flow in the quarter amounted to $107.8 million, a 26%
increase on a per share basis as compared to the previous year. We continue to benefit from
good working capital management; in particular DSO improved three days to 40 days as
compared to the prior year. We're very pleased with the level of DSO. ITO ended the year at five
times.
For the full year, free cash flow was excellent. It amounted to $343.5 million as compared to
$284.6 million in the prior year. This is a 25% increase on a per share basis, importantly it
represents a 100% net income conversion, a level we're very pleased with.
Now, let's talk about guidance. Forecasting is challenging as several factors need to be
considered this quarter and for 2015. First, we're coming off a strong finish to 2014 with sales
growth and margins better than expected. Second, we continue to feel very good about our
market position and our execution. Third, we are well on track with our field turbo program, which
will meaningfully increase our front-end resources in 2015.
And offsetting these positive influences is increased uncertainty in the global economy and
greater volatility in foreign exchange and financial markets. It's difficult to determine at this stage
what impact does volatility and the uncertainty will have on customers' decisions around
equipment replacement cycles and new investments.
With this as a framework, let me cover the specifics. We expect local currency sales for the year
to be in the range of 4% to 5% – local currency sales growth to be in the range of 4% to 5%, in
local currency that's unchanged from the last time we spoke. As you're aware, we're facing
greater currency headwinds, however, to earnings growth.We now expect currencies to reduce adjusted EPS by about 4% as compared to a 1% headwind
that we outlined on our last earnings call. The 2015 currency headwinds includes the benefit of
the foreign exchange contracts that we disclosed in our press release the day the Swiss National
Bank removed the Swiss franc floor to the euro.
The hedges were put in place to mitigate our forecasted Swiss franc versus euro exposure in
2015 and to a lesser degree our forecasted exposure in 2016. While the Swiss franc versus the
euro is our largest currency exposure, we have many other currencies which have moved against
us since November. In addition to the 4% EPS currency headwind in 2015, as the hedges roll off
over the next two years, we'll face an additional 1% EPS headwind in 2016 and additional 2% in
2017. Of course, all these estimates assume rates do not change from today's levels. That gives
you some additional color on currency.
With respect to our guidance, we now expect adjusted EPS to be in the range of $12.70 to $12.90.
That's an increase of 8% to 10%. A couple points worth highlighting in this guidance. First, this
reflects a growth excluding currency of 12% to 14%. Our previous guidance that we gave in
November was a growth rate of 11% to 13%. This incremental earnings growth, the 12% to 14% as
compared to the 11% to 13% reflects the first steps we are taking to offset the medium-term
headwinds from the Swiss franc.
Now, turning to the first quarter. We would expect local currency sales growth to be in the range
of 4% to 5%. We expect adjusted EPS to be in the range of $2.13 to $2.18. That's a growth rate of
7% to 9%. Currency is more of a headwind in Q1 as we expect EPS to be reduced by 5% in the
quarter as compared to 4% reduction for the full year. One additional comment on currency for
your models. We expect currency to reduce sales growth for the full year by approximately 7%.
For the first quarter we would expect that amount to be about 8%.
Okay, let me make some final comments on guidance before turning it back to Olivier. We've
provided you with our best estimates for 2015, but acknowledge we face more unknowns today
than we might have in the recent past. Currency rates in particular are very volatile and there are
questions on economies in various regions throughout the world. I know there is a tendency for
you guys to move to the top end of our guidance range. I think given the uncertainty and volatility
we described, it's prudent to take our guidance as a range.
That's it for my side, and now I want to turn it back to Olivier.
Olivier A. Filliol `
Thanks, Bill. Let me start with summary comments on business conditions and then I will make
some additional comments on currency and also provide an update on our key strategic initiatives
for 2015.
Lab increased 6% in the fourth quarter with most product lines showing good growth. For the full
year, lab sales were also up 6%. We continue to execute quite well in our laboratory business, the
combination of strong product pipeline and Spinnaker sales and marketing initiatives. I expect
results in 2015 to continue to be solid in lab.
Industrial increased 6% in the quarter. Product inspection grew 4%, which was modestly lower
than we had expected due to timing of certain orders, but represents good growth considering
very strong sales in the year earlier period.
For the full year, sales in product inspection were up 6% and the outlook for this market is
favorable given the focus on brand protection in general and food safety in particular. We're wellpositioned in this business with strong relative market share, the most extensive product portfolio
and the largest service network in the industry. We expect product inspection to continue to have
good growth in the coming years.
Core industrial was better than expected with a growth of 7% in the fourth quarter with good
growth in all regions. For the full year, core industrial increased 4% and we would expect low
single-digit growth in this business for 2015.
Finally, retail was up 4% in the quarter with very strong growth in Europe offsetting a decrease in
the Americas due to the timing of projects related activity. For the full-year, local currency sales in
retail increased 2%.
Now, let me make some additional comments by geography. Local currency sales in Europe
increased 6% in the quarter, better than we expected. We had solid growth in laboratory, product
inspection and core industrial and very good growth in retail in the quarter due to the timing of
project activity.
For the full year, Europe increased 5%. We will face strong comparison in Europe this year and are
cautious given the recent news. However, we continue to execute very well and are capitalizing
on our Spinnaker sales and marketing initiatives and strong product pipeline in this region.
Americas had another good quarter with sales growth of 6%. Lab, product inspection and core
industrial did very well. For the full year, sales were also up 6% in the Americas. Our outlook for
Americas remains solid.
Asia/Rest of the World increased 5% in the quarter. China came in as expected with a 1% sales
growth. We have good growth in our core laboratory offering in China while industrial was down
slightly in the quarter. For the full year, sales were up 1% in China. In general, China remains on
track with our expectations. We remain cautious given the overcapacity in certain segments, but
expect better growth in China this year, principally due to easier comparisons.
One final comment on the quarter. Service had excellent growth in the quarter with revenue up
11% as compared to the prior year. For the full year, local currency service revenue increased 8%
with good growth in all the geographic regions and in most product lines. We are seeing the
results of our investments and initiatives to globalize and harmonize our service offering. We're
pleased with the strong finish to the year and expect continued good growth in service.
Let me now cover the topic of currency, specifically the strengthening of the Swiss franc,
principally against the euro. Historically, these currencies were tightly correlated which provided a
natural hedge for us. With the financial crisis in 2009, this correlation began to weaken and we
began to take steps to reduce our cost structure in Switzerland. The actions by the Swiss National
Bank in establishing a floor provided us time to take actions which included moving our logistics
hub to the Netherlands, shifting certain IT resources to Poland and moving certain back-office
functions to Poland and India.
Now, with the January move by the Swiss National Bank to abandon the floor, we will need to take
additional steps to reduce our cost structure. We will utilize sourcing changes and further control
of discretionary expenses to help mitigate the impact in the short term. On a longer-term basis,
we are reevaluating our cost structure to determine what additional actions we can undertake.
The advantages of having the foreign currency hedges in place for this year and in 2016 is that it
provides us time to determine the best course of action. That is probably all I want to cover on
this topic at this point, but we will provide additional insight as our plans are formulated and
communicated internally.Let me now update you on some of our key strategic focus areas for 2015. First, progress on our
field turbo program is quite good. We covered the details on our last call, so I won't take too
much time on this topic today. As a reminder, we expect to add about 200 front-end resources
over the next 12 months or so. Hiring and training are on the way and we are optimistic that the
growth opportunities can be realized. We also have plans to expand the program late in 2015 if
the market environment continues to improve.
Our Spinnaker sales and marketing programs continued to generate tangible paybacks. Our sales
and service organizations have their detailed plans for marketing campaigns for 2015 and I'm
happy with the level of lead generation.
Our current focus on our sales and marketing umbrella is the formation of a group leads nurturing
factory. This is a small team that supports sales organizations in nurturing cold leads. Automated
e-mail marketing campaigns are designed and then follow-up is done once the lead has moved
from cold to warm status.
We are leveraging sophisticated lead scoring and routing methods that allow us to have very
personalized e-mail content and activities. The nurturing factory was created in the fourth quarter
of last year and our pilot work in this area indicates that we can meaningfully improve cold leads
that we convert to warm potential. This allows us to focus our sales force on higher value leads,
thereby, raising their effectiveness.
Another focus area in 2015 is sales territory optimization. We're providing more central support to
our local units in terms of analyzing sales target potential, classifying accounts in terms of A, B, C
potential, developing non-visiting customer campaigns and optimizing service technician activities.
This is a lot of blocking and tackling, but we feel that it must be constantly done to ensure sales
force optimization. At the same time we're also enriching our contact database. The Spinnaker
sales and marketing focus in the areas in 2015 will help to further improve our sales and
marketing efficiency.
Turning to our technology leadership, our new product pipeline is more robust than ever. For
example, by the end of this year we will have replaced and/or upgraded approximately 75% of
our lab balance product portfolio. This includes upgrades to our high-end balances which we
undertook last year and will include upgrades to our basic weighing offering later this year.
We're also introducing a new entry-level moisture analyzer which is specifically targeted to
emerging markets. Moisture analyzers are primarily used in food industry to control manufacturing
processes and ensure optimum product quality.
With this new offering, we provide basic functionality at cost effective price. As emerging markets
continue to focus on food quality, we felt it was an opportune time to upgrade our offering in this
product category.
Product inspection is another product area with meaningful new product launches. Last year we
began to launch of our new generation checkweighers, the C3000 System. It provides highest
throughput and performance and most accurate high-speed weighing available in the market
today. It has a very robust solid frame yet a flexible design that allows it to be adapted into
almost any packaging line; comprehensive diagnostic tools, enhanced uptime and strong return
on investments.
And we have incorporated best-in-class safety features that put customers well ahead of current
requirements. Initial customer response is strong and reinforces our reputation as a leader in thismarket.
We're also launching our new generation of metal detectors, the Profile Advantage. This
instrument incorporates a breakthrough technology that is up to 50% more sensitive than our
previous offering and is especially effective in the more challenging food applications.
This is critical not only to support compliance with food safety standards, but also to further
enhance brand protection. Importantly, because of reduced validation requirements it increases
manufacturing uptime, thereby also offering strong return on investments for food
manufacturers.
These are just a few examples of many new products we will have in 2015. We recognize the
importance of technology innovation to reinforce our market leadership position.
Our margin initiatives also remain well on track. We had good pricing results in 2014 and expect
continued momentum in 2015 with a target of 150 basis points of pricing. A lot of work goes on
behind the scenes for our pricing success and I'm confident it will continue this year.
Our supply chain continues to benefit from the additional integration and transparency gain from
Blue Ocean. Material costs were down approximately 2% in 2014 and I would expect material
costs to be down again in 2015.
Finally, we're increasing our focus on reducing the complexity in our product development
processes. We're still in the early phases of this initiative, but expect over time to gain efficiency
by driving more standardized processes for R&D and engineering.
That concludes our comments for today. Let me summarize key messages for 2015. Our
momentum remains pretty good, but we're cautious on the global economy as pockets of
uncertainty exist. In particular, our performance in Europe ended the year on a strong note
despite some weaker economic data. Emerging markets are showing improvements, but are still
below their long-term growth potential. Overall, however, we believe we're well-positioned to
continue to gain market share by capitalizing on our field turbo investments, our ongoing sales
and marketing programs, and a strong product pipeline.
Our continued focus on margin enhancement initiatives combined with our strong cash flow
generation and share repurchases should continue to drive earnings growth in 2015 and beyond.
I want now to ask the operator to open the line for questions.
Q&A
Operator
Our first question comes from the line of Tim Evans with Wells Fargo.
Q - `Tim C. Evans, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Hi. Thank you. Would you be willing to comment a little bit on your tax rate expectations and share
repurchase expectations for 2015? And I guess, I'm just thinking here that with the significant
foreign exchange headwinds, just want to make sure that we're modeling the operating margin
correctly, so kind of trying to back into that?
A - William P. Donnelly `Sure. So in terms of the tax rate you can expect it to be at around the same 24% absent some
changes in tax legislation. The reason for that has to do with our – maybe I don't mean to make it
too complicated, but our tax strategy moves a lot of money to the manufacturing side as a
general statement and this should. So the mix of income won't change that much in that sense
and we have income growth.
So that would be the first comment. Then the second comment was with regard to the share
repurchase program. Our free cash flow for the full-year next year is in the, let's call it, $350
million range. I think you can assume we'll repurchase somewhere in the area of $450 million to
$475 million.
Q - `Tim C. Evans, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Brandon Couillard with Jefferies.
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
Hi, Brandon.
Q - `S. Brandon Couillard, Jefferies LLC `
Good afternoon.
A - William P. Donnelly `
Good afternoon.
Q - `S. Brandon Couillard, Jefferies LLC `
Olivier, just in terms of your outlook for next year, I mean, you seem to exit with a lot of
momentum in the fourth quarter yet it sounds like some of your commentary might suggest that
you're perhaps incrementally more cautious. What are your leads and quoting activities telling you
about Europe right now and how would you characterize I guess the level of confidence in the
outlook incrementally?
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
The team actually feels good. And early indicators that we have also continue to be good. I think
the comments that we made about uncertainty is definitely coming from the economic
environment in general. And some recent events that took place in Europe, but also currency
related things that could have an impact on the economy.
But looking at what we see internally, actually, I remain very positive, I commented before how
well the team executed in Europe last year on all the sales and marketing initiatives, and I
continue to be very bullish on that end for this year. And I certainly also expect that the field
turbos will start to kick in and help us. So everything that we control I feel very positive. The part
that we don't control brings the cautiousness in my statements.
Q - `S. Brandon Couillard, Jefferies LLC `Thanks. And then on the new product pipeline, should we think about that as being accretive to
the top line and if I think about just lab balances in general, are new product launches enough to
drive a replacement cycle?
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
The way you need to look at all these new products, they're always enhancements to previous
products that we had, so in the sense we are not creating new products categories. These new
products allow us to further distant ourselves from competition. It allows us to raise prices. It
allows us to win market share.
But this doesn't happen overnight and it's not that we launch a product and then we immediately
see it in the top line happening. It's happening over time and I say it's part of the strategy to
outgrow the market and to increase our margins.
And the fact is, however, that I feel really very strong about our product portfolio overall. We have
done a lot of investments over the last few years to upgrade, and so we have a very modern and
a very advanced product portfolio, I mentioned before lab, but for example PI is also very strong.
This is an enabler for us to work to win the market shares.
Q - `S. Brandon Couillard, Jefferies LLC `
Super. Thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Knight with Janney Capital.
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
Hi, Paul.
Q - `Paul R. Knight, Janney Capital Markets `
How are you?
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
Good.
Q - `Paul R. Knight, Janney Capital Markets `
I sense, Bill, when you said the range you've said is a real range this time, and I guess, Olivier,
your comments on the outlook, is this 80% related to the currency volatility in the world, or are
there signs within backlog that it's just not growing, any fundamentals that most of us in New York
don't see?
A - William P. Donnelly `
Maybe, I'll start and let Olivier. So I think the first comment is more, kind of, walking you through
kind of the EPS role, let's call it, so we beat consensus and guidance in the fourth quarter by
about $0.09, I believe and we added that to the 2014 previous guidance. Then we subtracted off
this incremental 3% headwind that we had from how currencies moved since November, and
then we reduced that for the fact that we already got to start doing some actions. And I think we
may be can't tell you today every single one of those actions that are going to add up to thatleap we have and so therefore we think it's important in that sense that hey, there are some
margin in. There is more than the normal Mettler, 5%, 10%, 15% margin enhancement. We've got
a little extra here because of the currency headwind in that sense. That maybe be the first
comment.
Second comment would be that from a backlog perspective, we do have more backlog entering
2015 than we did entering 2014. I maybe would make the distinction that the one interesting
piece that's maybe that's not true for is our Chinese business. As we talked about a little bit on
the last quarter, they've been kind of closing out some of the larger jobs and so they have a little
bit less while their short-term business has been holding up well, we have less of the project
piece. But overall I'd say because the short cycle piece is the main one driving current activity and
the short cycle piece, Paul, looks pretty good.
And then the last thing is we always talk to you guys about our businesses, our replacement
business. And we like when our customers have a stable financial market, stable currency market,
stable business and they're likely going to continue on their normal replacement cycle. So any
time we see increasing uncertainty and increasing volatility in these markets, we always get a little
bit more cautious in terms of what's that got to mean for some of our customers in terms of how
they think about their replacement cycle, how they think about their investment plans.
To connect that to what Olivier said, if we look in our business today, backlog is good, leads look
good, competitively we feel very strong, product portfolio is going well, field turbo program is off
to a great start. But there's the customer considerations and we'll have to see how this thing
plays out over time. We thought a lot about the guidance and we felt that that added wording I
gave you was appropriate, but I don't want to be overly dramatic about it either, Paul.
Q - `Paul R. Knight, Janney Capital Markets `
With this 4% growth in the year, what's the growth rate within service, consumables and
software?
A - William P. Donnelly `
The software piece is relatively a small number, so it's probably not worth adding that piece, but
maybe I'll let Olivier comment on the.
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
And the way we look at software, it's really part of the solution that we sell with the hardware. We
hardly have any software only revenue. But coming back maybe to service, so service had an 8%
growth in the quarter, really good and actually also for the full year was very strong and
consumables was actually also good overall.
I am definitely very pleased, as I made comments before, we have made pre-investments over
the last years in service. We have invested heavily in harmonization. We have developed new
service product. We have invested in additional service sales campaigns, but also resources and
they paid off nicely. And in that sense, I expect that service will continue to do better than product
sales and in that sense I have also good confidence for 2015. But the 8% growth in last quarter
was really exceptionally strong.
Q - `Paul R. Knight, Janney Capital Markets `
Thank you.Operator
Our next question come from the line of `Isaac Ro, Goldman Sachs & Co. with Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Isaac Ro, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Good afternoon, guys. Thank you.
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
Hi, Isaac.
Q - `Isaac Ro, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Hi. Hey, on China, I realize the easing comps are part of the tailwind that you expect for 2015, but
I was curious if you could maybe identify any specific end markets where you're starting to feel a
little better, or at least have a line of sight on better orders?
A - William P. Donnelly `
So, maybe a couple areas, we would – hey maybe right now to talk about orders, I wouldn't give
you any – I think it would be misleading to imply I could name a couple large orders, but I think
they wouldn't be material in that sense to our overall results. But in terms of where we expect
either continued good growth or in some cases improved growth, I would highlight in particular,
we think lab will have another good year. Lab grew double-digit for us in China in 2014. We would
be surprised if it didn't grow at least high single digits and probably will grow double digits again
in 2015.
Our process analytics business, I would highlight in particular. We had talked about it with you guys
in the past that they had a double-digit decline in 2014 in part due to some environmental
regulation benefiting earlier years. Our expectation is for good growth there in we think high
single digits, double-digit kind of growth in the process analytics business for next year.
Maybe the big piece of the business, the one that accounts for about half of our business in
China is our industrial business. We do think that the easier comps are going to help the industrial
business. We think that if that business even grows low single-digits next year or sorry this year,
2015, that should mean our overall business grows in China mid-single digits, hopefully even
better, but let's just call it mid-single digits for now.
And we think that that's a reasonable expectation given comps and other considerations, but we
are alert too, it's the most economically sensitive piece of our business down there and there are
some good signs some months and bad signs other months in terms of Chinese industrial. But
we continue to think 2015 will be a better year than 2014 in terms of our China business and we
think we can grow mid-single digits.
Q - `Isaac Ro, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Okay, that's really helpful. Thank you. And then just a second item was on pricing. You had a
obviously very strong 2014 realizing some solid price. I was curious what was baked into your
guidance this year more or less versus 2014. And as part of that equation, was curious if you
could talk a little bit about on the gross margin line, how we should think about the flow-through
of lower oil prices through your cost of goods and whether the combination of pricing and lower
oil prices might help the gross margin story for this year as well?A - William P. Donnelly `
Okay, so in terms of our gross margin, we'll have continued expansion on a constant currency
basis. And in terms of on – and that will be, what's the word I'm looking for, even elevated a little
bit because of the impact of foreign exchange. So we talked on the call earlier, Isaac, that there'll
be a 7% top line shrink due to foreign exchange. So part of the offset of that is, obviously, the
impact on OP is not as much, is that – is on the cost of sales line. So maybe it's best to speak in
constant currency terms.
So maybe if I start with pricing, we had built in about 150 bps into pricing. I think that we – that's a
little less than what we had in 2014, in part driven by an environment with less inflation to talk
about, which makes it a tougher discussion with our customer base. We are going to certainly use
pricing as one of the – pricing will have to be one of the things we'll work hard on to help to offset
some of the currency headwinds we see overall, but I think it would be difficult to quantify that at
this stage.
Maybe with regard to your comment on raw material cost, probably the biggest impact of lower
oil prices to us will be just a little bit less gasoline cost for our service technicians. I'd maybe
highlight that just as a reminder because we have actually more service technicians in Europe than
we do in the United States, but maybe the gasoline price reductions that we see in the United
States are not the same in Europe in euro terms. But we will get some benefit there.
I think Mary and I had estimated earlier, maybe in the range of $0.5 million to $1 million. Now,
maybe if I think about like oil in terms of resin cost and things like that, it really won't be material.
But as Olivier – that item won't be material, but as Olivier said, material costs overall, we should
be able to get them down, I think, in the range of maybe 1% at this stage hopefully 1.5%.
Q - `Isaac Ro, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
That was a ton of color. I really appreciate all of that. Thank you.
A - William P. Donnelly `
Sure.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Ross Muken with Evercore ISI.
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
Hi, Ross.
Q - `James Fletcher Clark, International Strategy & Investment Group LLC `
Hi, this is James Clark on for Ross. Congratulations on the quarter guys. Just a question on
Europe, it sounds like you continue to see a bit of a mismatch between your business and some
of the macro headlines we're seeing come out of the region. I guess, I'm wondering if you could
give some details on maybe lab balances and core industrial, some of the other businesses
where you tend to see a bit of a lead with the macro changes?
A - William P. Donnelly `So, hey, in terms of our European business, as mentioned, we did quite well, I think 6%, it is an
excellent number. I think, in particular if you think about the fact that within that number is Russia,
which was down around 20%. I think excluding Russia, I think our European business was up in the
range of 7%.
Then in terms of maybe the breakdown, we had in the fourth quarter good growth in all the
businesses including even good growth in the retail business, we had a good year in retail actually
in Europe with some projects in the first quarter of 2014 and some projects being delivered in the
fourth quarter as well, but overall a good year.
So I don't have – I'm kind of literally looking at product line growth in Europe in total and we didn't
have anybody worse than 3% and we had a couple of double-digit guys. So I think pretty solid
numbers up and down the line in Europe.
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
It's actually worth to mention, we had this 6% growth against the strong previous year
comparison, actually in Q4 2013 we had 8% growth in Europe, so just reinforcing the point that
the team executed actually really well and executed well across all product lines and across also
service.
Q - `James Fletcher Clark, International Strategy & Investment Group LLC `
Okay. That's helpful. And then maybe a follow-up, I think you guys spent some time talking about
some of the levers you have to offset the impact of the FX headwinds. I'm just sort of wondering
how you think about some of the investments you've laid out whether it's new products or the
field turbo programs or the growth of the service business, how you think about those priorities
relative to areas where you can potentially cut back and try to offset some of the headwinds
through FX?
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
I look at these two things really separates. One is the offensive measures. The offensive
measures like the investments in field turbo service and one is really capturing the weight, the
growth weight. We have talked about it at previous occasions. I feel that there is reasonable
momentum in the market and I want to make sure that we capture that momentum and it's the
opportunity for us to selectively invest in front end products.
This is not impacted by this currency situation and we want to make this investment. We want to
make the investment in the franchise. On the measures around FX, we have a couple of things
that we need and want to do really short term and this is related to purchasing supplier base then
the pricing topics that Bill was talking and then selective discretionary spending that we have, but
all of these should not have any impact on the growth related initiatives that we have. And then
the more long-term things are more structural, that should also not have an impact on the growth
momentum. It should also not have an impact on our product pipeline.
Q - `James Fletcher Clark, International Strategy & Investment Group LLC `
Okay, thanks. That's helpful.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Derik de Bruin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.Q - `Derik de Bruin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hi. Good afternoon.
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
Hey, Derik.
A - William P. Donnelly `
Hi, Derik.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
The – just out of curiosity, is the weaker currency environment for some other countries causing
some of your competitors to be more aggressive, particularly since you're raising prices in some
areas?
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
I would say out of Europe I'm not so concerned. I think in general, these are disciplined and
reasonable competitors. And in general, I would also say, most of our competitors don't have that
high profit margin, so I don't think they will take advantage of the situation and be particularly
aggressive. I haven't seen that in the last few years.
The ones that we need to watch a little bit are the Japanese competitors that we have to, we
call, may be in Japan, for example, it's the only market where we have local competitors for our
lab product. So there we have quite separate situation where our pricing power is impacted by
the local competitors, and then for the product inspection business, we have some Japanese
competitors that also operate globally and particularly also in Rest of Asia that we need to
monitor. But here I'm not worried that this will negatively impact our market shares across the
globe.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. And I was writing and I sort of missed it, but could you revisit your comments about what
happens in 2016 and 2017 when the hedges roll off. I believe you said a 1% EPS hit and 2% EPS hit,
2016, 2017.
A - William P. Donnelly `
We'll have, again, all things being equal, the impact to the hedges rolling off because we have a
little less of 2016 hedged than 2015 is 1% headwind in 2016 and then another 2% when all the
hedges roll-off by the end of 2016, so into 2017.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
And that's on the EPS line, not on the top line?
A - William P. Donnelly `
Correct. That's an EPS comment only.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `Great. Okay. And so always impressive to take advantage of situations and be proactive and do
this and you clearly we had plans in place to move some of your other manufacturing and some
of your infrastructure around out there. So could you just refresh us, our memory in terms of what
you're certainly manufacturing for print is, how much you still have to move? Just some comments
on some of the actions you could potentially take on this and just how much more there is to go?
A - William P. Donnelly `
Maybe just to give you a kind of some ballpark numbers and I want to make sure, I say these the
right way, so let's say, our net operating expenses in Swiss francs are in the area of $255 million.
And there's some things, I take the examples like, clearly our supplier base in Switzerland will – if
we have an alternative supplier in euro, we suddenly became 15% more cost effective. And there
are other things we can do in areas like printing and stuff like that.
In terms of maybe comments around manufacturing footprint and things like that, I think that
that's premature to talk about anything there specifically. We – if you – and Derik you have seen
our operations in Switzerland, it is not like we're vertically integrated there. It's high-end assembly
operations mostly on businesses where it's important to have manufacturing close to R&D. So
we're continuously looking at our businesses in Switzerland and globally to become more
efficient. I don't necessarily think that we feel like we need to solve this problem all within the
confines of Switzerland.
It's a thing we'll work on as a team globally and we're, as you've pointed out, we are on top of it
already. We spent the last few weeks talking about that. We have some answers, but not all the
answers, but we're determined to continue to be a highly competitive company and so we're
continuously looking at cost-productivity measures.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. Thank you very much.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Tycho Peterson with JPMorgan.
Q - `Tycho W. Peterson, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Hey. Thanks for taking the question. Either Olivier or Bill, I'm wondering if you can give a little bit of
color on just your growth expectations by segment for lab, industrial and food retail for this year?
A - William P. Donnelly `
Okay. So, sorry, getting the right sheet in front of me. So in terms of the lab business, we think
that we had a great year in 2014 and think that it's very realistic to put up a mid-single digit
growth number on top of that. If I look at our product inspection business, we would have
expectations higher than that.
That should be a business that grows high single digits, whereas our core industrial business is
probably going to be kind of on that borderline between low single digits and mid-single digits.
But together I think the overall industrial business should be in the mid-single digit range. And
then, as usual, we're not assuming much growth coming out of the retail business. I think we've
built it around 2% or something like that.
Q - `Tycho W. Peterson, JPMorgan Securities LLC `Okay. And then, I guess, as we think about the growth you highlighted in service, you've been
talking for a while about the opportunity to increase the attach rate there, is this the result of
incremental investments you've made or how do we think about the potential going forward on
that business?
A - William P. Donnelly `
Certainly, we're really happy with what we saw in 2014. We think we can continue to grow the
service business faster than the product business, particularly in the core segments where we
really want to be able to control proprietary service. And there is a lot of things we're doing from
a sales and marketing perspective to make that happen in general and as part of the Blue Ocean
program as well. So we hope that that's a multi-year trend that you're going to see in the
business over the medium term that we're going to have good growth, sales growth and good
profit growth within our service business.
Q - `Tycho W. Peterson, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Okay. And then on China, you've talked about the shift from infrastructure to pharma, food,
biotech and chemicals. As we think about your level of investment there, are they incremental
investments you need to incur throughout 2015 to kind capture the shifting growth dynamic?
A - William P. Donnelly `
I think if you go back to some of our business exits that we did, I think that was early in 2014, end
of 2013, Tycho, we exited some industrial businesses. We probably moved, in effect changed out
about 100 people on a net basis and we really made a lot of those efforts in terms of making
sure the sales force within China was well aligned to the markets you mentioned and as well
expanded our scope in the west. We think that the biggest piece of that was already done, but
it'll be something we'll continue to invest in going forward. And if we think about the field turbo
program or our market penetration efforts that we've talked about earlier, I think that applies to
China as well and we'll continue to move front-end resources in those directions and as well as
product development efforts.
Q - `Tycho W. Peterson, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Okay. Thank you. Appreciate it.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Richard Eastman, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) with Robert W. Baird.
Q - `Richard Eastman, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
Good afternoon.
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
Hi, Rick.
Q - `Richard Eastman, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
Olivier or Bill, was Europe above plan at that 6% local currency growth if you pull out food retail?
In other words, industrial lab, did they come in at plan with the upside out of food retail?A - William P. Donnelly `
Hey particularly, yes, the short answer is yes and particularly if you think about Russia.
Q - `Richard Eastman, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
Okay. So Russia was down 20%?
A - William P. Donnelly `
And Russia has no, basically no retail.
Q - `Richard Eastman, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
Okay. All right and then what portion of revenue is consumables at this point? And how did they
fare in the quarter? They must have been up very high double-digits.
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
So consumables in Q4 was about 6% and in terms of growth we are just looking it up.
Q - `Richard Eastman, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
Okay. Because your reference earlier was that service and consumables was plus 11%, service was
plus 8%, so consumables had a big quarter. Is there any trend there or a new product driver or
just a?
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
For example, our pipette business did well in Q4 and of course the pipette business has a
significant share of consumables. So I would certainly expect that this was a part of the
explanation.
Q - `Richard Eastman, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
Okay. Okay.
A - William P. Donnelly `
I could confirm what Olivier said and as well our sensor business and a number of other areas. I
think if I look at the full year, maybe a little bit less in the fourth quarter, but if I look at the full-year
numbers, for example our Quantos consumables also had a good.
Q - `Richard Eastman, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
Okay, okay. And then in terms of the field turbo program, I think the target was to add 200
people I think by the end of calendar 2015. And so maybe can you just update us how far along
are we in terms of adds there? Kind of front-end adds, as you speak? And then also, is that
initially weighted to any geography or product line?
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
Let me take the second part first. So this time we do this actually really globally, it's not just
emerging markets. We go after underpenetrated markets and where we feel we can win market
share. So there are adds in Europe as well as in Americas. When I look at Europe, it's simplyparticularly weighted towards Eastern Europe. You have Turkey and some other countries, but it's
not just emerging markets. We also did a couple of investments in mature markets.
When we look at product categories, we focus on product categories with the highest
profitability. So we would certainly see lab, product inspection and process analytics getting an
over-proportionate number of these resources. Service is also part of it that we certainly invest.
Then there is a few additions that are cross business. For example, we invest more in key account
management, and there we typically cover multiple divisions.
In terms of progress, actually we have on a regular base, we have these dashboards that show us
the progress. We had the last one in December and I was actually pleased to see that we have
actually made progress already in recruiting on on-boarding people, and I do actually expect that
we will be slightly ahead of the plan in terms of having these people on board. So when we said
we will do it throughout 2015, I wouldn't be surprised if we have the very big majority on board by
mid of the year.
Q - `Richard Eastman, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
I see. Okay. And then just last, Olivier, any opinion on, competitive opinion on Sartorius. Finally
they sold their industrial tech division to a Japanese company that quite frankly I hadn't heard of
before. But it's not been too bad to compete in that space against Sartorius? You think, any
thought there?
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
Yes, I think actually it will not really impact our strategy and our position. I think actually it's not
obvious that the strategy of that business will change to the new owner. And in that sense, I feel
actually comfortable that we will continue to win market share here in that situation too. So yes, I
don't have strong feelings, worries about it.
Q - `Richard Eastman, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
Okay. All right, well, thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Reggie Miller with Citi.
Q - `Reginald John Miller, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker) `
Hi there.
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
Hi.
Q - `Reginald John Miller, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker) `
Hey. Thanks for taking the question. Just wondering for the front-end investments that you're
putting together, I was just wondering if you had a sense of when we can kind of see that
material impact in the top line?
A - Olivier A. Filliol `So typically it takes six months to eight months before we have sales that covers cost. And if I
said before that it would take us until the mid of the year to really have the team on board. We
would expect maybe late this year to start to have an impact. But to reach the full potential for
sales people it can easily take three years to four years. So I expect us to benefit from that also in
2016 and 2017. So in that sense it's one of the reason why we talk about investments in the
midterm.
Q - `Reginald John Miller, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker) `
Okay, thanks. And kind order timing issues that you discussed for the retail group in the Americas.
When do you expect to realize that in 2015?
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
I think, it was more related to product inspection where we said there was a little bit of a timing
thing. I wouldn't read too much into that. We talked here about lead times of a few weeks, so it
might have moved a little bit but this is not so much here.
Q - `Reginald John Miller, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker) `
Okay, thanks so much.
Operator
And we seem to have no further questions at this time. Do you have any closing remarks?
A - Mary T. Finnegan `
Hey, thanks, Dustin and thanks, everyone for joining us tonight. Of course if you have any
questions or any follow-ups, please don't hesitate to give us a call. Have a good evening
everyone.
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
Bye-bye.
Operator
And ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. We thank you for your
participation. You may all disconnect.