Q4 2015 Earnings Call

Operator
Good day ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to our Fourth Quarter 2015 Mettler-Toledo
International Earnings Conference Call. My name is Kyle and I'll be your audio coordinator for
today. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. Thank you.
I'd now like to turn the presentation over to our hostess for today's call, Ms. Mary Finnegan.
Please proceed, ma'am.
Mary T. Finnegan `
Thanks, Kyle, and hey good evening everyone. I'm Mary Finnegan. I'm the Treasurer and I'm
responsible for Investor Relations at Mettler-Toledo, and happy that you're joining us this evening.
I am joined by Olivier Filliol, our CEO; and Bill Donnelly, our Executive Vice President.
I need to cover just a couple administrative matters. First, the call is being webcast and is
available on our website. A copy of the press release and the presentation we refer to are also
available on the website. On page one, we have our Safe Harbor language, let me just
summarize that.
Statements in this presentation which are not historical facts constitute forward-looking
statements within the meaning of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 and the U.S. Securities Exchange
Act of 1934. These statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our
actual results, level of activity, performance, or achievements to be materially different from
those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements.
For a discussion of these risks and uncertainties, please see our recent Form 8-K. All of our
forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors discussedunder the captions, Factors Affecting our Future Operating Results and in the Business and
Management Discussion and Analysis in sections of our Form 10-K.
Just one last item. On today's call, we may use non-GAAP financial measures. More detailed
information with respect to the use of and differences between non-GAAP and the most directly
comparable GAAP measures is provided in our 8-K.
Let me now turn the call over to Olivier.
Olivier A. Filliol `
Thank you, Mary, and welcome to everyone on the call. I will start with a summary of the quarter
and then Bill will provide details on our financial results and guidance. I will then have some
additional comments before we open the lines for Q&A.
The highlights for the quarter are on page two of the presentation. We ended the year with the
solid fourth quarter. Market conditions throughout the world developed as we expected and I'm
very pleased with our continued strong execution. Growth in the Americas was very strong and
broad based. Europe had good growth in laboratory instruments, which was somewhat hidden by
a decline in retail due to strong prior-year comparison.
Sales in China and Brazil declined meaningfully in the quarter while Russia's decline was modest.
Growth in emerging markets outside these countries was solid. Overall, we continue to gain
share through our Field Turbo program, Spinnaker marketing initiatives and our exciting product
offering.
With strong execution on our margin enhancement and productivity improvement program, we
again had good margin expansion in the quarter. Despite the challenging currency environment in
the quarter and for the full year 2015, we delivered 10% EPS growth which equates to 15% before
the estimated impact of currencies. We are pleased with these results, particularly given the
headwinds from currency and certain emerging markets. Equally important, we continued to
make investments for growth, which positioned us well for 2016 and beyond.
Now, let me turn it over to Bill to go over the numbers.
William P. Donnelly `
Thanks, Olivier and hello, everybody. Sales were $673.5 million in the quarter. That's an increase
of 3% in local currency, and on a dollar-basis sales decreased by 3% as currencies reduced sales
by 6% in the quarter.
If you turn now to page three of the presentation, we outlined sales by geography. In the quarter,
local currency sales increased by 9% in the Americas. They were flat in Europe and declined by
2% in Asia / Rest of World as compared to the prior year. China was down 8% in the quarter,
which was in line with our expectations. Brazil was down 12%, while we saw some improvement in
Russia as their sales decline was only 1%. Excluding these three countries, we had a growth of 5%
in the quarter.
Turning to the next slide, we have full year sales which also increased 3% in local currency. By
region in 2015, local currency sales increased by 8% in the Americas, 2% in Europe and were flat
in Asia / Rest of World. Brazil, Russia and China were down 11% in 2015. Excluding these three
countries, we had a sales growth of 7% in local currency for the full year.Turning now to slide number five, we outlined sales growth by product line. Laboratory had a
growth of 6% in local currency while industrial was flat in the quarter and our food retailing
business declined 8% in the fourth quarter.
Full year sales growth is shown on the next slide. Laboratory increased by 7% in local currency
while industrial was flat and our food retailing business grew by 2%.
Turning now to slide number seven, let me walk you through key items on the P&L for the quarter.
Our gross margins reached 58%, a 150 basis point increase over the prior year margin of 56.5%.
We're of course very pleased with this increase. Currencies contributed about 80% to the
increase and includes the benefit of the gain we have on the Swiss franc-euro hedges. In constant
currency, our gross margins were up by 70 basis points. Pricing and material cost reductions
contributed to the margin improvement.
These improvements were offset in part by our investments in the field service organization. R&D
amounted to $31.1 million, that's a 3% increase in local currency. SG&A amounted to $177.4 million,
which is constant with the prior year and local currency. Increased investments in our field service
organization and employee benefit costs were offset by our cost saving programs and lower
variable compensation. Our adjusted operating income was $182.2 million in the quarter and
that's a 3% increase over the prior year amount of $176.3 million.
Currency reduced operating profit by approximately $7.8 million in the quarter. Excluding this
headwind, operating profit increased by 8% in the quarter. Our operating margins were 27.1%.
That's an increase of 180 basis points over the prior year. Currencies benefited margins by 50
basis points as the percentage impact of currency on sales was larger than the impact on
operating profit. The core underlying margin improvement was approximately 130 bps.
Incremental OP margins reached 75% before currencies this quarter, which is particularly
impressive given the meaningful investments we're making in our Field Turbo program.
A couple of final comments on the P&L. Our amortization amounted to $8.0 million in the quarter.
Our interest expense was $6.8 million in the quarter. Our effective tax rate continues to be 24%. It
was slightly less in the fourth quarter and that added about $0.02 to our earnings in the quarter.
Fully diluted shares for the quarter were $27.8 million. That's a 4.4% decline from the prior year
reflecting the impact of our share repurchase program.
Adjusted EPS was $4.65 per share and that's an increase of 10% over the prior year amount of
$4.24 per share. Excluding the impact of currency, adjusted EPS increased by 15% in the quarter.
On a reported basis, earnings per share were $4.44 per share as compared to $4.17 per share
and reported EPS includes restructuring charges of $0.17 per share and $0.04 per share of
purchased intangible amortization.
The next slide provides our full year results for 2015. Our local currency sales increased by 3%
while gross margins grew by 170 basis points. Currency benefited gross margins by about 90
basis points resulting in a strong 80 basis point improvement on a constant currency basis.
Operating profits increased by 5% and margins on a constant currency basis increased by 120
bps. Incremental margins exceeded 50% for the full year. Our adjusted EPS grew by 10%, which
reflects a growth of approximately 15% excluding currency.
Now let's turn to cash flow. In the quarter, our free cash flow was $126.4 million or $4.60 per share.
On a per share basis, that's a 23% increase over the prior year amount. We achieved further
improvement in DSO, which was reduced to 39 days at the end of the year compared to 40 days
in the prior year. Our ITO was 4.6. Full year free cash flow amounted to $364.8 million or $12.90per share, which is an increase of 11%. We converted 100% of our adjusted net income to cash
flow in 2015 and we're, of course, pleased with that.
Now let's turn to guidance. Forecasting continues to be very challenging given the uncertainty in
certain emerging markets. We expect market conditions to remain soft in our China industrial
business and we don't expect to achieve growth in China for the full year. Russia appears to have
bottomed while Brazil has a ways to go. For the Rest of the World we expect continued growth
but less than what we achieved in 2015 given economic forecasts and some tougher comps. We
expect continued share gains globally driven by our Spinnaker sales and marketing program, our
Field Turbo programs, and a strong product pipeline.
Taking all these factors together, we continue to expect local currency sales growth to be
between 3% and 4% in 2016 and our adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $14.10 to
$14.30. This is a growth of 9% to 11%. We expect currencies to reduce earnings growth by about
1.5%, which represents a growth of 10.5% to 12.5% excluding currencies. This guidance remains
unchanged from what we reported on our last call.
Now, let me turn to the first quarter. In the first quarter we expect local currency sales growth of
approximately 4% while our adjusted earnings per share should be in the range of $2.40 to $2.45
per share. We expect currencies to reduce EPS growth in the quarter by about 2.5%. Excluding the
impact of currency, our guidance reflects an EPS growth of 9.5% to 11.5% in the quarter.
A couple of additional comments on guidance First, our sales guidance for the first quarter is at
the top end of the range principally due to comparisons in China. We expect China to have
flattish local currency sales growth in Q1 while for the full year we expect China's sales growth to
be down low single digits. Let me cover currency.
With respect to sales growth, we expect currency to reduce sales growth in Q1 by about 4.5%
and reduce it for the full year by about 3%. As already mentioned, we expect currencies to
reduce EPS growth in 2016 by approximately 1.5% with the greater impact in the first half of the
year. Finally, let me comment on cash flow. We expect cash flow to be in the range of $355 million
to $360 million for the full year and we would expect to repurchase shares of approximately
$500 million in 2016.
Okay. That's it from my side and I now want to turn it back to Olivier.
Olivier A. Filliol `
Thanks, Bill. Let me start with summary comments on business conditions. Lab finished the year
strong and had a great year. Sales growth for the quarter was 6% and for the full year was 7%.
Most product lines showed good growth. As mentioned on multiple occasions, our product
pipeline in lab is very strong. They were also a major beneficiary of the Field Turbo program. We
expect continued solid growth in 2016.
Industrial was flat in the quarter and for the full year. Product inspection grew 6% in the fourth
quarter and for the full year. Market dynamics for product inspection continued to be very good.
We have strong leadership position, the most comprehensive offering in the market, and very
strong product pipeline which positions us well for 2016 and beyond.
Core industrial declined 3% in the quarter and for the full year. In the quarter, we had good
growth in the Americas and Europe also had growth, while China declined. You can see that many
peers to our core industrial business are having struggles. In this light, we performed well andgained share. I expect more of the same in 2016, a challenging environment, but us performing
relatively well and gaining some share.
Finally, retail declined 8% in the quarter. Americas and Asia had good growth while Europe was
down due to very strong quarter in the previous year. For the year, retail had growth of 2%. We
would expect retail to be down modestly in 2016 due to timing of project activity. It is worth
noting that retail had record levels of profit and profit margin in 2015, so we believe our strategy
for retail is sound and well executed.
Now let me make some additional comments by geography. Europe sales were flat in the
quarter, in line with our expectations, given the good growth in the prior year. I'm pleased with
the solid growth in lab and core industrial in Europe during the quarter. For the full year, sales
growth in Europe was up 2%. Overall, we continued to execute well in this region, and our Field
Turbo investments should help us continue to gain share.
Americas had another excellent quarter, with sales growth of 9%. We had good growth in most
product lines, especially where we made Field Turbo investments. Our outlook for Americas
remains solid, and although we will have tougher comparisons this year, we expect continued
solid growth.
Asia / Rest of the World decreased 2% in the quarter, while increased 5% excluding China. As Bill
mentioned, China declined 8% in the quarter. Lab was flat in the quarter in China, while industrial
was down 17%. The order picture was better for China lab in the quarter, and we expect China lab
to grow in 2016. As Bill mentioned earlier, overall, we expect China sales to be down this year, but
not to the level we saw in 2015. Outside China, in the fourth quarter, we had very good growth in
India and solid growth in Southeast Asia. We expect market conditions in Asia outside of China to
remain solid in 2016.
Let me make some additional comments on 2016. Last year proved more challenging than we
had anticipated and it also demonstrated our resiliency and agility as we delivered solid financial
results despite sizable sales declines in Brazil, Russia and China and significant currency
headwinds. Our ability to navigate the various economic environments around the globe is a
result of our longstanding core strategies and our discipline in executing them. These strategies,
which we have talked about with you for many years, are well understood and embraced within
the organization. We believe that our culture has been a key differentiator for us for many years,
and 2015 gave us ample opportunities to show its benefits. In 2016, you will see more of the
same, that is, we are more than happy to stick to our core strategy and focus on execution when
we come in every day.
Let me provide some additional details to give you a better understanding of our key priorities in
2016. First, the Field Turbo program had a good start in 2015 and we expect to add another 200
front-end resources in 2016. Importantly, we are funding these investments through the
productivity improvements and cost measures elsewhere in the business. The investments are
aimed at under-penetrated markets and are yielding tangible results as evidenced by our growth
in 2015 outside of Brazil, Russia and China. Adding field resources is a high leverage investment
for us and particularly important given our organic growth focus.
Second, our Spinnaker sales and marketing programs continued to drive share and productivity
gains. We are now entering the fifth wave of Spinnaker, and one of the key focus areas for us in
2016 is to use data analytics to identify sales opportunities, which are actionable. One example is
an initiative for replacement of old products. Our installed base, consisting of millions of
instruments, is a highly valuable asset to our franchise. Our marketing teams work diligently tocleanse and enrich the information stored about these instruments in our comprehensive
database called iBase.
Using data analytics, we can identify customers in our iBase who could benefit from having their
old products upgraded to newest generation, which can provide significantly more functionality
and translate into real value for our customers. To be successful, data transparency down to the
model level needs to be extracted from the iBase and targeted marketing campaigns
developed. We support this initiative through telesales resources we have added to our Field
Turbo program.
Key Account Management is another key priority for our Spinnaker marketing programs in 2016.
We are further developing our top 100 Key Account Program with a focus on further penetrating
key customers in food, pharmaceuticals and chemical industry. As a market leader, we have a
wide range of products and service solutions and a large direct sales force presence that enables
us to be a true partner for our global customers with diverse needs in many location.
Third, we have a large number of new products introduced in 2015 and expect similar trends in
2016 as well. In particular, balances, analytical instruments, process analytics, automated chemistry
and product inspection have robust pipelines. We continue to lead the market in technology
advances that provide competitive edge to our customers and keep us at the forefront of
innovation in our industry.
Finally, it is a core aspect of our culture. You can even say it is part of our DNA to continuously look
for ways to optimize our cost structure. This drive for continuous improvement is at the
foundation of our franchise and gives us the resiliency and agility to remain successful even when
market conditions are not as favorable as we might have expected.
Many productivity programs and cost initiatives in various areas add up to significant savings and
efficiencies. These efforts include lean initiatives in manufacturing and back office, leveraging low-
cost countries for R&D, marketing support and manufacturing, and utilizing shared service centers
for operational activities.
That covers my comments on our strategic focus in 2016. Let me make some summary
comments before opening it up for questions. We remain cautious on China and some of the
other emerging markets, as market conditions are challenging and it will take some time for
these markets to recover. Our priority in these countries is to protect margins and ensure
resources are targeted to long-term growth opportunities.
Our auto (22:36) businesses, which account for more than 80% of total sales, are performing
well. Market demand is solid and we are leveraging our excellent product pipeline, proven sales
and marketing programs and investment in field resources to gain share. Our margin
enhancement and productivity initiatives are well on track and allow us to make additional growth
investments. We believe this positions us well for continued share gains in 2016 and beyond.
I want to now ask the operator to open the line for questions.
Q&A
Operator
Your first question comes from the line of Tim Evans from Wells Fargo Securities. Your line is
open.Q - `Tim C. Evans, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Thank you. I would like to try to get a sense for some of the sensitivities in guidance. I mean,
we've obviously been in a challenging macro environment now for some time and you've done a
great job managing through that. As you're thinking about your 2016 guidance, what are some of
the downside risks that you think are the most – the most – things that are on the front of your
mind at this point? Is it just – is it still kind of emerging markets? Or is it more kind of global GDP
that you're thinking about? Just kind of give us a sense for maybe some of the things that could
go wrong in 2016.
A - William P. Donnelly `
So I would start with global – the global economy, right? We have certain assumptions about how
the world should play out. We're using the same data that you guys are, are seeing the same
information that you guys are. We continue to be a little worried about some of the emerging
markets. We also see some weakness in some manufacturing data, which impacts our business. I
mean, I would qualify that to say if you dig a layer deeper into that, you would see that actually
some areas like food and chemical are actually – there is more – those are the more positive
ones, for example, within – those are actually growth areas within the U.S. PMI number as
opposed to, for example, the oil and gas area or metals area – are much more difficult at this
time.
A second area would be currency. I think we've all experienced together ourselves, the peer
companies and you guys how currencies can move things around, and we have an assumption
based on where rates are basically today. And if those should continue, if the economy should
continue, we would feel good about our guidance for 2016. And I would highlight, Olivier and I
both feel that the things we can control, the execution of our business plan are things that we
feel very good about for 2016.
Q - `Tim C. Evans, Wells Fargo Securities LLC `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Knight from Janney Montgomery Scott. Your line is
open.
Q - `William March, Janney Montgomery Scott LLC `
Hi, guys. This is actually Bill March on for Paul. Thanks for taking the questions. Maybe, first, could
you just speak to what you're seeing in China in terms of flat lab, maybe where you could see
some upside into 2016 and what you're seeing on the industrial side as well?
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
Okay. Hey, I expect 2016 a little bit what we have also seen in 2015. We had in 2015 actually good
pockets of growth in the lab area, particularly in the area that is not exposed to the industrial
world. I expect that to go on. I do, on the industrial piece, however, also expect that the challenge
goes on in 2016. The challenge that we have experienced last year is that there is overcapacity in
many of our end user industries that we serve. And that overcapacity remains and the high
volatility that we just see in general in China is going on.What it's today, probably, too early to really have a good outlook for China. We want to see kind
of Chinese New Year and how the business start after that, and we will certainly have the higher
confidence level in our outlook when we talk next time about China. And so my – May time is
certainly giving us then better visibility. We saw that also last year. The impact of how business
does before and after Chinese New Year is actually quite important.
Q - `William March, Janney Montgomery Scott LLC `
Understood. And then just as a follow-up, maybe what's playing out in the food retailing segment
with the decline this quarter, and then as you look out into next year to see a tougher comp, even
though food and chemical seems to be an area of somewhat strength in the applied markets?
Thank you.
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
So food retail, I think important this is really to this – our solution going to the big food retailers,
key accounts around the world. And we have seen a decline here in Q4, but that was expected.
Actually we did talk about this happening because we had a strong previous year, particularly in
Europe we had one or two big project. For 2016, we expect also some declines in food retail, and
that's because we all talk about key accounts and they plan their rollouts actually a couple of
quarters in advance, and so we have a certain visibility about the big project. And just the way it's
coming together makes us believe that 2016 will be more difficult.
But I want also to remind, the way we are running this retail from a strategic standpoint is really a
focus also on profitability and not just on the growth. And we accept in that sense also the
volatility that we have in that business. But I did highlight in my prepared remarks that I'm really
happy how the profitability is developing of this business. So I feel we are in a good track, and I'm
not irritated by the fact that we expect some sales decline for that business.
Q - `William March, Janney Montgomery Scott LLC `
Great. Thanks for your time.
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
Okay.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Groberg from UBS. Your line is open.
Q - `Harris Iqbal, UBS Securities LLC `
Hi, this is actually Harris on behalf of Jon. I appreciate the question. So first one is, in terms of
pricing, what do you expect in 2016? I think your prior guidance was 150 basis points, so curious
just given where FX and macro are today versus when you last reported what expectations are?
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
Yeah. So, we still think the 150 basis points is a good assumption here. Note even that
macroenvironments, inflation and so on wouldn't necessarily suggest it's an environment for price
increases, and we feel definitely comfortable with that. Our customers value the value add that
our products are bringing. We have well differentiated solutions and this allows us also to have
some price increases. We do that in a differentiated way across the world. We do it differentiatedacross the product lines. The tools that we have in place, the processes that we have in place
should really enable us to increase prices independent of the macroeconomic environment. You
might also recall that we did special (31:17) price increases even in economic crisis. I feel we can
do also price increases in low inflation environments.
Q - `Harris Iqbal, UBS Securities LLC `
Got it. And then one additional question. You've mentioned in the past various initiatives to
contract the sale of more service contracts at the point of product sale. Can you comment on the
progress here and any initiatives you're pursuing on that front through 2016?
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
Yeah. So our focus is still very much on this topic. I would maybe phrase it also more broadly. Of
course, we want to sell more service contract at the point of sales. So we have efforts here that
first we always include service in our quotes and then we train and incentivize our salespeople to
really also convert on that. That's an ongoing effort and the big benefit comes when we
accumulate all that contract business over many years. But in parallel, we have actually very
significant efforts to go on the whole installed base and make sure that we can capture as much
of the installed base on the service contract.
So I want to make sure that we emphasize really both things. We are making good progress, but I
want also to stress the point that it's a journey. The service business, growing the service
business and particularly the contract business is every quarter, every year capturing a few
hundreds of additional customers. It's not just a bold strategy that you can implement within one
or two years.
Q - `Harris Iqbal, UBS Securities LLC `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Isaac Ro from Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.
Q - `Joel Harrison Kaufman, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Hi, guys. It's actually Joel in for Isaac. Just wondering if you guys have seen any improved demand
from your customers who actually benefit from lower oil prices. And if not, when do you think we
might actually see that?
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
It's an interesting question in the sense that I'm observing a little bit the chemical industry in
particular who could be one of the beneficiary, the plastic industry and so on. I don't see strong
signals yet. And I – in that sense, I don't have much expectation that we're going to really benefit
from this. I would say that's probably a general comment. We don't see that many consumers or
industry segments that are really benefiting from the lower oil prices.
Q - `Joel Harrison Kaufman, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Great. And then maybe just one on M&A. Is the focus still on bolt-ons? Or are you guys thinking
about anything larger in the context of some of the valuations we're seeing in the market today?And then, maybe any update on how the board's thinking about the optimal leverage for the
company.
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
So, on M&A, we very much still pursue the same strategy, strategy of looking at opportunities. We
have our radar, and we nurture this opportunities and sometimes some are materializing and –
but the timing of it is difficult. The strategic target is to go for companies where we can add value
and where it's strengthening our franchise. And in essence, there are not that many big
companies that would really fall in that category and the few ones that are bigger might not just
be available. So I think what you're going to see from us is to do more of what we have done in
recent years. And this focus on really being able to strengthen the franchise has generated great
results, actually, in the past and I want to continue to pursue that.
On the balance sheet, Bill, you might want to quickly comment on that one?
A - William P. Donnelly `
So as you know, we've bought a little bit more in the share repurchase program than our free
cash flow this past year. We're going to do that again in 2016. And I think beyond that period of
time, I think we'll comment 12 months from now or something.
Q - `Joel Harrison Kaufman, Goldman Sachs & Co. `
Thanks.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Beuchaw from Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.
Q - `Michael Clerico, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Yeah. Hey, guys. It's actually `Michael Clerico, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC on for Steve. Could you elaborate a little bit more on
what's driving larger FX headwind? Are there any currencies outside of the majors that are having
a larger than expected impact? Also, if you could quantify the impact of hedges on the 2016
outlook; and also how those hedges bleed into 2017? Thanks.
A - William P. Donnelly `
Sure. So just to clarify, there has not been any change in the FX environment since we last talked
to you guys in November. I mean there's been changes but they've basically netted out. In terms
of the Swiss franc hedges, we have less of them this year. I think we were protecting maybe 85%
of our exposure in 2015 that dropped to about 70% this year and then falls off completely in 2017.
And the impact of it falling out completely is about $5 million or so.
Q - `Michael Clerico, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Okay, great. Thanks. And then secondly, just want to ask about guidance again. With stronger
expected growth this quarter, and the 1Q guide coming in at the top of the range, the full year
implies deceleration throughout the year as we go. We know from last quarter, you bake in a level
of conservatism into that guidance. So I'm wondering what the biggest deltas are in the end
markets that you saw since we last got the update. And what's giving you pause in changing the
outlook given the stronger than expected quarter this quarter and the top of the range outlook
for Q1. Thanks.A - William P. Donnelly `
Hey, I wouldn't read too much into that. We gave a guidance of 3% to 4%. We said 4% for the full
year. We said 4% for Q1. I think it very much reflects our more detailed look at how comps are
going to go. In particular, we see China's probably got to do a little better in Q1 than we expect it
to do for the full year, and I think that's largely explained by some specific comp considerations
that they have. So, I'm careful. I think the word you used to position the question was
deceleration. I think to say the going from 4% to 3.5% is a deceleration is probably I don't think
the right analytical conclusion. I think there's a little bit of a comp topic in Q1 that benefits us and
we largely think that what we see today is playing out very much in line with what the information
that we had at the time we updated you guys in November.
Q - `Michael Clerico, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC `
Great. Thanks.
A - William P. Donnelly `
Sure.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Derik de Bruin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch from Bank of America. Your line is open.
`Derik de Bruin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, your line is open. Your next question comes from the line of Tycho Peterson from
JPMorgan. Your line is open.
Q - `Tycho W. Peterson, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Hey, thanks. Wondering if you can talk about linearity in the quarter and any commentary you can
provide on trends in January, both for the overall business and then in particular within emerging
markets.
A - William P. Donnelly `
Hey, Tycho could you – the word that you're asking we both missed it. We...
Q - `Tycho W. Peterson, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Yeah. I'm asking about linearity in the quarter. So just the sequential monthly trends throughout
the quarter and then in January if you can provide any commentary, both for the overall business
as well as emerging markets.
A - William P. Donnelly `
Okay. So I think the guys, both years for Chinese New Year it's February. So in both periods it was
February. The month of January is solid. So it's not that we are expecting to race at the finish. We
entered the year with more backlog, decent order trend, leads and stuff seem in line. I think it's a
realistic expectation we have from the quarter. Maybe in terms of budget flush topics at the end
of the year, I think ourselves and many of the peer guys felt very good about 2015's budget flush.
And I think how we saw it play out in 2016 was solid, but solid – vis-à-vis a relatively stronger Q4 of
last year. So the pharma guys seem to be spending some money. Our businesses that are most
oriented towards pharma had a good finish to the year.
A - Olivier A. Filliol `I think I would also add. It's not easy to look at the trend on a monthly base. A month can be
impacted by bigger projects, number of working days and so on. So we don't necessarily look at
monthly results to identify a trend. I think we prefer to take averages across at least three
months, if not six months.
Q - `Tycho W. Peterson, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Okay. And I hate to harp on China because I know you've gotten a disproportionate number of
questions. But you did have flat orders there yet you're guiding for a low single digit decline in the
year. So are you expecting orders to drop off over the next couple of quarters? I'm just
understanding why you're projecting a decline off flat orders this quarter.
A - William P. Donnelly `
I think, so, maybe similar to where Olivier finished up the answer to the previous piece, we don't
read too much into the shorter period. If we kind of look out on the China business, there's
nothing that's happened, let's say, positive since we talked to you guys in November about the
China economic outlook. And I think we always have a little bit of a late cycle economically, our
business. So we're impacted by investment decisions and I don't think anybody's rushing to make
positive investment decisions in China based on what they heard recently.
So, we think it's prudent to be cautious and we're happy it's going to be off to a good start. We
prefer that than trying to explain to you guys why we're going to catch up later in the year, but we
prefer what we've got for the first quarter versus the alternative but we're not so excited yet
about a turnaround. And we don't expect when the turnaround does come, Tycho, that it's got to
be a jump back. It's got to be a bottoming for a while. That over-capacity will take some time.
Q - `Tycho W. Peterson, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Okay. And then just lastly, I'm wondering if you could talk a little bit more, Olivier, on the fifth wave
of Spinnaker. I'm particularly interested on the replacement opportunity you alluded to. Is there
anything you can kind of guide us to as to the age of the install base or which part of the business
you'll see maybe disproportionate benefits?
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
The fifth wave will not bring big revolutions. It's like the first four waves' evolution. So we are
strengthening all the different dimensions that we have been working on, and bringing some
additional sophistication. So topics around Key Account Management, iBase management, this
install base topic, all will remain in the center. I think where we get a little bit more sophisticated is
in the area of big data analytics and leveraging it for sales and marketing initiatives.
And the example that I used in the prepared remarks, we're going in that direction that we are
really applying more sophisticated analytics to the information that we have on the millions of
installed instruments. And the analytics allows us to better recognize the potential and based on
the potential also use the right go-to-market approach. So meaning understanding if this is an
opportunity where we use telesales, or are we using a field sales person, and with what kind of
value proposition we approach the customers. And there is certainly an area where we bring
more sophistication with this wave of Spinnaker.
Q - `Tycho W. Peterson, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Okay. Thank you.Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Brandon Couillard, Jefferies LLC from Jefferies. Your line is open.
Q - `Brandon Couillard, Jefferies LLC `
Thanks. Good afternoon.
A - William P. Donnelly `
Hey, Brandon.
Q - `Brandon Couillard, Jefferies LLC `
Bill, just a couple for you. Could you give us the ASP contribution in the fourth quarter? And was
there any acquisition revenue contribution from the deal that you did in the third quarter?
A - William P. Donnelly `
The latter one I can answer quickly, the answer is no. We didn't catch what you were asking for,
the first one.
Q - `Brandon Couillard, Jefferies LLC `
The pricing contribution to revenues in the fourth quarter?
A - William P. Donnelly `
Okay. Pricing was up 220 bps in the fourth quarter.
Q - `Brandon Couillard, Jefferies LLC `
Super. And then just curious how you're thinking about material costs for the year given what's
happened in the commodity complex and how you see gross margins shaking out for the full
year?
A - William P. Donnelly `
I think, again, we'll have a good year. Our material costs were down on an apples-to-apples basis
about 3% in 2015. I think we should have a good year. It's important though to remember on
commodity prices. We're not buying that much that's – if you look at, for example, a machine part
or a fabrication, labor time, machine time would be a bigger cost element than the steel or the
fabricating material itself. So we didn't get hurt by material in any way. I don't mean to imply that.
Certainly, we like it going this way more than the other, but it's – for example, of the 3% that we
saved this year, I think less than 1% is directly attributable to lower material costs.
Q - `Brandon Couillard, Jefferies LLC `
Super. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Muken from Evercore ISI. Your line is open.
Hey, guys. It's Luke (47:38) in for Ross. I guess, if you could talk a little bit more about the returnshave any plans to make any additional investments past what early goals were?
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
So as we discussed it on the November call, we have done a very successful wave of Field Turbos
in 2015 and we want to repeat that in 2016. We are on track to implement about the same
amount in terms of additional resources, so roughly 200 field resources. We are very encouraged
by the results that we had last year and we also want to approach it in a similar way this year in
terms of funding it also through cost measures that we have in other areas of the company. The
projects or the field additions are very similar to last year in terms of the business priorities, but
of course, the territories might be different. But the geographic focus remains on the markets
that have a reasonable growth momentum. So we are adding again quite a sizable number of
resources in Americas as well as selectively in Europe. And – yes.
Q - Operator
Okay. Great. And I guess, turning to emerging markets, we're seeing a lot of mixed signals over
there and you guys are seeing some strength and some weaknesses. I was hoping you could
give more color into the various customer segments that you're seeing these trends in and kind
of where you see any turnarounds and reversals in any of these trends.
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
So if we exclude China for a minute, in all the other emerging markets I wouldn't talk too much
industry-specific. I think actually it's more the geography than the industry. You know, when we talk
about Brazil and Russia and the challenges and the headwinds we had last year, it's actually very
difficult to attribute to that to a certain industry segment. We saw it actually pretty much across
the business lines and across industry segments. And what we have seen is, however, that across
the different emerging markets, there are big differences. We have seen actually emerging
markets that did very well for us. We talked about India. Mexico did well. Southeast Asia did
actually well.
So we have multiple emerging markets that did well last year, and I expect actually that this year
it's also going to be mixed. We're going to have emerging markets that do well and there're
going to be emerging markets that will be more challenging. Partially, I would attribute also the
good results that we have in certain emerging markets last year to an excellent performance of
our local teams.
I would, for example, highlight countries like Mexico and Southeast Asia that did really
exceptionally well and that's certainly also attributable to programs that we have in place. Some
of the emerging markets, the economic environment might be a little bit more challenging, but
we consciously want to invest in these markets because we believe also in the long-term. I would
name here, for example, Turkey, but also Indonesia, Vietnam and so on where you can see a
certain cool down from a macroeconomic environment. Nevertheless, we continue to invest there
because we feel we can win market share, and in the long-term, these economies will continue to
develop well.
Q - Operator
Great. Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Arias from Citi. Your line is open.Q - `Bryan A. Kipp, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker) `
Hi, guys. This is actually Bryan Kipp on behalf of Dan. Olivier, I just wanted to step back in and go
to 4Q last year when the Swiss National Bank removed the peg. You guys were talking about
looking at your cost structure, especially in light of hedgings starting to roll off in 2016. Now that
we're seeing volatility in emerging markets, currencies a little bit more than we're seeing in
Europe, what are your thoughts there? Have you guys gone through a plan? Have you started to
reallocate resources into Europe, maintain in Switzerland, or move to emerging markets? Just
want to get some color there.
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
Yeah. Okay. I think we need to differentiate here between resources and cost base that we have
that is associated with producing products and with serving local markets. When we talk about the
cost base that we have in Switzerland and the currency exposure, this wasn't a cost associated
with serving Switzerland as a market, but actually in terms of having a cost base because we do
R&D, product development and production in Switzerland. And this is true for Switzerland, this is
true for our manufacturing base in China and so on, but we don't have this strengthening of a
currency that is a headwind except in Switzerland, and so this was specific to Switzerland.
Now, in the other markets where we serve a country and there is a currency exposure, we do a
little bit of cost measure but typically it's more on the pricing side that we would actually work.
And with one big exception and that's China. In China, we have taken cost measures, not
because of currency but because of market dynamics, and there it is very much about resource
shifting. We have business lines that have better growth prospects than others. So probably not
surprising, we have done restructuring in the industrial business in China. As for the lab business,
we continue to invest into it and we are adding resources.
Q - `Bryan A. Kipp, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker) `
Appreciate it. And piggybacking off of Tycho's question. I know the Spinnaker fifth wave is early
stages, but have you guys done any beta testing at all yet? And when do you expect to kind of
fully ramp that, and if you haven't done beta testing, and start to convert some of those orders?
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
So the beta testing wouldn't necessarily apply to Spinnaker. The way we develop things is we go
out to all the different market organization and we study different best practices. And when we
see that we have a best practice, a certain sophistication in an approach and so on, we qualify
that in a tool box, we qualify it in training, and then we roll it out. So, in essence, it's not beta
testing. It's already reality.
We have this pilot, this crusaders of teams out there that have done good stuff that we are
scaling up and rolling out. The scale up takes place over about a year. We go normally with this
more sophisticated levels to the countries that are more mature and then we follow up with the
other countries. There are a few things that we drive from the center rather than bottom up from
the units like the big data analytics things, there are from the center. And there, I would say, yeah,
we started with prototypes and then we industrialized the things. So there I am with you with this
beta testing. I feel comfortable where we stand on that one and I know we're going to have the
results out of it.
Q - `Bryan A. Kipp, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker) `Okay. I guess it was in context to the data analytics stuff. So you're in kind of like a beta testing
type phase, evaluating, what methodologies you should use in the marketing realm versus
actually out in reaching out to customers on a broad base, that's correct?
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, that's correct.
Q - `Bryan A. Kipp, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker) `
Okay.
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
Hey, in this area it's also about – we really try to innovate in this areas, we try to come up with new
approaches, tools. There is technologies tools, databases and all that stuff that we are
combining, and there is a very small team that is leading the thinking process on that one, and
that's the prototype part. And when we have cracked that analytics, scaling it up afterwards or
industrializing is normally not the challenging point.
Q - `Bryan A. Kipp, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker) `
Appreciate it. If I can sneak one more in. Bill, did you see any gross margin benefit? Were you
able to glean out any gross margin benefit from oil on freight, et cetera? Or is that something
that's probably a little too deep?
A - William P. Donnelly `
Hey, we had a good freight number, savings year-on-year. But I doubt it would be big enough to
move the needle, could it be five basis points? Maybe something like that.
Q - `Bryan A. Kipp, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker) `
Thanks again.
A - William P. Donnelly `
Sure.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Willoughby from Cleveland Research. Your line is
open.
Q - `Steve B. Willoughby, Cleveland Research Co. LLC `
Hi. Good evening and thanks for taking my question, guys. Just two things, one just a follow-up to
make sure I head you correctly. Bill or Mary, as it relates to FX, just want to make sure I head you
correctly that you're now assuming that FX is going to negatively impact your revenue by, I
believe, you said 4.5% and earnings by 1.5%? Is that correct?
A - William P. Donnelly `
It'll impact earnings by 1.5% for the full year and it'll impact sales by 3%...A - Mary T. Finnegan `
3%. For the full year.
A - William P. Donnelly `
For the full year. The 4.5% I think is Q1.
A - Mary T. Finnegan `
Q1, that's right.
A - William P. Donnelly `
And the 2.5% on EPS is Q1.
A - Mary T. Finnegan `
That's right.
Q - `Steve B. Willoughby, Cleveland Research Co. LLC `
Okay. Great. Thanks for clarifying that. And then just Bill, I know you guys have had a large number
of different products and SKUs, but I was wondering if the creation or development of any new
products that you guys have been adding over the past year or two, or into 2016, is anything
worth discussing as it relates to the overall impact on the company?
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
No, in the sense that we need to constantly come up with product innovations, upgrades to
existing products and so on. That's just part of our business model. And it's typically – an individual
product helps us to increase pricing and have better margins and keep the growth going, but it's
not that it's going to really change our overall number. An individual product will not really change
the needle.
Q - `Steve B. Willoughby, Cleveland Research Co. LLC `
Okay. I was thinking more into kind of expanding into new types of products that you guys haven't
offered in the past at all.
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
Yeah. Even the new product categories, it typically takes multiple quarters that it adds up to
millions of dollars.
Q - `Steve B. Willoughby, Cleveland Research Co. LLC `
Okay.
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
Yeah. It's actually, Bill corrected me correctly years. So we need to be realistic on that one. Yeah,
what I have seen when we expand in new product categories after five years, 10 years, it
becomes really something attractive. So yeah, let's see.Q - `Steve B. Willoughby, Cleveland Research Co. LLC `
Sure. And then just one quick follow-up. Just wondering if you have any thoughts on the
difference in growth between the Americas and Europe. I understand in Americas the pharma is
driving a lot of the growth there. Is there any reason, thoughts on why you're not seeing similar
type of growth in Europe?
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
First, I would clearly say North America is much more healthy in terms of economy than Europe,
definitely. But I want also to say that I'm very happy with the results that we had in Europe last
year, particularly, if I look at the two-year space and then if you exclude Russia and that's
something that I had to do in Q4 kind of exclude retail, it's actually a good performance. But
nevertheless, Americas did even better and I expect 2016 to be the same. Americas has more
dynamic than Europe in terms of team performance, in terms of share gain, I feel actually similar.
Q - `Steve B. Willoughby, Cleveland Research Co. LLC `
Okay. Thanks so much, guys. I appreciate it.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Richard Eastman, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) from Robert W. Baird. Your line is
open.
Q - `Richard Eastman, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
Yes. Good evening. Bill, could you just kind of speak real quickly to in the fourth quarter the
service and consumables, how did that grow relative to hardware against the 3% local currency
growth rate? Did we see any hardware growth?
A - William P. Donnelly `
Actually, our service growth wasn't that high in Q4. I think it was 2% or so. Consumables might
have 2% or 3%. And the reason for that was we had about 11% growth in Q4 a year ago, so the
product business modestly outgrew the service business, but I think that that's more a comp
topic.
Q - `Richard Eastman, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
Yeah. Okay. I understand. And, Olivier, just maybe you could just do just a quick deeper dive on
the product inspection business. I'm a little bit curious. The macro trends in food inspection have
been prevailingly positive here for some time. And so when you look at that market, what's your
sense of the market's growth? And then, is there some new products you spoke to there? Are
there any technology trends that are boosting Mettler's content within that marketplace? And just
I'm kind of getting at what the product inspection growth should be for 2016 and what your
expectation is to perhaps outgrow the favorable macro there?
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
Okay. First on the macro, I would differentiate a little bit by geography. The long-term trends are
very favorable across the world for this business segment and we are extremely well-positioned.
But there are temporary things happening. For example, China, we clearly see that also the food
industry is holding back. There is an over-capacity and the whole food industry is challenged rightnow in China, also in terms of margins. So you see the big foreign companies, but also local
companies like Master Kong and so on cutting back significant on their CapEx and that impacts
our production inspection business. While in U.S., for example, we have very good dynamic and
we had very good growth, for example, last year.
So I would say globally, long-term, very favorable; short-term we need to differentiate by
geography. In terms of our market position, we have an excellent position because we are the
leader in all the core technologies. We are a leader across the globe as typically we have
competitors that are more regional and typically in one or the other technology. In terms of
technology and development, the checkweighing and metal detection business is a relatively
mature technology.
The x-ray technology has still an adoption rate that is growing, meaning that not all the production
lines are equipped today with x-ray technology even in Western markets as compared with
(01:05:03) metal detection that's a more mature technology and has been widely applied and so
we live also quite from replacement business. And then the fourth technology is vision inspection.
Vision inspection has multiple applications, but that's one that is more developing. It's more of an
early stage. And also, for us, it's still smaller and will hopefully develop well over the next five
years, 10 years.
Q - `Richard Eastman, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
And you would be pleased in 2016, if, on a consolidated basis that product inspection grew kind
of at that similar 6% rate that we saw in 2015? That would be...
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
Yeah, yeah.
Q - `Richard Eastman, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
Okay.
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
No, no. I think that's a reasonable assumption.
Q - `Richard Eastman, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
Yep. Okay. And then, Bill, I might have misheard the numbers or – but in China, the growth rates
that you gave for lab, and the growth rate that you gave for the industrial business kind of
weighted out to 50/50 in terms of the size of those businesses. Is that correct?
A - William P. Donnelly `
No. Just to be specific, you're talking about the fourth quarter standing alone?
Q - `Richard Eastman, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
Yeah. You talked about – you said in the fourth quarter that industrial was down...
A - William P. Donnelly `
Yeah. So, sorry. Lab was 42% of sales in the quarter in China, while industrial was 49% and retail
was 9%.Q - `Richard Eastman, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
Oh, okay. I got you. All right, that makes sense. And then just – how has the profit margin held up
in China relative to the industrial declines that we've seen there? I've got to believe certain
pieces of the industrial market are pretty competitive, but there's nothing visible in the margin
line consolidated. So you've managed to hold margins there pretty flat despite the sales declines
in China?
A - William P. Donnelly `
The customers that have the money are usually spending on more sophisticated applications that
we make more money on. It's always the businesses that have the least amount of customer
value proposition that get hit the hardest. And it's partly a reflection of who the buyers are, partly
a reflection of the nature of the application. So you're right. Our margins have held up reasonably
well in China despite some of the sales declines and we're working hard to continue to do that
going forward as well.
Q - `Richard Eastman, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
Okay. And then just this last question from me is the restructuring charge has kind of kicked up a
little bit, and obviously we're using that to pay for the Field Turbo program. But can you just give
us a sense of where the cost-out is coming from, either by end market, or by region?
A - William P. Donnelly `
Sure. I think the two biggest pieces would be China and Europe, and you can assume it's more
weighted to, for example, the industrial business in both cases.
Q - `Richard Eastman, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker) `
I see. Okay. Okay. Great. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Derik de Bruin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch from Bank of America. Your line is open.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hi. Good afternoon.
A - William P. Donnelly `
Hey, Derik.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hey, so just – from a lot of what I wanted to ask has already been asked but, Bill, what are your
pricing assumptions for 2016 in terms of being able to get pricing?
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
It's actually 150 basis points. So it's about the same as we guided already back in November, feel
comfortable with that. Even that the macroeconomic environment might have changed a little bit,
I feel comfortable that we can execute on that one.Q - `Derik de Bruin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
And that's you doing more Spinnaker and the focus on that? I mean, I guess you're not seeing
any of the local people sort of pick up steam like that or seeing push back on it? I'm just
wondering if it's just your ability to execute? Or does the competition just not playing?
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
No. It has much more to do with the customers. We have good differentiated products. And as
long as we do price increases every year, actually we operate almost below their radar and they
accept that. And of course, we differentiate significantly across the world by geography, as well
as the business lines. And we're going to execute it in a very similar way as we did in the past. Of
course, every year getting a little bit more sophisticated. But the approaches that we use to is
very similar. And it's a line that I've used many times but the biggest obstacle for price increases
are not the customers but our internal organization, sales people and that's something we can
work on and can control. So I feel comfortable from that end.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
So one of your strategies in terms of growth outlook has been that your China business, it is
more heavily industrial-related at the moment, and over time you expect China to look like the
rest of the global business and have more of a lab focus. Given the current economic situation in
China and the slowing macro economy, are you worried that it may take longer to sort of get that
conversion going on right now? I guess sort of how you're looking at what's going on in China
right now into your longer-term plans, these are your strategies and how are you attacking that
market?
A - William P. Donnelly `
I think that there are things kind of going both ways, right, Derik, so I'll maybe give you two
examples. So because our industrial business has been shrinking, we're moving more towards
the corporate office.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Good point. Yeah.
A - William P. Donnelly `
(01:11:23) versus the alternative. But then maybe to your point, Olivier made this point on Master
Kong cutting their CapEx levels, the largest food company in China, and that certainly has slowed
the move to more consumer safety in the food inspection area. So probably both of us would say
that if the economy was going better, the move towards more consumer safety food inspection
considerations would happen at a more accelerated pace in China that does now given the
overall economic circumstances. So, a little bit of both ways.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of David Stratton from Great Lakes Review. Your line is
open.Q - `David M. Stratton, Great Lakes Review `
Hi. Thanks for taking the call. I was wondering if you could give some color around CapEx
expectations for 2016 and how that relates to the expansion projects that you mentioned in the
last earnings call?
A - William P. Donnelly `
So we're going to have CapEx of $120 million or so next year and that includes some significant
building programs in the United States and Europe, and I think a little bit in China as well. China is
a little bit more a story about we'll be consolidating with some other facilities there.
Q - `David M. Stratton, Great Lakes Review `
All right. And then, lastly kind of a housekeeping. Would you break out your service in
consumables revenues as a percentage of sales for the fourth and the full year?
A - William P. Donnelly `
Yeah. Give me one second, we have that number. So, in Q4, service was 27% of sales. And if I
include service and consumables – sorry, that was service and consumables. And for the full year
it was 30%. And it's always a little less in the fourth quarter because that's a big quarter for
product sales, so it impacts the mix of it.
Q - `David M. Stratton, Great Lakes Review `
All right. Thank you.
A - William P. Donnelly `
Sure. Okay. Operator?
Operator
There are no further questions at this time. I'll turn it back over to Mary Finnegan for closing
remarks.
A - Mary T. Finnegan `
Thanks, Kyle, and thanks everyone, for joining us. Just hey, one last comment, as you're planning
your schedules for this year, we wanted to let you know that we plan to hold an investor meeting
at our Rainin facility in Oakland, California on Friday, July 29th. We'll have some more details for
you in the coming weeks, but just wanted to mention it now as you're starting your planning.
So that's all we have for tonight. Again, thanks for joining us. Any questions, of course, don't
hesitate to call. Take care.
A - Olivier A. Filliol `
Thank you.
A - William P. Donnelly `
Bye, bye.Operator
This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.