Q4 2017 Earnings Call

Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2018 Mettler-Toledo
International Earnings Conference Call. My name is Erica, and I will be your audio coordinator for
today. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speaker's
remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn our presentation over to your hostess for today's call, Ms. Mary Finnegan.
Please proceed, ma'am.
`Mary T. Finnegan, Treasurer & Primary Contact-Investor Relations `
Thank you, Erica, and good evening, everyone. I'm Mary Finnegan. I'm the Treasurer and I'm
responsible for Investor Relations at Mettler-Toledo, and happy that you're joining us this evening.
I'm joined by Olivier Filliol, our CEO; and Bill Donnelly, our Executive Vice President.
I need to cover just a couple of administrative matters. This call is being webcast and is available
out for replay on our website. A copy of the press release and the presentation that we refer to
is also on our website.
Let me summarize the Safe Harbor language, which is outlined on slide 2 of the presentation.
Statements in this presentation, which are not historical facts, constitute forward-looking
statements within the meaning of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 and the U.S. Securities Exchange
Act of 1934. These statements involve risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our
actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from
those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements.
For a discussion of these risks and uncertainties, please see the discussion in our recent Form 8-
K. All of the forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors
discussed under the captions Factors Affecting our Future Operating Results and in the Business
and Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our
Form 10-K.Just one last item. On today's call, we may use non-GAAP financial measures. More detailed
information with respect to the use of, and differences between, the non-GAAP financial measure
and the most directly comparable GAAP measure is provided in the Form 8-K.
I will now turn the call over to Olivier.
`Olivier A. Filliol, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Thank you, Mary, and welcome to everyone on the call. I will start with a summary of the quarter
and then Bill will provide details on our financial results. We will also provide an update of our
guidance for this year. I will have some additional comments, and we will then open the lines for
Q&A.
The highlights for the quarter on page 3 of the presentation. We are pleased with our fourth
quarter results and the strong finish to the year. Local currency sales growth of 6% came in as
expected. We are especially pleased with the strong broad-based growth in our Laboratory
business. Overall, demand in our markets remains favorable, and we are executing well.
Our productivity initiatives continue to generate positive results, which drove another quarter of
strong adjusted EPS growth. We are increasing our guidance for 2018 and believe we are well-
positioned for further market share gains in 2018 and beyond.
Let me turn it to Bill to provide more details on the financial results.
`William P. Donnelly, Executive Vice President & Head-Finance, Supply Chain and IT `
Thanks, Olivier. Hello, everybody. Sales were $778 million in the quarter, that's an increase of 6%
in local currency. Our acquisition of Biotix, which we completed in Q3, contributed about 1% of
sales growth. On a dollar basis, sales increased by 10% as currencies increased sales growth by
4% in the quarter.
On slide number 4, we show local currency sales growth by region. Sales grew 9% in the
Americas; 1% in Europe; and 7% in Asia/Rest of World. Biotix contributed approximately 2% to the
Americas growth. Sales growth in China increased by 13% in the quarter.
On the next slide, we show full-year sales growth. Local currency sales grew by 8% in 2017, of
which 1% was due to acquisitions. In the Americas, we grew by 8%; in Europe, 5%; and Asia/Rest
of World grew by 11% in 2017. Americas growth benefited by about 2% from acquisitions.
On slide 6, we outlined sales growth by product line. In the quarter, Lab grew 11%, of which 9% is
organic; Industrial sales growth was 1% as solid growth in core Industrial was offset, as expected,
by a decline in our product inspection business, which had a strong prior year quarter. Food
Retailing declined 3% in the quarter.
The next slide shows full-year sales growth by product line. Laboratory grew by 10%; Industrial
increased 8%; and Food Retailing declined by 4% for the full-year. Acquisitions benefited Lab by
about 2%. All comparisons, again, were in local currency and all were versus the prior year.
Now let's turn to slide number 8, let me walk you through the key items on our P&L for the
quarter. Gross margins were 58.5%, that's a 50 basis point decline from the prior year. On a
constant currency basis, however, our gross margins actually increased by 20 basis points,
reflecting a 70 basis point headwind from currencies. We continue to benefit from good pricing,
while mix was a headwind in the quarter.R&D amounted to $32.5 million, that's a 5% increase in local currency, while SG&A amounted to
$204.9 million. And that was an increase of 6% in local currency. Variable compensation,
investment in field resources and employee benefit costs contributed to the increase.
Our adjusted operating income amounted to $217.8 million in the quarter, and that's a 9%
increase over the prior year amount of $200.2 million. Adjusted operating margins were 28%, a
20 basis point decline from the prior year. On a constant currency basis, adjusted operating
margins were up by 20 basis points over the prior year amount. A couple of final comments on
the P&L. Amortization was $11.7 million in the quarter; interest expense was $8.6 million.
Let me now cover taxes. First, for purposes of adjusted EPS, in Q4, we're excluding the impact of
the new tax legislation, which I'll cover shortly. Also, as we've done in prior quarters, we reflect
our annual effective rate, tax rate of 22% in our adjusted EPS number. In Q4, our reported tax rate
for the quarter was 23%, with the difference due to the timing of stock option exercises.
Moving to fully diluted shares. They were 26.2 million in the quarter, which is a 1.5% decline from
the prior year, reflecting the impact of the share repurchase program, offset in part by higher
shares outstanding due to the accounting change related to stock option exercises. Adjusted EPS
for the quarter was $5.97 per share, that's a 13% increase over the prior year amount of $5.28 per
share.
Now let me make some comments on the new tax legislation that was finalized at the end of last
year, couple of factors are important for us. First, as expected, we do not foresee a meaningful
change in our effective tax rate of 22%. In the near term, while we benefit from the lower U.S.
statutory rate, this is offset by limitations on certain deductions.
Second, we view the legislation favorably as it will reduce the complexity of repatriating cash to
the United States. It's long been our strategy to move cash to the United States to fund our share
repurchase program, and this legislation will make that process easier.
Third, we're subject to a one-time tax in conjunction with this new legislation. We've incurred a
charge of $72 million in the fourth quarter, of which $59 million represents taxes on un-repatriated
foreign earnings that will need to be paid over an eight-year period, and the remaining $13 million
is a non-cash charge.
On a reported basis, our EPS was $2.93 as compared to $5.17 in the prior year. Reported EPS
included the $2.74 charge related to the tax legislation we described above, $0.12 of restructuring,
and $0.09 of purchased intangibles, and finally, $0.09 of higher reported tax due to the timing of
stock option exercises.
On the next slide, we show our full-year results. We're very happy with the year in which we
achieved local currency sales growth of 8%, our operating income increase of 13%, and adjusted
earnings per share growth of 19%.
Okay, that's it for the P&L, and now we'll cover cash flow. In the quarter, free cash flow was $130.7
million, our working capital statistics remain solid, with DSO at 41 days and ITO at 4.5 times. Full-
year free cash flow was $415 million, this compares to $346.5 million in the prior period. We have
some non-recurring facility expansions going on, and last year included the purchase of our
pipette manufacturing facility. Excluding these items, free cash flow per share increased by 14%
over the prior year.
Now, let me turn to guidance, a few comments here. First, the economic environment continues
to be favorable with good conditions in the Americas, in Europe, and a positive environment inChina as well. I would say, we don't see a change in economic conditions as compared to last
time we spoke. As in the past, our guidance assumes market conditions remains consistent to the
present environment.
Now, second, we feel that very good about our growth strategies and our ability to execute
them. We're pleased with our performance in 2017. We believe we have good initiatives in place
to gain further share, as well as continued margin and productivity enhancement initiatives, which
should help us drive solid operating profit growth.
Third and final point, comparisons matter. We'll have some tough comparisons this year in China
in our product inspection business, particularly in the early part of the year. And with this
backdrop, let me cover some specifics.
We continue to believe that local currency sales growth in 2018 will be approximately 6%,
principally driven by a more favorable currency environment, we now expect adjusted EPS to be
in the range of $19.95 per share to $20.15 per share, that's a growth rate in the 14% to 15% range.
This compares to previous guidance of $19.65 per share to $19.85 per share.
As we look at the first quarter, we would expect local currency sales growth to be in the 5%
range. As a reminder, in Q1 of last year, we had 11% organic growth, so it was our most
challenging comparison. Based on this sales growth, we would expect adjusted EPS to be in the
range of $3.65 to $3.70, a growth rate of 9% to 11%. This is modestly higher than what we
discussed last quarter, principally due to a more favorable currency environment.
In terms of currency impacts on sales growth, we would expect currencies to increase sales by
approximately 3.5% for the full-year 2018, and in the first quarter, we would expect that benefit to
be about 5.5%. In terms of cash flow, our free cash flow should be approximately $450 million,
and we'll repurchase approximately $475 million of shares.
Just two final comments on our 2018 financial results, there are two new accounting rules being
implemented. First is on revenue recognition, which we do not expect to impact our results. The
second is related to pension accounting, which will move approximately $6.5 million of pension
income from operating profit to other income. As we report our quarterly results, we'll restate
the prior year, so it's apples-to-apples comparisons, but want to mention it now.
Okay, that's it from my side, and let me turn it back to Olivier.
Thank you, Bill. Let me start with summary comments on business conditions. Lab had a great
quarter and great year overall. Virtually all product lines performed well. Our investments in new
product development, Field Turbo resources, and our Spinnaker sales and marketing programs
are yielding tangible results. We expect current market conditions to remain, but acknowledge
that we will face tougher comparisons this year in Lab.
Turning to Industrial. Core Industrial business was up a very solid mid single-digit in the quarter
and high single-digits for the full-year. The fourth quarter growth in core Industrial was broad-
based across all major regions of the world. As expected, in the fourth quarter, product
inspection was down modestly, but ended the year with a high single-digit growth. We continue
to be very well-positioned in product inspection in terms of product offering, market presence,
and marketing strategies. We are coming off two strong years of growth, so we'll face tougher
comparisons in 2018.
Finally, Retail was down 3% in the quarter and 4% for the year. Although, there has sales declines,
we are satisfied with this business as we continue to prioritize profit growth and return oninvested capital rather than sales growth.
Now let me make some additional comments by geography. Sales growth in the Americas was
very good, with strong growth in Laboratory and solid growth in Industrial. Retail was down slightly.
Sales growth in Europe was impacted by declines in Retail and product inspection, both of which
have challenging comparisons with the prior year. Lab had good growth and core Industrial, solid
growth.
Asia/Rest of World had solid growth, driven by very strong growth in China. For the year, China
sales grew 19%. We expect China to have a solid first quarter, but they will then face more
challenging comparisons in the second and third quarters. Finally, service increased 7% for the
year. That concludes my comments on the business.
Supported by favorable global economy, but driven by diligent execution of our growth initiatives,
we had an excellent performance in 2017. We're also benefiting from our growth investments in
recent years. As we look to this year, we believe we are well positioned for further growth and
share gains.
Let me remind you of the key drivers of our growth initiatives, starting with our long-running
Spinnaker sales and marketing platform, and our Big Data techniques. You have heard about
Spinnaker for many years, and it is a great reflection of our continuous improvement mentality
within the organization. We're continually strengthening Spinnaker with new techniques and
adjusting priorities based on potential.
Our current focus area is key account management, which allows us to capitalize on our broad
product and service offering to further penetrate customers. We are using data analytics to
optimize our sales force activity by identifying and prioritizing sales opportunities and helping us
to customize value messages that can best resonate with customers.
Our Field Turbo additions to the sales force represent our largest investments for growth today.
As a reminder, we are leader in the vast majority of our markets, yet our average market share is
in the 25% range. We believe additional front-end investments can accelerate share gains and
plan to add another 150 resources in the current wave.
Service is a growth contributor and key competitive advantage for us. We're focused on
increasing the percentage of our installed base on the service contract and continue to make
investments in training and tools for our 2,700 service technicians. We're also mining our installed
base data to identify more service sales opportunities and increasing telesales resources to
pursue these opportunities.
Underpinning our sales and service growth initiatives is our excellent product pipeline. We
continue to distance ourselves from competition, which helps to accelerate the replacement
cycle. We're also expanding our solutions by adding software, measurement power meters and
automation to provide more benefits to customers.
For example, in the Lab, we are further automating the Lab bench by connecting our high-
powered automated sampler to key Analytical Instruments, such as our titrators and UV/VIS. This
is driving quicker analysis and increased throughput in the lab.
We are also increasing our offerings to support data integrity, which is important to customers in
the regulated industries, such as pharma. We have also expanded our LabX software to
encompass more Analytical Instruments and added predictive or smart analysis, such as our iC
software suite for our AutoChem offering. The iC software fully controls critical chemical andbiological process development workflows while capturing critical analytical information. It is
generally recognized as the standard in the industry.
In addition to our initiatives to drive sales growth, we're also focused on margin and productivity
measures to drive operating profit growth and also provide us with capacity for investments for
future growth. We continue to use sophisticated data analytical tools to give us insights to further
refine our pricing strategies and processes.
We have identified many (18:33) improvement projects with the launch of Stern Drive program
last year. Stern Drive encompasses continuous improvement efforts with our supply chain,
manufacturing and back-office operations. We have also introduced a new e-shop portal to
increase the efficiency of our automated sales transaction. The success of these various
productivity programs are dependent on strong execution, which I'm confident that the
organization will continue to deliver.
One final comment on 2018, we will soon open our new product inspection facility in Tampa,
Florida. This facility provides for the growth in this business and allowed us to consolidate all our
U.S. truck weighing, metal detection and X-ray businesses in one location.
You will have an opportunity to see this location and learn more about our leadership and
capabilities in product inspection at an investor meeting we are planning to hold in Tampa on
Monday, November 12. I know this is a ways off, but wanted to mention it now. Mark it in your
calendars and we will be back with additional details in due time.
That concludes our prepared remarks. We are very pleased with the excellent results generated
in 2017. Assuming market conditions remain stable, our outlook for 2018 remains positive, and we
believe we are well-positioned to continue to gain share and deliver strong operating results.
I want to now ask the operator to open the line for questions.
Q&A
Operator
And your first question comes from `Ross Muken, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC with Evercore ISI.
A - `Olivier A. Filliol, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Hi, Ross.
Q - `Ross Muken, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC `
Hi. How would you sort of tease out kind of scale as you expected the order trends. I mean
there's a lot of moving parts there and you got some tough comps and pieces. But given all of
the economic data is quite good, are there sub-segments or sub-industries where you're seeing
any differential or is it pretty uniform? And is it really just sort of a product inspection question,
just in terms of like Industrial overall?
A - `William P. Donnelly, Executive Vice President & Head-Finance, Supply Chain and IT `
So a couple of thoughts there. So as you've correctly point out, Ross, comps matter. So – and the
toughest comps we have coming in Food. I think we do see good order trends in Industrial, pretty
globally, and we do see good order trends with our Industrial customers that buy Lab instruments.The one area I think it's always tough to dissect how much is tough comps, you also read that
some of the food companies, packaged food companies have some topics, and it will be
interesting to see what type of growth we can do. We've been conservative, I think, relative to
past growth rates for that in 2018, but I think it'll take a little bit of time to observe that.
Absent maybe this food's comment about packaging, where it might be a little cautious, I think
we see great economic environment. We're talking about it today, with our board, where it's hard
for Olivier, I remember a point in time where so many parts of the world were performing well,
and we see that across our Industrial customer base.
Q - `Ross Muken, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC `
Yeah, I guess, just building off that, Bill. Just as you'd think about the growth cadence for the year,
like what proportion of the business, in terms of thinking we've got this kind of unique
synchronized global expansion, what proportion of the business do you feel like highly confident
as we think about the second half of 2018 versus where do you think we have sort of maybe a
little bit of wiggle room or macro, just given kind of how elevated we are? And maybe some
other geographies that historically haven't always been this sustainably strong, I guess?
A - `William P. Donnelly, Executive Vice President & Head-Finance, Supply Chain and IT `
I'm going to try to answer your question, Ross, but maybe come back if you don't think I
understood it completely. So, we would tend to say, historically, that many parts of the business
particularly Industrial piece, might be a little late cycle. So we tend to do okay in the latter part of
that cycle. I think where we feel two unusual things is in China in 2017, we clearly benefited from
some of the pent-up demand for holdbacks in that part of the world and capital investment in
kind of that 2015, 2016 timeframe.
And then in the product inspection business, there is – we're currently the Q4 2017, we're going
up against 15% comp, which led to what we had here in the fourth quarter. And I think we have
another double-digit comp in Q1. So we would tend to think that if the economy stays relatively at
this level, even with maybe some modest leveling off here and there, the second half would
seem pretty solid relative to our current guidance.
Q - `Ross Muken, Analyst, Evercore Group LLC `
Okay. Yeah. No, that was helpful, Bill. Thank you.
Operator
And your next question comes from `Jack Meehan, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. from Barclays.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Thanks and good afternoon. I think versus our model, it look like Lab was the greatest area of
strength in the quarter. Can you maybe just tease out what's performing better there and it
sound like it was pretty broad-based, but just the outlook for 2018?
A - `Olivier A. Filliol, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
It was actually really broad-based. Indeed, very happy how the Lab team performed. It's across
the geographies, certainly, China contributed very nicely. Just to illustrate in China, we have the
seventh quarter here in a row where we had very good double-digit growth in Lab. But we saw
really good momentum also in Europe and U.S.I think it's a reflection of the economy, but also very much that we had very strong product
pipelines. We did highlight that about a year ago when we – I shared with you that I said, I had
never so much confidence in our new products and the differentiation of the consumables (25:17)
that certainly translates in good results. And then all the sales and marketing initiatives certainly
contribute nicely in Lab, where the Field Turbos are contributing, as well as all the additional
innovations that we have to engage new customers. So it's a combination, but definitely happy,
and I expect also 2018 to continue to be good.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Great. That's helpful. And could you give us an update just in terms of pricing growth in the
quarter? And you've seen some big moves on the FX front or are there any opportunities or risks
you're looking at there?
A - `William P. Donnelly, Executive Vice President & Head-Finance, Supply Chain and IT `
So on the pricing, we were up about 280 bps in the fourth quarter, which was modestly above,
and we did push in one or two areas a little bit some of these inflationary pressure that you hear
described. So some of that and we did experience some of that inflation, by the way, in material
cost structure. So it's not that all 280 bps fell to the bottom line. But we had another good
quarter and really a good year and feel pretty good about our pricing processes entering 2018 as
well.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc. `
Thank you.
Operator
And your next question comes from Paul Knight from Janney.
A - `Olivier A. Filliol, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Hello, Paul.
Q - `Paul Richard Knight, Analyst, Janney Montgomery Scott LLC `
Can you talk – how are you? Congratulations on the quarter. Can you talk a little geographic on
the European market, up 1% in 4Q, what's going on there? And obviously a great year in Asia,
China specifically, can you talk about your thoughts on China in 2018?
A - `Olivier A. Filliol, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Let me start with Europe, overall piece with the numbers are generally in line with our
expectations. As expected, Retail was down double digits, but was very much impacted also by
previous year comparisons. Absent of Retail, Europe grew 3% in the quarter, again, solid growth
already in the previous year. So that's why we said, hey, it came out as expected it, but actually,
also in a good way. In terms of countries, we have France and the Nordic region that did, for
example, particularly well. And we had also good growth in Eastern Europe. Lab had also
particular good growth in Europe. So, all in all, actually, a good picture.
If we go to Asia, and in particular, China, China certainly had a very strong quarter as well as the
full 2017. And expect it – also clearly my expectation – we did not expect that China would
develop so well when we entered the year. And certainly, we also, when we entered Q4, wedidn't expect these kind of results. Very happy. The market environment is very strong, very good.
And we benefit also from this pent-up demands that Bill mentioned that was certainly the case
mid-last year, Q4, maybe a little less so but still.
This was particularly true for Industry. Lab, we experienced multiple quarter, as I mentioned
before, seven quarters in a row with double-digit growth. I expect that to continue. As, for
example, industry, we will not continue to experience the same growth rates. Here, we're going
to face tougher comparisons that will certainly play than in the second part of this year.
Q - `Paul Richard Knight, Analyst, Janney Montgomery Scott LLC `
And Bill, could I ask last question would be the net tax effect seems to be a little higher on your
tax rate from 2017. And what are all the moving parts mean for share repurchase? Any change in
plan there?
A - `William P. Donnelly, Executive Vice President & Head-Finance, Supply Chain and IT `
So, we might need to take it offline. So our tax rate of 22% came kind of right in where our
adjusted EPS is in line with what we expected for the full-year, the tax rate for adjusted EPS. We
did take a charge related to the new law. The charge was, round figures, about 80% cash related,
20% non-cash. And we would expect that we can maintain this 22% rate going forward. And
probably, longer term, we have actually, a much easier repatriation process than we would have
otherwise.
In terms of the share repurchase plan, I would expect us to purchase $475 million next year, which
is our current – sorry – this year, which is our current estimate for free cash flow plus option
proceeds.
Q - `Paul Richard Knight, Analyst, Janney Montgomery Scott LLC `
Thank you.
A - `William P. Donnelly, Executive Vice President & Head-Finance, Supply Chain and IT `
You're welcome.
Operator
And your next question comes from Tycho Peterson from JPMorgan.
Q - `Tycho W. Peterson, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Hey, thanks. Olivier, just curious, I know you talked about China a fair amount; can you maybe talk
about what drove the upside in the quarter for you guys in China? I mean, you had, last quarter,
guided for high single-digit growth for the year, obviously, you're trending above that. So where
are you seeing upside from a demand side?
A - `William P. Donnelly, Executive Vice President & Head-Finance, Supply Chain and IT `
So I think the main thing was we are a little cautious about how much orders got pulled from Q4
into Q3 in connection with the party conference. So we finished – we probably just did a little bit
better in that regard or a little bit too conservative. And I would say the order trend was good,
the start to the year was pretty good. I think that the one thing we're monitoring is the timing of
the Chinese New Year was a little different. So while January was very strong, I think we'll have tolast week. Olivier was down there in the fourth quarter, and I think both of us feel very good
about how the business is positioned there. And the Chinese team is pretty optimistic about their
growth prospects and share gain prospects there, but it is realistically a tough comp because
there's pent-up demand topic we keep referring to.
Q - `Tycho W. Peterson, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Okay. And then back to the Lab strength, just curious, are you willing to comment on January
trends, just wondering to what degree there was a little bit of a budget flush dynamic in the
fourth quarter?
A - `William P. Donnelly, Executive Vice President & Head-Finance, Supply Chain and IT `
I would say if I – the best one to look at is you guys are usually asking that question in terms of
biopharma. And we clearly had a very nice growth in pipettes as well as in our AutoChem
business in the fourth quarter. But it's – they're going to have a decent first quarter as well. So I
would have said that we had a nice budget flush, but not a huge surprise either.
Q - `Tycho W. Peterson, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Okay. And then lastly, on Stern Drive, can you quantify I know you talked in past about what to
expect in terms of benefit from that. Can just remind us what you're expecting for the year on
Stern Drive?
A - `Olivier A. Filliol, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
The Stern Drive is really a program that allows us to continue to expand the margins similar to
what we had in the past. It touches different topics, it touches productivity topics, it touches on
material cost savings. And in that sense, you shouldn't look at it as being an incremental program,
it's more supporting the margin expansion that we have also pursued in the past, but it makes it
more sophisticated now it makes it more global, and it's basically the next wave of excellence
that we bring to operations.
Q - `Tycho W. Peterson, Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
And your next question comes from Dan Arias from Citigroup.
Q - `Daniel Arias, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Yeah. Hi, guys. Thank you. Bill, just an outlook question. What are you looking for at this point for
growth in Asia/Rest of World if you exclude China?
A - `William P. Donnelly, Executive Vice President & Head-Finance, Supply Chain and IT `
High single-digits, kind of in that 7% range.
Q - `Daniel Arias, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Okay. And then maybe just on the margin. Can you talk about the impact of mix on margins this
year in the context of both your European business and then also what you do in the Retail
business? I know those are two things that can kind of move the number around a little bit?A - `William P. Donnelly, Executive Vice President & Head-Finance, Supply Chain and IT `
Sure. So, the decline in Retail certainly helped. What probably hurt a bit was the decline in our
European business. You'll remember that Europe is the part of the world where we have the
highest percentage of direct sales, so in terms of the gross profit margin, that makes a
difference. We also had – because of the strong growth coming out of China and the
disproportionate amount of Industrial business we have there versus Lab as compared to the rest
of the world, while China is accretive at the OP line, it tends to be a little bit dilutive at the gross
profit margin line.
So if I look out at our growth rates next year, we certainly have the Retail business growing below
the corporate average, but pretty solid growth in all product categories, maybe slightly less in
Europe than the rest of the globe. But of course, we'll get some benefit from Stern Drive.
I think in terms of looking towards maybe recent trends and what we might expect to see in 2018,
I think the biggest difference is that currency is going to tend to inflate sales and inflate costs in a
way that will reduce our gross margin as a percent, but actually, benefit it in terms of dollars of
gross profit we'll be able to deliver. So currency will help us more in 2018 than it did in 2017, and
way more than it did in the previous 10 years. So in that sense, it's helpful, but it will tend to dilute
a little bit the percent.
Q - `Daniel Arias, Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. `
Very good. Thanks, Bill.
Operator
And your next question comes from `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC from Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Great. Thanks. Bill, maybe one on Industrial. How should we be thinking about core Industrial and
product inspection growth rates to trend in 2018 here? And then specifically on core Industrial,
any geographies still lagging on that front that you expect to maybe show some turnaround in
the near term?
A - `William P. Donnelly, Executive Vice President & Head-Finance, Supply Chain and IT `
So, hey, we should be able to put up a mid single-digit growth in our core Industrial business. And
we did a little bit better than that in 2017, but that's largely due to the China Industrial business, it
grew so much in 2017, and we see that one area now – how good we are in measuring that pent-
up demand impact could be upside or downside to our guidance in this regard. But maybe kind
of connecting to our answer to our first question from Ross, I think we feel pretty good about the
Industrial environment in the Western world. We feel actually good about it globally, with maybe
some comparison concerns when it comes to China.
Was there – I think I forgot – I think you had a second part, Patrick, and I apologize, I forgot.
Q - `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Yeah. It was just about any geographies are still lagging on the core Industrial side, but it doesn't
sound like it.
A - `William P. Donnelly, Executive Vice President & Head-Finance, Supply Chain and IT `No. I think it's just this question of how well are we guesstimating the impact of pent-up demand
on the China numbers. That's the hardest one to predict.
Q - `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Okay. And then may be one on the Field Turbo side, obviously, investments there have been at
an elevated level for a couple of years here. Can you just talk through how long it may take to
turn profitable? And if there's any inflection points expected in 2018 from some of those earlier
investments?
A - `Olivier A. Filliol, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
What's important to know is every Field Turbo is different, and if the payback periods can make
change radically by geography and by type of business that we are focused on. So to illustrate it
on the telesales person, a telesales person might have reached a breakeven point after six
months. But if we add a person for automated chemistry, it might take two years to build up the
pipeline. So it varies. And the different ways that we're pursuing here have sometimes different
emphasis. Like two years ago, we had a strong emphasis on telesales.
At this point, we have more emphasis on more sophisticated instrument sales people, and so we
might have a little bit of a longer payback period. But a good assumption is that after one to two
years, they reach the breakeven point. And so, we definitely have a situation now where we are
benefiting in terms of growth, but also on profitability, from the investments that we did one, two
years ago.
Q - `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC `
Thank you both.
Operator
Your next question comes from `Derik de Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch with Bank of America.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hi. Good afternoon. Hey, a couple of questions. First one, what's the pacing in terms of the FX on
the top line benefit over the next couple of quarters?
A - `William P. Donnelly, Executive Vice President & Head-Finance, Supply Chain and IT `
I'll let Mary give the answer on that one.
A - `Mary T. Finnegan, Treasurer & Primary Contact-Investor Relations `
Sure. So, Derik, we're assuming for the top line about a 3.5% benefit for the full-year. And you're
going to see it start off about 5.5% in the first quarter, and then about 4% and then down to 2%
for the second half of the year.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. And I'm just curious, have you seen any – your business is sort of uniquely position within
the life sciences market that we cover. And I'm just wondering if you've seen any signs that – or
any indication from any of your customers in the U.S. that they're going to reinvest any money
from tax reform into their businesses and doing a sort of CapEx projects, i.e., and of the foodretailers planning in using the windfall for investing in new equipment or they all too busy getting
to Amazon?
A - `Olivier A. Filliol, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah. I think I would start and say our instruments typically are not that expensive and not so
CapEx relevant. And so, I would be cautious to see a direct impact here from the tax changes in
U.S. I think what we might see more medium to long term that there might be more investments
in new labs, for example, in U.S., and we might benefit from that. But on the short-term base, I
don't think so. And if you talk about Retail, actually, the Retail is probably more impacted about
the overall nervousness on their profit tool. And that actually would rather impact or slow down
their commitments to new investments in store upgrades and so on. So in a nutshell, I don't see a
big impact here.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. And then just one final question, you did a couple of acquisitions last year, the last couple
of years, can you sort of talk about how those are trending, if there's anything else that sort of is
catching around the horizon?
A - `Olivier A. Filliol, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
Yeah, yeah. So the two acquisitions that you referred to, one is Troemner that we did about a
year ago, and Biotix that we did a few months ago. Happy on both, actually, Troemner had its first
full-year and exceeded our expectations, really happy. And Biotix had the first – last quarter here,
a very good performance, too. So, from a financial standpoint, happy about how things are going.
And in terms of integration or assimilation, also very happy. Good retention of the teams, good
commitments of the team. And Biotix team, which is a little bit new to us, we are very pleased by
the talent pool that we have seen there, and there – kind of how we are talking about shared
strategies going forward, how we can leverage the global franchise and so on. So a promising
start.
When you refer to about the pipeline for further deals, the strategy remains the same. Of course,
I'm happy that we could close these two attractive deals in the last 12 months. We had a period
where we were not closing any deals, and this is unpredictable. And going forward, we're going
to pursue the same approaches, bolt-on acquisitions with good synergy potential, but the
availability of deals is difficult to predict. But hopefully, one or the other deal will materialize.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
And just one final one. Just, Bill, on the op margin target for 2018, how much are you embedding
your model for expansion?
A - `William P. Donnelly, Executive Vice President & Head-Finance, Supply Chain and IT `
So plus 50 bps, and...
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Yeah.
A - `William P. Donnelly, Executive Vice President & Head-Finance, Supply Chain and IT `
... currency adjustment, a little bit more.Q - `Derik de Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. And the currency hits mostly on the gross margin line?
A - `William P. Donnelly, Executive Vice President & Head-Finance, Supply Chain and IT `
Yes, I guess, if you look at our table, I'm struggling to give you – take you through the logic of
what that is. But yes, if you look at our model, which is bottoms up, the short answer is yes.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Got it. Thank you.
Operator
And your next question comes from `Brandon Couillard, Analyst, Jefferies LLC from Jefferies.
Q - `Brandon Couillard, Analyst, Jefferies LLC `
Thanks, good afternoon. Olivier, did you give the service growth rate for the fourth quarter? And
then at a higher level, do you have any difference in the growth between sort of the core contract
business versus the parts business?
A - `Olivier A. Filliol, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director `
So service growth in the quarter was 5%. And yes, for the full-year, it was 7%. And the contract
business is doing actually really well. I don't know the number for Q4 separate, but I would be
surprised if it wouldn't be actually double-digit because early in the year, we looked at it, we
talked about it to you guys, and we have really very good numbers. And it's the part we're also
more focused on.
The contract business is also outgrowing the spares business because the quality of our products
get better and better. And we shared with you that this is one of the things why we push the
contract business. The break/fix business, including spares, we don't know it's going to have the
same growth in dynamic, and that's certainly a reason why we – in the overall number, it's difficult
to see, but contract business will completely outgrow this 5% or 7% that we have for the year.
Q - `Brandon Couillard, Analyst, Jefferies LLC `
Thanks. And Bill, are you still thinking about the ASPs being up about 150 basis points for the
year?
A - `William P. Donnelly, Executive Vice President & Head-Finance, Supply Chain and IT `
Hey, realistically, it's probably going to be a little bit more than that as – but realistically, our
material costs are going to be a little bit higher as well than we originally forecasted.
Operator
And we have reached the end of our Q&A. Ms. Mary Finnegan, your closing remarks please.
A - `Mary T. Finnegan, Treasurer & Primary Contact-Investor Relations `
Thanks, everyone, for joining us tonight. And of course, as always, if you have any questions, just
give us a call or shoot us an email. Take care, and good night.Operator
And this concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.