Q4 2020 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing-by. And welcome to the Quarterly Earnings
Conference Call. At this time all participants are in listen only mode. After the speakers'
presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) Please be
advised that today's conference is being recorded. (Operator Instructions)
I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker for today, Ms. Mary Finnegan. Thank
you, ma'am. Please go ahead.
`Mary T. Finnegan, Treasurer, Investor Relations `
Thanks, Catherine and good evening, everyone. I'm Mary Finnegan, I'm responsible for Investor
Relations at Mettler-Toledo and happy that you're joining us tonight. I'm joined on the call today
with Olivier Filliol, our CEO; and `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Financial Officer. Let me cover just a
couple of administrative matters. This call is being webcast and is available for replay on our
website. A copy of the press release and the presentation that we refer to on today's call is also
available on our website.
Let me summarize the Safe Harbor language, which is outlined on Page 2 of the presentation.
Statements in this presentation, which are not historical facts, constitute forward-looking
statements within the meaning of the US Securities Act of 1933 and the US Securities Exchange
Act of 1934. These statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our
actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from
those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. For a discussion of these risksand uncertainties, please see our most recent Form 10-K and other reports filed with the SEC
from time-to-time.
All forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors discussed
under the caption, Factors Affecting our future operating results and in the Business and
Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation section of
our filings.
Just one other item. On today's call, we may use non-GAAP financial measures. More detailed
information with respect to the use of and differences between the non-GAAP financial measure
and the most directly comparable GAAP measure is provided in our Form 8-K.
I will now turn the call over to Olivier.
`Olivier A. Filliol, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Mary and good evening, everyone. I'm calling in from Switzerland tonight, while Shawn
and Mary are in Columbus, Ohio. `Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer Designate, is also joining the call with me from
Switzerland and we are excited to have him on board. Patrick and I have had very productive
onboarding sessions over the last few weeks and he most recently has begun to meet with the
senior leadership team, who is very happy to welcome him.
Patrick, I will turn it to you, as I know you want to make a few comments.
`Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer Designate `
Thanks, Oliver and good evening, everyone. I am very happy to join this call tonight and more
importantly to be part of Mettler-Toledo. I spend my time so far working with Olivier, meeting
senior leaders virtually throughout the world and studying thorough strategy documents,
comprehensive materials on Spinnaker approaches and detailed R&D and sterndrive priorities.
I'm truly impressed with the depth and sophistication of the strategy, initiatives and programs that
are in place. A fantastic foundation has been built and I'm committed to the organic growth
strategy and look forward to leading the team, to further enhance our performance and continue
to successful journey.
Olivier and Shawn will the lead this call today and I look forward to (inaudible) the actions on the
next call and in the future. Before I hand it back, I want to make a personal thank you to Olivier.
For the excellent on-boarding process and for handing over to me such a unique franchise. Under
your leadership, you have developed Mettler-Toledo into a tool with a tremendous track record
and future potential. I am very pleased to note that you will continue to be part of the company.
Olivier, I will turn it back to you now.
`Olivier A. Filliol, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Patrick. For this very kind words. From my side, we are off to a great start and I look
forward to our continued teamwork. I will start with a summary of the quarter and then Shawn will
provide details on our financials. I will then have some additional comments and we will open the
line for Q&A.
The highlights for the quarter on Page 3 of the presentation. We ended the year with a very
strong fourth quarter, which came in better than we expected. Local currency sales increased 7%
in the quarter and growth was relatively broad based throughout the world. Our laboratorybusiness and our Chinese business did particularly well in the quarter. We benefited from strong
execution and we're well positioned to capture growth, as customer demand improved.
However, we continued to be negatively impacted by COVID-19 in certain areas.
From the onset of the global pandemic, our focus has been to identify and pursue pockets of
growth within our end markets and to be well positioned to capture growth as demand improves,
which is what we saw in Q4. Our innovative go-to-market approach really played very well into this
environment and allowed us to capture this growth.
Good cost control and the continued benefit of our margin and productivity initiatives contributed
to strong growth in adjusted operating profit and very strong growth in adjusted EPS in the
quarter. Finally, cash flow, not one in the quarter, but also for the full year was excellent. 2020 was
an extraordinary year with some of the most challenging market conditions we have faced in
more than a decade. Our organizational agility helped us to quickly adapt approaches and
processes to the new environment.
Our broad end market diversification and the use of sophisticated data analytics, allowed us to
shift our sales and marketing focus to the most promising end markets early on. It also helps to
ensure we are well positioned to capture growth as demand improved during the latter part of
the year. We adopted our supply chain and service organization to maintain superior performance
that strengthened our franchise and introduced many new digital sales and support tools to
provide top quality customer interactions, despite the remote settings of our customers and
sales teams.
Throughout 2020, we increased our customer engagement and customer satisfaction, which
translated into accelerated market share gains in many product categories. With the strong end
to 2020, we have very good momentum as we start 2021 and believe we are well positioned to
continue to gain share and deliver good results. We will have some additional comments on 2021,
but first, let me turn it to Shawn to cover the financial results.
`Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Olivier and hello, everyone. Sales were $938 million in the quarter, an increase of 7% in
local currency. On a US dollar basis, sales increased 11% as currency benefited sales by 4% in the
quarter.
On Slide number 4, we show sales growth by region. Local currency sales increased 8% in the
Americas, 7% in Europe and 8% in Asia-Rest of the World. Local currency sales increased 12% in
China in the quarter.
The next slide shows sales growth by region for the full year 2020. Local currency sales increased
2% in the Americas, 1% in Europe and 3% in Asia-Rest of the World. China local currency sales
grew 7% in 2020.
On Slide number 6, we outlined local currency sales growth by product area. For the Fourth
quarter, laboratory sales increased 12%, industrial increased 1% with core industrial up 5% and
Product Inspection down 5%, food retail increased 7% in the quarter. We estimate that we
benefited 1% to 2% from COVID tailwinds in the quarter, related to our pipette business for
COVID testing.
The next slide shows sales growth by product area for the full year. Laboratory sales increased
5%, industrial declined 1% with core industrial up 2% and Product Inspection down 7%. Food retail
declined 4% in 2020.Let me now move to the rest of the P&L for the fourth quarter, which is summarized on the next
slide. Gross margin in the quarter was 59.6%, a 60 basis point increase over the prior year level
of 59.0%. Our margin initiatives centered on pricing and Stern Drive, as well as temporary cost
savings contributed to the margin growth, offset in part by higher transportation costs and
unfavorable business mix.
R&D amounted to $39.9 million, which represents a 6% increase in local currency. SG&A
amounted to $226.4 million, a 5% increase in local currency over the previous year. Increased
variable compensation was offset in part by our temporary cost savings and ongoing cost
containment initiatives.
Adjusted operating profit amounted to $292.8 million in the quarter, which is a 14% increase over
the prior year amount of $256.3 million. Operating margins increased 80 basis points in the
quarter to 31.2%. We are very pleased with this margin growth. Currency benefited operating
profit growth by approximately 2%, but actually hurt operating margin expansion by about 50
basis points.
A couple of final comments on the P&L. Amortization amounted to $14.7 million in the quarter.
Interest expense was $9.5 million in the quarter and other income amounted to $3.7 million. We
reduced our effective tax rate for the full year from 20.5% to 19.5%. This is the rate before
discrete items and adjusting for the timing of stock option exercises in the quarter. We are very
pleased with this reduction and expect to maintain this rate in 2021.
Moving to fully diluted shares, which amounted to $24 million in the quarter and is a 3% decline
from the prior year. Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $9.26 and 19% increase over the prior year
amount of $7.78. Currency benefited adjusted EPS by approximately 2% in the quarter. On a
reported basis in the quarter, EPS was $9.03 as compared to $7.84 in the prior year.
Reported EPS in the quarter includes $0.12 of purchased intangible amortization and $0.11 of
restructuring. We also had two offsetting items for income taxes, we had a $0.20 increase due to
the difference between our quarterly and annual tax rate, due to the timing of stock option
exercises. This was offset by a $0.20 benefit from adjusting our tax rate to 19.5% for the first
three quarters.
The next slide shows our full year results. Local currency sales increased 2% in 2020, while
adjusted operating income increased 8% and adjusted operating margins were up 130 basis
points. Adjusted EPS amounted to $25.72, an increase of 13% over the prior year amount of
$22.77. Currency was neutral to the full year adjusted EPS.
Given the unprecedented challenges we faced in 2020, we are very pleased with our
performance and believes it reflects the agility and strong culture of our organization, the
effectiveness of our growth and margin expansion initiatives and resiliency of our end markets.
That is it for the P&L, now let me cover the cash flow.
In the quarter, adjusted free cash flow amounted to $218 million, which is an increase of 20% on a
per share basis as compared to the prior year. We are very happy with our cash flow generation.
DSO declined approximately 3.5 days in the quarter to 36.5 days as compared to the prior year.
We are seeing concrete results from the use of analytics and productivity improvements and
receivable collections and cash flow management during this period. ITO came in at 4.3 times.
For the full year 2020, adjusted free cash flow was $648 million as compared to the prior year
amount of $531 million. On a per-share basis, this is a 26% increase in earnings flow-through of
more than 100%. We are very pleased with this performance, which demonstrates the strength ofour franchise as well as our focus on continuous process improvements to drive cash flow
generation.
Let me now turn to guidance. Forecasting continues to be challenging given the uncertainties
surrounding COVID-19 and the ultimate impact for the global economy. Market dynamics are fluid
and changes in customer demand can happen quickly. With our strong fourth quarter
performance, we continue to feel confident about those factors within our control, namely
executing on our sales and marketing initiatives and continuing to launch new products with clear
value-added benefits to our customers.
We believe we have been successful in identifying and capitalizing on pockets of growth and are
well positioned to continue to gain share. We also continue to feel positive in our ability to
generate margin improvement, by our pricing and Stern Drive initiatives.
Now let me cover the specifics. For the full-year 2021, we now expect local currency sales growth
will be in the range of 5% to 7% as compared to 2020. We expect full year adjusted EPS will be in
the range of $29.20 to $29.80, which is a growth rate of 14% to 16%. This compares to previous
adjusted EPS guidance in the range of $27.50 to $28.30. With the respect to the first quarter, we
would expect local currency sales growth to be in the range of 11% to 13% and expected adjusted
EPS to be in the range of $5.55 to $5.70, a growth rate of 39% to 43%.
Some further comments on 2021 guidance. Let me start with the pacing of the year. We expect
the first half of the year will be much stronger than the second half. We are starting the year with
excellent momentum coming off a strong Q4. The first half of the year will also benefit from
easier comparisons and the continued COVID tailwind in our pipette business. As we look to the
second half, we'll face more difficult comparisons, particularly with respect to our business in
China.
Our COVID tailwinds will also turn to a headwind, as we lap comparisons. We also feel more
uncertainty exists for the second half of the year, especially with respect to COVID's potential
impact to the global economy. We recognize that we're currently benefiting from strong
momentum, which will not necessarily continue. We'll provide additional quarterly guidance on our
next call, but I thought it would be helpful to provide this context now.
Some additional comments on guidance. We expect interest expense to be approximately $40
million in 2021 and total amortization to be approximately $55 million. Other income, which is
below operating profit will be approximately $9 million in 2021. As I mentioned earlier, we would
expect our effective tax rate in 2021 to also remain at 19.5%. In terms of free cash flow for the
year, we expected to be approximately $690 million. We will continue to repurchase shares and
expect to end 2021 in a targeted range of approximately a 1.5 times leverage ratio.
Some additional details. With respect to the impact of currency on sales growth, we expect
currency to increase sales growth by approximately 3.5% in 2021 and 5% in the first quarter. In
terms of adjusted EPS, currency will benefit growth by approximately 3% in 2021.
That is it from my side and I'll now turn it back to Olivier.
`Olivier A. Filliol, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you, Shawn. Let me start with some comments on our operating results. Our Lab business
have exceptional growth in the quarter, pipette have excellent growth and benefited from COVID
related testing demand. Process analytics had another quarter of strong growth, while demand
for analytical instruments and balances recovered nicely in the quarter.Sales growth in all regions was very strong, we expect Lab to continue to be very strong in the
first half of 2021, due to favorable biopharma trends, vaccine research and testing and
bioproduction scale up and production. Lab will face tougher comparisons in the second half of
the year with our excellent Lab product portfolio, including our powdered bench solutions,
focused on automation, digital interfaces and data management and proven Spinnaker sales and
marketing strategies, we believe, we are well positioned to continue to capture share.
In terms of industrial business, Core Industrial did well in the quarter with a 5% increase, driven by
double-digit growth in China. We will return to growth in core industrial in Europe, while Americas
was flat, although they have very good growth in the prior year. We are particularly pleased at
how resilient our core industrial has proven throughout 2020, given the challenges of the
pandemic.
We believe this reflects the strength and diversity of our product portfolio, our success in
identifying on pursuing pockets of growth and strong focus on execution. Our outlook for core
industrial remain solid, but we acknowledge, we are not immune to the overall economy and we'll
face difficult comparisons in China during the second half of the year.
Product Inspection came in weaker than we had anticipated with a 5% decline in the quarter. Both
Europe and Asia decline, while Americas was flat with the prior year. While our outlook has
improved for this business and we expect to start 2021 with solid growth, we are cautious as
large package food companies continue to face operational challenges at a manufacturing site
related to COVID. We believe pent-up demand exists for our instruments, but ultimate timing is
still hard to determine. Food retailing came in better than we expected with 7% growth overall
and growth in all regions.
Now let me make some additional comments by geography. Sales in Europe increased 7% in the
quarter with excellent growth in Lab and good growth in core industrial and food retail. We expect
solid growth in Europe in 2021. Americas increased 8% the quarter with excellent growth in Lab,
offset by flat results in both Product Inspection and core industrial. We expect good growth in
Americas in 2021.
Finally, Asia-Rest of the World grew 8% in the quarter with both lab and core industrial doing very
well. As mentioned, China had 12% growth in the quarter, with excellent growth across our
product lines. We expect market conditions in China to be very favorable, as we start 2021, while
they face much tougher comparisons in the second half of the year. One final comment on the
business, service and consumables were up 13% in the quarter and 8% for the full year. That
concludes my comments on the business.
As I reflect on 2020, I'm very pleased with our performance, given the exceptional challenges we
faced. This performance would not have been possible without the strong foundation and well
ingrained corporate programs that we have in place, which allows us to quickly pivot and adapt to
the new environment. We have always considered agility and focus on execution, a key pillar of
Mettler-Toledo. And I think you saw evidence of both of these in our results.
Probably most important, however, our success in 2020 sets the stage for us to continue to
capture growth in 2021 and beyond. Our strategy of many years has been remarkably consistent,
as a leader in fragmented market, we have established strategies that allow us to gain a little
market share each year, while continuously expanding our margin. The initiatives within these
strategies will involve and develop, the strategies remain the same.
As we look to 2021, let me comment on how we are going about it. I would thought with ourleapfrog advances in digital transformation during 2020 that position us very well for the future.
We will continue to refine our sophisticated analytics to guide our sales force to the best
opportunities. We will continue to support our market organization with tools and methodology to
increase sales force time with the most strategic account, while leveraging our value selling and
cross-selling tools to further penetrate opportunity.
We will also continue to leverage digitalization to develop new approaches that drive sales force
efficiency and refine techniques to improve the effectiveness of telesales teams, would also look
forward to returning to visit accounts, to generate new opportunities. Finally, we look to execute
more telemarketing campaigns and have tools to increase order conversions.
Service will continue to be essential element of our customer value proposition. Our almost
3,000 service technicians are an important competitive advantage for us. This year, we will focus
on further high base penetration and utilizing money of the same sales force guidance, telesales
and digital tools that we use for product sales to further drive service sales.
Our team in China did an exceptional drop in 2020, not one in continuing to serve customers and
penetrate growth opportunities, but also in terms of manufacturing and supply chain. The team's
priority is to continue to optimize the organization to focus on high potential growth areas and
attractive segments and further leverage digital technology to engage customers and generate
leads.
Introducing products for the local market, such as an entry-level, X, Y instrument Product
Inspection portfolio, is also an important element to growth in China and throughout emerging
markets. We remain very optimistic about the growth potential not one in China, but throughout
emerging markets over the medium term.
Contently coming to market with new product launches, is another important strategy. Given the
diversification of our product portfolio, a new product launch will never be material by itself, but
together these launches reinforces our market leadership, help trigger replacement and existing
customers, help open doors to new customers and help support our price differentiation. Later
this month, we will launch a new automatic laboratory balance that will set a new standard for
weighing of powders and liquids in research lab. Testing labs and quality control labs.
Addressing the needs in the laboratory for automation, smaller sample sizes, flexibility, ease of
use and seamless documentation, this new balances offers an unmatched value proposition. It is
a simple, fully integrated solution that will support our customers in their everyday operation. It is
just one example of the many product launches, we will have this year, but illustrates how we are
continually focused on bringing products to market that demonstrate clear value to our
customers.
Similar to the continued evolution of growth strategies, we also continue to develop our pricing
and productivity initiatives. We have good results -- good developments within pricing, utilizing
analytics and so machine learning to most effectively price our offering. On the supply chain side,
team was able to continue to make progress on their Stern Drive productivity goals in 2020. First,
we will be able to first make further progress in 2021, when the team won't have as many
challenges as they face last year.
Finally, I think you will continue to see us market strategic acquisitions that leverage our
technology leadership and global distribution. I acknowledge that we have not had an acquisition
for a while, but continue to believe, we can benefit from acquisition. However, these acquisitions
will be small and strategic, not transformational.I believe our franchise is stronger than ever, as demonstrated in how we performed in 2020,
despite all the challenges. As I look back over the last decade plus years, we have made much
progress in many areas. Our continuous improvement programs of Spinnaker sales and
marketing and Stern Drive productivity, which I just discussed are well ingrained throughout our
organization. And will continue to evolve and the important ingredients for the future.
Emerging markets, an important growth driver of 35% of sales today compared with 25% in 2007.
Similarly, our faster growing laboratory business is now 54% of sales, up from 44%. Finally, service
and consumable is now 33% of sales as compared to 28%. Redirecting resources and
investments to faster growing businesses has always been at the heart of our initiatives and
these businesses will continue to fuel growth in the future.
The strength of the organization and how well we are positioned for the future, contributed to
my decision to step down as CEO. Under Patrick's leadership, I believe we have the organization,
corporate programs, senior leadership team and tools in place to continue to gain share and
continue our successful track record.
That concludes our prepared remarks. And now I want to open the line for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of `Tycho Peterson, Analyst, JPMorgan with JPMorgan.
Q - `Tycho Peterson, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Hey, thanks. Olivier, I know you have one more quarter. So we want to congratulate you on the
transition just yet, but maybe thinking about the service and consumables numbers you
highlighted sort of sales up 13%. Can you maybe just talk about the durability? How much of that
was pent up versus maybe some of the newer initiatives, especially on the service side?
A - `Olivier A. Filliol, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So we would estimate that the quarterly tailwind was about 1% to 2% for the Group and that
was really related to the consumer basis mainly or almost exclusively around tips that we produce
in our Rainin biotechs facility. So that was actually really strong. But then the remainder of the
service and consumable business was healthy and quite sustainable. We was actually pleased to
see how we continue to perform service well even under, again more difficult lockdown situations
particular also in Europe started end of Q4 and nevertheless, our service business could nicely
hold up and I would expect the same for this year. So I would almost say for our service business,
we have a healthy environment and continue to expect similar growth as we had in the past.
Q - `Tycho Peterson, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Okay, that's helpful and then Product Inspection. I know you've been talking about pent-up
demand with the CPG customers for a while. Obviously, we're not seeing it yet. Maybe talk a little
bit about, what you're hearing in that channel?
A - `Olivier A. Filliol, Chief Executive Officer `
So indeed we still see good demand for quotes. We feel we have a very good market position.
But we see that customers are just not committing to upgrades and new packaging lines and so
on. Which is not surprising, all this food companies really need to protect the protection -- protecttheir production from any COVID exposures and you can imagine they have very rigid safety
procedures not wanting to let in any external suppliers and that really drives the demand.
And I wouldn't be surprised at this takes and all the six months, there are many production
companies here that really hold back on CapEx. And as a reminder, about more than 70% of our
revenue in Product Inspection is coming from food production. So yes, we count on the second
half that we would really see a strong pent-up demand. But I do expect that already Q1, we will
see better numbers, but not necessarily coming from pent-up.
Q - `Tycho Peterson, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Okay and then lastly, on China, last quarter you talked about some pull forward, you still had
good growth 12% overall, industrial up double digits. Maybe just talk a little bit about the
sustainability and then if you could quantify what is baked in the guidance for China growth this
year?
A - `Olivier A. Filliol, Chief Executive Officer `
So let me take the first part and regarding to specific, then Shawn can add in. Yes, indeed, we are
very happy about how Q4 came together, the Chinese team did performed really, really well and
there is also a good market for us. We see that the Chinese local investment is going very well,
we benefit from that. The investments also go in the right market segments for us that we can
benefit from. And I would certainly expect that this momentum will still go on for a while, we have
here for example Q1, I still have good expectations.
For the second part of the year, however, we going to face tougher comparisons and that's
certainly one of the reasons why we guide, when it comes to China. A good start, but then a
slowdown in the second part of the year. Now Shawn, do you want to add some flavor to that last
comment?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, sure. Thanks, Olivier and Hi, Tycho. Yes, so for the full year in China, Tycho. We're now
looking at high single-digit growth for the full year that's the improvement from our previous
guidance where we were saying mid single digit. And right now we're feeling that, that high
single-digit would be both in the laboratory and the industrial business. But as Olivier mentioned,
on the pacing is going to be pretty unique, just giving the whole situation with the comparison in
Q1 of last year and then when we look at the second half of last year as well.
So just be even a little bit more specific on that. In Q1, we are going to -- we expect China to be
up mid to high '20s in terms of growth. But again that was versus a minus 13% in Q1 of last year.
And then of course, we're going to -- we're going to have to lap some of these tougher
comparisons, which included 17% growth in Q3 of last year and now 12% in Q4 of this year.
Q - `Tycho Peterson, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Okay, thank you.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of `Derik De Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America with Bank of America.
Q - `Derik De Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America `Hi, good afternoon. How are you doing?
A - `Olivier A. Filliol, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Hey, Derik.
Q - `Derik De Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America `
Hey. So I guess the first question is, how did price income through in 2020 and just sort of
curious, if you've got better pricing than normal given the huge demand for pipettes. And just if
you took some price advantage there and just sort like what are you expecting in the '21 numbers
for pricing?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, so. Hey, Derik, I'll take it, it's Shawn. So we did -- so in the fourth quarter we did just under
2.5% in terms of price realization. So that was a little bit of an improvement from what we were
seeing earlier in the year. I think each quarter we started to see things progressively get a little bit
better. Part of that improvement was that, we were able to take a little bit more price on -- in the
area of pipette, as you just mentioned. We also were able to do a couple of other things where
we're trying to offset some of these higher transportation costs as well.
As we look to 2021, we were previously guiding a little bit more cautiously and 150 basis point
kind of a range with the concern that inflationary forecasts a few months ago were quite low for
2021. But still feel extremely good about the momentum in the program. Olivier also alluded to a
few of those things in the prepared remarks as well.
At this point in time, we're looking at probably a range of 150 to 200 wouldn't be surprised, if we
were more towards the higher end of that range. As we kind of see some of the dynamics in the
market, we do see some opportunities to maybe -- to gain a little bit more price. Then we saw
maybe a few months ago and we'll see how that plays out, but that's certainly something on our
mind right now. Of course the other side of that is that, some of these opportunities and price
are also looking at higher material costs in certain areas that we're mindful of that, that we might
be facing as well too.
Q - `Derik De Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America `
Great, that's really helpful. And Olivier, you made an interesting comment in the opening remarks.
Just talking about accelerating market share gains in many categories. Can you sort of give us a
little bit more color on that?
A - `Olivier A. Filliol, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, like always. We -- it's difficult to have hard data on that. Our competitors do not publish
specific comparable numbers. And so we need to base this on the observation of our field force.
And we certainly also observe it kind of the growth momentum we see in the different industry
segments and what we can expect and based on that, we feel actually really good.
We have also clear anecdotes that we are winning share and I feel we are outpacing the market
we have this NVDP benchmark and I certainly feel that we are outpacing that. And so that gives
us, all this confidence of the share gain, there are some other data points that we use internally. I
mentioned that we leverage data analytics to guide our sales force. Last year we had a special
effort to guide the sales force to non-customers. We did so, because suddenly our sales force
spend much less time behind the wheel.They had much more time doing cold calling and engaging new customers through virtual demos
and virtual calls. And that was at the base for us to expand the targets to our sales force and we
were very pleased to see the results in converting more than ever non-customers. So that gives
us kind of the confidence that this allows us to win share. So in a nutshell, we feel that we protect
it well, our existing customer base, while we accelerated the access on conversion to non-
customers.
Certainly a strategy that we're going to pursue. I many time said, the crisis last year was for us an
opportunity to lead product some of the changes that in terms of go-to-market lead product, the
adaptation of internal new tools and techniques and one of them more certainly all about the
sales force guidance and reaching out to non customers, we going to certainly maintain that one.
Q - `Derik De Bruin, Analyst, Bank of America `
Great, thanks for the detail.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI with Evercore ISI.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Hey guys, congrats on a nice print here. Olivier, maybe I'll start with a high-level question for you.
The guidance here 5 to 7, it's a pretty solid guide. What does it assuming from a business
environment perspective, like are you assuming the environment is back to normal or is there
some cushion for perhaps disruption from the second wave? And then, your comments on M&A,
if you felt like a tone change. I'm curious if we -- is that the right way, is there a change in tone?
A - `Olivier A. Filliol, Chief Executive Officer `
Let me take the first. We assume a relatively stable environment in terms of second wave. In
Europe, we are in the middle of the second wave. We are definitely on a quite a strict a lockdown
in many of the countries started already before Christmas. It feels very different to the first
lockdown, the business while we or many of us are in home offices, we have here an infra and an
understanding with our customer base that business is going on. We definitely leverage all of
these we have also less customer visits. But effective relationships and we do not see that the
core customer base is putting investments on hold. So that's why the second wave is very
different to the first wave, when it comes to the business impact.
On personal levels, it feels kind of similar, but not on a business level. I -- if the environment stays
about what it is right now, that's probably our base for our guidance here. And I'm not particular
worried that the lockdown situation will significantly impact our business. And that means if the
lockdown more severe or if everything would simply ease up, it looks like we have built here a
certain resilience in our own business approach as well as the business or the industry segments
that we are targeting. I want also to remind, we did quite a shift last year in terms of the industry
segments that we are targeting. And that shift, we're going to maintain.
Don't worry too much around the M&A language. It's really in the sense that renforcement of the
strategy that we have been running in the past. We are very interested in adjacencies, we are
interested in companies that fit well in our current business focus and my point was, even though
we have here a leadership transition, Patrick and I share a common understanding here that we
don't need any transformational acquisitions. We are not seeking any additional lag to thecompany. We feel we have an excellent franchise, but we want to leverage the franchise when
there are good opportunities out there.
Again, technology synergies or selected market consolidation opportunities. These are the typical
adjacency that we did in the past and that we certainly going to continue to pursue.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Understood. And Shawn, one quick one for you. On the margins, it looks like the margin guidance,
it's implied -- it's gone up versus the prior guide. Is that a fair statement?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
I'm sorry, Vijay. Can you repeat that question?
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
On the margin guidance, it seems versus your prior expectations in a margin expansion, perhaps
is closer to triple digits at the high end of the guidance. I said that correct?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
No, no. So for -- So for the full year -- well, I mean for Q1 of course we have triple-digit numbers,
but for the full year just to be clear, we're expecting the operating margin to expand about 60 to
70 basis points, if we exclude the impact of currency. So currency will be favorable to operating
profit, but it will actually have a negative impact on the margin and that negative impact will
probably be in the range of 20 basis points.
But then just to kind of link it back to your comment about what we were saying before, we were
saying before that we will be a little bit below our typical guide of 70 to 100 in terms of our mid-
term expectations. So we might be slightly lower, but we're a little bit more optimistic. Just given
the higher sales volume as well, in terms of what we'd expect. And I think the other thing that
always we remember is, we did a 130 basis points this year, so now when we're looking at the
two year combined growth, we're probably in the 190 to 200 basis point expansion excluding
currency, which we feel really good about and as we kind of made it -- mentioned in the
comments before, we feel like there is really excellent momentum on all the different margin
expansion initiatives, whether it'd be pricing or sterndrive et cetera.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Understood. Thanks, guys.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Citi with Citi.
Q - `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Citi `
Hey, thanks guys. Olivier maybe just one on the core industrial side. Certainly, proved a lot more
resilient than we expecting and it sounds like maybe you expected as well. Can you just pull back
the curtain a little bit in terms of what you saw in 4Q and then also the expectations goingforward? Again kind of held in there a lot better particularly in the developed markets than we
would have expected. So we need [ph] a bit more color on the performance and then the
expectation as we go through '21 here?
A - `Olivier A. Filliol, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Hi, yes. Our expectation was that our industrial business would be more exposed to the
slowdown of the economy, then very pleased to see how Q4 came together across the globe,
pretty much and also across the different product lines in industrial. And I expect this will continue
on to be relatively healthy, but of course that in the second part of the year then comparisons by
then also play again. And certainly also China, where of course we have a very significant
industrial business.
And I would attribute it to a little bit the same things that we see for the whole group. That we
early on did go for the pockets of growth that still exist in this market, redirecting our resources
and our attention to the most attractive account and that played well. There are industry
segments that are very healthy at this stage, the whole pharma production, there is transport and
logistics that is healthy for us and many other sub session and in combination with the sales force
guidance topic that are right before offered really good opportunities in spite that the overall
economy is challenging. So there are segments that are down for us and other segments that
we're nicely up and it is really up to us to focus on the right ones.
Q - `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Citi `
Yes, understood. And then maybe in response to the last question, it seems like you kind of
acknowledge there's potentially some upside to the revenue guidance, maybe baking in more
kind of status quo than much of a recovery. I guess when you think about that 5 to 7 for '21. When
you look at it, what do you think are kind of one or two segments that had the most upside in
terms of a lever to -- if you kind of end up beating that number? Where do you think the most
conservatism is in your projection kind of when you go through the number there?
A - `Olivier A. Filliol, Chief Executive Officer `
I wouldn't talk about conservatives and I think it's, we recognize that there are industry segments
with good upside and others that there will be more difficult. At this stage, we would extrapolate
kind of the trends that we have seen also in recent months, where we say biopharma is strong
and poker -- certain chemical sub segments are strong and that should remain that way. Then I
would expect that in the second part of the year, we're going to see good growth in PI pent-up
demand, as we mentioned before.
But then on the flip side, you have of course the comparison topic. So China will, for example, be
rather down in say -- down now -- not the same growth rate in the second part of the year. So
that's a bit. In terms of where we might experience positive for -- hopefully not negative
surprises, a Product Inspection in China are certainly the ones that are -- that have potentially both
direction.
Q - `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Citi `
Understood, thanks, Olivier. I appreciate it.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Dan Arias, Analyst, Stifel with Stifel.Q - `Dan Arias, Analyst, Stifel `
Good afternoon, guys. Thank you. Shawn, just to follow up on Tycho's question on Products
Inspection and then some of the comments that Olivier just made there. I think the comp NPI gets
8 points easier for you guys next quarter than it was here in 4Q. So I certainly appreciate Olivier's
point on maybe some of the pent-up demand driving up, but I think you said up 5% this quarter. Is
there a reason why you wouldn't get the high singles, maybe even low doubles in 1Q and Product
Inspection?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
So. Hi, Dan. Just to clarify, so for Q4 Product Inspection was down 5%. It wasn't up 5%, it was
down 5%. So that probably helps a little bit. But you're right, it does have an easier comparison in
Q1. But as we kind of look at Product Inspection, this continues to be a one business in the
portfolio that's been the most negatively impacted by COVID and high case counts. And as
Olivier was describing earlier, these customers really are operationally distracted at the moment.
We do think that there is a really great opportunity for pent-up demand at some point that the
timing of course is just very difficult to predict at this point in time. But when we look at the
guidance, mid-single digit is kind of what we're looking at for Q1 and mid-single digit is kind of
what we're looking at for the full year.
Q - `Dan Arias, Analyst, Stifel `
Okay, very good. Thanks for the clarification there.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, No problem.
Q - `Dan Arias, Analyst, Stifel `
Olivier, on your point on new product launches. If I think back to the last time, you guys actually
held a site visit down in Tampa, which seems like a long time ago. We were focused on the PI
business obviously just given where we were, but you guys talked a lot about what you were
doing in terms of product development for biopharma. Do you feel like 2020 was a year where
you saw some traction there? Just given the things that you were doing or should we think about
2021 kind of being the year the 2020 could have been just given the pandemic related
headwinds and also the fact that it sounds like some of the launches this year are pointed in that
direction?
A - `Olivier A. Filliol, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, I don't want to overstate the impact of our product launches on the top-line. We often
talked, we -- our strategy is to continuously upgrade and launch new products and they add up,
but I would say from one year to an another, there is not that much different. Of course, the
products that we showed to you in Tampa and this where particular also products in the area of
auto-chem. And these products are going very well, very happy with the adoption rates and they
will also continue to contribute very well this year.
But they are made -- in all other categories being it process analytics, being in industrial, I talked
before about Lab balances and although a moment I talked in the analytical space about new
products. We had for UV rays, for example and so-on-so. This is at the whole portfolio that makesthe difference to keep the technology leadership, but it's a continued thing and again last year
also 2021, I wouldn't highlight a particular product that will make the big difference to the topline.
Q - `Dan Arias, Analyst, Stifel `
Okay, thanks very much.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Steve Beuchaw, Analyst, Wolfe Research with Wolfe Research.
Q - `Steve Beuchaw, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Hi, good afternoon. Thanks for bringing me on here. I wondered, if I could spend a little time just
trying to understand more deeply, Olivier, how it is, you think the operating environment evolves
around COVID over the balance of the year? Just to we have as much context as we can for your
planning assumptions. I do -- Sorry, I hate to try to put words in your mouth. But my sense is that,
you think that in the back half of the year, there will still be some amount of macroeconomic
pressure, maybe there is a lingering impact of the virus into the macro is a little tougher that's
part one.
Part two is, it also seems like you think that in the some of the life sciences categories, maybe
around pharma that you had some good tailwinds in that, that there is also maybe sort of taper
off in the back half of the year. I try want to make sure I'm understanding that correctly? Is that a
fair characterization?
A - `Olivier A. Filliol, Chief Executive Officer `
Hesitate here, just you're right, we are cautious about the macro environment for -- also for the
rest of the year. I don't think the macro environment will just immediately improve when the
lockdowns go away. I think there are too many drivers for our macroenvironment and until we
have not particularly forecasted here for an improved micro environment, we more or less
assume things remain about what they are today.
So I wouldn't say this is particular cautious, I think we just don't know. If all these industry
segments that are today down, will certainly recover. I would think that the momentum that we
see in the industry segments like in bio production, I don't think it goes necessarily away in the
second part of the year. I think that can be actually quite sustainable. Yes, we have modest
benefit from investments in vaccine production, but in terms of our share of our total revenue, it
remains very small. So if that would slow down that wouldn't necessarily have a big impact on us.
The investment in pharma production and particularly also bio production, I think has a long way
to go. So in essence, I feel like the grown macro-environment that we have could last for quite a
few more quarters, including the industry mix.
Q - `Steve Beuchaw, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
Okay. That was extremely helpful. Thank you for that perspective. I've got one more follow-up to
ask. Before I ask it, I know it's too soon to say goodbye to Olivier. But I am going to say hello to
Patrick. It's good to hear your voice again, after a little while. Thank you for being on the call here.
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer Designate `
Thanks, Steve.Q - `Steve Beuchaw, Analyst, Wolfe Research `
The question, I would leave with is sort of a follow-up to one that was asked earlier. There was a
question asked, which frankly, I would have like to asked you, about market share gains and the
success of what you've done in this operating environment, where some of your nimble
approaches really pay off in a unique way. I wonder if, maybe we could just assume in now, maybe
talk about it, particularly as it relates to service. Where your ability to get people in the field, in an
appropriate way of course and in the right place, it might be particularly helpful. Can you talk at all
about the extent to which you might see service attach rates or service relationships evolving
during the pandemic environment? And then, sorry, after some very long with the questions, I'll
get back in queue. Thank you.
A - `Olivier A. Filliol, Chief Executive Officer `
On the service side here, I would say this is more an operational topic very early on. And we were
extremely fast in making sure that we equip our service technicians with all the safety gears and
we were very early on made sure that our customers knew about that. And then we keep -- we
keep really operations going, you will recall what we -- when we talked about Q2. How we did
many good things to maintain production going and we're one of the first ones that we do
production also in China and simple things that we did also for the service technicians.
So we will really up and running and what we benefit -- continue to benefit from is, we do this Net
Promoter Score and we had a very nice jump in customer satisfaction in Q2 that we saw in our
NPS and it went on throughout the year. And I feel this get tribute to our -- really our service force,
how well they're performing. Having 3,000 people in the field here is powerful, then you need
also to know that for service, our biggest competition are local -- I would almost say, family-
owned companies and for these companies, it is much more difficult to operate in the current
COVID environment than for us, where we have a global organization and we have a lot of
professional support of the field force. That's one and the second one our efforts to migrate to
contract-based service was very beneficial so that protects a lot of our business.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Brandon Couillard, Analyst, Jefferies with Jefferies. `Brandon Couillard, Analyst, Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Q - Analyst
Thanks. Shawn, one for you, on the working capital front DSOs continue to trend lower. You talked
about applying some analytics and better productivity tools, which I think are new. I may be
wrong, but are you finding new ways to apply these in that area? And how much more room do
you think is left there?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, I know. Hey, thanks, Brendon. Thanks for the question. These are new tools and still kind of
happy to be able to respond to it. So like many other things in the company, I think it's just a really
good example of agility. So back in March, we really kind of launched into a variety of crisis
management initiatives around COVID. And then one of those initiatives of course was manage
for cash that's what we refer to it as internally. And so within that initiative, we challenged
ourselves to come up with some new analytics, but even more importantly to try to make the
connection between the analytics and the actions to be more efficient.So we literally are broadcasting today individual KPI charge that are highly actionable with -- like
top 10 list as well on a very daily basis to each finance organization go into the leader every single
day. And we found that, that in itself is become very actionable and it's allowed them to work with
their local management teams and really get people behind areas for improvement.
And so that's just one example, we've done a lot of other things in the manage for cash initiatives
during the course of the year. In terms of more legs, we'll see, I think we just had another good
milestone. But when I take a step back, I think the best way to look at it is that our free cash flow
conversion this year was over 100%. When we look at next year, we'll probably be right around
100% again. And so I think this is a level that -- I don't think it's going to get too much more than
100%, but I just think that flow through around 100%, it is a good range.
I'm comfortable looking at that for 2021 and I think as we go out, we'll kind of take it on a year-by-
year basis, but right now we feel really good about the cash flow conversion.
Q - `Brandon Couillard, Analyst, Jefferies `
Great, that's it for me. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Jack Meehan, Analyst, Nephron Research with Nephron Research.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Analyst, Nephron Research `
Thanks, good afternoon. First one for Shawn. I was just wondering, if you could walk us through
the different factors that led to the EPS guidance range raise for 2021 at this point? I think I caught
China pricing FX and tax rate, what did I miss?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, so. Hey, probably even bigger picture, Jack. So we have increased sales overall for the
Group. So that's not just China. That's just the overall the group, the next thing I would say is that,
we would have -- yeah, probably within that, yes, you have China being a little better, you Europe
being a little bit better, you have core industrial being a little bit better and you have Lab being a
little bit better.
And then we have the second thing would be our 2020b, you have a more favorable currency
environment. And then of course we have the reduced tax rate. And so when you add that all up,
I think that's how you bridge our guidance.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Analyst, Nephron Research `
Great, thanks for walking through that. And then just one on Food Retail. So saw a nice little
rebound in the second half of the year, but I was just wondering, if maybe that was some
deferred sales from earlier in the year and if your thoughts have changed all around the outlook
for 2021 there?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
No, we still look at food retail is a low-single digit business for 2021. The business always can be a
little bit lumpy. We're very much tied to customer projects and buying cycles. So I wouldn't
necessarily read anything particular into the fourth quarter results. Although I would say that weare looking at a more favorable outlook again in the first quarter and probably will start the year
more high-single digit there.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Analyst, Nephron Research `
Great, thanks, Shawn.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, welcome.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Dan Brennan, Analyst, UBS with UBS.
Q - `Dan Brennan, Analyst, UBS `
Great, thank you. Thanks for the questions. I was hoping just to dig in a little bit on Lab. I know
you've talked about a lot of the initiatives there, but it was a nice beat in the quarter. So I'm just
wondering, do you just flush out like how would you prioritize, what the biggest reasons were for
the upside? And for 2021, I think previously you were thinking mid-single, high single. Is that still
the case or it sounds like it's kind of ticked up a little bit? Maybe you can just kind of walk us
through a little bit of Lab drivers?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, hey. So hey, maybe I'll start with the last part of the question, Dan. So yes, so we're thinking
high single-digit for Lab for the full year for 2021 and then for Q1 we're looking at low teens in
terms of the results in Q4. We really felt good about the whole portfolio. I mean, of course, the
pipette business is of course continuing to do well. We probably had a little bit better in terms of
the COVID tailwinds in terms of what we were expecting.
But there was a -- but if I look at the other categories like process analytics had a great quarter
and we also did really well in our analytical instrument business as well as our laboratory balanced
business. So we feel like generally there is just really good momentum there globally good
market trends. Of course there is also pockets of challenge in other industries, but in particular
bio pharma is doing very well.
Q - `Dan Brennan, Analyst, UBS `
Great, thank you. And then just a second one, some Product Inspection, just given the delayed
spending cycle that's ongoing here like how much pent-up demand is there like -- can the food
manufacturers put this stuff off, is there going to be a big catch up? So how do we think about
Product Inspection that you talked about a nice recovery in the second half. But then kind of what
happens beyond that? Just any color on that would be helpful?
A - `Olivier A. Filliol, Chief Executive Officer `
That's probably quite difficult to quantify. But a little bit way to see you. We are now a few
quarters of decline. I would expect that we can catch up quite a bit of this. The big question will
be, how fast and is it going to be at the same time in US as in Europe or not. There might be also
differences by industry segments for example, the meat industry in the US has been very much
impacted by COVID. Certainly an area where there was very little investments or activities, so
hopefully that will come back not too far away that then -- to be seen.So internally, I would say we count on the second part of the year. We were just talking also today
with people from the industry. They were kind of hinting to us that the decision making might
really starts to ramp up again in Q3 at customers. So that would, yeah, support (inaudible). It
should go and then into next year. I would certainly hope that 2022 has also some good PI
quarter.
Q - `Dan Brennan, Analyst, UBS `
Great. Thanks, Olivier.
Operator
You your next question comes from the line of `Steve Willoughby, Analyst, Cleveland Research with Cleveland Research.
Q - `Steve Willoughby, Analyst, Cleveland Research `
Hi, everyone. All my questions -- most of my questions have been asked already, but I just
wanted to touch on one, as it relates to pipettes. I believe you have some new capacity coming
online this year for pipette. So I was just wondering, given the demand you're seeing these days,
where you stand today in terms of being able to meet the demand that you're seeing and any
comments on, if you're seeing sort of like backlogs or order books get extended. And what that
new capacity means for your Pipette business?
A - `Olivier A. Filliol, Chief Executive Officer `
So at this stage we cannot fully satisfy the demand. We have capacity issues, this is around tips,
so not on pipette but mainly on tips, the tips are used in COVID testing. We do expect that this is
something that we have a spike right now and we'll then flatten or go back. We do already
extraordinary efforts to increase the capacity, we have increased the capacity in Q4 and we'll
continue to increase here in Q1.
In the summer, indeed, we have an additional facility in Mexico -- a new facility in Mexico that will
go online. But it of course will also take a few weeks that we can fully leverage that -- that will
bring additional capacity. But most important is that, we can maximize capacity here in these days,
in this week's. It's commercially attractive, but of course it has also a relevant, it's our contribution
also to the health situation in the society. And so the teams are very motivated here to do the
utmost.
Q - `Steve Willoughby, Analyst, Cleveland Research `
Thanks very much.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of `Matt Sykes, Analyst, Goldman Sachs with Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Matt Sykes, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Thanks for taking my question, I'll be quick. I just have one, just on -- Olivier, you mentioned on
Stern Drive that you do the challenges that you face in 2020, you might not have gotten as much
out of the program as historically have. I'm just wondering, are there particular cost savings
projects that you have kind of lined up that we should expect some momentum in terms of cost
take-outs, as we move through 2021?A - `Olivier A. Filliol, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Stern Drive is about really dozens, if not even hundreds of projects. Actually last year I think
we were working on 300 projects. And just due to COVID, we had to put on hold or have some
delays on a part of this 300 projects, we will resume the full speed on them here in 2021. The
results in 2020 were still good and I feel also expect good contribution in 2021. But the programs
have proven to be very powerful, I'm extremely happy about Stern Drive and I wouldn't be
surprised if down the road sterndrive could have even a bigger impact.
And I certainly also see Patrick to be passionate about the topic. He had his first review meetings
around Stern Drive and came back in a very positive manner about it and he will certainly engage
on this and that will give the team and even more momentum. So you're going to continue to see
us talking about Stern Drive and having benefits from it.
Q - `Matt Sykes, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
All right, thanks. Very helpful.
Operator
And I'm showing no further questions. At this time, I would like to turn the call back over to the
company for any closing comments.
A - `Olivier A. Filliol, Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you. Hey, let me end this call with a simple thank you to you, analysts and shareholders
listening here on this call. Thank you for your support and commitment to Mettler-Toledo over the
many years. I have truly appreciated your engagement and (inaudible) you brought to our values
interactions during this time. While my focus over the next two months is successful hand over to
Patrick and still delivering a very strong Q1.
But I am also very happy to remain involved with Mettler-Toledo in the future, through my Board
role, as well as supporting Patrick on marketing and auto organization matters. I wish you all a very
successful 2021 and again, a big thank you and all the best to you. Bye-bye, everybody.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Bye-bye.
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. We thank you for your
participation, you may now disconnect.