Q4 2021 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Mettler-Toledo Quarterly Earnings
Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speaker
presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions). Please be
advised that today's conference is being recorded. (Operator Instructions).
I would now like to hand the conference over to our speaker today, Ms.Mary Finnegan. Please go
ahead.
`Mary T. Finnegan, Treasurer, Investor Relations `
Thank you, and good evening, everyone. I'm Mary Finnegan. I'm responsible for Investor Relations
at Mettler-Toledo and happy that you're joining us this evening. I'm joined on the call today with
`Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer, our CEO: and Shawn Vadala, our Chief Financial Officer. Let me cover just a
couple of financial administrative matters. This call is being webcast and is available on our
website. A copy of the press release and the presentation that we refer to on today's call is also
available on the website.
Let me summarize the safe harbor language, which is outlined on Page 2 of the presentation.
Statements in this presentation, which are not historical facts, constitute forward-looking
statements within the meaning of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 and the U.S. Securities Exchange
Act of 1934. These statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our
actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from those
expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. For a discussion of these risks and
uncertainties, please see the discussion in our recent Form 10-K and other reports filed with the
SEC from time to time.All of the forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors
discussed under the captions Factors Affecting Our Future Operating Results and in the business
and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and Results of Operations
sections of our filings. One other item. On today's call, we may use non-GAAP financial
information. More detailed information with respect to the use of and differences between the
non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable GAAP measures is provided in
the 8-K.
Let me now turn the call over to Patrick.
`Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Mary, and good evening, everyone. We had a great finish to 2021 with strong fourth
quarter results. It capitalized and robust customer demand and executed very well, particularly
with respect to our supply chain to meet customer demands. The strength and agility of the
teams around the world are reflected in these results.
The highlights of the quarter on Page 3 of the presentation. Local currency sales growth was 11%
and we have particularly strong growth in the Americas and Asia and rest of the world, both our
laboratory and industrial product lines performed very well. As expected, Food Retail was a
headwind to our overall sales growth as we again had a significant decline in the quarter. Despite
facing higher material and transportation costs due to challenges in the supply chain, we had very
solid growth in adjusted operating profit and strong growth in adjusted EPS in the quarter. The
fourth quarter was the end to an excellent year of results. For the full year, we achieved an 18%
increase in local currency sales and 26% increase in adjusted operating profit, which result in a
margin improvement of 130 basis points. We had adjusted -- we had outstanding 32% growth in
adjusted EPS.
And finally, cash flow generation in 2021 was excellent. We had only achieved great results. We
also strengthened our competitive position in 2021 is innovation nourished our excellent product
portfolio and comprehensive services offering combined with our Spinnaker sales and marketing
strategies, helped us capture growth opportunities. We also did a good job navigating the
hurdles in the global supply chain. Our agility and excellent execution further reinforced our
already strong brand. Importantly, our impressive results last year allowed us to make important
investments for future growth. We are confident in our ability to continue to gain share and
believe we are ideally positioned to deliver strong results in 2022 and beyond.
I will have some additional comments later, but let me turn it first to Shawn to cover the financial
results. Shawn?
`Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Patrick, good evening, everyone. Sales in the quarter were $1.037 billion, this represents
our first billion-dollar quarter, which was a nice way to end 2021. This represented a local currency
increase of 11%. On a U.S. dollar basis, sales also increased 11%. The PendoTECH acquisition
contributed approximately 1% to local currency sales growth in the quarter, while we estimate that
the impact of reduced volume of Pipette Tips in COVID testing was a headwind of approximately
1% to sales growth in the fourth quarter.
On slide number 4, we show sales growth by region. Local currency sales increased 16% in the
Americas, 4% in Europe, and 14% in Asia/Rest of the World. Local currency sales increased 12% in
China in the fourth quarter.The next slide shows sales growth by region for the full year 2021. Local currency sales grew 18%
in 2021 with a 20% increase in the Americas, 12% in Europe, and 21% growth in Asia/Rest of World.
Local currency sales increased 25% in China for the full year.
On slide number 6, we summarized local currency sales growth by product area. For the fourth
quarter, Laboratory sales increased 15%, Industrial increased 11%, with core Industrial up 11% and
product inspection up 10%. Food Retail declined 20% in the quarter.
The next slide shows local currency sales growth by product area for the full year 2021.
Laboratory sales increased 22%, Industrial increased 15%, with core Industrial up 18% and product
inspection up 10%. Food Retail declined 6% in 2021.
Let me now move to the rest of the P&L for the fourth quarter, which is summarized on slide
number 8. Gross margin in the quarter was 58.5%. We benefited from volume and pricing, which
was offset by challenges in the global supply chain, namely higher material and transportation
costs as well as the impact of temporary cost actions we undertook in 2020.
R&D amounted to $45.6 million in the quarter, which is a 14% increase in local currency over the
prior period. The impact of temporary cost savings undertaken last year and greater project
activity contributed to this increase. SG&A amounted to $242.4 million, an 8% increase in local
currency over the prior year. The impact of the temporary cost savings that we undertook last
year, higher variable compensation, and increased investments in sales and marketing were the
principal factors driving the increase.
Adjusted operating profit amounted to $319.1 million in the quarter, a 9% increase over the prior
year amount of $292.8 million. The increase reflects strong sales growth combined with good
execution. Adjusted operating margins were 30.8% and we're impacted by higher costs
associated with our global supply chain and transportation costs.
A couple of final comments on the P&L. Amortization amounted to $16.9 million in the quarter,
interest expense was $11.5 million in the quarter. Other income excluding one-time items in the
quarter amounted to $5.3 million, primarily reflecting non-service related pension income. We
reduced our effective tax rate from 19.5% to 19.0% in the quarter, this rate is before discrete
items and adjusting for the timing of stock option exercises in the quarter. We're pleased with this
reduction and expect to maintain the 19% rate in 2022. Fully diluted shares amounted to $23.2
million in the quarter, which is a 3% decline from the prior year.
Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $10.53, a 14% increase over the prior year amount of $9.26. On
a reported basis in the quarter, EPS was $9.94 as compared to $9.03 in the prior year. Reported
EPS in the quarter includes $0.21 of purchased intangible amortization and $0.09 of restructuring.
We also had two items impacting income taxes. We had $0.17 of cost due to the difference
between our quarterly and annual tax rate due to the timing of stock option exercises, and we
had a $0.14 benefit from adjusting our tax rate to 19% for the first three quarters. Finally, we had a
$0.26 acquisition charge primarily principally reflecting an increase for the PendoTECH acquisition
earnout due to their updated projections.
The next slide shows our P&L year-to-date. As Patrick mentioned, we have an exceptional year of
results in 2021 with local currency sales growth of 18% and adjusted operating profit increase of
26%, and our operating margins increasing 130 basis points to 28.5%.
Finally, adjusted EPS grew 32% to $34.01 in 2021. We're extremely pleased with these results and
our ability to capitalize on growth opportunities and navigate a challenging supply chain
environment. That covers the P&L and let me now comment on cash flow. In the quarter, adjustedfree cash flow amounted to $106.6 million, which was better than what we had expected and was
impacted by the timing of tax payments. The associate further improvement in the quarter with a
decline of 2-days to 35-days as compared to the prior year. ITO came in at 4.3 times flat with the
prior year.
For the full year adjusted free cash flow amounted to $821.9 million, an increase of 31% on a per
share basis as compared to the prior year. The strength of our cash flow is apparent in our net
income conversion, which reached 103% in 2021. Let me now turn to guidance, forecasting
remains challenging demanding our end markets is favorable although there are pockets of
uncertainty in the global economy, particularly in China. The challenges within the global supply
chain and in transportation and logistics and the corresponding inflationary impact also create
uncertainty.
Finally, we acknowledge that COVID is not behind us, and variance and lockdowns can occur
quickly. We recognize the importance of remaining agile and adapting to unexpected changes in
the environment. We remain cautious about factors outside of our control and remain focused on
our growth initiatives. We believe we can continue to gain market share and drive margin
improvement we are pricing and Stern Drive initiatives.
Now let me cover the specifics. For the full year 2022, we now expect local currency sales growth
to be approximately 7%, this compares to previous guidance of 6%. We expect full year adjusted
EPS to be in the range of $38.15 to $38.50, which is a growth rate of 12% to 13%, this compares to
previous guidance of adjusted EPS in the range of $37.25 to $37.65.
Some additional comments on 2022 guidance. We expect a slight headwind to sales growth from
the impact of COVID testing on our pipette business. We expect gross margins for the full year
to increase in the 30 to 40 basis point range, However, we expect to see improvement in gross
margins in the second half of the year, as we see further benefit in pricing and other margin
initiatives.
Interest expense is estimated at approximately $50 million and total amortization including
purchased intangible amortization to be $67 million. Purchased intangible amortization is excluded
from adjusted EPS and is estimated at $25 million on a pre-tax or $0.86 per share. Other income,
which is below operating profit is estimated at approximately $14 million. Finally, as I already
mentioned, we expect our effective annual tax rate before discrete items will be 19%.
Turning to the first quarter, based on market conditions today, we expect local currency sales
growth of approximately 10% and expect adjusted EPS to be in the range of $7.25 to $7.35 a
growth rate of 11% to 12%. A couple further comments a reminder that comparisons in the first
quarter are particularly challenging as adjusted EPS grew more than 60% in Q1 last year. We
would expect gross margins to be down in Q1 to the higher supply chain and transportation costs.
We'll provide more insight on our next call, but it is worth mentioning now as you update your
models that Q2 will have a very tough prior year comparison as local currency sales were up 27%
and adjusted EPS increased more than 50% in the second quarter of last year.
Some final details on guidance. With respect to the impact of currency and sales growth, we
expect currency to decrease sales growth by approximately 1% in 2022 and decrease it by 2% in
Q1. In terms of adjusted EPS, currency is a little worse than the last time we provided guidance.
We now expect currency will be a headwind to adjusted EPS growth of approximately 1% in 2022,
and a headwind of approximately 2% in the first quarter.
Let me comment on free cash flow. For the full year 2022, we estimate it will reach $855 million.compensation payments related to the very strong performance in 2021. In fact, we expect cash
flow in Q1 to be down versus the prior year. Once we get beyond 2022, we expect free cash flow
per share will grow in line with earnings per share and net income conversion will be in the 100%
range. We expect to repurchase approximately $1 billion in shares in 2022, which should allow us
to maintain a net debt-to-EBITDA leverage ratio of approximately 1.5x.
That is it from my side and I'll now turn it back to Patrick.
`Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Shawn. Let me start with some comments on our operating results. Our Lab business had
very strong growth in the quarter despite having great growth in the prior year, almost all product
lines showed robust growth. We will start a year with very good momentum in Lab in the first
quarter, while growth in the remaining quarters will be impacted by challenging multi-year
comparisons. If our excellent product portfolio and effective sales and marketing initiatives we
believe we are well-positioned to capture growth and continue to gain market share in our
Laboratory business.
Turning to our Industrial business. Core industrial did very well in the quarter and we'll have a
strong start to 2022. We are benefiting from our attractive product portfolio, very good
implementation of Spinnaker sales and marketing initiatives as well as increasing demand from
our customers for automation and digitalization. We will face tougher comparisons as the year
progresses, but expect to continue to gain share here as well. We are pleased with another
quarter of good growth in product inspection, which increased 10% in the quarter. We expect a
good start to the year and are optimistic that we will have good growth in 2022 as large
packaged food companies show more appetite for investments.
Finally, Food Retail declined 20% in the fourth quarter. We were impacted by shortages of
electronic components as well as timing of project activity. We expect low-double-digit decline in
the first quarter and overall do not expect much growth here in 2022.
Now let me make some additional comments by Geography. Sales in Europe increased 4% in the
fourth quarter, which was in line with our expectations, both Lab and Industrial had solid growth,
while Retail was down double-digits. We expect good growth in Europe to start the year and
overall solid growth for the full year 2022. America's had another quarter of very strong growth
with 16% increase. Lab had excellent growth while Industrial also did very well. Retail was down
significantly. America will also have a strong start to the year and then face more challenging
comparisons as the year progresses.
Finally, Asia/Rest of the World grew 14% in the fourth quarter with outstanding growth in
laboratory and product inspection, and very good growth in core Industrial. China grew 12% with
excellent growth in Lab. Yes, very strongly positioned in China and the team continues to execute
well. One final comment on the business, service and consumables performed really well and
dropped 10% in the quarter. We continue to be very pleased with the growth in this important and
profitable part of the business. That concludes my comments on the business.
While COVID is not yet behind us, we believe we will exit the pandemic root in a stronger
competitive position. Many factors have contributed to this including our excellent product
portfolio, extensive service offering, well-ingrained improvement, and proven sales and
marketing strategies, and an agile and experienced supply chain team. Another important factor
is about process and system harmonization program Blue Ocean, which is the foundation and
enabler of many of our corporate programs and initiatives. Blue Ocean is a multi-year programof our franchise, sales, service, supply chain, R&D, HR, and finance. With harmonized processes
and data, we can leverage a globally standardized single instance IT system that digitalize our
processes and provides data that increases our business transparency.
Let me provide some additional insight. Blue Ocean supports the framework for our Spinnaker
sales and marketing initiatives. Our CRM and install base provides extensive details on customers
and potential customers that we use in marketing campaigns, sales, project alerts, cross-selling
campaigns, and support for other data analytics techniques. It provides comprehensive data on
customers purchasing its activity. Blue Ocean is also the foundation for our pricing program, it
provides data analytics to guide us in our pricing decisions and also allows us to implement price
increases efficiently on a global basis.
Similarly, Blue Ocean harmonizes our services offering allowing us to provide standardized
services on a global basis. It also provides transparency in terms of field service productivity,
service profitability by customer, and highlights additional sales opportunities. Our supply chain is
highly complex as it involves more than 3,000 possible suppliers, 150,000 different SKUs more
than 800,000 components, 19 production organizations, and 3 logistic hubs. Blue ocean provides
us with the transparency and real-time data that is critical for navigating supply chain challenges,
agility and collaboration between our market organizations and business units allow us to
leverage our supply chain as a competitive advantage in helping us gaining share. Blue Ocean is
critical to the success of our Stern Drive program, as it provides the data and transparency to
continually make improvements to our back office and manufacturing productivity.
Finally, Blue Ocean is instrumental in providing meaningful real-time information that has become
particularly important during the last two years, given how quickly market conditions have been
changing. We develop specialized and tail of daily alerts allowing us to see firsthand the impact
on our business and allow us to make decisions quickly. We will continue to evolve Blue Ocean
and believe it has become a clear competitive advantage for us.
Before I conclude, I also want to make a brief comment on our ESG initiatives. We are committed
to sustainable development across the broad environmental, social, and governance aspects
covered by our long-standing GreenMT sustainability program. We believe it is our responsibility
to act in a manner that considers future generations. We have great accomplishments in ESG
including achieving carbon neutrality with respect to Scope 1 and 2 emissions and sourcing 100%
renewable electricity.
We focus on five key areas. One, environmental. Two, sustainable products and services. Three,
responsible supply chain. Four, engaged employees. And five, good corporate governance. Well,
we have an excellent track record in ESG. We have set ambitious targets for the future.
Importantly, we have recently committed to absolute emission reduction targets consistent with
the latest criteria issued by the science-based target initiative, this will cover Scope 1, 2, and 3
emissions. We have also set the target to reduce our waste intensity by 20% and achieve zero
waste to landfill by 2025.
To reinforce the importance of ESG, executive management compensation in 2022 will
incorporate specific environmental as well as diversity targets. I think both Blue Ocean and our
ESG goals are great examples on how Mettler-Toledo focuses on the long-term to enhance the
value of our franchise.
I want now like the operator to open the call for questions.
Questions And AnswersOperator
(Question And Answer)
(Operator Instructions) Your first question will come from Dan Arias with Stifel. Please proceed
with your question.
Q - `Eric Chung, Stifel `
Hi. This is Eric on for Dan. Thanks for taking the question. Just one on capital deployment. Could
you just discuss your plan for the year besides the $1 billion share buyback? Like, are you finding
any assets becoming more attractive given the recent market moves that might have you looking
for one that might be on a larger scale than the usual smaller tuck-in deals?
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Hey, maybe -- so I guess there's two parts to that question. So in terms of our M&A strategy,
I'll let Patrick kind of comment on that, but no change in our strategy. We still think we're a great
platform for bolt-on acquisitions. We also feel very strongly about our organic story. So we're very
selective in terms of the acquisitions. But if you look at like the PendoTECH acquisition, we did last
year, I think that's a really excellent example of the type of acquisition that we're looking for, and
PendoTECH of course has been a great addition to Mettler-Toledo.
In terms of capital deployment, we also feel good about our share repurchase program, the
program continues to be very successful from our perspective, and we target about 1.5 times net
leverage ratio. And right now, we're expecting to repurchase about $1 billion of shares in 2022.
And as a reminder, we do that on a very consistent basis throughout the year.
Q - `Eric Chung, Stifel `
Okay. And then could you just provide a rundown of the top line of functions by segment for the
first quarter and for the 2022 that baked into the improved guide?
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, sure. So hey, I'll start with the divisions. So I'll start with the lab division. Right now, our
guidance is low-double digit growth for Q1 and high-single digit growth for the full year. For core
industrial, we expect high-single digit growth in Q1 and mid-single digit growth for the full year. For
product inspection, we expect high-single digit growth for Q1 and high-single digit growth for the
full year. And for food retailing, we expect to be down double-digit in Q1 but grow low-single digit
for the full year.
And then I'll also give you the geographies. For Europe, we expect Q1 to be up mid-single digit to
high-single digit, and for the full year, to be up mid-single digit. For the Americas, we expect to
grow low-double digit in Q1 and grow mid-single digit to high-single digit full year. And then for
China, we expect to grow approximately 10% for Q1 and approximately 10% for the full year.
Q - `Eric Chung, Stifel `
Thank you so much.
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
You're welcome.Operator
Your next question will come from the line of Derik de Bruin with Bank of America. Please
proceed with your question.
Q - `Nisarg Shah, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hey. This is Nisarg on for Derek. Thanks for the question. So geographically -- two-parter on China
here. Are you seeing any impact in China specifically from lockdowns? And also trade tensions
are heating up with some touching the bioprocessing CDMO segment. Is there any concern that
the trade issues could slow demand for lab products?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Let me take that. Look, our business in China has been very strong. We have a very good strong
footprint in China. We have been there for 30 years. We serve many customers, broad base. Also
as a reminder, more than 40% of our business in China is industrial business. But to biopharma
and what we're seeing there is very healthy trends for us. We have overall not seen impacts from
lockdowns in the last quarter. And right now, this is what we're hearing from the team is they are
not concerned of any of the impact that you mentioned regarding biopharma right now.
Q - `Nisarg Shah, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. And then one more on the margins for the quarter. What were some of the -- can you go
more into detail on some of the pressures you saw? And how do you kind of expect them to
impact early on in 2022? Do you think there's going to be any carryover there?
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Hey. So I'll take that one. So hey, maybe I'll talk more broadly about the margin and then kind
of -- like then kind of talk about 2022 as well. So as we mentioned in the prepared remarks, our
gross margin was down 110 basis points in the quarter. On one hand, we had favorable price
realization. Our price realization was just over 3% in the quarter, which would translate to
approximately 140 basis point benefit to the margin. Of course, we also benefited from our
volume in the quarter. But the one thing that clearly stood out from our perspective was the
higher material costs as well as higher transportation costs in the quarter. And as we kind of like
look to Q1, we're expecting to see similar trends overall for gross margin with probably very
similar dynamics. Probably, that pricing will continue to be in that 3% kind of a range, but we'll still
continue to have like a bit of a headwind on material costs and transportation. So if we look at
gross margin for Q1, wouldn't be surprised if we're down another 100 basis points in Q1.
But we still remain very confident about our ability to expand the margin. And so as we look to
the full year, we still believe we can expand our gross margin by 30 to 40 basis points, and we
expect to still increase our operating margin overall at the higher end of our typical guidance. So
as a reminder, we typically would say, hey, we can expand margins on an annual basis 70 basis
points to 100 basis points. If you look at the midpoint of our guidance, we're towards the higher
end of the range of that probably about 90 basis points.
So when you break that down, we are expecting a little bit better pricing in 2022 than what we
previously expected. We were previously guiding to about 3% for next year. Right now, we're
thinking it will be probably 3.5% or so. And wouldn't be surprised if we get to the 4% kind of a
range in the second half of the year, because of course, we're going to continue to adjust and do
actions as we see appropriate, especially as we saw some of the pressures in the fourth quarteron our cost structure. But it's not only about pricing, of course, we're also going to be doing
some things in terms of optimizing our supply chain as we continue to look for opportunities, for
example, to re-engineer components or look for other sources in the supply chain.
Q - `Nisarg Shah, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question will come from Josh Waldman with Cleveland Research. Please proceed with
your question.
Q - `Joshua Waldman, Cleveland Research
Hi, thanks for taking my questions. Just a couple for you, Shawn or Patrick. I guess, from a demand
outlook perspective, could you talk through the product areas or the regions that improved
versus your plan 90 days ago that led you to pull your organic growth up this early in the year?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Maybe I'll start, Shawn, and let you chime in as well. So let me talk through the product categories.
I mean we see sustained demand, healthy demand in our lab business moving forward. So we --
and Shawn gave you the numbers in terms of the growth expectations. So lab, I would say, holds
up very strong, has been strong in Q4 already. We're also pleasantly surprised by the momentum
that we still see in industrial, driven by the demand for automation and digitalization, and our
product portfolio that we have there really serves the demand very well.
I think I mentioned in my comments also the fact that we're still seeing some healthy appetite in
product inspections from some of the packaged food companies out there. So overall, I would
say we're actually, on a broader front, across these categories that I just mentioned, really well --
nicely surprised that we see stronger demand than we anticipated when we gave you our last
guidance, and that's why we raised the guidance. But especially, I wouldn't point to any specific
end market here, not to any specific region. I would say, overall, we see better demand than we
expected.
Q - `Joshua Waldman, Cleveland Research
Got it. Then, Shawn, wondered if you could provide us a bridge to the updated earnings guide. I
mean it sounds like most of the increase was due to organic growth. I guess, is that correct? And
then if you could provide us kind of your assumptions for the low and the high end of the EPS
range as it relates to maybe organic growth and margin, that would be helpful.
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, hey. So I'd say, if you kind of bridge EPS, like you said, a lot of it has to do with higher sales
growth, increasing the sales growth. Of course, we also added in our beat for 2021, which
includes a lower tax rate at 19%, and that was offset a little bit by unfavorable currency.
Q - `Joshua Waldman, Cleveland Research
Could you provide the range or the assumptions that went into the range for the updated guide,
EPS guide?A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Hey, we typically don't get too much into like the specific assumptions for the low end and
the high end. I mean, we -- for the top line, for example, we said approximately 7%. So I don't
want to try to start deviating from is that 6 point this or 7 point that, or in the margins, a little bit
lower or a little bit higher. But you could probably flex your model and get a sense for what that
would translate in terms of an EPS range.
But you can appreciate, Josh. I mean there's a lot of ingredients into the recipe at this point in
time of the year, a lot of things can change as we get into the year, it's a very dynamic
environment. And so there's always going to be things that can be a little bit better but there's --
of course, there's things that can be a little bit worse.
Q - `Joshua Waldman, Cleveland Research
Sure. Appreciate it, guys.
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
You're welcome.
Operator
Your next question will come from Tyco Peterson with JP Morgan. Please proceed with your
question.
Q - `Rachel Vatnsdal, JP Morgan `
Hi, this is Rachel on for Tyco. Thanks for taking the questions, and congrats on the quarter, you
guys. So a few questions here on labs. So lab was better than expectations. You guys grew about
15% versus guidance of low-double digits for 4Q. So can you talk about if you saw any catch-up
spending on the lab side of things? And then were there any other underlying changes in that
market to drive the beat there?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `
No. Look, I wouldn't say there was catch-up or any pent-up demand. We saw -- we see really
strong demand for our products. We have a very strong product portfolio. I think it competes
extremely well. But now we also have been able to deliver to our end customers and that came
to some extent, at some cost, as Shawn also mentioned, that drives -- that has a little bit of
impact on our gross margin, because we do broker buys for chips, et cetera. Big components,
more expensive.
But it's very important for us to really make sure that we can deliver our product to our
customers. Overall, I think we see very strong demand for our products, and it's reflected in
those numbers. There is not a specific market segment that I would point to. Pharma --
biopharma, as we said, is very strong for us for lab. But it is also -- of course, deployed in other
segments, like even battery segment. Or if you look at the broader chemical segment, of course,
all of the labs buy products from us. And there is healthy amount from these end markets. None
of them really specifically that sticks out in terms of change versus what we had guided to
regarding Q4.
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `Yes. And you can see that strong momentum is also reflected in our Q1 guidance of low-double
digit for lab.
Q - `Rachel Vatnsdal, JP Morgan `
Yes. Helpful. And then maybe going off that for the segment guidance. So appreciate the
comments around the expectations by geography as well. So it looks like you have an improved
outlook in Europe and Americas for the year. So can you just talk about what's driving your
confidence in those regions? Is it specific segments that's driving it? Or kind of what drove the
increase there?
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So yes, so the Americas, yes, was up a little bit. I mean we just continue to -- I mean you saw
what we did in the fourth quarter in the Americas as well. I mean it's just really -- not to overuse
the word, but really good momentum. Very broad-based growth in the portfolio, and that was
despite our food retailing business being down in the quarter.
I would say our industrial business is -- our lab business is doing very well, but our industrial
business continues to be really resilient and performing well. And as Patrick was saying earlier, we
very much are benefiting from a lot of these trends towards automation and digitalization. I mean
there's just a huge demand in the world to be more productive, and we're just very fortunate to
be in a position to be able to help serve that demand. And the teams have done such a great job
in this division.
There's a lot of good innovation. There's also really good execution. And as we've been trying to
also pivot the business towards the more attractive market segments over the years, we
continue to see that paying a lot of dividends. And then also, as Patrick mentioned, there are
these hot segments in the world, both on the lab side and in the industrial side that we also have
been good at in terms of capturing growth.
Q - `Rachel Vatnsdal, JP Morgan `
Great. That's it for me. Thank you.
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question will come from Jason Reverb [ph] with Citi. Please proceed with your question.
Q - Analyst
Hey, there. You got Jason on for Patrick. Congrats on the quarter. Two quick questions for you.
One, you've seen strength in the industrial market. Just curious about the visibility into that
strength into '22. And then two, just wondering on how PendoTECH is performing relative to
expectations? And any further color to shed there? Thanks.
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, I'll take it. Good questions on industrial. I think it is -- as we look into 2022, of course, we will
face tougher comparisons, as I said, as we're going deeper into 2022 towards the second half,automation and for digitalization. Shawn mentioned that as well. That's the really fundamental
driver we have, an outstanding performance platform there, on the product side to serve those
demands.
And we are confident that also the new products that we launched this year like the Industry 360
terminal really addresses these demands nicely. And we think it will continue into 2022. Of course,
given that we will have tougher comparisons, you will not see the same growth rates in the
second half. But we are competing extremely well there.
On your comment regarding PendoTECH, we are very pleased with that acquisition. Actually, it
outperformed our expectations in 2021, and we see continued strong demand as we go into
2022 for the products.
Q - Analyst
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question will come from the line of `Jack Meehan, Nephron Research with Nephron Research. Please
proceed with your question.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Nephron Research `
Thanks, and good afternoon. I had another question on industrial, but was hoping you could
weigh in. We're seeing higher commodity prices, along with the talk around inflation. I was curious,
just from a demand perspective, if you saw that playing out in terms of any of the industrial
customers for your coverage for your -- just amongst your customer base on the industrial side.
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
No -- hey, Jack, this is Shawn. No, we're not seeing that impact at any of our customer demand at
all. Interesting comment, but no, we're not seeing it from a customer side.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Nephron Research `
Interesting. Okay. And then back on product inspection. So the guide for the first quarter, high
singles. The headline looks good. I have that compounding though, still kind of in the low-single
digits given the comps. Just be curious just to get a little bit more color as you're talking with your
customers when you think just the timing for when some of the renewed spend could be going
into CapEx.
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
I'm sorry, Jack -- go ahead, Patrick, yes.
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Okay, Shawn, I'll take it. Okay. Good. Look, we are really happy with the result of product
inspection in Q4, also with the full year results. We are clearly a leader in product inspections. We
have the products -- broadest product range and also the largest services network.
Our outlook for 2022 is good, and we are assuming that we'll see more investment from large
food manufacturing. So there is some pent-up demand. And that's why we also guided todouble-digit growth in the first quarter, and we expect this segment for us to perform really,
really well.
But also as a reminder, to understand, food manufacturers represent only about 70% of our
product inspection business. And these customers have been impacted by COVID. Remember,
last year, we talked about the fact that it was also difficult for our service people to get in some
of these accounts and deliver services. That is coming back -- has come nicely back. So we will
also see better service growth than we had last year in this segment as well.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Nephron Research `
That's helpful. Thank you, Patrick.
Operator
Your next question will come from the line of Matt Sykes with Goldman Sachs. Please proceed
with your question.
Q - `Matthew Sykes, Goldman Sachs `
Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. Appreciate it. Maybe, Patrick, just a high-level one for you. As
you think about the supply chain, and you've been dealing with a lot of challenges there. It sounds
like you've been making a number of investments in Blue Ocean and other areas to try to
improve that. And I'm sure this environment has probably led you to see a number of pressure
points that you might be able to alleviate with spend. But I guess my question is, if we do come
out of it and supply chain does start to loosen up, do you feel like the investments that you've
made so far will lead to greater efficiencies and productivity and maybe acceleration of margin
expansion if we get out of this because of what you've already put into the business to make it
better?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Well, look, a very good question, Matt. Thanks. I mean, we continuously invest in Blue Ocean since
many, many years, right? And we move -- right now, about 85% of the overall business is on Blue
Ocean. So we still have a couple of rolling to do, but we're making good progress there.
Definitely, the investments we're doing are all targeting productivity enhancements across the
board. So we will continue to benefit from those. Whether it will be an acceleration of margin
improvement, I don't think so. I mean we have a history. We have made all these good
improvements in margin expansion, so I wouldn't put that into consideration we move forward.
We will make -- we will continue to make improvements. But I think we will not see an acceleration
just by the fact that we do these investments in Blue Ocean. We have done this in the past. We're
making great progress. We are absolutely convinced it is a competitive advantage for us, and it
will continue to drive improvement but not accelerate it.
Q - `Matthew Sykes, Goldman Sachs `
Got it. And then maybe, Shawn, you had mentioned in your prepared remarks some uncertainty
around China, which I think is pretty apparent. So you're looking for sort of 10% growth for the
year. Anything that you're concerned about regarding China, underlying that kind of uncertainty
comment? Or is it sort of COVID-related, lockdown related type issues?
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `Yes. I mean, we're not seeing anything specific in our business, Matt, but it's just that general
knowledge that everyone has about like there's just a lot of things going on there. I mean it could
be -- like you said, it could be COVID, it could be lockdowns, the way that they handle COVID with
their zero-tolerance policy could have implications on the business or in the local economy. PMIs
have been floating right around 50 on and off. But there's always uncertainty there.
And then there's always -- and we always say things can change quickly there, right? They can
they can go in either direction very quickly, and that's always been our history there. So I think for
us, it's always important to remind people that when we give guidance, to provide that type of
caution so that people understand those risks.
But when we look at China and we look to the medium and the long-term, I mean we're very
favorable. I mean, we continue to feel very good about the growth. We continue to feel very
good about our business. We feel like a lot of the government's focus with their five-year plan in
terms of life sciences and health and safety, a lot of the emerging industries that they're heavily
investing in, they all play very well to our portfolio. And then this general theme of automation
and digitalization also is a big theme in China as well.
And so -- and as they continue to expand the economic development to the West, I mean, we'll --
our industrial business will also benefit. So we continue to feel very strongly about it. But in the
short-term, there can always be volatility.
Q - `Matthew Sykes, Goldman Sachs `
Understood. Thanks. Very helpful.
Operator
Your next question will come from `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI with Evercore ISI.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI `
Congrats on a nice print [ph] here, and thanks for taking my question. I guess one on the Q itself.
The gross margins here are sequentially flattish. Historically, you guys have had a very strong Q4
gross margins. So I'm curious, was there any timing element here in Q4? Or what happened to
gross margins?
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
No -- hey, Vijay, this is Shawn. No. I mean, just basically, we just saw the cost inputs increase much
faster than what we expected. And it was kind of broad-based in a lot of different cost
categories, but I'd probably highlight electronic components as an area that was much higher
than the others. And also transportation costs came in higher than expected, which was a little bit
of a surprise if you just think about like it's not a new topic, and we were already facing cost
headwinds in terms of transportation going back to Q4 of last year.
But like we always say, like, I think the key in this environment is to make sure that we have the
systems in place to be able to monitor these changes so that we can react quickly. And I think you
can -- and that's what we're doing. We're highly focused on it as an organization. We're going to
see some similar trends in Q1. But I think as you kind of look to the full year, we certainly still feel
good about our ability to expand margins.
And as I said earlier before, we still believe we'll expand our gross margin for the full year of 30
to 40 basis points. And then from an operating margin perspective, we expect to be at the highend of our typical guidance, probably around 90 basis points at the midpoint of the guidance.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI `
That's helpful, Shawn. And maybe one for Patrick here. The Q1 guidance here. The comps are
really tough. I'm just curious, given the lockdowns here in China, what visibility do you have into
those numbers? Or what is driving this Q1 strength? And the guidance raise for the year by 100
basis points, how much of that was pricing versus volume, if you will?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. So I mean it's -- look, our confidence in Q1 is driven by demand we are seeing. As we said,
we are not dramatically impacted by any lockdowns in China right now. There is, of course, a little
bit uncertainty moving forward. It might have some impact. But we are pretty confident that -- on
the 10% that we have given you for Q1.
We see the demand. We see the regions performing, not only Asia Pacific and not only China, it's
also the U.S. and Europe is performing as we expect. And that gives us confidence that we will
have a solid -- really solid Q1.
In terms of the other questions, it's a little bit of both. There's a little bit of volume, and it's, of
course, a little bit of pricing. I mean we don't want to quantify that perfectly. Shawn already made
comments on pricing, but it's a component of both. We have volume increase and we have some
pricing impact as well.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI `
Got it. Thank you, guys.
Operator
Your next question will come from the line of `Brandon Couillard, Jefferies & Company with Jefferies. Please proceed
with your question.
Q - `Brandon Couillard, Jefferies & Company `
Hey, thanks. Good afternoon. Just a couple for you, Shawn. In terms of pricing for the year, should
we think about that as being fairly similar between lab and industrial? Or is it more weighted
towards one segment or the other? And secondly, in terms of the gross margin outlook, is your
expectation that kind of the material and transport headwinds fade by the second half? Or is that
still a drag on the gross margin line?
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Hey, good question, Brandon. So in terms of pricing, probably slightly better on the lab side
than on the industrial side and if I just think about the portfolio. But, of course, we'll -- I think we'll
have good price increases in both divisions.
In terms of material cost, I think we'll certainly see a drag probably through -- certainly in the first
half of the year. I'd like to think by the time we get to Q4, we're not going to see a drag. And so
hopefully, there's a little bit of benefit by the time we get to the fourth quarter. But I wouldn't
count on too much right now until we see things play out.
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `And it's true for both. That's true for material but also transportation. We don't think that will ease
up before the second half.
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes.
Q - `Brandon Couillard, Jefferies & Company `
Got you. That's helpful. And then just one follow-up on China in the fourth quarter. Could you
break out the lab versus industrial businesses for the fourth quarter and kind of what you're
assuming for both the segments for '22 just within China?
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, sure. So our lab business in the fourth quarter grew in both high-20s. And then our industrial
business in the quarter grew mid-single digit. And kind of for the full year, we're expecting lab to
be probably like low-double digit. And then with industrial, probably like mid-single digit.
Q - `Brandon Couillard, Jefferies & Company `
Okay. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question will come from the line of `Catherine Schulte, Baird with Baird. Please proceed with
your question.
Q - `Catherine Schulte, Baird `
Hi. Thanks for the questions. I guess, first, you mentioned consumables and services were up 10%
in the quarter. How sustainable do you think that growth is going forward? And what's your
expectation from those categories in 2022?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Very good question, Catherine. Thank you. I mean, look, I think we have very good potential
in consumables and services. In services, of course, we're also going after our installed base and
making sure that those customers who do not have their products on the contract also switch to
contract because it just gives them a more reliable service pattern overall in terms of early
maintenance, et cetera.
The 10% we have seen was definitely very strong in Q4. I would say, we -- my expectation for
service is it maintains in the high-single digit range for 2022. It's a very profitable business for us,
and we are putting a lot of emphasis on making sure that our customers understand the benefit
of our services, and we're broadening the service offering over time. So I think this has quite
some runway.
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Hey, Catherine. Maybe one additional comment on the consumables is, of course, we won't
have the benefit of the COVID testing that we've had in the past. So that could be a little bit of a
headwind.
Q - `Catherine Schulte, Baird `Yes. Okay. Got it. And then in pharma and some other industries, we've seen a bigger push for
onshoring and creating redundancy in supply chains as COVID has played out. Where do you think
we are in terms of that phenomenon and capacity buildout? I'm just curious how much longer you
think that could continue to be a tailwind for the market.
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `
I think -- well, I think it will probably continue as it played out in 2021 and 2020 into probably the
next one or two years. And that's what we are seeing, at least from some of the accounts that
we are closely monitoring. And I think it's not only pharma. By the way, we see also some very
good momentum in semiconductor where the big facilities coming up now in the United States,
where a lot of core facilities are coming back to the United States, which is also a very good
business for us. So I think that, again, that will continue from our perspective, at least through
2022 or maybe also 2023. It's definitely some good tailwind for the overall market.
Q - `Catherine Schulte, Baird `
Great. Thank you.
Operator
Your next question will come from `Lu Li, Wells Fargo with Wells Fargo. Please proceed with your question.
Q - `Lu Li, Wells Fargo `
Thanks for taking my questions. Just want to follow-up on the pricing. I think you mentioned 3.5%
or even close to 4% for this year. Do you hear any pushback from customer? And then does that
impact your ability to further increase the pricing for next year?
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Hey. So just to clarify, so I said we -- our guidance previously was 3%, and we're kind of like
thinking it's about 3.5% or so for the full year, but we wouldn't be surprised if we're in the 4% kind
of a range in the second half of the year. We continue to feel good about our ability to pass on
price when we need to, when we face these inflationary challenges. And I think we'll continue to
do that as market conditions change.
Q - `Lu Li, Wells Fargo `
Got it. Another question on the 7% growth guidance. Does that change your long-term growth
outlook? Like, should we think about like 7% going forward?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Very good question. Maybe I'll start with some backdrop. We believe we have strengthened our
competitive position throughout the pandemic and tend to believe that we are coming out of
COVID stronger.
We have a very strong foundation across many businesses. We have market-leading positions.
We have an excellent product portfolio and a global service network. I think we are able to adapt
our sales and marketing tools and techniques to the new environment. And as a result, we
continue to gain share, as we mentioned many times, despite a challenge in these environments.
Our markets nicely rebounded in 2021 and have worked very effectively to capitalize on this
growth.Now looking forward, I still think you should think about us as a mid-single digit growth on an
organic basis in the mid-term. That's about the dimension that we also think about it. It, of course,
will depend on how the underlying market performs. If it goes back to where it has been pre-
pandemic, I think that's the right range we are thinking right now. Of course, if there is
momentum in the market, we will -- again, our goal is to grow above our underlying market. But I
would like you to think still in mid-single digits.
Q - `Lu Li, Wells Fargo `
Got it. That's very helpful. Thank you.
Operator
At this time, there are no further questions in queue. I would now like to turn the call back over to
Mary Finnegan for any closing remarks.
A - `Mary T. Finnegan, Treasurer, Investor Relations `
Thank you. And I just have two additional comments before I let you go for the night. First, we
anticipate holding an investor meeting at our facility in Boston on Monday, November 7. We'll
come back to you with more details in the coming months, but wanted to mention it to you now
as you plan your calendars for this year.
Second, we are happy to announce that Adam Uhlman has recently joined our Investor Relations
team. He was formerly a senior equity research analyst at the Cleveland Research Company.
Adam will take over the lead in Investor Relations later this year as I will retire towards the end of
2022. It's great to have Adam on board, and I look for -- please join me in welcoming him and I
look forward to introducing him to you in due time. For the time being, please continue to direct
your Investor Relations matters to me. As always, if you have any questions, please don't hesitate
to reach out. Take care, everybody. Bye-bye.
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Bye-bye.
Operator
This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.