Q4 2022 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning. My name is Audra and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I
would like to welcome everyone to the Mettler-Toledo Fourth Quarter 2022 Earnings Call. Today's
conference is being recorded. All lines have been placed on-mute to prevent any background
noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator
Instructions).
At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to `Adam Uhlman, Head of Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
`Adam Uhlman, Head of Investor Relations `
Yeah, thanks, Audra. And good morning everyone. I'm happy to welcome you all to this call. I'm
joined with `Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Executive Officer; and Shawn Vadala, our Chief Financial
Officer. Let me cover some administrative matters first. This call is being webcast and is available
for replay on our website at mt.com. A copy of the press release and the presentation that we
will refer to on today's call, is also available on our website.
This call will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the US Securities Act of
1933 and the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements involve risks, uncertainties
and other factors that may cause our actual results, financial condition, performance and
achievements to be materially different than what is expressed or implied by any forward-looking
statements. For discussion of these risks and uncertainties, please see our recent Annual Report
on Form 10-K and quarterly and current reports filed with the SEC. The Company disclaims any
obligation or undertaking to provide any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements
except as required by law.On today's call, we may use non-GAAP financial measures, a reconciliation of these non-GAAP
financial measures to the most directly-comparable GAAP measure, is provided in the 8-K and is
available on our website.
Let me now turn the call over to Patrick.
`Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Adam and good morning everyone. We appreciate you joining our call that we're doing
from Switzerland. 2022 was another year for our Company's unique strength and culture of
execution led to strong performance and success in overcoming significant external challenges.
Our team's resilience and agility to quickly react and adapt to the changing environment allowed
us to meet customer demand, gain market-share and deliver robust financial results.
We also finished the year with excellent sales growth in the fourth quarter and benefited from
very good broad-based growth across geographic regions and product categories. The highlights
of the fourth quarter performance are detailed on Page 3 of the presentation. Local-currency
sales in the quarter increased 9% as compared to the prior year with broad-based growth across
all regions and most of our product portfolio. Strong sales growth, combined with benefits from
our margin initiatives and good cost-control contributed to excellent growth in adjusted operating
profit and adjusted EPS, offsetting very significant currency headwinds.
As we look ahead to this year, we expect continued uncertainty regarding the global economy
and face challenging multi-year sales growth comparisons. I'm confident that the diligent
execution of our growth and productivity initiatives, will again position us very well to gain market-
share and deliver solid financial results.
Later, I will have some additional comments on our business, but let me now turn it to Shawn to
cover financials and the guidance.
`Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Patrick, and good morning everyone. Sales in the quarter were $1.058 billion, which
represented a local-currency increase of 9%. On a US dollars basis, sales increased 2% as
currency reduced sales growth by 7%. We estimate that the impact of not shipping to Russia was
a headwind of about 1% to sales growth.
On Slide number 4, we show sales growth by region. We had broad-based sales growth in Q4 as
local-currency sales increased 8% in the Americas, 9% in Europe and 9% in Asia rest of the world.
Local-currency sales increased 11% in China in the quarter. Excluding Russia, our sales in Europe
grew 13%.
On Slide number 5, we show sales growth by region for the full-year 2022. Local-currency sales
grew 11% for the year with 12% growth in the Americas, 6% in Europe and 13% in Asia rest of the
World. Local-currency sales increased 14% in China in 2022. Excluding Russia, our sales in Europe
grew 9% for the full year.
On Slide number 6, we summarized local-currency sales growth by-product area. For the quarter,
laboratory sales increased 10%, Industrial increased 6% with Core Industrial up 5% and Product
Inspection up 9%. Food Retail grew 12% in the quarter. The next slide shows local-currency sales
growth by-product area for the full-year. Laboratory sales increased 12% Industrial increased 9%
including 10% growth in Core Industrial and 7% growth in Product Inspection. Food Retail grew 1%
in 2022.Let me now move to the rest of the P&L, which is summarized on Slide number 8. For the fourth
quarter, gross margin was 59.8%, an increase of 130 basis points. We benefited from favorable
pricing and volume growth, which was offset in-part by higher cost. R&D amounted to $45.9
million in the quarter, which is a 7% increase in local-currency over the prior period, reflecting
increased project activity.
SG&A amounted to $227.6 million, a 1% decrease in local-currency over the prior year and
included lower variable compensation related to our strong prior year results. Adjusted operating
profit amounted to $358.6 million in the quarter, a 12% increase. Currency reduced operating
profit growth by approximately 9%. Adjusted operating margin was 33.9%, which represents an
increase of 310 basis points over the prior year.
A couple, final comments on the P&L. Amortization amounted to $16.5 million in the quarter.
Interest expense was $16.8 million in the quarter. Other income in the quarter amounted to $1.5
million, primarily reflecting non-service-related pension income. We reduced our effective tax-rate
from 19% to 18.5% in the quarter. This rate is before discrete items and adjusting for the timing of
stock option exercises in the quarter. We are pleased with this reduction and expect to maintain a
18.5% rate in 2023.
Fully-diluted shares amounted to 22.4 million in the quarter, which is a 3.5% decline from the prior
year. Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $12.10, a 15% increase over the prior year or a 24%
increase excluding unfavorable foreign currency. On a reported basis in the quarter, EPS was
$11.86 as compared to $9.94 in the prior year. Reported EPS in the quarter includes $0.21 of
purchased intangible amortization and $0.07 of restructuring and other costs.
We also had two items impacting reported income taxes this quarter. We had a $0.20 headwind
due to the difference between our quarterly and annual tax-rate due to the timing of stock option
exercises, and we also had a $0.16 benefit from adjusting our tax-rate to 18.5% for the first three
quarters of the year.
The next slide summarizes our full-year 2022 financial results, which we're very proud of
considering the unexpected challenges our team faced over the last year. Local-currency sales
grew 11% for the year. Adjusted operating income increased 13% or 18% excluding unfavorable
foreign currency and our operating margin expanded 190 basis points. Adjusted EPS grew 17% for
the full-year or 23% excluding unfavorable currency.
That covers the P&L and let me now comment on cash flow. In the quarter, adjusted free cash
flow amounted to $272.9 million DSO was 37 days while ITO was 3.6 times.
Let me now turn to guidance. To start-off, forecasting remains challenging in market conditions
remain dynamic. We're basing our guidance for the first quarter and the full-year assuming
market conditions remain as they are today. While some factors impacting our outlook have
improved like foreign-exchange rates, we still face uncertainty including the risk of recession in
certain countries. We also face difficult multi-year sales growth comparisons.
Regardless, we remain focused on the factors we can control and believe our unique sales and
marketing strategies and innovative product portfolio will support market-share gains and
profitable growth this year. For the full-year 2023, we have left our local-currency sales growth
guidance of approximately 5% unchanged. We expect full-year adjusted EPS to be in the range of
$43.55 to $43.95, representing a growth rate of about 10% to 11% or approximately 11% to 12%
excluding unfavorable foreign currency.This compares to our previous guidance of adjusted EPS in the range of $42 to $42.40 and
reflects the impact of three items. First, foreign-exchange based on today's rates is expected to
be a 1% headwind to profit growth down from our previous guidance of a 4.5% headwind due to
the strengthening of the renminbi among other currencies.
Secondly, we now expect our effective tax-rate for 2023 to be approximately 18.5%, down slightly
from our prior estimate in a modest benefit to EPS. Lastly, somewhat offsetting these benefits to
adjusted EPS, is an increase in interest rates and related interest expense, as well as a decrease
in forecast pension income. Specifically, we now expect interest expense to be approximately $78
million, other income, which is below operating profit and largely reflects non-service pension
income is forecast to be approximately $1million.
Total amortization including purchased intangible amortization is forecast to be $73 million.
Purchased intangible amortization is excluded from adjusted EPS and is estimated at $27 million
on a pretax basis or $0.97 per share. Now let's turn to cash-flow. For 2023, we continue to expect
free cash-flow in the range of $900 million and we still expect to repurchase approximately
(inaudible) billion of our shares this year. This would be -- this would allow us to maintain a net-
debt EBITDA ratio of approximately 1.5 times.
That's it from my side, and I'll now turn it back to Patrick.
`Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Shawn. Let me start with some comments on our operating businesses, starting with Lab,
which had strong sales growth in the quarter with strong growth across most of our product
portfolio, especially in the Analytical Instruments and Process Analytics, while our pipette business
was down due to a decline in pipette tips. Overall, we continue to see growth with pharma and
biopharma customers as well as the faster-growing segments such as the lithium batteries and
others and expect favorable results in 2023.
Turning now to the Industrial business. Core Industrial had solid growth in each region and
continues to benefit from market trends towards automation and digitalization. Our outlook for
this year is positive, although I'd note this business is not immune to potential changes in the
economy and will require us to remain agile to identify and target growth opportunities.
Product Inspection sales was stronger than expected this quarter with very strong sales in the
Americas. Europe had modest growth as we saw better customer activity compared to the last
quarter. Overall, we expect to have a positive start in 2023 in Product Inspection with good
growth in the Americas, however, we remain cautious in Europe with softer conditions in
packaged fruits. Finally, Food Retail delivered very strong growth with project activities in the
Americas and Europe, offset in-part by a significant sales decline in China due to disruptions from
the pandemic.
Now, let me make some additional comments by geography. Sales in Europe increased 9% in the
quarter, better than we had expected and inclusive of a 4% had been from stopping our
shipments to Russia. We saw good growth across most product categories in Europe, particularly
in Process Analytics and Retail. So potential energy crisis and related impact on customer demand
has also been better than expected, but we, of course, still need to get through the rest of the
winter. Sales in the Americas was again strong with especially good growth across Product
Inspection and Food Retail. And finally, Asia and the Rest of the World had another quarter of
good growth led by our Lab business, China grew 11% with a particular strong growth in Lab.Switching now to our Service business, we continue to see excellent momentum and service
sales grew 11% in the quarter and 12% for the year. Service remains an important contributor to
our profits and a key advantage versus our competition. Also, customers that use our service are
more likely to buy instruments from us again in the future.
Given the importance of our service business, I'd like to share with you more details on our
strategy and initiatives. To start off, as a reminder, Service represents 20% of our revenues and is
a key part of our solution offering. Our service offering is comprehensive and includes installation,
qualification, calibration, preventive maintenance, spare parts and repair services. Over 50% of
our service revenues represent service contracts that support our customers' ability to maintain
uptime, improve productivity and comply with regulatory requirements.
An important piece of our business is calibration services and our comprehensive and audit-proof
electronic calibration certificates are fully traceable and available on demand from a secure
database. This makes it very easy for our customers to comply with regulatory requirements.
We've very strong competitive advantages with our Service business and excellent opportunities
to accelerate our growth. We believe, we have the largest installed-base of weighing instruments
in the world and the largest service network across our direct competitors with over 3,000
service technicians around the world.
We have a standard global service offering with dedicated service sales experts. This global
coverage is increasingly important as customers look for consistent service around the world. Our
ability to serve customers during the pandemic has proven to be a strong competitive advantage
and our service offering was especially important to customers in regulated environments. The
introduction of new service levels, 24x7 support and remote diagnostics helped -- have been
helpful in supporting customers.
We're, seeing continued improvement in our net promoter scores in recent years and throughout
2022, which measures customer satisfaction after a service event. We're focused on accelerating
our service growth given these competitive advantages and strong customer satisfaction. And
over the medium-term, we would expect our service sales to outpace our product sales. To
achieve this, there are two important elements of our growth strategy besides continuously
upgrading our offering; penetrating our large installed-base of instruments and selling service
contracts at the point of product sales.
Starting first with penetrating our installed-base. We have a large installed base of instruments we
have sold over many years, the majority of which not service by us today. To further penetrate
installed-base, we use the same concept and similar approaches with advanced big data analytics
to be used when selling products, but with more specific data about history, needs, current
penetration and potential of a customer.
Our service telesales teams can leverage this data to run marketing campaigns based on the
age, warranty, services history, and projected service in the walls of our instruments to generate a
service lead when an instrument is most likely to require service. Additionally, we use
sophisticated data analytics for sales force guidance to identify carefully selected high-potential
accounts for our field service sales team.
Selling services contracts at the point-of-sales is another high-priority focus for us. Over the past
year, we revamped our sales trainings and product quoting process to automatically provide a
code for service contract at the point-of-sale. Productizing service has also been beneficial in
providing and communicating the value of a service contract to customer in an easy way.Providing service on the service contract is a win-win for us and the customer. It ensures high
reliability and accuracy of measurement for our customers and also help prevent costly failed
experiments, true production quality or unplanned downtime from devices that are not properly
maintained or calibrated. Our technicians are able to build deeper relationships with customers
and become trusted advisors. Service contracts are also a benefit for our service team as they
are able to more efficiently schedule service calls, weeks in advance, leveraging our territory and
route planning analytics to optimize the productivity of the team.
Additionally, customer satisfaction is higher for customers with service contracts and as I said,
those customers are more likely to purchase our instruments again. Overall, I feel very good with
our service growth strategies that they will position us well to grow this very important and very
profitable portion of our business over the coming years.
As we look-ahead through 2023, we expect to face continued uncertainty in the global economy
and challenging multi-year sales growth comparisons. Our ability to demonstrate resilience and
agility during difficult times, is an important signature of our cultural. I'm confident, we will all -- we
will be able to react quickly to the new challenges and opportunities that arise, so we can
continue to gain share and deliver solid results.
Now that concludes our prepared remarks. And I now want to open the call for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Operator Instructions) We'll take our first question from Josh Waldman at Cleveland Research.
Q - `Joshua Waldman, Analyst, Cleveland Research
Thanks for taking my questions. I have one for Patrick and one for Shawn, if I may. Patrick, you
(inaudible) solidly above the low-to mid-single target for the fourth quarter. Just curious, any other
color you can provide on what drove the upside, how durable do you think this is? Do you think it
was something Mettler is doing different or just a stronger market outlook?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, look, we are very proud of fourth quarter results, of course. The team performed
extremely well across the regions and across the product portfolio. I would say, what you have
seen is again Mettler at action. We have demonstrated that we can go after more market
opportunities as they arise. There have been, I would say, not much better market momentum
than we predicted, but we've to be really capable to act on the opportunities out there.
Europe has performed stronger as Shawn already indicated in his remarks. We have seen good
opportunities despite the headwind we have seen from not shipping products to Russia. Europe
grew, excluding Russia, 13% on a first compare against the prior quarter. And again, that is also
given by effectively really we're capable to capture opportunities out there.
There is not, I would say -- the market conditions have not changed compared to what we have
seen last year. We have seen some reluctance in Europe, for example, in the PI business.
Customers are more cautious spending dollars right now. They extent time off some of the
projects, but we were able really to get everything that was out there and tuning all the orders in
sales. Our supply-chain team executed very well, getting over some of the remaining issues
we've seen in the supply-chain. We had really shorter shipment times and it all helped us to reallyQ - `Joshua Waldman, Analyst, Cleveland Research
Got it. Good to hear. Then, Shawn, was wondering if you could walk us through the thought
process on the 6% local-currency guide for the quarter, but reiterating the 5% for the full year.
And you said have obviously implies a bit of a decel in the latter three quarters despite an easing
comp, but just curious if it's something in the order book, was there a pushouts from the fourth
quarter that hit in the first or is it just Mettler being prudent?
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
No I mean, hey. I think if you look at it, we, of course, there's an element of caution just given that
we have these difficult multiyear comparisons that we referred to and there is uncertainty. But, I
think, there's a couple of dynamics that it's important to reflect on to. So, the first is that, when
we look at pricing in terms of the cadence of pricing, we're going to have better higher pricing in
the first-half of the year than the second-half, but we'll probably have better volume growth in
the second-half of the year versus the first-half. So, that's one topic.
And then, another is, we'll probably do a little bit better on the retail business in the first-quarter.
Maybe, this is a good time, I'll just kind of walk through the different pieces of the business and
you kind of see that retail have a little bit of a benefit here in Q1. So, as we're thinking about the
first-quarter, we're thinking about mid-single-digit growth in Lab and we're thinking mid-to-high
single-digit growth for the full-year. For our Core Industrial, we're thinking mid-single-digit growth
for Q1 and we're also thinking -- we're thinking low-to-mid-single-digit growth for the full-year.
We're thinking Product Inspection mid-single-digit growth for Q1 and low-to mid-single-digit
growth for the full-year. And then, here we get to Retail, we're looking at high-teens, so we're
going to benefit for some strong project activity in Q1. Now keep in mind, Retail is still only about
5% of our business, but you get a sense for it, but then for the full-year, we're still thinking in the
like mid to-high single-digit range for Retail.
And then from a geographic perspective, we're looking at mid-single-digit for Q1 and for the full-
year for Americas. For Europe, we're looking at mid-single-digit for Q1 and low-single-digit for the
full-year. So that's us being maybe a little bit cautious on Europe and also acknowledging
multiyear comparisons, especially if you exclude Russia, I think we grew 13% in the fourth quarter
of this past year. And then, for China, we're looking at mid-single-digit growth for Q1 and high-
single-digit growth for the full-year.
Q - `Joshua Waldman, Analyst, Cleveland Research
Got it, really helpful. Appreciate all the detail.
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, thank you.
Operator
We'll move next to Dan Arias of Stifel.
Q - `Daniel Arias, Analyst, Stifel Nicolaus and Company, Inc. `
Morning, guys, thanks for the questions. Shawn, maybe just on your last point there on China, can
you just talk a little bit about the transition from first-half of the year, headwinds from COVID, to
something that looks like presumably a step-up in the back-half of the year? I'd be particularlyinterested in your thoughts around stimulus dollars in China, some of our companies have just
been more emphatic about the impact there that you might be than others, so would just love
you get your two cents.
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, hey, thanks, Dan. So maybe a few comments. So, one, we're very pleased with the quarter
we're coming off, 11% growth in China. And then, when we look at China for 2023, we feel very
good about. We're coming off to very strong years. We grew 14% in 2022, but we grew 25% in
2021. So that's kind of always-on our mind, and I'd like to remind everybody that.
But as we look at the cadence for this year, very pleased with how the team was able to manage
through different dynamics with COVID. We've always said that things can change quickly in China,
and this is another example with the reopening. We had quite a bit of the organization infected
with COVID around the holidays. But we've been back up in terms of full capacity now for a few
weeks, I'd say, and things are back to normal.
Of course, they just also came off the Chinese New Year as well. So, we're actually looking at it
quite favorably in terms of the reopening. There could be some short-term uncertainty in terms
of what it could mean to certain customer segments. But as we kind of look to the second-half of
the year, certainly there could be -- we're looking at higher-growth in the second-half of the year
than we're looking at for the first-half.
And then in terms of stimulus, I think we're all looking-forward to what comes out here over the
next month in terms of the magnitude of stimulus, but our expectation certainly are that, stimulus
dollars will be most likely directed towards a lot of the programs under the five-year plan. And
then, I'm sure some of these strategic industries within the country will also benefit as well too.
And we continue to see really good momentum in a lot of these hot segments like lithium
batteries, like semiconductor, and then just these overall arching trends towards automation and
digitalization continue to play-out well. So, we continue to feel like we're very well-positioned for
China for the medium-to-long term. Of course, in the short-term, always a little bit more difficult
to call. But yeah, I'd say that's it. And Patrick, any other comments from your side?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `
No. I think you covered really well. Again, we've a strong team in China. Obviously in China, team
is good very well, using the same go-to-market strategies and tools that we use in the rest of the
world, very efficiently. As said here, I'm very confident about the mid and long-term performance
in China.
And who knows what's coming out of any stimulus might be bit more biased towards the real-
estate market. We don't know yet, but I think it will also cover a good part of the flagship plan,
which means investing into health, investing into important technologies where we all play well.
Q - `Daniel Arias, Analyst, Stifel Nicolaus and Company, Inc. `
Yeah, okay, thank you for that. And then just maybe on pricing, I don't know if I missed it, but did
you give the refreshed price realization assumption that you're making for the year? And then as
you're dialing-in your pricing expectations for '23, I'm just curious if there are business segments
or geographies that maybe we should take of as being more or less than the company average
when it comes to realization or do you think that everyone being kind of just moves up in sort of
the same range?A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I mean, our guidance for the full year is unchanged at 4%. I would say, we actually finished
the year a little bit better than what we were expecting. We had a very strong finish in Q4 with
something more like the 7% kind of a range. And so, we'll probably get off to -- I expect to get off
to a good start here in Q1 was something more in the maybe the 6% kind of range. But then, we'll
kind of moderate into the second-half of the year, as we kind of start lapping a lot of these
pricing actions that we did to combat inflation during the course of 2022.
In terms of differentiation, I'd say, Lab always does -- nothing significant to point out, But I'd say,
Lab tends to do a little bit better than the rest of the portfolio. And then, we tend to do, maybe a
little bit better in the developed countries than we do on the emerging countries.
Q - `Daniel Arias, Analyst, Stifel Nicolaus and Company, Inc. `
Okay, very good, thank you guys.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Jack Meehan, Analyst, Nephron Research at Nephron Research.
Mr. Meehan, your line is open. You may be muted.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Analyst, Nephron Research `
Sorry, I was muted. Good morning. Wanted to ask about the Product Inspection business. So, 9%
core, nice beat versus the guide and. I think the CAGR accelerated into year end too. The service
piece is usually pretty steady. I was just curious if you could talk about the trends there, what
you're seeing on Service versus the product side, was there any acceleration?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, I can cover that. Good morning, Jack. Look, as we said, we are really-really happy with the
performance of Product Inspection in the fourth-quarter. We gained momentum, getting a little bit
more cautious getting into the quarter, but we saw especially good momentum in the US and a
bit better performance than expected in Europe, but we are still cautious as I said before about
Europe.
Of course, increasing our installed-base on products will continue to drive for some more service
business. Service is a really important part of that and our service coverage, especially in US is
exceptional compared to many of our competitors and gives us a clear advantage in Product
Inspection. So, we continue to build-out our service offering in terms of the level of services we
can provide also for this product portfolio. And again, as we also launched new products,
including now also more mid-range products, more mid-market needs of products, we are also
going after more market share with instrumentation, which afterward, continue to drive more
services.
The area -- the region where we had probably still more happened was also in China given
COVID-19. Again, there was not a lot of momentum in PI in the fourth quarter. While we saw some
good adoption of product that we launched for mid-range, overall, the market was still suffering
from the pandemic. But also there, I would say, moving forward, we see opportunity of course of
building more market momentum in that domain as well, but the US is fast by far the biggest and
most important market and very well covered by service business there of course. Europe is theA - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
And then in terms of trends, we saw improvement at both in service and the product business,
Jack, kind of going from Q3 to Q4, but service has been growing faster than products this year.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Analyst, Nephron Research `
Got it. And then, just one probably minor point on the 2023 outlook by segment and Lab. I think
previously, you were talking about mid-to-high single-digit growth, now mid-single-digit. Was
there anything that softened a little bit or and just anything you would call out there?
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
For Lab, we're talking, if I said that incorrectly, I apologize -- we expect to grow mid to-high single-
digit for the full-year as what we said before. For Q1, we're at mid-single-digit and Q1 going to be
a little bit impacted by some of the topics with like pipette tips and customer stocking, so.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Analyst, Nephron Research `
Sorry, I may have misheard. Thank you.
Operator
We'll go next to `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI at Evercore ISI.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Hey guys, congrats on a strong finish here and thanks for taking my question. I guess, my first
question is here on the Q1 guidance. Did I hear you correctly, Shawn, that pricing has six points in
Q1 and the guidance is 6%, that implies zero volume. Seems a little conservative, maybe talk
about the Q1 assumptions?
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, I mean, I think, we -- if you look at it, we've always been concerned a bit by multiyear
comparisons and uncertainty in the macro and I don't think it's really that different than what
we've been saying about the full-year results. And I think, right now, it's a new year, we're very
early in the year. I think, we need to see how the next couple of months play out, and then we'll
be able to have a lot more insight in terms of how not only the first-quarter went, but like how the
year starts to have, what kind of momentum we have going into Q2 into the rest of the year.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Understood. And then one on free cash flows here. It looks like free cash flows came in below
your guidance for fiscal '22. I'm curious, was that just a timing element and I'm looking at your
guidance here for fiscal '23, $900 million. Is that benefiting from some timing elements here or
any cadence on free-cash flows?
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, so good question. So, our free-cash flow actual, you might not remember, but we updated
our guidance for that last quarter. So, we actually came in line with our revised guidance from last
quarter, and we revised down 2022, primarily because of we were carrying more -- we're carrying
more inventory -- we carried more inventory in 2022 giving more safety stocks, just to kind ofmitigate some of the challenges in the global supply chain. As we kind of look towards 2023, we
expect to benefit and reduce a lot of those inventory levels. And so, you'll see -- from a one-year
growth perspective, you'll see it pretty significant growth, but a lot of it has to do with timing of
working capital.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Analyst, Evercore ISI `
Understood. Thanks guys.
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes.
Operator
Our next question comes from Tim Daley at Wells Fargo.
Q - `Timothy Daley, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities `
Great, thanks. So, I appreciate the detail on the service side, just wanted to dig a bit on
consumables. So what was the consumable growth in the quarter and the year? And then can you
help quantify the size and the timing of the two major one-off headwinds Mettler is facing in '23
around the pipette tips business, particularly the rollout DoD contract, and then that inventory
stock dynamic?
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, so our consumables business, in terms of total mix on the businesses about -- it was about
10% in the quarter. For the full year, is about 12% of our business. Consumables as a reminder for
everybody, about half of that's probably pipette tips. And then the other half is a combination of
Process Analytics sensors as well as other consumables for other categories.
As a total group, consumables were down about 5% in the quarter. And for the full year, they
were up 5%. But if you kind of dug into the details, of course, the one area where we saw a
decline was pipette tips, which would have been down over 20% in the quarter. And that's a topic
related to customer stocking that you've heard about from other companies. Fortunately for us,
it's not a significant impact to our overall results, and we will probably continue to see that trend
play out here in the first-quarter and maybe even into Q2.
Q - `Timothy Daley, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities `
All right. I appreciate that. And then my second one on margins. So, I think the guidance implies
about 120-ish basis-points from operating margin expansion. Can you help us understand how we
should think about pieces of growth versus SG&A, R&D, just additional help here would be great?
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, sure. So, if we look at our -- maybe -- rather than going through each line, maybe I'll give
you a little bit of flavor in terms of gross profit and then, of course, there's a lot of other
ingredients in terms of like R&D and SG&A, but like in terms of the first-quarter, we're looking at
gross margin expansion of about 140 basis points. And for the full year, we're looking at about
100 basis points.
So that number is a little bit lower than the last time we spoke. And the reason is purely -- almostwith our previous guidance. And then for the full-year, our operating margins up 190 basis points.
And then for the full year, we're estimating about 130 basis points.
Q - `Timothy Daley, Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities `
Great, thank you.
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, you're welcome.
Operator
We'll go next to Matt Sykes at Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Matthew Sykes, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Hi, good morning and thanks for taking my questions. Patrick, maybe just on the services, the
business that you talked about on the call. Just reflecting back from the Investor Day, you talked
about that services mix being about 50:50 contract versus value-added services. Can you just
maybe talk about the importance of that mix-shift as you move forward and where you see that
mix over sort of the medium term developing into?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, thanks, Mike. Really good question. And yeah, as I pointed out at the Investors Day, it is
important for us to continue to drive that mix more towards services on the contract and the
team is working hard on that and we've telesales team and the sales team, of course, working on
continuously also bringing you our new service to all of our customers, including a new service
offerings that we have and showing that our sales team and our customers understand the
benefits of being under contract, what it means for them in terms of no preventive maintenance,
in terms of uptime, response to service, 24x7 availability, et cetera.
So, I see actually a good momentum. I think, we have made good progress over the last two
years or three years and moving more of our services under contracts and installed, always at the
point-of-sales, making sure that when we sell a product that we can have -- a sales person can
have an educated discussion with the customer the benefits of being on a contract.
At the same time, we have increased the portfolio of services that we offer, as I mentioned
before, from basic to comprehensive services. And that makes it also easier and more attractive
to our customers to select a service contract. I see the shift ongoing and we're working on that
because in the end, again, it's a big win-win for both the customers and ourselves. As I said, we
have the data analytics behind it. We know the customers on the service contracts are more likely
to buy from us again, because they've seen the full benefit of our offering.
And for us, it also helps us, of course, to drive more efficiency in services, that helps us to be
more effective in scheduling services, making sure we optimize the coverage of the service and
the timing, when we can do services. And make sure the service technicians that we have are
working most efficient. So, expect a continued increase there in terms of service coverage. It's
again beneficial both for us as a Company, but also a strong win for the customer.
Q - `Matthew Sykes, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `Got it. And then, just maybe a follow-up, just staying on services. Patrick, you mentioned that the
majority of instruments are not serve serviced by Mettler. Maybe, if you could give us a little bit
more color on what that percentage is and where you think it can go to?
And then, Shawn, just given that services and you commented that it's going to be growing faster
than group and I'm assuming it's higher-margin. Could you talk about the medium-term impact on
margins from a larger services business over the next few years?
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, sure. Maybe, I'll go first and I'll let Patrick go second. But I'd say, I don't have it quantified in
terms of precision, but you're right, our -- we expect our Service business to grow faster than our
Product business over the medium-to-long term and our service business has operating margins
that are higher than our corporate average.
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, and back to your question regarding the service opportunity overall. Of course, we have
(inaudible) of instruments (inaudible) and that is a very competitive advantage for us to have that
visibility. Our served market for services over $3 billion, so we have significant opportunity to
expand our market-share in there as well.
If you look at the total share of instruments of the installed-base, of course, we know to could
extend about which instruments are still under operation and then make also a (inaudible)
inspections of the database we have for instruments and make some assumptions in terms of
how many instruments otherwise would be still operational, but we think that's probably more
than 60% of the instruments out there, not yet on the full service coverage from us.
Q - `Matthew Sykes, Analyst, Goldman Sachs `
Great, thank you very much.
Operator
Our next question comes from `Brandon Couillard, Analyst, Jefferies & Company at Jefferies.
Q - `Brandon Couillard, Analyst, Jefferies & Company `
Hey, thanks, good morning. There are couple for you, Shawn. Could you just split out Lab versus
Industrial in China in the quarter? And the those two sub-segments. just maybe for year, the
bifurcation between those two markets?
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, sure, Brendon. So for Q4, Lab was up over -- I'm sorry, I'm looking at the wrong year here.
But still good results, Lab was up about 20% in the fourth quarter and Industrial was up low-single
digit. And as we kind of look for towards 2023, we're expecting double-digit growth in Lab for the
first-quarter and the full-year. And we're expecting Industrial to be more flattish. You can imagine
more impacted by some of the disruptions over the last few months and then for the full-year,
we're a little bit more conservative there with low-to mid-single-digit growth. So obviously,
expecting more growth in the second-half of the year.
Q - `Brandon Couillard, Analyst, Jefferies & Company `Got it. And then on the Lab business globally, will you be able to quantify the impact of the
pipette declines on that segment in the quarter? I imagine. most of them (inaudible) the point.
And then Patrick, you mentioned lithium batteries. Just help us understand what areas of the
portfolio are serving that market.
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, so for the quarter. Brendan, if you kind of like to play out the math and the data points that I
kind of mentioned earlier, that's probably in 1% or so to the Group, so it probably would have
been in the 2% or more to the Lab division and probably looking at similar type trends here in the
first quarter and then at some point it will -- we expect it to stabilize in the second quarter.
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So my end, add to Shawn, on the pipette business itself, we have seen good growth on pipette
instruments --
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `
-- also in Q3 and throughout 2022, and also we see continued good growth in service pipette
business. So, it's really the pipette tip business that have been suffering.
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. And that's of course also due to the ramp down of testing, et cetera out there. So, with the
increased number of instruments that we sell, single-use pipettes, et cetera, and increased
service business, I think, we are quite confident that as we see the demand for pipettes, that also
the demand for pipette tips will continue to grow up. Yeah, we are being excellent.
Q - `Brandon Couillard, Analyst, Jefferies & Company `
Thanks.
Operator
We'll go next to `Catherine Schulte, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Company at Baird.
Q - `Catherine Schulte, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Company `
Hey guys, thanks for the question. I guess, first, I wanted to go back to the Services business. You
talked on the penetration side in Mark's question, but on the other area of opportunity, you
mentioned selling contracts at the point-of-sale. Can you just elaborate on what your attach rate
is today and where you'd like to see that go over the next few years on longer term?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `
So what we are working on -- Catherine, what we are working on is again continued increase of
the attach rate. What we changed last year is the entire quoting process before moving to the --
our salespeople, they have to actively quote services and have to look up in the catalog what
service we could offer to dedicated products.Now, it's an automatic part of the quoting process and if the sales person wouldn't be able to sell
services, they also have to give us some justification, why they couldn't. And it also helps us then
to improve again the marketing collateral behind service in making sure that we make a better
job of selling the value of services.
So, we continue to really make sure that we pull all levers to make sure our customers
understand the benefit of service contracts. The overall attach rate, I think, is in range of --
actually, I have to look up that number and get back to you probably on one of the next calls. But
for me, the most important measure is really that we continue to see an increase.
Q - `Catherine Schulte, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Company `
All right, great. And then on Europe, you mentioned there's maybe some conservatism in your
low-single-digit guide for the year. What do you view as the swing factors there that mostly on
the packaged food side or are there other areas where you're trying to be a bit more prudent as
you start that initial guide?
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah. I think, it's multiple factors. I mean, packaged food is definitely one of it clearly in. I mean,
again, because this is high CapEx investment and it's one of the few product categories where
it's really more of a high CapEx side. Maybe you also have seen no -- some of our customers
being more reluctant and we have seen this in Q4 and we see this continuing to Q1. They all are
looking at the at the market situation right now and they all want to see how it plays out.
Fortunately, as I said, the impact of potentially energy shortage in Europe has not yet played out.
And hopefully, we'll get through the window with some major issues and that will then hopefully
also increase of the overall market confidence. I would say, otherwise, in the European market,
for us, it's also look at where we have been very successful over the last couple of years and also
had been quite successful in Q4. So in the second-half, will also be a tougher compare for us.
That's why we're thinking currently about for Europe more in the low-single digit for 2023.
Q - `Catherine Schulte, Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Company `
Great, thank you.
Operator
We'll move next to `Michael Ryskin, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch at Bank of America.
Q - `Michael Ryskin, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great, thanks for taking the question. This is Mike on for Derik de Bruin. Sorry, if I missed this
earlier, but I want to drill a little bit into Core Industrial. I know, you kind of anticipate a little bit of a
step-down in the fourth quarter. But it still seems like a sequential decline from the first three
quarter of the year, we had really strong 10% growth. And then looking at your guide for mid
single for 2023, anything in particular you want to call out how that's trending? is that mostly a
reflection of macro or is it -- how much conservatism is built into that? Are seeing any change in
order patterns with those customers or if there's anything by geo you could call out there?
Thanks.
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `Yeah, I'd say, we're coming off of period of a lot of growth in that business, Mike. We still feel
really good, though. The business is well positioned. It's a better mix of business than it used to
be like we've talked a lot about over the past year, a lot more in what we would call the more
attractive segments of the market like more anchored towards pharma, food manufacturing and
chemical, which is primarily specialty chemical for us.
This business also benefits from some of these hot segments that we talk about like lithium
battery. And then, just these trends in automation and digitalization, which we continue to see
really holding up during a deteriorating macro environment over the last few months. Historically,
it is the business that's most susceptible to the macro. So, we still keep an eye on it. We were
really pleased in the fourth quarter that we saw good growth in each region, which. I think is good.
It's important to see each region of the world growing, but we're certainly a little bit more
cautious as we kind of look to 2023, it's early in the year. China is a big part of this business. So, I
think, it will be important for us to kind of get through the first quarter, see how things look. And
then, we'll have maybe some better visibility into the rest of the year.
Q - `Michael Ryskin, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Okay, that's fair. And maybe just a follow-up (inaudible) modeling the 18.5% tax-rate. Is that a one-
year dynamic for 2023 or is it fair to assume that going-forward beyond?
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, so, I mean, it's at least a two-year dynamic. We took it down for 2022. We feel comfortable
we can hold it for 2023. As we look to 2024, I think there could be some upward pressure on the
rate. It's still a little early for us to kind of communicate anything, but it could be something in the
1% to 2% kind of range, but we'll obviously know a lot more towards the end of this year and
when we provide guidance for next year.
Q - `Michael Ryskin, Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Great, thanks so much. Congrats on the quarter again.
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, thank you.
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Thank you.
Operator
We'll go next to `Liza Garcia, Analyst, UBS at UBS.
Q - `Liza Garcia, Analyst, UBS `
Hey, good morning. guys. Thanks for squeezing me in. So, kind of a topics question and kind of
how to think about may be describing in there a little bit. So R&D up 7% in local currency in the
quarter. Obviously, you offset that with SG&A decline. As we think about kind of broader of your
investment strategy, how should we think about the R&D line and kind of (inaudible)?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `I'll get started on this. Look, actually, I'm very proud that we really have a lot of opportunities in
our business to drive more products to the market and the success of our business really also
relies on driving innovation to market. This year, we brought a lot of great products to the market,
helping our customers in the demand of automation, digitalization, compliance, etcetera, both on
the hardware and software portfolio, we launched.
We actually launched internally a program that we call also accelerator programs where we
looked at our pipeline of R&D projects that we have across the Company and selected a number
of really high-potential projects that were accelerated with additional funding and that's part of
the increase that you also see there on the R&D line.
Again, for us, it's -- on the leadership team, we made a very conscious decision saying we are
using the success that we have for the Company to accelerate products and bringing even more
horsepower to the street and making sure that we get stuck to our customers, of which we know
it will help them to drive more productivity, help them to drive better insights in the research they
are doing. And I'm actually really excited, and I'm really proud that we could do that.
Q - `Liza Garcia, Analyst, UBS `
Great. And, I know, obviously, the Mettler story has been predominantly organic. But you've
definitely made some notable tuck-ins like PendoTECH, Biotix. Can you just provide maybe an
update on kind of M&A environment and what you're seeing in the market maybe in terms of
incremental opportunities to enhance the portfolio?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, very good question, Liza. So on M&A, we didn't change our strategy at all. We are still
looking out for tuck-in acquisitions, bolt-on acquisitions that complement us both either on the
technology sides -- technology that we do not own today, but think are important for us,
complement our portfolio, while giving us market access in areas where we don't plan.
PendoTECH was an example of that. As we said, we want to go more into downstream
bioprocessing and have the right solutions for our customers.
We also made last year strategic acquisition in the area of software, complementing our
AutoChem business with Scale-up Systems, which is a very important software capability for us to
help customers scaling up from R&D to manufacturing. It gives us really also unique value
proposition there. And then, end-of-the year, we acquired also small app business called
(inaudible) in Germany, $10 million dollar revenues, but also with products that we think really we
should have in the portfolio. And that's the way our ambition to continue to we really look for the
right opportunities.
Given the strength we have as a business, we can be very selective in what companies we want
to acquire. I think, Mettler-Toledo is an outstanding platform for these companies who look for
either global access to market, which we have and also the strength that we have in terms of
supply chain, to help them to really accelerate their go-to-market, but it needs to be really
something that is missing in our portfolio. We don't have to bank M&A to grow. We have a strong
organic engine. But I'm very interested in no course and opportunities to get us into the fast-
growing market segments like the biopharma, for example, and this was one of the reasons why
we acquired PendoTECH.
Q - `Liza Garcia, Analyst, UBS `
Great, thanks so much.Operator
We'll move next to `Rachel Vatnsdal, Analyst, JPMorgan at JPMorgan.
Q - `Rachel Vatnsdal, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Thanks for taking my questions, guys, and congrats on the quarter. And so, I want to follow up
about some of the earlier questions around the consumables dynamic and some of those
pipette inventory stockings while to flag that consumables were down 5% during 4Q due to that
pipette dynamics. So, can you just walk us through your expectations for consumables growth in
the first-quarter and then for the full-year? And then. kind of within that, what's embedded for
that consumable growth between pricing versus volume?
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, hey, Rachel. I don't have the specific breakout for the full-year. I would say, I'd probably
expect to see a similar result in Q1 as we saw here in Q4 overall for consumables. And then, I
would certainly expect to see growth in the second half of the year, but I don't have anything
specific in mind in terms of exactly what that would be, but definitely, would expect us to return to
growth in the second half of the year.
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Absolutely. Thanks, Shawn. Thank you again, as I said before, some good indicators for us is the
demand for our pipettes itself for the instrument. It should give us continued growth also. We are
playing very well in the biopharma research space with our product portfolio. So the COVID
tailwinds, I think, will hopefully not be any topic for us as we go into the second half of the year
and the rest of the portfolio that we have in consumables, the sensors that go into into
biopharma of approved sensors or even some of our lab products have consumables. They're
still doing quite well.
Q - `Rachel Vatnsdal, Analyst, JPMorgan `
Great. And then, maybe one here, just on on shoring. You guys had talked about the on shoring
and near shoring dynamic being a tailwind for Mettler. So, can you just talk about your latest
expectations on where you could see that impact the portfolio. Obviously, there's some debate
going on around the US budget here locally. So, how are you kind of embedding them into
expectations in the near and medium term as well? Thank you.
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
We still see that as a really good opportunity for the company in the medium-to-long term, but in
terms of 2023, we didn't really build anything specific into our guidance.
Operator
And we'll take our final question from `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Citi at Citi.
Q - `Patrick Donnelly, Analyst, Citi `
Hey guys, thanks for fitting me in. Maybe just one. I see a lot of ground covered here. Shawn,
maybe on the supply-chain in general, you talked about inventory obviously ran a little high in '22
with some of the stocking impacts. Can you just talk about expectations, why not down? Are youseeing normalization in the supply chains, some thoughts on kind of how you're thinking about
that?
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, maybe I'll -- yeah, thanks, Patrick. I'll start, and I'll let Patrick maybe add a few comments as
well to here, but yes, we definitely have seen a lot of improvement in the supply-chain, in
particular on the transportation side. This the time to go from one country to another is -- the
lead times are, I think, pretty close to back to normal at this point in time. So, that's been great.
And then in terms of like availability of components, there still's still a topic here or there, but I'd
say the noise level is significantly lower than what we were seeing six months ago.
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Yeah, absolutely. I only can confirm that semiconductor issues that we talked about last year are
mostly behind us with a very few exceptions. The team has been also very agile to change some
of the scientific instruments where we are not so dependent on some of the exotic components
here, but clearly, our supply chain, I would say, it's almost back to normal in terms of
transportation times, availability of materials and that should not be getting to our way to make
successful business in 2023.
A - `Shawn P. Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yeah, and maybe, hey, just one final comment on that one is, we're really proud of our team. The
supply chain, I think, really has been a competitive advantage for us over the last few years and
just the collaboration around the global organization and the cultures has been really amazing to
observe from the inside, and I think frankly helps us gain some share along the way and enhence
our brand.
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer `
Absolutely.
Operator
That does conclude the question-and-answer session and today's conference call. Thank you for
your participation. You may now disconnect.