Q4 2023 Earnings Call

Presentation
Operator
Good morning. My name is Audra, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I
would like to welcome everyone to the Mettler-Toledo Fourth Quarter 2023 Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any
background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions)
At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to `Adam Uhlman, Head of Investor Relations, Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
`Adam Uhlman, Head of Investor Relations `
Thanks, Audra, and good morning, everyone. Good afternoon from Switzerland. Thanks for
joining our call today. On the line with me is `Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Executive Officer; and
`Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Financial Officer.
Let me cover some administrative matters. This call is being webcast and is available for replay
on our website at mt.com. A copy of the press release and the presentation that we will refer to
today on the call is available on the website as well. This call will include forward-looking
statements within the meaning of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 and the U.S. Securities Exchange
Act of 1934. These statements involve risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our
actual results, financial condition, performance, and achievements to be materially different from
those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements.
For a discussion of these risks and uncertainties, please see our annual report on Form 10-K and
our quarterly and current reports filed with the SEC. The company disclaims any obligation or
undertaking to provide any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement except asthese non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure is provided
in the 8-K and is also available on our website.
Let me now turn the call over to Patrick.
`Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Adam, and good morning, everyone. We appreciate you joining our call today. Last night,
we reported our fourth quarter financial results, the details of which are outlined for you on Page
3 of our presentation.
As previously announced, the transition to a new external European logistic service provider
significantly impacted our fourth quarter results, which we expect to largely recapture in the first
quarter. Excluding the impact of these delayed shipments, our results were in line with our
previous expectations. Market demand has remained weak in China and across our core end
markets of pharma and biopharma, food manufacturing, and chemicals, but also does not appear
to have deteriorated further.
Looking forward, we expect market conditions to remain soft in the first half of the year, and we
would then expect our sales to return to growth in the second half of the year as we begin to let
easier comparisons. We are focused on the things we can control, including increasing our
competitive advantages through innovation and continuous improvement of our corporate
programs and nurturing our unique global culture. I'm confident these actions will drive market
share gains and help us emerge stronger in a market recovery.
Let me now turn the call over to Shawn to cover the financial results for the quarter and our
guidance for the year, and then I will come back with some additional commentary on the
business. Shawn?
`Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Thanks, Patrick, and good morning, everyone. Sales in the quarter were $935 million, which
represented a decrease in local currency of 13%. On a U.S. dollar basis, sales declined 12% as
currency increased sales growth by 1%.
On Slide number 4, we show sales growth by region. Local currency sales declined 7% in the
Americas, 16% in Europe, and 18% in Asia/Rest of the World. Local currency sales in China
declined 23% in the quarter.
Excluding the impact of the previously disclosed shipping delays related to a new logistics
provider in Europe, we estimate our sales in Q4 decline about 7%, with the Americas down
approximately 3%, Europe down approximately 6%, and Asia down approximately 14%.
On Slide number 5, we show sales growth by region for the full-year 2023. Local currency sales
declined 3% in 2023, with sales in the Americas down 1%, Europe down 2%, and Asia/Rest of the
World down 5%. Local currency sales decreased 10% in China for 2023. Excluding the logistics
headwind in Q4, we estimate our full-year sales decline approximately 1%, with the Americas flat,
Europe up 1%, and Asia down 5%.
On Slide number 6, we summarize local currency sales growth by product area. For the quarter,
laboratory sales decreased 18% and industrial decreased 8%, with core industrial down 6%, and
product inspection down 10%. Food retail grew 9%. Service sales grew 6% in the quarter.
Excluding the logistics delays, we estimate laboratory product sales decline approximately 11%,industrial decline 5%, with core industrial down 2%, and product inspection down 10%, and food
retail grew 17%.
The next slide shows local currency sales growth by product area for the full-year 2023.
Laboratory sales decreased 7%, and industrial sales declined 1% with core industrial down 1%, and
product inspection flat. Food retail increased 27%. Service sales grew 10% in 2023. Excluding the
logistic delays, we estimate laboratory product sales decline approximately 5%, industrial was flat
across both core industrial, and product inspection and food retail grew 29%.
Let me now move to the rest of the P&L, which is summarized on Slide number 8. Gross margin
was 59%, a decrease of 80 basis points due to our lower volume, offset in part by positive
pricing in our cost savings initiatives. R&D amounted to $46.4 million in the quarter, which is a 3%
decrease in local currency over the prior year. SG&A amounted to $223.4 million, a 4% decrease
in local currency compared to the prior year, and benefits from our cost-saving initiatives and
lower variable compensation. Adjusted operating profit amounted to $281.8 million in the quarter,
a 21% decrease. Adjusted operating margin was 30.1%, which represents a decrease of 380 basis
points from the prior year due to our decreased volume.
A couple of final comments on the P&L. Amortization amounted to $18.1 million in the quarter,
interest expense was $19.7 million, and other income amounted to $1.6 million. Our effective tax
rate was 19% in the quarter. This rate is before discrete items and adjusting for the timing of
stock option exercises. Fully diluted shares amounted to $21.7 million, which is approximately a 3%
decline from the prior year. Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $9.40, a 22% decrease over the
prior year. On a reported basis, EPS was $8.52 as compared to $11.86 in the prior year. Reported
EPS in the quarter includes $0.23 of purchase intangible amortization, $0.49 of restructuring costs,
and a $0.16 tax headwind from the timing of option exercises.
The next slide illustrates our year-to-date results. Local currency sales declined 3% for the year,
adjusted operating income decreased 3% or flat, excluding unfavorable foreign currency, and our
adjusted operating margin was flat at 30.4% for the year. Adjusted EPS declined 4% in 2023,
excluding the impact of unfavorable currency for the year, adjusted EPS declined 1%. That covers
the P&L.
Let me now comment on cash flow. In the quarter, adjusted free cash flow amounted to $260.1
million, a conversion of approximately 130% of adjusted net income due to favorable working
capital. In 2023, free cash flow was $908 million, up 20% over last year on a per share basis due
to the reduction in working capital with a conversion of approximately 109% of adjusted net
income.
Let me now turn to guidance for the first quarter and for the full-year. First, while we are
extremely disappointed by the shipping delays in the fourth quarter from our third-party logistics
provider, we have seen good momentum so far this year in catching up on these delayed
shipments and continue to expect to largely recover them in the first quarter.
Secondly, given the soft trends across most of our core end markets in the global economy, we
expect our customers to be cautious with their investments to start off the year. We are also
closely watching events in the Middle East and other potential impacts the war could have on
logistics and other costs for our suppliers and customers.
Lastly, as a reminder, we have implemented many cost savings programs during the second half
of last year to mitigate the impact of lower demand. We continue to expect to maintain and add
to these savings in 2024, but also face headwinds from resetting variable compensationNow, turning to our guidance. For the first quarter of 2024, we expect local currency sales to
decline approximately 4% to 6%. This forecast includes an approximate 5% benefit from the
delayed shipments in the fourth quarter. We expect adjusted EPS to be in the range of $7.35 to
$7.75. Currency at recent spot rates for the quarter would be less than a 1% headwind to first
quarter sales, but a headwind to adjusted EPS of approximately 4%.
For the full-year 2024, we expect local currency sales to grow approximately 1% to 2%, which is up
from our previous guidance of approximately flattish to reflect the shift of our delayed shipments
from our European Logistics Hub from Q4 into Q1 of this year. We expect full-year adjusted EPS to
be in the range of $39.60 to $40.30, which compares to our prior guidance of $39.10 to $39.80.
This includes an expected headwind to adjusted EPS growth of approximately 2% from
unfavorable foreign exchange.
Lastly, I'll share a few comments on our 2024 guidance. We expect total amortization, including
purchased intangible amortization, to be approximately $73 million. Purchased intangible
amortization is excluded from adjusted EPS and is estimated at $26 million on a pre-tax basis or
$0.99 per share. Interest expense forecast at $84 million for the year and other income is
estimated at approximately $3 million. We expect our tax rate before discrete items will remain at
19% in 2024. We expect free cash flow of approximately $850 million, representing a conversion
of approximately 100% of adjusted net income. We continue to expect share repurchases of
approximately $850 million in 2024.
That's it from my side, and I'll now turn it back to Patrick.
`Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer `
Thanks, Shawn. Let me start with some comments on our operating businesses, starting with Lab.
As we had expected, demand trends across most of our Lab customers remained weak in the
fourth quarter, especially pharma and biopharma. Sales declined across most product categories,
and we continue to see soft demand across all geographies, especially in China.
While market conditions have been weaker, we continue to focus on the things we can control,
which includes bringing new innovations to market, enhancing our sales and marketing programs,
and expanding our service offering and capacity. This past year saw the launch of many exciting
new and upgraded products. We are excited about our innovation pipeline, and we believe
organizations that maintain their growth investments during market downturns will emerge even
stronger during recovery periods.
Our investments have had a particular emphasis on supporting our customers' needs for
laboratory automation and data integrity requirements, which we are confident will be a
significant driver of continued market share gains going forward, and we are excited to share with
you additional developments over the coming months.
Switching to our Industrial business, sales for the quarter were in line with our previous guidance,
despite the headwind from delays from -- of our European Logistics Hub. Core Industrial demand
in the Americas and in Europe has been relatively resilient this past year despite declines in
purchasing manager indexes. We continue to see solid interest from customers looking for our
advanced automation solutions and we expect to benefit from customer investments in on-
shoring and near-shoring over the coming year.
Regarding our Product Inspection business, we have seen weak food manufacturing customer
demand in Europe and soft demand in the Americas. We continue to target faster-growing
segments and have a focus on engaging new customers with a refreshed portfolio of innovativesolutions. Lastly, Food Retail results were very strong, excluding the negative impact from our
European Logistics Hub. We had solid performance for the year due to strong project activity,
particularly in the Americas.
Now, let me make some additional comments by geography. Sales in Europe, excluding the
estimated impact from our European Logistics Hub delays, were softer than we had expected,
following resilient performance for much of the year. As mentioned earlier, weak demand from
European food manufacturing customers weighed on our Product Inspection business.
Additionally, we also saw softer-than-expected demand from our lab and core industrial
customers in the quarter. We remain cautious on the outlook for Europe due to low PMI readings
in the region, the continuing war in Ukraine, and the potential for additional impacts for the
economy from the conflict in the Middle East.
Turning now to the Americas. Our results for the quarter, excluding estimated logistic headwinds,
were slightly better than we had expected due to steady core industrial demand and robust food
retail growth. Going forward, we are well-positioned to capture increased demand from
emerging growth industries and on-shoring activities.
Finally, Asia and the Rest of the World results were slightly better than we had expected as our
core industrial sales declines in China were less than we had anticipated. Pharma and biopharma
demand in China has remained very weak, and we continue to expect reduced demand for the
first half of the year. Our team is doing an excellent job adjusting to the current market
conditions, and we are confident in the long-term growth opportunity for our business in the
region. That concludes my comments on the fourth quarter results.
Now, I'd like to share with you some deeper insights on the next wave of sales and marketing
initiatives we have introduced to our Spinnaker program, and a few examples of enhancements
that are on the way. To start, and as a reminder, the significant diversity of our business and the
fragmented customer base means we need to set, a set up sophisticated tools, analytics, and
processes to identify, prioritize, and pursue the most attractive and profitable growth
opportunities for our sales teams, with a specific focus on new customer opportunities and cross-
selling opportunities within our existing customers.
Spinnaker is our global excellence program in sales, service, and marketing that enables us to
drive sales growth and gain market share. Continuous improvement is an important part of our
strategy and culture, and it is very much at the heart of our Spinnaker program. We constantly
enhance and refine our initiatives, releasing new waves of enhancements to the program
periodically that build some previous waves of initiatives, reinforcing our strong foundation and
increasing our competitive advantages. We are currently launching the sixth wave of Spinnaker,
which is focused on leveraging new possibilities offered by the digitalization of processes and
further enhancing the customer experience.
I'd like to share with you some tangible examples of the initiatives we have on the way. Starting
with our digitalization efforts, this year, we are making multiple improvements to our Top K and
sales force guidance programs. As a reminder, in addition to generating sales leads through our
various marketing activities, our Top K program provides our field teams with tailored and
actionable investment alerts about specific sales opportunities that are generated by proprietary
data analytics and deep learning software solutions, leveraging external data sources and our
own internal databases. These sales opportunity alerts are created fully automatically, qualified,
and are fed into our CRM.In addition to expanding our Top K program to more areas of our business, this next wave of
Spinnaker features a significant expansion of data sources to feed our big data warehouse,
enabling Spinnaker to provide intelligent prioritization of target sites for our field sales teams.
This also enables real-time smart profile reports to ensure timely follow-up and the most
accurate background on potential customers, including data on the digital engagements with us.
Other improvements include expanded capabilities to optimize and prioritize our marketing
activities, including campaigns for replacing aging equipment across our installed base.
This wave of Spinnaker also features additional big data capabilities to support our sales teams'
cross-selling efforts. With each of our product categories having their own dedicated sales
specialists, cross-selling is a very important growth opportunity for us because leads generated
by colleagues and other product areas have high conversion rates. Today, our cross-selling
penetration assisting customers is still rather low, but big data analytics across our CRM and
various processes is helping us unlock sales leads across our businesses, including from our
service teams and Spinnaker is an excellent tool to help provide additional transparency on these
sales opportunities.
Now, from a customer perspective, we are also advancing several important enhancements to
Spinnaker to improve our customer experience. We have previously focused on increasing our
digital connectivity with our customers. However, we now see additional opportunities to provide
advanced platforms that will create impactful experiences that further strengthen our customer
relationship and overall value proposition. Examples include offering customers the ability to gain
deep insights across their installed base of Mettler-Toledo instruments, be it access to calibration
certificates or known last service dates or contract coverage or renewal agreements.
We have also enhanced our integration to do customer systems to streamline the entire procure-
to-pay process by offering various levels and types of integration from punch out to order and
invoice integration, we aim to increase productivity and drive process efficiencies for our
customers. We already receive about 40% of our product orders, mainly consumables and less
complex products through digital interfaces today, providing a seamless and efficient buying
experience for our customers.
Our customer portal allows customers to browse personalized product catalogs, review real-time
inventory levels, and manage orders all in one place. Our end-to-end order management
systems include efficient tracking and management of both online and offline orders and includes
an intuitive product selection and configuration process. For less complex products that do not
require support from our specialists, customers can easily find specific products and use our
smart configuration tool to simplify their ordering.
One element of the next wave of Spinnaker includes improving the order process by leveraging
new technologies to facilitate assisted experience with a Mettler-Toledo expert. This includes
enhanced chat functionality, click to book a meeting with a tailored sales representative or digital
sales rooms that automatically guides customers through the product selection process and
provide them all the information they need at any time to make an informed decision. For more
complex solutions, in addition to providing on-site demonstrations of our instruments, we also
provide virtual demonstrations of customers that are very effective.
As part of our continuous improvement, we have revamped the studio setups of our virtual
demos, making it more efficient and focused, significantly reducing preparation time by curating a
series of demonstration menus based on customers' most frequently asked questions. This helps
to deliver a comprehensive demo that addresses customers' questions in a very concise way.
Customers have already reported an enhanced experience, gaining a deeper, more intuitiveunderstanding of our instruments, and our representatives find it easier to showcase our product
features, and it makes technical details more accessible and adjustable with this new approach.
Lastly, to ensure we are meeting and exceeding our customers' expectations through every step
of their journey with our sales teams, we have also begun to implement customer feedback
loops and net promoter scores for product sales, in addition to what we are already doing -- what
we already do for our service teams. This has proven to be a very effective source of
opportunities for process improvements, and we expect improved results with our expanded
program.
So I hope these few examples gave you a flavor of, for the much broader set of new initiatives
that are underway with our new Spinnaker program. We believe they will continue to expand our
sales and marketing lead over our competition and ensure our teams are spending their time
with the most attractive opportunities and optimize our win rates, while further strengthening our
customer relationship. So, that is the conclusion of our prepared remarks.
Operator, I'd like now to open the line for questions.
Questions And Answers
Operator
(Question And Answer)
Thank you. (Operator Instructions) We'll go first to `Jack Meehan, Nephron Research at Nephron Research.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Nephron Research `
Thank you. Good morning.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Hey, Jack.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Nephron Research `
Shawn, just wanted to start, would be great to get your forecast by segment for the first quarter
and for the year.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, sure. So, let me start with the lab business. So, we expect lab in Q4 -- I mean, I'm sorry, in Q1
2024 to be down low to mid single-digit and for the full year, we expect it to be up low single-
digit. For core industrial, we expect Q1 to be down mid single-digit and for the full year to be
flattish. Product inspection, we expect to be down mid single-digit for Q1 and for the full year,
flattish. And then retail we expect to be down about 10% in Q1 and for the full year, down mid to
high single-digit.
And then if we look at the geographies, we expect the Americas to be down low single-digit in
Q1 and then for the full year, up low single-digit. We expect Europe to be up low single-digit in Q1
and up low to mid single-digit in the -- for the full year. We expect China to be down low to mid-
20s in Q1 and down high single-digit for the full year.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Nephron Research `Excellent. And then just as a follow-up, what does your first quarter guidance assume for EBIT
margins? And can you just walk us through like the pacing throughout the year, what kind of
bridges to the full year forecast?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, sure. So, in the first quarter, I mean, of course, the first quarter, we're going to have a
significant volume decline, well, I guess in the first half of the year. So, for the first quarter, we're
going to be down over 200 basis points, probably in like the 230, 240 kind of basis point range.
Now it's important to understand, too, like currency has a pretty big effect on the first quarter.
So, it's probably like 100% negative headwind to our margin in the first quarter. And I think we
called out in the press release a 4% headwind to earnings per share. But that's going to change
quite a bit as we get into the second half of the year, especially the fourth quarter. And so, for the
full year, we're looking at the operating margin to be up in the kind of like 30 bps kind of a range.
And if you exclude currency, it's probably in like the 70 plus kind of bps kind of a range.
Q - `Jack Meehan, Nephron Research `
Super. Thank you.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, you're welcome.
Operator
We'll move to our next question from Dan Arias at Stifel.
Q - `Daniel Arias, Stifel Nicolaus and Company, Inc. `
Yes. Hi, guys. Thanks for the questions. Shawn, maybe just going back to the guide, if you take
out the $58 million and you add it to 2024, it does get you to that up a point or two that you're
guiding to. But in order to have the dollars be the same, it seems like the outlook would need to
be for 3 points or so of growth. So, is there something else that's amounting to a partial offset?
How do you see the outlook now versus last quarter when you exclude the logistics issue?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Hey, Dan. It's a fair point. Like as you mentioned, we built the -- we expect the shipping
delays to largely benefit the first quarter of this year. And so, we acknowledge there's upside to
the full year guidance because in addition to that benefit, there's also like a growth rate benefit
as we get to the end of the year in the fourth quarter, given the base that we're kind of growing
off of. But when we kind of step back from all that, we just kind of felt like it's still very early in the
year. And while we're not seeing anything new in the business, I mean, Patrick talked about in the
prepared remarks that, yes, there's still challenges in the market, but just want to confirm, we're
not seeing anything new at this point, but it's still early in the year. We just prefer to be a little bit
cautious, given various uncertainties and the backweighting of the year.
But when we look at the second half of the year, we still feel good. We feel like we're really well
positioned for the second half. We talked about some of these new product launches in the
prepared remarks. We have a lot of really exciting programs that we're launching. I mean we
spent a little bit of time talking about Spinnaker 6 in the prepared remarks, but there's other
corporate programs that we're working on as well. So, we feel like we are well positioned for thesecond half. And just to acknowledge, yes, I think there's a little bit of upside. Yes, we're being a
little bit cautious as we start the year, but we just want to see how things play out a little bit.
Q - `Daniel Arias, Stifel Nicolaus and Company, Inc. `
Okay. So, just to be clear here, you're not passing along the full amount of the logistics offset, but
you also don't see anything in the end market makeup that has you feeling less confident than
before or that has you looking for less growth than before. Is that a fair summation?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, I think that's fair.
Q - `Daniel Arias, Stifel Nicolaus and Company, Inc. `
Okay. And then just as a follow-up, maybe from an end market standpoint, it would be great if
you could just give any color you could on the degree to which sentiment on China has changed
in the quarter versus last quarter. Maybe it hasn't at all, but it would just get -- it would be good to
get a sort of an updated view on the word on the street when it comes to ground level
conversation, thoughts on rebound, et cetera.
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, I'll take that. Okay. Shawn, I have been in China in December, and of course, we're in
continued conversations with the local team there, with the sales management team to see if
there are any changes. I would say China at the moment is still quite weak, especially in pharma,
biopharma. But from our perspective, the situation has not deteriorated from what we reported
on at the JP Morgan Conference.
Clearly, they are -- they have seen still facing many headwinds as perhaps has been very
significant spending and growth during the COVID period. But right now, we are facing a situation
where there's a lack of stimulus from the government. There's a lot of uncertainty still there.
There is some reduced foreign investment as well. So, overall, a weak economy that is focused
on stabilizing the real estate market. And I think that in itself leads to just also softer demand at
the moment.
But overall, it hasn't changed. As I said in my comments, core industrial has been actually a bit
better than expected in Q4, but we've remained a bit cautious on our outlook still in the first half
of '24. And there is -- the second half will be easier for us because we have much easier
compares. As a reminder, we had been down 25% in Q3 last year, 23% in Q4. This year, we told
you that the first half will be down.
So, the second half will be now for us in 2024 will be an easier compare. I think we have a lot of
good strategic drivers there. We have a very strong team, and we are confident that we will be
able to continue to gain market share with our programs, our products that we have there. And
there's also long-term that the market in China has, as we told you before, has high single-digit
growth opportunities.
Q - `Daniel Arias, Stifel Nicolaus and Company, Inc. `
Okay. Thank you, guys.
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer `Yes. Thanks.
Operator
We'll go next to `Derik de Bruin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch at Bank of America.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Hi. Good morning. Thanks for taking my question. So, can you talk a little bit about more about
what you had to do to sort of like fix the logistical issues and what your third-party is? And I guess
just are you confident that these are not going to be that? And you made some sort of illusion to
or comment about the Middle East. Are you seeing -- I mean, what do you think is really sort of
the risk there? Are you -- I mean, I don't think you ship much through the Red Sea, but can you
just sort of talk about sort of like what you've done to sort of ameliorate and fix some of the
issues around that? Thanks.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Hey, Derik. Maybe I'll start off. So, maybe I'll start off with the latter part of the question with
the Red Sea and the Middle East. I mean, of course, we do have things coming from Asia that are
on boats or ships, going through the Red Sea that -- so we will have higher freight costs, a little
bit as we kind of go into this year. But I think the bigger thing is really what does that mean to our
customers.
It's not really directly related to us, as you say, it's really about what does it means to our
customers. So, I think there's still an unknown there. I know, especially in Europe, there's been a
lot of sensitivity around various inflationary topics over the last couple of years, whether it's all the
geopolitics that have put pressure on energy costs or whether it's just inflation in general. This is
just another thing kind of in the mix. In terms of our business, just to be clear, you're right, we
don't sell very much at all into that region, so it's not a direct impact at all. In terms of what are we
doing to improve the logistical situation, Patrick, did you want to take that?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, sure. I can take that on the -- we are making -- actually we're quite pleased with the ongoing
progress that we're making, and we are also expecting really to work down the backlog during
Q1. We have a lot of our own experts there on site as well to help the local management team of
our service partner there to get all the processes in place and stabilized, which might have been
the issue during Q4 when we transferred the full 100% of the volume from our former logistics
provider to this new logistics provider. There are a lot more comprehensive processes involved
on site there, like mini-finish processes, et cetera.
And that can be brought our experts there to help them understand these processes, build
enough capacity and making sure that everything from product into the logistics center to
product out of the logistics center, that process flow is stable and to really matching the volumes
that we are expecting. As I said, we're making good progress there. We expect the backlog to go
down and having a more stable operation clearly at the end of Q1. And while it still might maintain
some more oversight from us during the next couple of quarters, we are confident that this is just
a very good logistics spot on moving forward and that they can deliver the performance that we
expect from them.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `Got it. And then just one follow-up. Are we done with the stock -- I mean, where are we on the
stocking issues and pipette tips and sensors and all that? Can you just sort of like give us an
update? I mean, do you still -- is there still waiting for customers to burn down inventory?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes, I'll start with it, and Shawn, feel free to chime in. When you mentioned pipette tips, I think
we're done with the pipette tips stocking issue. And the reason why I'm saying that is that we see
now more normal order patterns, meaning customers are ordering more frequently, not at very
high volumes, but the order pattern is back to normal. So, while the volume is still a bit lower than
during, or still lower than during the pandemic, the frequency of orders has normalized, and that
for me is an indication that the overstocking of pipette tips is behind us.
We still are working down, or our customers are still working down some inventory more on the
process analytics business with the sensors they have ordered, mainly also in the biopharma area.
And we expect that to remain through Q1 and Q2. And then by the end of Q2, or towards the
second half of the year, that's at least what we're hearing right now from the channels, they
should also have worked off that inventory as well.
Q - `Derik de Bruin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch `
Thank you.
Operator
We'll go next to `Joshua Waldman, Cleveland Research at Cleveland Research.
Q - `Joshua Waldman, Cleveland Research
Patrick, wondered if you could --
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Hey, Josh.
Q - `Joshua Waldman, Cleveland Research
Hey, guys. Wondered if you could give, Patrick --
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer `
(Inaudible)
Q - `Joshua Waldman, Cleveland Research
Hey, Patrick. Hey, Patrick, I'll start with you. Wondered if you could give an update on how you
perceive visibility in the business. Has visibility improved or deteriorated over the last 90 days? I
guess like you commented that market conditions seem to have stabilized or are not getting
worse, but maybe also mentioned seeing a softer start to the year. Can you just kind of unpack
what you're seeing there?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer `
Sure. Absolutely. And again, I'll probably give you some insights into the different regions, but also
into different end markets. So, what we're seeing is a lot of very good activity out there, meaningcustomers are really interested, especially in the new products that we have launched over the
last year.
And that's why we are so excited about the future. There is good customer engagement. We
have a lot of discussions. Still, it takes longer than normal to close the opportunities to orders.
And that's also a sign that our customers are still reluctant to really spend the budgets that they
have now at hand, or maybe they have some reduced budgets, but there's really very good
activity. And if I look into the leads and the funnel that we have, the opportunities, I think we are
quite positive about the momentum we are seeing there. But -- and we don't see any further
deterioration from what we had seen last year.
So, that's why we position in saying, hey, the underlying market visions haven't deteriorated
further, whether it's in the pharma, biopharma market, where it's still soft, whether it's in the
industrial space, where we see actually a very good demand for industrial automation and
digitalization efforts, and we have a great portfolio as well.
We saw a bit softening, especially in Europe, on product inspection towards the, or throughout
Q4 and also now starting into Q1, and that's largely in Europe and it's big customers in the food
area that are still holding back budgets. They have projects, but they are not ready to spend the
money yet, and I think that's also based on the fact that they are under pressure.
I mean, if you read the news, you hear a lot of news about these packaged food customers that
are also under customer -- under pressure with reduced profits and bigger demand as well. But
otherwise, I would say markets are stable. The regions have developed as we expected it. And
China, I outlined already. The U.S., good demand. And Shawn has outlined the growth for the year
for the different regions as well. The EU is a bit softer at the moment. It was very resilient last
year. At the moment, it's a bit softer than we have seen it last year, especially in Germany.
Q - `Joshua Waldman, Cleveland Research
Okay. Thanks for that. And then, Shawn, for the follow-up, wondered if you could walk through the
moving pieces on the '24 EPS raise. How much of the raise was from the shipping related
revenue push-out versus other inputs like FX and maybe margin? I guess the impetus of the
question is you missed the Q4 guide by, call it, $1.20. Shouldn't that have been added to the '24
guide or were there other moving pieces that we're missing?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. It's very much related to how we positioned sales. I mean, like -- and I think I go back to
Dan's question towards the beginning, it's very much how we positioned our sales guidance. I
mean, in terms of margins and costs, I mean, there's, of course, some moving pieces within
there. There's a couple of nits and nats but I'd say, in the end, I feel like the margin is actually -- I
feel good about our margin guidance for the year. I mean, I think we'd already mentioned it
earlier, but for the -- the operating margin should go up about 30 basis points on a full year basis.
And if you exclude currency, it's up probably about 70 basis points. So, Josh, I kind of go back, it's
very much to how we were thinking of a reflection of how we guided on the top-line.
Q - `Joshua Waldman, Cleveland Research
Okay. Thanks, guys.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `Operator
Next, we'll go to `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI with Evercore ISI.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI `
Hey, guys. Thanks for taking my question. A couple of guidance questions. Your Q1, minus 6% to
minus 7% guidance, like if I go back to Q4, pre-logistics, I think the guide was minus high singles.
And if you'd assume the first half of '24 to be similar to last year, one would have assumed Q1 to
be down high singles. But now given the timing of these logistic push-outs, the revenues push-
out, shouldn't Q1 have been a little bit better than the minus 6% to minus 7%? I'm just trying to
think about the year-on-year versus the sequential cadence and how you're looking at Q1
guidance.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Sure, Vijay. I'm happy to answer that one. So, hey, just to clarify, our Q1 guidance in constant
currencies is minus 4% to minus 6%. So, it's minus 4% to minus 6%. And as we mentioned, there
is about a 5% benefit here from the shipping delays, which I can understand asking a question
about that. But I think there's also a few things that are very important to our first quarter. The first
one is that comps really do matter. Yes, Q1 was our strongest quarter, last year, we grew 7%. But I
think it's important to kind of go back to the couple of years before that, like what we're growing
on top of. And we're really cycling a very difficult multi-year comparison. If you kind of go back, we
grew 14% in Q1 of 2022, and that was on top of 18% growth in Q1 of 2021. So, I think it's hard for
us to ignore that as we're looking at the first quarter here.
China, of course, we were happy that it came in a little bit better than what we expected if you
excluded the effect of the shipping delay, but nonetheless, it's still down over 20%. And as we
kind of like look here at the first quarter, we have 20% of our business kind of down low to mid-
20s in the first quarter. So, that's another thing that's a bit on our mind. And again, that's a bit of a
comparison topic as well as kind of like this resetting that's going on in the country. And then --
but just to be clear, we're not seeing anything new in our end markets. But we do assume that
customers here are going to likely start the year a bit more cautious with a more normalized
budget flush at the end of the year. But of course, it's -- we acknowledge it's early. It's difficult for
us to tell at this point in time March is a very important month in the first quarter, but that's kind of
how at least we were thinking about Q1 at this point in time.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI `
Understood. And then one on what's being assumed for share count, share repurchase, and is
free cash conversion expected to be similar to fiscal '23?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So, our share buyback assumption is $850 million, which I think is the same or similar number
as we're thinking free cash flow for this year. And that's also assuming plus or minus right around
100% free cash flow conversion. So, we're really happy with the focus around the company on
cash flow. I mean, it's something we always like to focus on, and very, very pleased with the
teams around the world, all the efforts on working capital and all the other things that go into
efficient end-to-end processes that can drive an order to cash cycle. So, it's something we're
going to continue to focus on this year.
Q - `Vijay Kumar, Evercore ISI `Understood. Thanks, guys.
Operator
We'll take our next question from `Dan Leonard, UBS at UBS.
Q - `Dan Leonard, UBS `
Thank you. Two questions. First off, what was the pricing benefit in Q4? And what is your outlook
for 2024?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. So, for Q4, we came in pretty much as we expected. It was about 4%. That put us on a full
year basis in 2023 at about 5%. And as we kind of mentioned in previous quarters, we were
benefiting a bit in the first half of the year from some pricing actions that we did in the second
half of 2022. But we're very pleased with how we -- things came together this year.
I think it really shows the value proposition that we have to customers. I feel -- I've said it many
times, but I do feel like our value proposition has very much increased over the last few years,
especially as the markets have moved towards topics like automation and digitalization. It really
plays to a lot of the strengths of our portfolio that can provide tangible paybacks to customers.
All the things that we're doing from an innovation perspective also will really help fuel that going
forward, too. So, that's something that we feel good about. And then in terms of 2024, we're
consistent with how we were thinking about pricing with our earlier guidance for the year, and
we're expecting price realization to be around 2%.
Q - `Dan Leonard, UBS `
I appreciate that. And my follow-up, I'm curious on your outlook for pipette tips and really any
other part of your business that suffered from destocking. Does growth normalize back to trend
or is there an above-trend growth period since you're comping an inventory burn down?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
No. I mean, I'll start and let Patrick jump in if he wants to. I think the challenge with pipettes right
now is that there is just weak market demand in general. Like we don't have, at Mettler-Toledo, a
significant exposure to early research or to biotech R&D, but we certainly do in pipette tips. And
so, we're not immune to those trends right now at the moment. So, there are softer market
conditions there, but I think we're more optimistic as we get into the second half of the year. As
Patrick mentioned, ordering patterns are looking a little bit better as well. And just similar to my
comments on innovation, we have a couple of things there as well, too, that we were actually out
at our facilities recently last month, and it was really fun to spend some time with the team there
and look at some of the they're working on. Some of them are more medium-term, but some of
them are things that we have in the market this year.
Q - `Dan Leonard, UBS `
Thank you.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, you're welcome.Operator
We'll move next to Matt Sykes at Goldman Sachs.
Q - `Matthew Sykes, Goldman Sachs `
Hi. Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. Maybe just the first one, just going back to the
logistics issue, you outlined the revenue impact and that seems isolated to Q1. Could you maybe
talk about any cost implications that could bleed into Q2? My understanding is there had to be
some temporary changes in how things were being shipped out of Europe and I'm just
wondering if there's any lingering costs that could impact margins in Q2 or beyond.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I mean, of course, there's some incremental cost associated with it. A lot of the costs are
really opportunity costs because we're reallocating resources to support the transition. I mean,
the incremental travel costs, those things are less of an issue. Yes, there's some higher
transportation costs. But when you step back from it, I'd say it's not overall significant to our
overall financial statements and certainly something we kind of considered as we provided
guidance here for the first quarter.
Q - `Matthew Sykes, Goldman Sachs `
Got it. Thanks for that. And then just on Europe, you've talked pretty cautiously about it, but I still
think, unless I misheard, that you're expecting positive growth this year. Could you maybe just talk
about sort of your cautious comments versus sort of the growth you're expecting this year in
Europe and what's driving that?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Hey, that's a good question. Europe, of course, is going to benefit the most from the
shipping delays. So, I think if you exclude that, you get to a different answer. And it's probably, if
you take the fact of the Q1 and if you also look at maybe the easier comp in Q4, Europe is
probably more flattish on the year if you exclude those two things. So, it's marginally a bit softer
than what we were originally expecting. But we'll caution again. Like, we -- it's early in the year. We
-- it was softer in the fourth quarter than we expected.
A lot of it had to do with product inspection, as Patrick mentioned. But we did see just generally
weaker market conditions. We've been very pleased with how resilient Europe was in 2023. If you
would have asked us a year ago out of the major regions of the world, we would have probably
expected things to be a little bit softer there, just given all the concerns with the energy crisis and
what that impact might be to our customers. So, we're very pleased with how the business
performed in 2023. But just sitting here today, we're just a little bit more cautious on it.
Q - `Matthew Sykes, Goldman Sachs `
Got it. Thank you very much, Shawn.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, you're welcome.
OperatorWe'll go next to `Catherine Schulte, Robert W. Baird & Company at Baird.
Q - `Catherine Schulte, Robert W. Baird & Company `
Hey, guys. Thanks for the questions. Maybe first just on the revenue guide. I get that you want to
leave a little bit of a cushion given where we are in the year. But if we looked at your outlook by
segment, excluding the shipping delays, I guess which segments are you baking in some extra
conservatism into?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, good question. I'd say, PI. And I guess you can see that one because it doesn't have as much
of an impact, if any, from the shipping delays. So, I think we were saying that was up slightly the
last time we guided for the full year. And this time, we're saying it's flat, about flattish. And then
this comment on Europe, Europe is a little bit lighter than what we would have guided before.
And then when you kind of break it into divisions, it kind of trickles into lab a little bit. And so, lab
might be, excluding the shipping delays, more, instead of staying up slightly, it's probably more
flattish.
Q - `Catherine Schulte, Robert W. Baird & Company `
Okay. Got it. And then maybe on the margin guide, what should we be expecting for gross
margins for the first quarter and the full year?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. For the first quarter, we should be down about 40 basis points, and there's a lot of currency
in the margin in Q1. So, if you excluded the currency, it'd probably be up about 20 bps. And then if
you look at the full year for gross margin, we'll be up -- our estimate is we'll be up around 50
basis points, and again, currency has an impact on that. So, if you excluded that, it would be up
probably more like 90 bps.
Q - `Catherine Schulte, Robert W. Baird & Company `
Great. Thank you.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Thanks, Catherine.
Operator
We'll go next to `Rachel Vatnsdal, JP Morgan at JP Morgan.
Q - `Rachel Vatnsdal, JP Morgan `
Perfect. Thanks for taking the questions, and good morning. So, you mentioned that you're
expecting customers to be more cautious with investments starting off the year. We've heard that
from some of your peers as well. So, can you just dig into what you've specifically been hearing
from customers in January and now into the first week of February here? And then which markets
and geographies have you been seeing more of that cautious spending to kick off the year as
well?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer `Yes. Thanks, Rachel. And I'll start and then, Shawn, if you have some additional comments, feel
free to chime in. So, I think the majority of cautiousness we have heard was in Europe and also
down in, what we told you, in the PI business, in the food segments, where we see customers not
releasing purchases as fast as we had expected. Again, there is good engagement from the
sales teams. We have launched very -- a great fleet of new products, also mid-range products
that help us to get to accessing market segments. But the whole conversion from opportunity to
final sale still takes longer than we expected and that's part of what we're hearing in the
European market. Otherwise, I think that as we said, it's not a big change. Shawn, do you have
anything else? No? Okay.
Q - `Rachel Vatnsdal, JP Morgan `
Great. And then just for my follow-up. Given that you're expecting most of this logistics issue to
really benefit 1Q, can you just walk us through the sequentials on how should we be thinking
about 2Q and the step-up there and then kind of bleeding into the back half on top-line as well?
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. Hey. I mean, I think it's a little early for us to provide too much color on Q2, but we'd kind of
stick to what we said before is that we expect the first half of the year to be down. I expect Q2 to
still be down. A big part of that is going to be China.
We still have to lap, I think, a full cycle in China for Q2. So, that's something that's very much on
our minds. But I think when we get to the second half, we do have as a -- with a company that
only typically sits on 1.5 months of backlog, it's hard to have too much confidence when you're
starting to go out several months. But I do think we feel encouraged by lapping these comps as
we get into the second half of the year, as we just feel maybe the organization, looking at the
initiatives, looking at how we're trying to position things.
A lot of our focus has always been on coming out of this stronger, and I think we try to focus on
the things we can control. And when we talk about all these product launches, all these launching
of corporate programs, Spinnaker 6, things we're doing with the customer experience. These are
-- there's a lot of good things that I think should help us out for the second half of the year. And
we'll get through the first quarter and then we'll provide a little bit more color as to how we're
seeing things at that point in time.
Operator
We'll go next to `Brandon Couillard, Jefferies & Company at Jefferies.
Q - `Brandon Couillard, Jefferies & Company `
Thanks. Good morning. Patrick, the service business remains pretty healthy. I mean, you grew 10%
last year against the double-digit comp. Where are you having the most success driving attach
rates and what's your outlook for that business in '24?
A - `Patrick Kaltenbach, Chief Executive Officer `
Yes. Very good question. Brandon, thanks for that. I mean, service, again, I'm super excited about
our service opportunity. And by the way, it's also an organization that we continued to invest in
throughout 2023 while we had to make some adjustments in other areas. We continue to invest
in service because we see a big opportunity out there, broadening our service portfolio. There's
good demand from our customers. We have a large installed base. Last year, if you read, we saidSo, another year where you will see services growing ahead of products. We continue to work
with our sales teams to make sure that they can sell services at a point of sales, train them about
the value of services, but that they make sure they have the value proposition when they talk to
customers, increasing the connect rate. And of course, these are different from product category
to better product category, but we continue to make improvements there. And I still see a lot of
opportunity for us moving forward to increase our share of services.
Q - `Brandon Couillard, Jefferies & Company `
Thanks. And then just one more, Shawn, on China. Baked in the first quarter being down, call it,
low to mid-20s. Does this imply that China is back to kind of double-digit growth in the second
half of the year? How should we think about cadence first half versus second half? Thanks.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I mean, again, I don't want to get too specific, but I think if you do the math, you'd probably
kind of get into that neighborhood for the second half of this year. But we'll provide more
guidance on our next call depending on how we're thinking about the pacing with Q2 and
everything. Right now, we do see for the full year, lab being down more than the industrial
business. So, kind of looking at lab being down more like low-teens while industrial would be
down like more mid single-digit. So, the industrial business was a pleasant surprise in the fourth
quarter. We're a little bit more cautious on it for Q1, but we'll see how things play out here.
Q - `Brandon Couillard, Jefferies & Company `
Great.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes, and just to read correctly, Brandon, that doesn't mean that the algorithm going forward,
we're expecting double-digit growth in China, we just know that not only they have an easier
comp, we know that they're lapping a lot of things in the market. I think one of the topics --
there's a few topics there, right? One of them was all the spending during COVID, potentially an
acceleration of replacement cycles. But then the other thing is that I think there's just a lot of
inventory throughout the customers. And I think just given the nature of the lockdowns during
COVID and all the logistical challenges, there's just more people purchasing a lot more inventory
than in other regions. I think that's one of the things that is kind of on our mind as well for the
second half of the year. So, as we kind of go forward, I mean, just to reiterate what we said in the
past, we kind of view China as more of a high single-digit growth opportunity, more longer-term,
so.
Q - `Brandon Couillard, Jefferies & Company `
Very helpful. Thank you.
Operator
Next, we'll move to `Patrick Donnelly, Citi at Citi.
Q - `Patrick Donnelly, Citi `
Hey, guys. Thanks for taking the questions. Shawn, I wanted to pick up on that kind of the ramp
question. I think Rachel and Brandon both hit on it a little bit there. If we just back out the comps,
because that's pretty formulaic, just in terms of the sequential dollar improvement as you workyour way through the year into the second half, China being obviously one example, you
mentioned the month, month and a half of backlog. Can you just talk about, I guess, the visibility
into it?
Is it just the confidence level that there was a lot of inventory in the channel in areas like China,
and that just you guys are confident it normalizes as you get to the second half and dollars come
back? Maybe just talk about, again, the confidence, comps excluded on that dollar ramp as we
work our way through the year, China and otherwise.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I mean, of course, there's also a lot of noise in sequentials right now, right? Like you have a
lack of a budget flush in Q4 of 2023, you -- and now we add more complexity with these shipping
delays. And then we probably throw another one at you, saying like we just expect customers to
potentially start a little bit slower in Q4 -- I mean Q1 of this year with a more normalized
seasonality in the back half. So -- but I think if you kind of cut through all that and you look at
maybe longer-term sequentials for us, I think we're actually very consistent. And so, that's one
thing. I think when we look at like multi-year comps and multi-year CAGRs and just kind of like cut
through the whole COVID period, and you look at that by quarter, I think that gives us a lot more
confidence as well, too. And then you kind of layer in some of these things that we know, like the
one-year comps and some of these destocking topics, the comments I just made on China.
And then the final thing is, I think we are doing a lot inside the company to drive growth, too. And
so, I think nothing drives growth like new products, and we have some really cool things that
we're launching right now. We're going to probably spend more time talking about that on our
next call next quarter. And I think those are types of things that will help.
And of course, Spinnaker 6, right? There's a reason why we're talking about it on the call. It's kind
of like, I think, a preface to like a lot of things we're doing to focus on growth in the company and
the combination of all these digitalization things that just continue to improve, plus all the things
that we're doing to further enhance that relationship with a customer. It's a very powerful
combination, and we think those things will gain momentum as we kind of get into the second
half of the year as well.
Q - `Patrick Donnelly, Citi `
Okay. That's helpful. And then maybe just on the cost structure, I think you mentioned a few
times, you guys want to come out of this stronger. Can you just talk about, I guess, the level of
investments you're making currently with the softer backdrop versus trying to be mindful of
protecting the margins? How nimble can you be on the cost side and how are you guys
approaching that? Thank you.
A - `Shawn Vadala, Chief Financial Officer `
Yes. I mean, hey, this has been a very important balancing act for us, something that we've been
spending a lot of time as an executive team, really thinking about and reviewing over the last
year. I feel like we have a really good balance. On one hand, we're really looking at parts of the
organization where we've lost productivity over the last year. And so, we're working on those
areas. On the other hand, there are growth opportunities that we're trying to make sure that
we're continuing to invest for those. I mean, Patrick mentioned service as an example, on a full
year basis, we continued to invest in service throughout the year, and that's something that we'll
continue to do in 2024. But it's not just service.There's different regions of the world, there's different -- and there's also things like innovation
that we talked about a few times already today, as well as other things to -- that I think will help
make us a stronger organization going forward. So, when you kind of step back from that, I feel
very good. Of course, we do have a headwind next year, too, with variable comp coming back to
more normalized levels.
So, there's a lot of moving parts. But when you look through it all, I feel like good that we can still
expand margins, even though it's maybe a little bit lower than what we normally do. We can still
expand margins next year with a low growth year. And then if you look at 2023, we were able to
hold our margins flat for the full year, despite a lot of the challenges that we had as well, too. So, I
feel like in the end, we have a good balance.
Operator
And there are no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the conference over to Adam
Ullman for closing remarks.
A - `Adam Uhlman, Head of Investor Relations `
Hey. Thanks, Audra, and thank you, everybody, for joining our call today. If you have any questions,
feel free to reach out to me. Hope you have a great rest of your day, and we'll talk to you soon.
Thank you.
Operator
And this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your participation. You may now
disconnect.